INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Continuous Commitment Years and the Legacy Continues... A Tribute to a Legendary Leader This year has been very tragic value creation for all for the Indus family. On April 17, stakeholders. He was passionate 2020, our beloved Founding about social responsibility and Director and Chairman, Mr. Ali steered IMC's CSR Program Suleman Habib left for his towards the preservation of heavenly abode, a tragedy that environment, health initiatives, left all who knew him in a state education, poverty alleviation of shock . Mr. Ali Habib and supporting national causes. practically demonstrated that The IMC journey star ted 30 one's true dedication, Ali Suleman Habib years ago with Ali S. Habib who unrelenting commitment, 1956-2020 navigated Indus Motor perseverance and hard work results in ful lling one's Company in its most diﬃcult times. Our success story dreams and pays oﬀ in the long run. will Insha Allah continue to be enlightened by his Mr. Ali Suleman Habib was at the forefront of teachings as a motivational force for us. We are developing platforms for the business community to committed to follow his vision and philosophy of collaborate and work towards national economic responsible corporate citizenship along with Toyota interests. He was a visionary leader who transformed Guidelines to deliver business growth in harmony Indus Motor Company (IMC) from an automobile with nature and society. company to a responsible corporate citizen, pursuing Allah Almighty bless his soul with eternal peace, Ameen! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About this Report This is the 5th Sustainability Report of content and boundaries of the material assured. IMC has plans to get external Indus Motor Company Limited (IMC). The topics can be found in the Materiality assurance of the Report in future. Report contains details of activities and Analysis section of the Report. The data However, the Report has been reviewed impacts of IMC covering ﬁnancial year included in the Report is based on by the S.H.E. Steering Committee – the 2020, commencing July 01, 2019 and scientiﬁc measurement on actual basis. highest decision-making forum on ending June 30, 2020. The impacts and However, where data was not available, sustainability issues at IMC. The GRI contributions of all IMC's activities are estimation has been used. The data content index is available on page 77. This measured and managed to gauge the collection and measurement techniques Report is available in print and online success of the Company against deﬁned are applied consistently over the periods. www.toyota-indus.com. goals and targets. This Report includes There were no signiﬁcant changes in the The Sustainability Report is produced information about IMC's operations size and structure or ownership of IMC annually to share information about covering assembling of passenger cars during the reporting period. There were sustainability initiatives, activities and (Corolla and the newly launched Yaris), no changes in the reporting period, impacts along with IMC's contribution light commercial vehicles (Hilux) and SUV scope and boundary of material topics. t o w a rd s t h e g o a l o f s u s t a i n a b l e (Fortuner) of the Toyota brand. The Report The revision/restatement made in the development. This Report also contains does not include information about reported information to correct the errors information about: how our activities subsidiaries, associated companies and is clearly mentioned in the relevant support diﬀerent Sustainable joint ventures. section where restatements/revisions Development Goals (SDGs) and contains have been carried out. Last year's Report The GRI Standards, international best links to the relevant SDGs at respective was published on September 21, 2019. practices and UNGC “Ten Principles” have pages. We are committed to aligning our been used during the process of deﬁning This Report has been prepared in activities to support the SDGs most the Report content. The information accordance with the GRI Standards: Core relevant to our business and which play a about the process of deﬁning the Report option. The Report is not externally positive role in society. We would appreciate your feedback on the Sustainability Report. Please reach us at feedback.sustainability@toyota-indus.com 02 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Key Performance Highlights Vehicles Manufactured 28,519 units Decreased by 56% over the previous year Net Sales Rs. 86 billion Decreased by 46% over the previous year Vehicles Sold Water 28,837 units Decreased by 56% Consumption over the previous year 320,219 m / year 3 Decreased by 32% over the previous year GHG Emissions 12,989 metric tons Decreased by 47% Net Pro t over the previous year after Tax Rs. 5.08 billion Decreased by 63% over the previous year Energy Comsumption 250,904 GJ Decreased by 48% over the previous year Community Investment Rs. 190 million Decreased by 17% over the previous year 03 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Contents 02 About this Report 03 Key Performance Highlights The Chairman’s Message | 07 The Chief Executive’s Message | 08 06 Overview Corporate History | 09 Corporate Proﬁle | 10 Product Line-up | 11 Corporate Sustainability Philosophy | 15 SDGs & IMC |16 Toyota’s Global Commitment | 17 Corporate 14 Guiding Principles at Toyota | 18 Toyota Motor Corporation CSR Policy | 19 Sustainability The Toyota Environmental Philosophy Challenge 2050 | 20 Our Commitment | 21 Stakeholders’ Engagement | 22 Materiality Analysis | 24 28 Corporate Governance Vision, Mission and Core Values | 29 34 Economic Performance Economic Performance | 35 Code of Conduct | 30 Our Dealers | 38 The Board and Board Committees | 31 Our Customers | 43 Risk and Compliance | 32 Our Suppliers | 45 Commitments and External Initiatives | 33 Automotive Market and the Toyota Brand | 47 48 Environmental Performance 58 Our People & Communities 74 76 Annexurers The Way Forward GRI Content Index | 77 UNGC COP | 84 Sustainability Development Goals | 85 Glossary and Acronyms | 87 04 Overview The Chairman’s Message The Chief Executive’s Message Corporate History Corporate Pro le Product Line-up SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Chairman’s Message Dear Stakeholders, We have been immensely saddened by the sudden loss of Mr. Ali S. Habib on April 17th, 2020. His tragic passing was a shock, not only to the Company but also to the Habib Family and to the country. Mr. Habib laid the foundation and built the Company step by step in collaboration with Toyota Motor Corporation Japan, and consistently guided IMC to become a market leader in the automotive sector in Pakistan. His guidance was pivotal in paving the way for IMC's long-term success and continued market leadership. He was, and will always remain an inspiration for the IMC family. May Allah bless his soul with eternal peace. COVID-19 has caused the most widespread recession witnessed in recent times. Global lockdowns, social distancing requirements and on-going health and safety concerns due to the pandemic continue to have an adverse impact on economic development. The situation requires action and commitment from businesses to manage operations in the “new normal”, and to also extend support to the government and vulnerable segments of society. With this responsibility in mind, we have continued to pursue our mission of supporting economic development through investing in our products, in our people, in our business partners, and in the environment. We have also supported the Government through prompt payment of our taxes and through contribution to numerous CSR activities. We have aligned our corporate actions in support of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to make a meaningful impact and support SDGs through our products and social investments. We have continued with our commitment to invest 1% of pretax proﬁts of the preceding year to support our communities, towards fuel innovation, and to promote technical skills amongst the youth in Pakistan. Climate change remained the number one long-term risk by impact, and number two by likelihood, as per the World Economic Forum Global Risk Report 2020. As a manufacturing entity concerned with the impact of climate change, environmental management has remained one of our priorities. Our commitment to plant 1 million trees is inspiring the young generation and our supply chain partners to work for a Clean & Green Pakistan. Until June 2020, a total of 300,000 saplings have been planted across the country. The automotive industry in Pakistan has witnessed the entry of new players in recent years, resulting in healthy competition in the form of extended customer choices and after sales service. On the economic front, recent events such as reduced economic activity due to the COVID-19 pandemic, challenges of currency devaluation, declining exports and a decrease in customers' disposable incomes, are adversely aﬀecting vehicle sales and have resulted in several non-production days for the industry. Economic recovery is expected in coming years on account of government eﬀorts to boost exports, incentives given to the construction sector, and launch of business-friendly policies coupled with creating a lower interest rate environment. We remain conﬁdent about growth opportunities while being committed to quality and high safety standards, and we expect further strengthening of the Toyota brand in the market. Our inclusive and well-diversiﬁed workforce enjoys a nurturing environment which helps to deliver exceptional performance, maintaining leadership and meeting customer expectations. In line with Toyota Global policy, we are committed to support our communities through our CSR programs. We re-aﬃrm our commitment to creating a sustainable future for all stakeholders through our products, environmental impact management, and through continuous investments in innovation, health and safety for our society. Mohamedali R. Habib Chairman 07 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Chief Executive’s Message Dear Stakeholders, Global economies are expected to contract by almost 5.2% in 2020 with a reduction in per capita income in developing and emerging economies. Slowdown in economic activities, rising climate risks and trade disputes can hamper long-term growth and slow economic recovery globally. Pakistan's economy faced shocks in the form of the COVID-19 pandemic which started spreading from March 2020, persistent currency devaluation and falling exports. The automobile industry witnessed a depressed year due to the economic slowdown, increased taxation and increasing vehicle prices. However, the automobile sector has witnessed continuous investment by existing as well as new players which will ultimately result in increased consumer choice and after sales services. During the year, new avenues for export of automotive parts emerged for the Pakistan automobile sector. The Company is enthusiastic about furthering localization and securing such export orders in the future. Tough economic conditions have impacted the automobile industry in Pakistan, resulting in reduced vehicle sales and a decrease in revenue and proﬁtability. Our vehicle sales compared to the previous year decreased to 28,837 units this year. A decrease in consumers disposable income, reduced purchasing power, and currency devaluation, coupled with an increase in Federal Excise Duty and Additional Customs Duty, led to an increase in the price of vehicles. The net proﬁt for the year was Rs. 5.08 billion with a decrease of 63% compared to the previous year. Despite the harsh economic times, we are continuously striving to improve our production processes, decrease costs and increase eﬃciencies by applying the Toyota philosophy of Kaizen or continuous improvement. We are committed to continuing to delight our customers through top quality and safe vehicles, with the support of Toyota and our localization program. Being a responsible automobile Company, we are committed to reducing environmental impact of our operations and supply chain partners through eﬃcient management and adoption of cleaner technologies. We are aligned with the “Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050” which strives to reduce the environmental burden attributed to automobiles to as close to zero as possible. During the year, energy consumption, GHG emissions and water usage decreased by 228,854 GJ, 11,404 Mt and 149,308 m3 respectively, on account of lesser production. We commit to adopting cleaner and eﬃcient technologies to further reduce our environmental impact. The commitment and passion of workforce is important for meeting stakeholders' expectations and delivering sustained economic returns. We nourish our workforce through trainings and provide a safe and productive workplace to showcase their talents. Health and safety of our plant, workforce and products is of utmost priority, and we align ourselves with Toyota global practices. Our Dealers and Suppliers are our partners in growth, and help us in meeting customer expectations. They are supported through guidelines and training to help them enhance their economic potential and reduce negative impact. We commit to pursue sustainability practices in our supply chain for better management of our supply chain impacts. We continue enriching lives of our communities through support in education and healthcare, promoting innovation and cleanliness. We fully support workforce volunteering and making a meaningful contribution towards society. This year, more than 4,800 manhours of volunteering services were contributed by our employees. Our spending on CSR activities remained 1% of our pre-tax proﬁt of the preceding year, showing our commitment to alleviate poverty, promote education and uplift the unprivileged. We pledge to support the “Ten Principles” of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. This Report exhibits our impact on the economy, environment and society, along with our contribution to the “Ten Principles” of the UNGC. We thank our stakeholders for their continued trust in our brand and we invite you to give your valuable feedback. Ali Asghar Jamali Chief Executive Oﬃcer 08 25,000th vehicle line-oﬀ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Proﬁle Indus Motor Company Limited (IMC) is a joint venture concluded changes in the ownership and structure of operations at IMC or between certain companies of House of Habib of Pakistan, its supply chain during the year. Toyota Motor Corporation and Toyota Tsusho Corporation of Over 30 years, since inception, IMC has sold more than 900,000 Japan. Incorporated in 1989, the Company is engaged in CBU/CKD vehicles, demonstrating an impressive growth in terms assembling, progressive manufacturing and marketing of Toyota of increase in sales volume. IMC began production with 20 vehicles in Pakistan. These include several variants of the ﬂagship vehicles per day in 1993 which has increased to 268 vehicles per 'Corolla' and the newly launched 'Yaris' in the passenger car day. This was made possible through development of our human segment, “Hilux” in the light commercial vehicle segment and capital by embracing the 'Toyota Way' of lean manufacturing. “Fortuner” in the sports utility vehicle (SUV) segment. The total workforce at the end of the ﬁnancial year 2020 was IMC's manufacturing facility and oﬃces are located at a 107.5 2,855 employees. Net sales for the year 2020 was Rs. 86 billion, acres site at Port Qasim Industrial Estate, Karachi. Products are while the total capitalization was Rs. 41.5 billion. Further details delivered to end customers nationwide through a strong about assets, sales breakdown and beneﬁcial ownership are network of 46 independent Dealerships spread across the available on pages 100, 131 and 147-148 respectively of our countr y. Customers include corporates, government Annual Report 2020. The total number of vehicles sold during organizations, individual buyers, etc. There were no signiﬁcant 2020 was 28,837 units. 10 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Product Line-up Toyota's Global Vision of enriching lives through mobility in the During 2020, IMC launched the all-new Toyota Yaris under the most responsible way, enlightens our commitment to development concept of The New Value Pioneer, enhancing manufacture sustainable and safe products to help transition to a design and comfort and oﬀering the best in class value to low carbon economy. Our ﬂagship Corolla with several variants is customers. Moreover, the new Toyota Yaris is more fuel-eﬃcient the top selling car in the passenger category while the Fortuner and eﬀectively reduces air pollution, oﬀering an environmenthas been the best-selling model in the SUV category. The Hilux friendly motoring experience with cutting-edge eco technology. remains the highest selling vehicle in the light commercial category. IMC also markets imported cars with warranty and after-sales support through its widespread Dealer network. CKD Product Range Yaris Corolla Fortuner Hilux Revo Hilux Single Cabin 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CBU Product Range Camry Land Cruiser Prado Avanza Land Cruiser Prius Rush Hiace Coaster 12 Corporate Sustainability Philosophy Corporate Sustainability Philosophy SDGs & IMC Toyota’s Global Commitment Guiding Principles at Toyota Toyota Motor Corporation CSR Policy The Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 Our Commitment Stakeholders' Engagement Materiality Analysis SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Sustainability Philosophy Our corporate sustainability philosophy is derived from Toyota's Global Vision and Guiding Principles which enlighten our vision, mission and values. Toyota Global Commitment and our values of sustainability, innovation and excellence steer our sustainability approach. “Concern Beyond Cars” manifests our commitment towards sustainability, focusing to drive sustainability in the automobile sector and contribute towards education, health and livelihood opportunities for the underprivileged sections of the society, as well as conservation of environment and ecology. Being a mobility solutions Company, IMC has an impact on environment and society through its operations and use of its products by customers. Our sustainability strategy focuses on better management of impacts throughout our operations and use of products while providing day-to-day mobility solutions to the society. 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SDGs & IMC DECENT WORK AND 8 ECONOMIC GROWTH Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted at the vehicles, pursuing socially contributory activities by becoming a United Nations Sustainable Development Summit in September responsible corporate citizen, enhancing ESG by tackling human 2015. SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 targets and serve as the rights issues and promoting diversity. This guides our approach blueprint to achieve a better and a more sustainable future for all towards SDGs. by 2030. The SDGs address the global challenges which we face, IMC has aligned its activities with Toyota Motor Corporation’s including poverty, hunger, climate change, increasing inequality approach towards SDGs in the form of its “Million Tree Plantation and peace and justice. Drive”, investing in renewable energy, providing a productive Toyota Motor Corporation has transformed into a mobility and a safe work place, promoting education, health and sports, company in order to oﬀer improved value and expand educating masses about safe driving habits and cleanliness contribution to SDGs. Toyota's global approach is to solve social drives. The SDGs icon appears in relevant sections of the Report issues by producing safe, reliable and environment-friendly where IMC’s activities have contributed towards SDGs. Pakistan. IMC partnered with CERB for conducting workshops on IMC and PBC Workshop under SDG-8 to share best practices and how the Toyota Way is being used for developing the Dealers' eco system. In its ﬁrst workshop, SDG Leadership Program IMC also included the key attributes of the Toyota Production System (TPS) that are used for quality and eﬃciency emphasis, Based on its sustainability practices, IMC has been gloriﬁed as the thus contributing to Pakistan's economic growth. A stimulating Industry Leader for SDG-8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) activity on Decent Work and Universal Human Rights was carried by the Pakistan Business Council (PBC) under its CERB SDG out at the workshop in which all participants from various Leadership Program. The Centre of Excellence in Responsible businesses participated. The workshop organizers and Business (CERB) is an outreach initiative of PBC that serves with participants appreciated IMC for providing insights into Toyota’s an objective to build capacity and capability of businesses in Customer First philosophy, the Toyota Way and TPS. Indus Motor’s team with members of Pakistan Business Council and CERB during the leadership workshop 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Toyota’s Global Commitment “ I believe that our mission is to provide goods and services that make people throughout the world happy, or, in other words, to “mass produce” happiness. “ To achieve this, I believe it is necessary to cultivate Toyota people around the world who have a “you perspective,” and who can pray for and take action for the happiness of those other than themselves. I view this as also being a part of earnestly engaging in the Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs, for which international society is aiming for, with the stance of “no one will be left behind.” Akio Toyoda President Toyota Motor Corporation The Toyota global commitment to sustainability is demonstrated through Toyota's Vision and seven Guiding Principles. Ever Better Cars Toyota Global Vision Toyota will lead the future mobility society, enriching lives around the world with the safest and most responsible ways of moving people. Through our commitment to quality, ceaseless innovation, and respect for the planet, we strive to exceed expectations and be rewarded with a smile. We will meet challenging goals by engaging the talent and passion of people who believe there is always a better way. The Toyota Global Vision (announced in 2011) deﬁnes our esteemed values and our actions to make 'always better cars' that exceed customer expectations and 'enriching lives of communities,' leading to a 'stable base of business' to achieve sustainable growth of the company. The Toyota Way The Toyota Way With the rapid growth, diversiﬁcation and globalization of Toyota in the Respect past decade, values and business methods that had been passed on as Challenge implicit knowledge were identiﬁed and deﬁned in 2001 as the 'Toyota Way'. Toyota is preparing to operate as a truly global company, guided by a common corporate culture. In order to continue fulﬁlling its role as the Kaizen backbone of all Toyota operations, Toyota will continue to update the Toyota Way in the future to reﬂect changes in the times to come. Genchi Teamwork Genbutsu Continuous Respect improvement for People 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guiding Principles at Toyota Since the company was founded in 1937, Toyota Motor Corporation and its subsidiaries have continuously strived to contribute to the sustainable development of society and the earth through the provision of high-quality and innovative products and services. Through such continuous eﬀorts, we have established our own management philosophy, values and methods that have been passed down from generation to generation throughout the company. This management philosophy has been summarized into what is known as the 'Guiding Principles at Toyota'. Updated in 1997, the Toyota’s Guiding Principles are a cornerstone of the company's corporate management philosophy and help it to steer a clear path toward achieving sustainable development in Pakistan. Honor the language and spirit of the law of every country and region, 1 and undertake open and fair business activities to be a strong corporate citizen of the world. Respect the culture and customs of every country and region, and contribute to 2 economic and social development through corporate activities in their respective communities. 3 Dedicate our business to provide clean and safe products and to enhancing the quality of life everywhere through all of our activities. 4 Create and develop advanced technologies and provide outstanding products and services that fulﬁll the needs of customers worldwide. Foster a corporate culture that enhances both individual creativity and the value 5 of teamwork, while honoring mutual trust and respect between labor and management. 6 Pursue growth through harmony with the global community via innovative management. Work with business partners in research and manufacturing to achieve stable, 7 long term growth and mutual beneﬁts, while remaining open to new partnerships. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Toyota Motor Corporation CSR Policy Preamble of CSR Policy: Contribution toward Sustainable Development We, Toyota Motor Corporation and our subsidiaries, take initiative to contribute to the harmonious and sustainable development of society and the earth through all business activities that we carry out in each country and region, based on our Guiding Principles. We comply with local, national, and international laws and regulations as well as the spirit thereof, and conduct our business operations with honesty and integrity. In order to contribute to sustainable development, we believe that management interacting with its stakeholders as described below is of considerable importance, and we will endeavor to build and maintain sound relationships with our stakeholders through open and fair communication. We expect our business partners to support this initiative and act in accordance with it. Customers any and all candidates, regardless of nationality or scale, and evaluate them based on their overall strengths. (Guiding l Based on our Customer First philosophy, we develop and Principle: 7) provide innovative, safe, and outstanding high-quality l We maintain fair and free competition in accordance with products and services that meet a wide variety of customer the letter and spirit of each country and region's competition demands to enrich the lives of people around the world. laws. (Guiding Principles: 1 and 7) (Guiding Principles: 3 and 4) l We will endeavor to protect the personal information of Shareholders customers and everyone else we are engaged in business l We strive to enhance corporate value while achieving stable with, in accordance with the letter and spirit of each country and long-term growth for the beneﬁt of our shareholders. and region's privacy laws. (Guiding Principle: 1) (Guiding Principle: 6) Employees l We provide our shareholders and investors with timely and fair disclosure on our operating results and ﬁnancial l We respect our employees and believe that the success of condition. (Guiding Principles: 1 and 6) our business is led by each individual's creativity and solid teamwork. We support personal growth for our employees. Global Society / Local Communities (Guiding Principle: 5) l We support equal employment opportunities and diversity Environment and inclusion for our employees. We do not discriminate We aim for growth that is in harmony with the environment by against them. (Guiding Principle: 5) seeking to minimize the environmental impact of our business l We strive to provide fair working conditions and to maintain operations, such as by working to reduce the eﬀect of our a safe and healthy working environment for all our vehicles and operations on climate change and biodiversity. We employees. (Guiding Principle: 5) strive to develop, establish, and promote technologies that enable the environment and economy to coexist harmoniously, l We respect and honor the human rights of people involved and to build close and cooperative relationships with a wide in our business and, in particular, do not use or tolerate any spectrum of individuals and organizations involved in form of forced or child labor. (Guiding Principle: 5) environmental preservation. (Guiding Principle: 3) l Through communication and dialogue with our employees, we build and share the value Mutual Trust and Mutual Community Responsibility, working together for the success of our l We implement our philosophy of respect for people by employees and the company. We recognize our employees' honoring the culture, customs, history, and laws of each right to freely associate, or not to associate, complying with country and region. (Guiding Principle: 2) the laws of the countries and regions in which we operate. l We constantly pursue safer, cleaner, and improved (Guiding Principle: 5) technologies that satisfy the evolving needs of society for l Management of each company takes leadership in fostering sustainable mobility. (Guiding Principles: 3 and 4) a corporate culture and implementing policies that promote l We do not tolerate bribery of or by any business partner, ethical behavior. (Guiding Principles: 1 and 5) government agency, or public authority, and maintain Business Partners honest and fair relationships with government agencies and public authorities. (Guiding Principle: 1) l We respect our business partners such as suppliers and dealers and work with them through long-term Social Contribution relationships to realize mutual growth based on mutual Wherever we do business, we actively promote and engage, trust. (Guiding Principle: 7) both individually and with partners, in social contribution l Whenever we seek a new business partner, we are open to activities that help strengthen communities and contribute to the enrichment of society. (Guiding Principle: 2) 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 Moving towards a society where people, cars, and nature can co-exist in harmony In October 2015, Toyota formulated and announced the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 with the aim of going beyond zero environmental impact and hoping to achieve a net positive impact. Toyota has been striving to reduce the environmental burden attributed to automobiles to as close to zero as possible, while developing measures to contribute positively to the earth and its societies with the aim of achieving a sustainable society. The challenge comprises of six individual challenges across three areas: everbetter cars, ever-better manufacturing and enriching lives of communities. CHALLENGE 1 RENEWABLE CHALLENGE 2 7 ENERGY 12 RESPONSIBLE New Vehicle Zero CO2 Life Cycle Zero CO2 CONSUMPTION Emissions Challenge Emissions Challenge CLIMATE 13 ACTION CLIMATE 13 ACTION Reduce global average CO2 emissions during operation Completely eliminate all CO2 emissions from the entire from new vehicles by 90% from Toyota’s 2010 global level vehicle life cycle CHALLENGE 3 7 RENEWABLE ENERGY CHALLENGE 4 Plant Zero CO2 Challenge of Minimizing & Emissions Challenge Optimizing Water Usage 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION CLIMATE 13 ACTION Achieve zero CO2 emissions at all plants worldwide by 2050 Minimize water usage and implement water discharge management based on individual local conditions CHALLENGE 5 CHALLENGE 6 Challenge of Establishing a Challenge of Establishing a 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Recycling-based Society & Future Society in Systems Harmony with Nature LIFE 15 ON LAND RESPONSIBLE 12 CONSUMPTION Promote global rollout of end-of life vehicle treatment and Connect nature conservation activities beyond the Toyota recycling technologies and systems developed in Japan Group and its business partners among communities, with the world, to the future In the age of transformation to electric vehicles and low carbon economy, Toyota is committed to innovating and improving its mobility solutions for providing safety, environmental sustainability and waku-doki (excitement and exhilaration that wows you) to its customers. The technological initiatives to reduce environmental impact of production processes and vehicle use are being addressed by TMC as it oversees design and manufacturing locations. TMC encourages its partners to look for opportunities to support these initiatives at the local level. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Commitment Our sustainability strategy is guided by the Toyota Global Vision and Guiding Principles. Sustainability is embedded in our Vision, Mission, Values, Strategy and Business Model and has resulted in becoming a number one choice in the marketplace. The sustainability approach is focused to improve our operations, pursue sustainable practices in our supply chain, and eﬀectively manage our impacts on economy, environment and society for making meaningful contributions towards sustainable development. Being aﬃliates of Toyota, the “Toyota Way” sets the standards expected from aﬃliates and is supported by our comprehensive corporate governance structure. Our integrated management system policy, health and safety policy, environment policy and code of conduct are the leading pillars of our commitment to be a responsible corporate citizen. These guiding documents set the principles for the business activities and conduct of our workforce. Board of Management S.H.E. Steering Directors Committees Committee Sustainability Management Responsibility for sustainability lies with IMC's Board of Directors and Management team. The Board has the responsibility for deﬁning sustainability initiatives and overseeing progress. Initiation, execution and control of sustainability activities are managed by the Management Committee and “S.H.E (Safety, Health and Environment) Steering Committee” which is headed by the Chief Executive. The S.H.E Steering Committee also develops overall sustainability policies covering health, safety and environment. The Committee meets on monthly basis to discuss, evaluate and guide the sustainability eﬀorts within the organization and in the supply chain. The sustainability performance is reviewed on a continuous basis and corrective actions are taken on need basis via eﬃcient and swift decision-making. The impacts of products and activities, performance against targets and the strategies proposed by S.H.E Steering Committee are discussed and endorsed at Board meetings. At IMC, sustainability is practiced through compliance with the requirements of our internal management systems and deﬁned targets. Toyota Motor Corporation's Guidelines and Toyota Production System (TPS) articulate our sustainability programs, including our ﬁve years' environmental program. Our 6th Environmental Action Plan (FY17 FY21) is being implemented in line with Toyota's global commitment to sustainability. Two key principles of TPS are: 'JustIn-Time' and Jidoka. 'Just -In-Time' is the cornerstone of our approach to eﬃcient resource utilization while increasing productive potential of our workforce. These principles require that we make only what is needed, when it is needed and in the quantity it is needed, resulting in eliminating waste, including wasted time and eﬀort. Jidoka means 'automation with human touch'. It is based on corrective action. It requires that as soon as a problem is identiﬁed, production should stop and action immediately taken to resolve the issue. In order to manage the impacts occurring at our plant as well as at our supply chain partners through our business relationships, we actively work with our supply chain partners to promote sustainability practices. The use of reusable packaging, eﬃcient ordering and delivery of parts and the initiative for emission reduction and energy eﬃciency has resulted in reducing the environmental load of our operations and our supply chain partners over the years. Sustainability at our Dealerships is promoted through our dealer engagement program. Sustainability management is an integral part of the Sales and After-Sales Operations which is applicable on all Dealerships. 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholders' Engagement Stakeholders' engagement is critical in identifying the impacts of our products and activities regarding important interest groups, managing their expectations from IMC and maintaining a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Keeping in view the importance of stakeholders for our success, we interact with them and take their input for important business decisions. Our primary stakeholders include shareholders, customers, dealers, suppliers, employees, the government and the community. Stakeholders are individuals, groups of individuals or organizations that are aﬀected by our activities, products and services or whose actions and relationships can aﬀect our ability to meet our corporate objectives. Stakeholders are identiﬁed on the basis of dependence, responsibility, inﬂuence, diversity and involvement. We prioritized stakeholders on the basis of their willingness to engage, relationship with IMC, inﬂuence and proximity. Stakeholders are regularly engaged through diﬀerent departments on day-to-day basis. In addition to regular engagement, need-based engagements with stakeholders also take place to get stakeholders' input on speciﬁc issues. Diﬀerent engagement methods, including surveys, focus groups, meetings and emails are used during engagements. The stakeholder engagement process is constantly reviewed by the senior management. The list below is a fair representation of the stakeholders that aﬀect or are aﬀected by our business activities: Stakeholder Engagement Method Frequency Issues/Concerns Our Response Group Innovation and investment Annual General for plant upgradation to Meeting (AGM) /ExtraShareholders provide sustained economic Ordinary General Financial returns and and providers Ongoing returns and interventions in Meeting (EOGM), CSR initiatives of capital the ﬁeld of education, health Corporate Aﬀairs and skill development for Department community uplift Customer safety, Continuous investment in Surveys, Phone calls, product speciﬁcation health and safety and Customer Relations and product quality, Customers Ongoing product design to provide Department, Customer product availability, quality products at First Department prices (RSP) and competitive prices delivery time Review meetings and Compliance with involvement in IMC Ensuring compliance with globally-shared metrics, management and Toyota Motor Corporation’s Toyota Motor including health and operations, Toyota Ongoing metrics through continuous Corporation safety, environment global initiatives and learning from international and community forums network development Provision of training on Product delivery compliance requirements Dealer surveys, focus mechanism, and product attributes for Dealers groups, meetings, compliance with IMC Ongoing improving customer training and requirements and experience at Dealerships. conferences Dealers' training and Improving product delivery support mechanism Provision of technical support Supplier meetings, Technical support to to suppliers and focus on quarterly workshops, suppliers, carrying out health and safety initiatives, Suppliers supplier surveys and Ongoing supplier site quality carrying out supplier site annual supplier checks and product quality checks to improve conference safety quality of parts and reduce rejection at suppliers’ end 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholder Engagement Method Frequency Our Response Group Issues/Concerns Staﬀ meetings, training, Operational Continuous investment in performance appraisal, performance and training and education of annual get-togethers, productivity, training workforce and maintaining Employees consultation with Ongoing and education excellent health and safety employees' representative opportunities and standards for a safe and groups and employee employee health and productive workplace satisfaction surveys safety Committed to keep contributing 1% pretax proﬁt Education, health, and On-site visits, surveys and of preceding year on Community Ongoing skill development for focus group meetings education, health and skill community uplift development for community uplift Compliance with applicable Government Sustainable automobile laws and regulations and Meetings, annual reports Ongoing/ and industry sector and compliance consultation with industry and focus groups Need Basis groups of laws and regulations groups for a sustainable automobile sector Provide regular updates on Insights on business, business developments, Interviews, brieﬁngs and Ongoing/ market and industry operational performance and Media press releases and ﬁnancial information relating to Need Basis performance automobile industry and launch of new products Toyota Central Motors (TCM) 1st Dealership in Pakistan to be certiﬁed on “Toyota Way-Lets Live It” 23 concept. The TCM Customers Relations team and management pictured with the award along side IMC’s Customer Relations senior management SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materiality Analysis Business strategy development and risk management approach takes a holistic view of our wider economic, environmental and social impacts in addition to core ﬁnancial issues. Our materiality analysis process helps in determining the most material issues for the organization, making sense of sustainability landscape and concentrating actions in these high priority areas. The process involves identiﬁcation, prioritization and validation of key sustainability topics showing IMC's major impacts on the economy, environment and society. STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS IDENTIFICATION Issues relevant Industry speci c Impact of IMC to stakeholders issues activities and products AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT PRIORITIZATION Analysis STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS, MATERIALITY AND COMPLETENESS MATERIALITY Business risks Opportunities Input for business strategy to maximize opportunities and mitigate risks Implementation 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The process of determining material issues takes into account our activities and related impacts, industry speciﬁc issues and issues identiﬁed by stakeholders. Once the topics are identiﬁed, these are shortlisted and reviewed by taking into consideration factors of severity of the impacts, relevance to stakeholders and our corporate objectives and strategy. The principles of deﬁning the report content from GRI 101: Foundation (2016) i.e. stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness were applied at various degrees during the process. The materiality process resulted in most important sustainability topics representing our impacts on the economy, environment and society and deemed important by stakeholders for their decisions. The results of the materiality determination exercise are summarized in the materiality matrix. The matrix presents the topics in order of importance to stakeholders and the impacts of our activities. The content and scope of the report is guided by the matrix. The report only covers the impacts of Indus Motor Company’s operations and does not include information on any impacts of associates, subsidiaries or supply chain partners. Materiality Matrix Economic performance Material Energy Emissions Highly Local communities Water Indirect economic impacts Eﬄuents & waste Health & safety INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDERS' Employment and labour relations Marketing & labeling Human rights Procurement practices ASSESSMENT AND DECISIONS Moderately Compliance Public policy Training and education Biodiversity Anti-corruption Supply chain impacts Moderately Highly SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF IMC ACTIVITIES 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Boundary of Material Topics 26 Corporate Governance Vision, Mission & Core Values Code of Conduct The Board and Board Committees Risk And Compliance Commitments & External Initiatives SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VISION To be the most respected and successful enterprise, delighting customers with a wide range of products and solutions in the automobile industry with the best people and the best technology. CORE VALUES Ÿ World class production quality Ÿ Achieving the ultimate goal of complete customer satisfaction Ÿ Being seen as the best employer Ÿ Fostering the spirit of teamwork Ÿ Inculcating ethical and honest practices 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Code of Conduct Conﬂict of Interest Health and Safety Any personal interest, which may aﬀect or might reasonably be Every staﬀ member should take reasonable care to ensure the deemed by others to aﬀect an employee's impartiality, should health and safety of himself/herself and others who may be be declared upfront in writing. The company property must not aﬀected by his/her acts at work. Staﬀ members should not be used for personal work unless speciﬁc permission is obtained. tamper with or misuse any item provided by the Company to secure the safety, health and welfare of its staﬀ and for the Each staﬀ member is employed in the company on a full-time protection of the environment. basis and therefore, they are not to be involved, directly or indirectly, in any vocation, business or commercial activity. Any departure from this can only be made with the written permission of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer. Environment To preserve and protect the environment, all staﬀ members should: Conﬁdentiality and l Design and operate the Company's facilities and processes Accuracy of Information so as to ensure the trust of adjoining communities; l Promote conservation of resources, waste minimization and The conﬁdentiality of information received in the course of the minimization of the release of chemicals/gases into the business must be respected and never used for personal gain; environment; information given in the course of business must be honest and never designed to mislead. Further, all company aﬀairs are to be l Strive continuously to improve environment awareness and treated as conﬁdential and should not be discussed with third protection. parties during service with the Company and after leaving the service. Workplace Harassment Gifts The staﬀ will maintain an environment that is free from harassment and in which all employees/Directors are equally All members are forbidden to accept gifts or borrow money from respected. This means any action that creates a hostile or another member of the company or from a Distributor, Dealer, oﬀensive work environment; such actions include, but are not Vendor or a Customer. Personal gifts given or received beyond limited to, sexual harassment and any disparaging comments norms of business etiquette, which are likely to improperly based on gender, religion and race or ethnicity. inﬂuence business decisions, must be avoided. Company Image Proper Recording of Funds, All staﬀ members must avoid participating in any political Assets, Receipts and activity or in such personal behavior during or after oﬃce hours, Disbursements which may bring disrepute to the Company. All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements should be properly recorded in the Books of the Company. In particular, no funds or Legal Proceedings accounts should be established or maintained for purposes that are not fully and accurately reﬂected in the Books and records of It is essential that a staﬀ member, who becomes involved in legal the Company. proceedings, whether civil or criminal, should immediately inform his superior in writing. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Board and Board GENDER 5 EQUALITY 16 PEACE JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS Committees A sound governance structure is vital for success in the regulations. For more details about the proﬁle of the Board of marketplace in order to achieve a competitive advantage and Directors, refer to page 24 of Annual Report 2020. meet stakeholders' expectations. The Companies Act 2017, Code of Corporate Governance for listed companies, applicable regulations and Toyota Guiding Principles form the basis for our Board Committees corporate governance structure. These elements reinforce our The IMC Board of Directors is the highest governing body commitment to promote a culture of high ethical standards, responsible for implementation of corporate governance integrity, transparency, accountability and compliance with the policies and procedures and reviewing overall Company applicable laws and regulations. At IMC, a well-established performance against deﬁned objectives. In order to eﬀectively governance structure is in place, comprising of an integrated focus on important issues requiring deliberation and discharging management system and a code of conduct which governs our its duties eﬀectively, the Board has formed various Board management practices to deliver sustainable results and Committees. These Board Committees have their own mandate, customer delight. objectives and responsibilities and meet as required to oversee the business in speciﬁc areas. The Committees report their Board of Directors activities to the Board of Directors and prepare Board Meeting agenda for their respective areas. The Board of Directors consists of ten Directors, out of which three Directors represent Toyota Motor Corporation and Toyota Tsusho The Board Committees are Audit Committee, Human Resource Corporation of Japan. Five Directors are Non-Executive Directors, and Remuneration Committee and Ethics Committee. The two are Executive Directors and three are Independent Directors. Management Committees comprise of Investment Committee, The Board Members are well qualiﬁed, competent and have Marketing Technical Co-ordination Committee, AC T#1 diversiﬁed experience and expertise in the ﬁelds of engineering, Management Committee and Safety, Health & Environment business, management, ﬁnance and economics. The Board (S.H.E) Steering Committee. The Board Committees are Members are elected every three years while any casual vacancy supported by the executive level committees which report to the is ﬁlled by the Board of Directors as per applicable laws and Board Committees and assist in discharging their obligations. 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Risk and Compliance Toyota's Principle “Honor the language and spirit of the law of every nation and undertake open and fair corporate activities to be a good citizen of the world” is the guiding pillar of our risk and compliance mechanism. Our external environment has changed signiﬁcantly due to the Our strong internal compliance culture governs our corporate COVID-19 outbreak in March 2020 and the resulting global activities and our relationships with our supply chain partners. lockdowns. Economic activities have been halted nationally and Toyota Guiding Principles, along with applicable laws and globally on account of the pandemic. In addition to the COVIDregulations, are followed to comply with requirements from 19 pandemic, weak economic indicators, currency devaluation Toyota, local laws and regulations and to meet our stakeholders' and low tax collection resulted in macro-economic instability in expectations. Our Risk Management System is aligned with the marketplace. These factors posed risks to our operations TMC's Toyota Global Risk Management Standards (TGRS) which which are directly aﬀected by changes in economic conditions deﬁne risk as the eﬀect of uncertainties in meeting the and the decrease in disposable income of customers. This year, expectations of stakeholders while heading towards multiple price revisions due to currency devaluation and achievement of the corporate vision. The Risk Management increase in taxes and duties have resulted in price increase which strategy and responsibilities are designed and communicated to caused a decrease in demand; leading to non-production days the respective process owners to address risks at operational as practiced in the auto-industry. well as strategic levels, which has resulted in better risk reporting and management. Our operations are also subject to risks on account of climate change due to increased emissions from a growth in the number IMC is subject to various laws and regulatory controls, voluntary of vehicles on the roads. Further, the recent debate on Electric initiatives relating to taxes and duties, employment practices, Vehicles (EV) has highlighted the lack of a clear policy for the health and safety and environment, product safety and automobile sector. These signiﬁcant risks require adequate marketing communications. IMC's approach to Risk strategies to manage the impact on our operations. Our Risk Management and compliance is preventative and is primarily Management system assesses risks and opportunities in the focused on compliance with applicable laws, regulations and context of the broader political and macroeconomic voluntary codes and initiatives. The Risk Management approach environment faced by IMC and divides these risks in categories of is constantly reviewed internally and externally through audits strategic, regulatory, ﬁnancial, operational, reputational, and and external certiﬁcation of management systems. Based on the sustainability risks. The Audit Committee reviews the risks and review results, the approach is adjusted accordingly to achieve recommends the course of action to the Board for review and the desired outcomes. During the year, no signiﬁcant ﬁnes or discussion in Board meetings. Based on the discussion in the non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the laws and Board meetings, appropriate strategies are formed and adopted regulations occurred. to manage these risks eﬀectively. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Commitments and External Initiatives IMC is committed to follow and support various external international initiatives, charters and principles, in addition to Empowering Sustainable Decisions internal charter, code of conduct and guidelines: We are aware of the precautionary IMC is a member of the industry associations listed below and does not principle of Article 15 of Rio Declaration hold any position in these associations. IMC only supports these associations through sponsorships and participation in various programs on Environment and Development and organized by these organizations: are committed to fulﬁlling our responsibility towards Risk Management l Karachi Chamber of Commerce and Industry in business planning and product l Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry development. l Overseas Investment Chamber of Commerce and Industry l Pakistan Automotive Manufacturers Association We apply precautionary approach to l Pakistan Business Council reduce the environmental impact of our l Bin Qasim Association of Trade and Industry operations and products through research l Landhi Association of Trade and Industry and development, modernization and adoption of cleaner technologies. Awards & Accolades Received During 2019-20 Award winning is one of the key benchmarks of an organization's overall success and reputation in the market place. We are delighted to be on a winning spree, yet we believe that for winners there are no ﬁnish lines. For exhibiting outstanding performance and demonstrating progressive management practices, such as Capital Eﬃciency, Proﬁtability, Free-Float of Shares, Transparency, Corporate Governance & Investor Relations, Compliance with Listing of Companies & Securities Regulations during 2019-20, Indus Motor has won following prestigious Awards and Industry Recognitions: l Pakistan Stock Exchange Top 25 Companies for the years 2016 and 2018 l Asiamoney Most Outstanding Company in Pakistan 2019 (Automobiles & Component Sector) l Management Association of Pakistan 35th Corporate Excellence Award 2019 in Automobile l The Global Compact Network Pakistan of UNGC – Living the Global Compact Best Practices Sustainability Award 2019 l National Forum for Environment & Health Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2020 l Toyota Motor Asia Paciﬁc Outstanding Customer Service Excellence Award 2019 l Toyota Motor Asia Paciﬁc 1st Prize in the 13th Asia Paciﬁc Toyota Business Practice (TBP) Contest 2020 CEO Indus Motor, Mr. Ali Asghar Jamali receiving PSX Award l Toyota Motor Asia Paciﬁc Toyota Commendable Kaizen Award in the from the Prime Minister, Mr. Imran Khan category of Body & Paint 33 Economic Performance Economic Performance Our Dealers Our Customers Our Suppliers Automotive Market and The Toyota Brand SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic Performance 2 NO HUNGER 5 GENDER EQUALITY 7 RENEWABLE ENERGY 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION 16 PEACE JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS Our economic performance empowers us to deliver sustained economic returns to providers of capital, invest in our supply chain, and practice sustainability passionately in our sphere of activities. In 2019-2020, currency devaluation, dwindling economic conditions, reduced purchasing power on account of reduction in economic activities coupled with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, negatively impacted performance of the Company, leading to reduced sales and proﬁtability. Strong and sustained ﬁnancial returns help deliver better economic performance in the form of payment of duties and taxes, development of local supply chain, payments to providers of capital and investing for the betterment of the local community and for socio-economic development of the country. The integrated management system, Company policies and objectives, along with Toyota Guiding Principles and the “Toyota Way” are the guiding pillars for delivering sustained performance over the years. IMC operations have direct and indirect economic impacts attributable to our activities of car assembling and sales of parts and services. Direct economic impacts are the payment of dividend, markup, duties and taxes, salaries and beneﬁts to employees, local procurement and investing in our communities. IMC's indirect economic impacts are increased investments in the allied sectors, new jobs in supply chain, and increase in productivity of diﬀerent economic sectors through our mobility solutions and economic development in areas adjacent to plant site. Corruption is a serious risk and results in human rights violation and undermines the rule of law. IMC has in place a well-deﬁned Risk Management System along with policies and procedure to combat corruption risks in its operations. The IMC code of conduct prohibits corrupt practices while compliance is regularly reviewed through the Internal Audit department. Internal audits are carried out on regular basis and the results are communicated to the Board Audit Committee for appropriate action. In 2019-2020 all operations were reviewed for risks related to corruption and no incident of corruption occurred. IMC employees are regularly trained on various aspects related to their daily activities, including training on anti-corruption. The Board of Directors is the highest body responsible for managing economic impact of IMC operations. The objectives, policies and targets are discussed and approved by the Board of Directors. The Board has delegated the execution of policies and decision-making on day-to-day Company aﬀairs to the Chief Executive. The economic performance is reviewed on quarterly basis at Board meetings and appropriate actions are taken by the Board. More details about Board meetings and ﬁnancial statements are available on page 53 and 100 of Annual Report 2020. IMC ﬁnancial performance for the year 2020 depicts a signiﬁcant decrease in revenues. The proﬁts have declined due to economic slowdown, currency devaluation and decreased demand. The revenue decreased by 46% to Rs 86 billion from Rs 158 billion compared to the previous year ended June 30, 2019, while proﬁt after tax declined by 63% to Rs 5.08 billion from Rs 13.71 billion posted for the same period last year. For detailed information on ﬁnancial performance for the year 2020, refer to Director's Report section of the Annual Report 2020 on page 51. Late Mr. Ali S. Habib (3rd from left) at the Toyota Yaris Line-Oﬀ Ceremony at IMC Plant on March 11, 2020 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic Value Generated and Distributed 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (Rs. In Millions) DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Revenues 111,399 195,690 172,728 139,275 134,212 111,399 195,690 172,728 139,275 134,212 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED Business Partners 68,470 123,494 103,581 83,556 82,869 Employees 2,413 2,590 2,852 1,937 1,626 Capital Providers 2,468 9,315 11,576 9,437 7,937 Government 32,295 53,264 48,843 38,606 36,478 Community 190 230 191 174 141 105,836 188,893 167,043 133,710 129,051 ECONOMIC VALUE 5,563 6,797 5,685 5,565 5,161 RETAINED Economic Value Distribution (Rs. in Million) 2020 2019 Business Partners 68,470 123,494 Government 53,264 32,295 Capital Providers 2,468 9,315 Employees 2,413 2,590 Community 190 230 The Auto Development Policy 2016-21 governs the auto sector in Pakistan and has provided diﬀerent incentives to the auto industry. However, during the year, IMC did not receive any ﬁnancial assistance from the government. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Organization’s Deﬁned Beneﬁts IMC provides diﬀerent deﬁned beneﬁts to the workforce, including Provident Fund and Pension Fund. Employees contribute 10% of their basic salary in the Provident Fund and the same proportionate amount is contributed by IMC on a monthly basis. IMC contributes 9% of basic salary of employees to the Pension Fund. A separate Pension Fund is maintained to meet the liabilities of pension. 111% of pension plan liabilities are expected to be met by the Pension Fund Assets based on the actuarial assumption made in June, 2020. The Provident Fund balance is paid when employees leave the Rs 231 million spent on organization. During the year, IMC spent Rs 231 million on deﬁned beneﬁt plans compared to Rs 192 million in 2019. de ned bene t plans 37 Our Dealers Dealers are the ﬁrst contact point for our customers. They play an important role in our success and help us in managing Toyota customers’ high expectations, and creating customer delight. We strive to improve Dealership experience of our customers and help Dealerships to manage their environmental and social impacts. Our Dealerships have direct and indirect impacts in the market in the form of payment of taxes, provision of employment, energy and water use, emissions and eﬄuents, supporting communities and complying with applicable laws. We support our Dealers though training and provision of guidance for operational improvements to enhance the customer's experience. Our Dealership network consists of 46 authorized Dealerships nationwide. The Dealerships are independently owned and operated. Our products and services such as new cars, spare parts and service (maintenance) are available at all our authorized Dealerships. In addition, we have introduced Toyota Sure (T-Sure) service at our Dealerships where customers have the option to purchase reliable, certiﬁed used cars or exchange in order to upgrade their existing vehicles. At year-end there are 35 Dealerships with T-Sure facilities across the country. Increasing competition along with changing market conditions requires exceptional services at our Dealerships. To equip our Dealers for provision of exceptional services, we remain engaged with our Dealerships throughout the year through workshops, training, Dealer certiﬁcation programs and Kaizen projects. Surveys/audits are carried out by third party auditors against deﬁned performance metrics. Based on the survey/audit results, corrective action is planned and communicated to Dealers to overcome shortcomings. The annual Dealers' Conference is one forum to recognize the dedication and commitment of our Dealers. Dealers delivering exceptional performance against deﬁned KPIs are awarded at the conference. At IMC, we take pride in our Dealership network which helped Toyota in becoming the preferred brand in Pakistan. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Toyota Dream Car Art Contest The Toyota Dream Car Art Contest, organized annually since 2004 by Toyota Motor Corporation is a global contest and one of the The Jury Panel biggest drawing competitions in the world for children younger The ﬁve member Independent Jury Panel comprised of art than 16 years competing in 3 age categories i.e. Under 8 Years; 8 educators, painters and visual artists and included Meher Afroz to 11 Years & 12 to 15 Years & the Royal category. The contest's painter, print-maker & Professor Indus Valley School of Art & objective aims at fostering innovation and creativity in children Architecture; Nurayah Sheikh Nabi Assistant Professor Faculty of by encouraging them to think about the future of mobility and Fine Arts, Indus Valley School of Art & Architecture; Aliya Yousuf envision their 'dream car' and at the sametime emphasizes the Educator & Ceramic Artist; Aﬀan Baghpati Art Educator & Visual importance of children having dreams. Artist and Muhammad Zeeshan Art Educator & Visual Artist. The 14th Toyota Dream Car Art Contest 2020 National Jury Event The Jury chose 36 Regional and National winners and short-listed was held in March 2020 at the company's head oﬃce to select Top 9 artworks representing Pakistan which will enter the World the top Regional and National winning artworks received from Contest in Japan. Three additional drawings were chosen, two by children across Pakistan. Over the years, the contest has CEO Indus Motor, Mr Ali Asghar Jamali for the CEO Award and one expanded exponentially, reaching out to children from all walks by the Panel of Jurors for the Jury Choice Award. of life across the country. Pakistan stands amongst the Top 3 countries globally to have received the highest number of artworks submissions. This year IMC received over 49,900 Save the Planet drawings through its network of 46 Dealerships across Pakistan. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, supporter Created with a view to build an all-inclusive society, the Royal of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and mindful of our Category is a unique feature of the National Contest intended for contribution to sustainability, the event set-up was created using children who are diﬀerently abled. Over the years this category packing material recovered during CKD unboxing operations at has not only witnessed active participation and growth but also IMC, for example, pallet wood repurposed for building the earned huge appreciation from the public. National Winners Wall and plastic sheets reused to erect Artwork Display Walls. The initiative besides being very cost eﬀective was well appreciated. Nurayah Sheikh Nabi, an independent jury IMC CEO, Mr Ali Asghar Jamali with drawings member reviewing the artworks selected by himself for the CEO Award 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Exhibit Following the Jury event, for the ﬁrst time, a two day open house Exhibit was organized at IMC for IMC employees to showcase the shor t-listed masterpieces drawn by Pakistan's young artists. The footfall generated and feedback by visitors was very encouraging who marveled at the phenomenal talent and imagination of the children on display. Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, IMC has had to cancel the National Award Ceremony, held every year to celebrate the achievement of the contest winners. Nevertheless, to recognize and appreciate their eﬀort, IMC presented Award Certiﬁcates, Medals and prizes to the winning kids through the Dealerships. Likewise, Toyota Motor Corporation too has deferred the World Contest until 2021. Over the years Pakistan has had ﬁve World Winners, Mrs Ali S. Habib pictured at the Exhibit with the one each in 2010; 2011, 2013 and two in 2019. Independent Jury and IMC Media Management Team Head of Media Management & CSR (IMC), Mr. Asad Abdullah with the independent Jury in front of the Top 12 National Winning Artworks (L to R: Aﬀan Baghpati, Meher Afroz, Aliya Yousuf, Asad Abdullah, Nurayah Sheikh Nabi and Muhammad Zeeshan). 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Team 21 (Toyota Technical Education for Automotive Master 21st century) is a comprehensive technical training program designed for Toyota Dealers' technicians. It is a pre-requisite for technicians to deliver stateTeam 21 of-the-art after sales service as per Toyota standards. The program consists of four training categories; Toyota Technician, Professional Technician, Diagnostic Technician, and Diagnostic Master Technician. All Dealerships had Toyota-certiﬁed technicians at the end of ﬁnancial year 2020. All Dealerships had Toyota-certi ed technicians at the end of nancial year 2020. Promotion of Sustainability Practices at Dealerships Our impacts on the environment are not restricted to our operations only but also include our Dealerships. To manage our impacts which occur in the supply chain, we require our Dealerships to adopt sustainability practices in their operations. We are aware that an eﬀective management of the impact in our operations and in our supply chain is vital to make a meaningful contribution towards Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We equip our Dealers with best practices on health and safety, environmental management, labor practices, human rights and managing societal impacts which have helped to eﬀectively manage our supply chain impacts. Introduction of AP-ECO Standards Toyota has promoted a wide range of initiatives to address increasingly severe global environmental issues, such as extreme weather phenomena attributed to greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity depletion due to development, and water shortages caused by population growth. The Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 was announced in October 2015 as a means of contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. The challenge reaﬃrms our commitment to reducing the environmental burden of automobiles to as close to zero as possible, while developing measures to contribute to a positive impact on the Earth and its societies. Keeping this Vision in mind, Toyota initiated the AP-ECO program, with the help of which it ensures the implementation of Environmental Management System at its Dealerships with strong focus on CO2 reduction, waste management reduction, water usage reduction and improvement in handling of hazardous chemicals. Toyota at all its Dealerships ensures and promote 3R activities i.e. Reduce/Reuse/Recycle with the help of which it is not only getting closer to its vision of 2050 but also contributing to the betterment of environment and community. IMC has 28 of its Dealers certiﬁed as per AP-ECO standards. These standards ensure that the Dealerships are as environment-friendly as the values set by Toyota for all its Dealers in the Asia-Paciﬁc Region. 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Practices at Dealerships Our Dealership network actively pursues sustainability practices including environmental management initiatives and investing in the surrounding communities. Million Tree Plantation Drive Joining hands with IMC's “Million Tree Plantation Drive”, our Dealers continued awareness activities and tree plantation drives in areas surrounding Dealerships with the aim to contribute to the national cause of tree plantation for a greener Pakistan and combating global warming. Brieﬁng sessions were also organized by Dealerships and around 2,300 tree saplings were planted. Dealerships are also focusing on the sustainability of trees planted in past under the campaign. Toyota Hyderabad Motors Toyota Southern Motors Toyota Highway Motors Greener Pakistan Drive Plantation Drive Plantation Drive Blood Donation Camps Eye Checkup Camps Continuing the legacy of serving communities through health To create awareness about eye disorders, cleanliness, hygiene care initiatives, our Dealerships Toyota Point Motors, Toyota HN and wellness and to educate community members about eye Motors, Toyota Eastern Motors and Toyota Quetta Motors infections, Free Eye Checkup Camps were organized by Toyota organized Blood Donations Camps where 125 employees Defence Motors at Karachi and Thatta. Computerized Vision Test, donated blood for supporting the noble cause. Eye Corneal Topography Test, Refraction Test, and Blood Sugar level were checked. Over 550 persons who underwent a Blood Donation Camp at Toyota Point Motors complete checkup process, 425 persons were given instant treatment suggesting eyeglass prescription. Eye Checkup Camp at Toyota Defence Motors Cleaning Drive at Sandspit Beach Our Dealers Toyota Western Motors and Toyota Clifton Motors, undertook a Cleanup Drive at Sandspit Beach. Over 20 employees of Dealerships volunteered for the activity to promote environmental awareness in the society. Garbage collected comprised of plastic bottles, wrappers, containers, old torn clothes, etc. which was sorted out and disposed of as per deﬁned procedures. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Customers Our long-term success and our position as a requirements. A thorough need and feedback preferred automobile brand in Pakistan is the result analysis is used during manufacturing and after of our good customer service and customer sales to handle quality and comfort issues. We have relations. With the entry of new players in the inherited a culture of hansa renkei (collaboration competitive automobile market, long-term amongst cross functions) and Kaizen (continuous business success and brand positioning will be improvement) from Toyota which helps to make driven by eﬃcient customer management, constant development of our products for customer support services and eﬀectively meeting delivering exceptional customer experience. An customers’ expectations. To better understand our integrated technology platform GENESIS has been customers' requirements, we regularly interact with d e ve l o p e d by t ra i n e d te c h n i c i a n s a c ro s s them through our Dealerships as well as through Dealerships, nationwide for improved customers' direct interaction for meeting their expectations experience and handling grievances on the most and improving their experience of our products and relevant product and service aspects. The Company services. has a dedicated Customer Assistance Center where customers can call toll free for any inquiry or Toyota Global CR Standards enlighten our approach complaint they may have and be assured of a quick to customer management and are applicable at IMC response/resolution. The input is constantly and at all our Dealerships. Our customers expect monitored and forwarded to relevant departments high quality products meeting safety and comfort for swift action. 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Customer First Department oﬀers a complete customers' voice. The CS research, carried out by an ownership experience to our customers. Genuine independent party, helps the Company to measure spare parts and quality service by trained customers' satisfaction levels in regard to their technicians provided to customers through our buying and ownership experience. The results help Dealerships which not only increases customers' identify areas requiring improvement, developing satisfaction but also builds more trust in the Toyota countermeasures through kaizen in collaboration brand. Keeping in view the diverse driving habits of with respective Dealership teams and regular masses, rough roads and extreme weather PDCA. conditions, our prime objective is to ensure safety of The Net Promoter Score or NPS, is another useful our customers, vehicles and public. Our campaigns customer experience measurement tool the on product safety and inspection of vulnerable Company uses which focuses on customers' long parts help our customers to better manage their term happiness or customer loyalty. It measures vehicles and ensure safety for all. brand advocacy and 'likelihood to recommend'. At Toyota, the 'Voice of the Customer' serves as the Again, the results are utilitised to improve value basis for corporate renewal. Keeping connected proposition for products and services that help with customers through regular Customer build brand advocates. Satisfaction surveys is one way of capturing the 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Suppliers A vibrant and reliable supply chain is vital for business success. l Purchasing of goods and/or services to support the The COVID-19 pandemic has raised supply chain issues globally operations, maintenance services and corporate services. due to lockdowns imposed by the government to curtail spread Local product-related suppliers are OEM level automotive part of the disease. In Pakistan, most of the business units were closed suppliers in the categories of resin, rubber, electrical, sheet metal, due to lockdown and were subsequently allowed to work with assembly and others. Our suppliers are located in Sindh, Punjab, strict SOPs directly impacting the availability of materials and Balochistan. We have a total 52 Tier-I parts and consumable parts. However, due to eﬃcient handling and reduced suppliers. Our supply chain is highly labor-intensive, involving a production activities, we were able to manage the supply of manual to semi-automated production line. Our total payments materials and parts to keep our plant running. This has further to our supply chain partners on account of purchase of goods strengthened our belief that good supply chain management and services were Rs. 68,470 which were 44% less compared to and integration of sustainability in our supply chain are 2019. During the year, we made 34% procurement from local important factors for our success, brand reputation and meeting suppliers compared to 37% in 2019. customers' expectations. We collaborate with our supply chain partners based on their overall strength and work on To promote industrial development, availability of new sustainability for mutual growth. With various development technologies, job creation, skill development and economic programs focused on supply chain, we not only create ﬁnancial development of the country, we have been actively pursuing a beneﬁts for our partners but also help in securing a competitive parts localization program over the years. We have been working advantage in the market. with supply chain partners to enable them to follow and meet Toyota standards of safety and quality. Our close collaboration We procure materials and services from international as well as with our supply chain partners has encouraged them to make local suppliers. Our procurement is mainly categorized into: investments in produc tion lines fully dedicated to l Sourcing of CKD and CBU from Toyota Motor Corporation manufacturing high-tech parts for our products. Our new Toyota and parts from abroad; Corolla consists of 727 parts and components manufactured locally. Moreover, the investment in the development of the local l Direct and indirect purchasing of locally manufactured parts industry has resulted in opportunities of export of automotive and materials to produce vehicles; parts to other countries. During 2019-2020, the Pakistan auto l Locally procured service parts and accessories to support industry has entered in a new era with an order from Toyota after sales service; and Motor Vietnam to buy impact absorbers from Pakistan for upcoming Corolla. 43 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Promotion of Sustainability Practices at Suppliers We are aware that eﬀective management of environmental impact of our operations as well as of our supply chain is critical to reducing our environmental footprint. We support our supply chain partners in the areas of health and safety, environment and good labor practices. Toyota Quality Standards, sustainability guidelines, 'Just-In-Time' techniques and Kaizen culture to reduce parts rejection and bring improvement in business processes and proﬁtability, serve as the guiding principles for sustainability management at our suppliers. We work closely with suppliers on Kaizen (continuous improvement) culture and compliance targets to ensure conformity to all applicable laws and regulatory requirements. We conduct regular assessments to ensure that all suppliers are in line with IMC’s vision, strategy and targets. Our Product Development department coordinates with partners to promote sustainable practices in the supply chain. Toyota Green Purchasing Guidelines Toyota 'Environmental Purchasing Guidelines' were developed in March 1999, which were further revised for improvement in March 2006 as 'Green Purchasing Guidelines' [GPG]. In accordance with the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 and taking the changing environmental regulations into consideration, the GPG were further revised in January 2016. Green Purchasing Guidelines help in reducing the environmental footprint throughout our supply chain. The guidelines have been communicated to suppliers to motivate them to reduce the environmental impact of their operations and to establish a society in harmony with nature. 37 of our suppliers are ISO 14001-certiﬁed, showing presence of best in class environmental management systems to manage the environmental footprint. We have been working with our suppliers to eliminate packaging material from our supply chain by shifting to The Green Purchasing Guidelines are aligned with returnable trolleys for supplying parts to IMC. Our Green Toyota’s Six Global Challenges. Purchasing Guidelines restrict the following substances for packaging materials according to the Toyota Technical Standards TSZ0001G management, practice latest edition of CHALLENGE 2 CHALLENGE 4 the environmental load material : Life Cycle Zero CO2 Challenge of Minimizing & Emissions Challenge Optimizing Water Usage l Lead l Cadmium l Mercury l Hexavalent Chromium CHALLENGE 5 CHALLENGE 6 l PBB (Polybrominated biphenyls) Challenge of Establishing a Challenge of Establishing a Recycling-based Society & Future Society in l PBDE (Polybrominated diphenyl ethers) Systems Harmony with Nature l Deca BDE (Decabromo diphenyl ether) l HBCD (Hexabromocyclo dodecane) l PFOS (Perﬂuorooctane sulfonates) Establishment of Management of l Asbestos Environmental Chemical l DMF (Dimethylfumarate) Management Substances* System Our supply chain partners are encouraged to follow fair labor practices and we do not engage with suppliers who have child labor and forced and compulsory labor in their operations. Compliance with Currently, we do not have in place a criterion for supplier social Environmental Laws assessment. However, we have environmental assessment and Regulations* criteria for selection and monitoring of our suppliers. The new suppliers are selected through a process involving shortlisting, screening against criteria and conﬁrmation from suppliers for compliance against these criteria. The monitoring is carried out through suppliers' audits and evaluation against KPIs, followed by agreed actions for improvement. supplier criteria to supplier supplier corrective evaluation selection suppliers con rmation audit action 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Automotive Market and the Toyota Brand This year, we celebrated our 30th year of successful business and products. The Owner's Manual incorporates information strong brand leadership in the Pakistan automotive market. Our regarding driver and passenger safety, vehicle features and brand direction and marketing activities are guided by Toyota's technical and maintenance information. The details about the core global values which require compliance with applicable source, safe use and disposal of the product are also provided for marketing communication and advertisement laws and Toyota Genuine Parts and Toyota Genuine Motor Oil. Toyota voluntary codes. Our brand management strategy requires that Genuine Motor Oil is blended as per TMC's guidelines which are accurate and reliable information on product features, services benchmarked on the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the and practices is disseminated to our customers and other Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) International standards. stakeholders. We ensure compliance with our strategy through To ensure the safety of the consumer, a video is provided, which an internal review process to conﬁrm that only accurate underlines all the safety attributes of Toyota vehicles. The ASEAN information on product and services is shared. NCAP (New Car Assessment Program) is followed in addition to The Toyota Guiding Principles to produce safe and quality applicable laws and Toyota Guidelines. IMC is proud to share that vehicles and the sustainable development of society through all CKD vehicles are equipped with safety features which are ever-changing innovation and the provision of high-quality equivalent to 4-star ASEAN NCAP quality standards. products and services require a shift in the conventional business Over the years, IMC has continuously made eﬀorts to increase model to meet growing customer expectations. We endeavor to safety awareness and educate users about the correct use of form a lasting relationship with our customers by oﬀering peace safety speciﬁcations. Along with NCAP (New Car Assessment of mind and a unique buying experience of owning and driving a Program), IMC also promotes its Safety mascot THUMS (Total Toyota vehicle. Our Customer First approach from Toyota, Human Model for Safety) over digital and other platforms to working on localization, creating new jobs, skills and educate viewers on the safety features provided in all CKD contribution to economic development, coupled with our work variants. Regular safety campaigns are organized at our for promotion of technology among engineering graduates and Dealerships to discuss and communicate safety features spending on local communities, have supported our brand. At information and product attributes among our customers. The IMC, we are committed to continuing our activities for the Toyota Safety mascot THUMS is also promoted during the betterment of our stakeholders and strengthening of our brand campaigns which contain details of some driving tips and safety in the competitive market. The brand strength is monitored features, including anti-lock braking system, dual SRS airbags and through surveys across our Dealerships, suppliers and child ISOFIX seat anchors. industrywide business. The strategies are adjusted accordingly for delivering better customer experience and maintaining All our products are subject to compliance with the law and brand strength. voluntary guidelines. Compliance is assessed on a regular basis. During the year, there were no incidents of non-compliance with Safety of vehicles and our customers is one of the topmost regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service priorities at Toyota. In line with the 'Safety First' philosophy, IMC information, marketing communications, including advertising, provides detailed information to customers on product promotion, and sponsorship. Moreover, no complaints of breach attributes, safe use, environmental impact and disposal of the of customer privacy were reported during the year. 47 Environmental Performance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental Performance The automobile industry's complex operations of pressing responsible for environmental management at IMC. The (stamping), welding, assembly and painting in the production Committee mandate includes developing guidelines, process directly impact the environment. Moreover, the procedures, reviewing performance against targets, taking emissions resulting from vehicles during product use contribute appropriate decisions and ﬁxing responsibility for environment, to global warming, causing climate change. Increasing health and safety-related issues. Our approach to environment automation and improved processes in the automotive sector management is proactive to reduce our environment footprint are resulting in reducing cost and minimizing the environmental through adoption of cleaner technologies and eﬃcient impact of operations. Automated digital manufacturing and management of resources. robotic use are expected to further reduce the environmental The responsibility for implementation and monitoring footprint of manufacturing operations. However, the compliance with policies and applicable laws rests with environmental impact of products requires commitment from all Manager S.H.E. Our production plant is ISO-14001 certiﬁed which players, including government and oil reﬁneries for upgrading helps us in identiﬁcation of risks and opportunities in time to take fuel standards in Pakistan which will result in reduced emissions appropriate decisions accordingly. We regularly carry out training from vehicle use. We welcome the Government's recent move to on health, safety and environment topics related to our allow imports of EURO-V fuel only which will not only result in fuel operations to update the knowledge of our workforce and equip eﬃciency of vehicle engines but also reduce environmental them with new skills. Our management approach not only takes impact. into account management of the environmental impact of our At IMC, we are aware that our operations, products and supply operations but also environmental impact in the supply chain. chain partners have signiﬁcant environmental impact and we are We work with our supply chain partners to reduce the impact of dedicated to eﬀectively managing the negative environmental their operations by taking appropriate steps in line with our impact of our operations and supply chain. The material topics Environmental Policy and guidelines. Please refer to page 41 and showing our signiﬁcant environmental impact have been 46 for more details about our work in the supply chain. identiﬁed, taking into account interaction of our business Our management approach is evaluated through external activities with the external environment, severity of impact and certiﬁcation and Toyota Global Environmental Management results of stakeholders’ engagement. The material topics and System audits, internal performance reviews against targets and topic boundary are listed on page 26 which also shows the compliance with applicable laws. Appropriate corrective actions reason as to why these topics have been categorized as material. are taken based on the evaluation results, where required. Toyota's philosophy and policies on the environment, which are IMC's commitment to keeping its environment targets 20% based on Toyota Guiding Principles, underpin our strategy and below legal requirements, along with its continuous spending environmental management policies. We are also guided by the on environmental management, has resulted in zero nonToyota Global Environmental Challenge 2050 while devising our compliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2019-20. strategies for environmental management. Our Environmental During the year, Rs 436 million were spent on remediation, Policy has been revised along with our Five Year Plan which is prevention and environmental management compared to implemented in our operations to manage our environmental Rs. 321.75 million in 2019. Major expenditures include Rs. 402 footprint. Our Environmental Policy also forms the basis for new million on renewable energy (photovoltaic), Rs. 30 million on Coinvestments in technologies and upgradation of existing gen Chillers and Rs. 4 million for installation of LED lights to facilities. The Safety, Health and Environment (S.H.E.) Steering reduce energy consumption. Committee which is headed by the Chief Executive, is RENEWABLE CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE 3 GOOD HEALTH 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 7 ENERGY 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION 13 ACTION 14 WATER 15 ON LAND 16 PEACE JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IMC's Environment Month IMC celebrates the Environment Month every year in June. However, this year, owing to COVID-19 pandemic, our activities for the Environment Month have been deferred and rescheduled for September 2020. The purpose of the Environment Month is to raise awareness and remind people about their social responsibility towards the environment and speciﬁc environmental issues. Besides trainings and awareness, it creates a competitive environment for employees to share ideas for sustainability and environmental conservation. Using Natural Resources Materials' Use Economic development depends on cautious use of ﬁnite natural resources. The expeditious use of resources and overexploitation of natural systems is a risk for current and future generations, therefore, we commit to using the available resources wisely not only for economic beneﬁt but also for the coming generations. Diﬀerent materials and chemical substances are used in vehicle manufacturing. The major categories of materials are metals, plastics, elastomers, textiles and natural materials, fuels and consumable liquids, electronics, ceramics, glass and other compounds and non-dimensional materials. The calculation of weight of materials used in the production of vehicles involves enormous work while tak ing into consideration the number of materials and the complex nature of materials. However, we are pursuing to identify and report the weight of diﬀerent materials used in the production of our products. Plastics, Electronics, We constantly explore the opportunities to use more elastomers, textiles and ceramics, glass and Metals sustainable materials, including recycled and renewable natural materials other compounds materials, where possible. However, no recycled material was used in production processes during the year. Fuels and Non-dimensional consumable materials liquids Addressing Climate Change Climate conditions in Pakistan are rapidly changing on account of increasing temperature and have resulted in severe and changing weather patterns. The Government of Pakistan is pursuing strategies to shift the energy mix to renewables, introduction of Electric Vehicles and low carbon resources coupled with a billion tree plantation drive to address climate CHALLENGE 3 change. Plant Zero CO2 Emissions Challenge We, at IMC, are fully committed to using energy eﬃciently and convert it to renewables and low carbon technologies in our operations and supply chain to reduce our environmental footprint. Refer to page 52 and 54 for our work on using renewable energy and Million Tree Plantation Drive. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy Use and Shifting to Low Carbon Resources Energy eﬃciency through adoption of new techniques and technologies along with shift to low carbon resources is critical to preserving IMC's competitiveness in the challenging economic and climate conditions. Our strategy focuses on eﬃcient processes at our facilities to reduce our energy consumption and related GHG impact. Our assembly plant design helps to maximize the use of natural light during the day time to reduce energy use. Moreover, LED energy-eﬃcient bulbs are installed throughout the plant. Combined Heat & Power System (CHP) has been installed which reuses the heat produced during energy production. Natural gas and electricity used at our plant are the main energy sources and the largest contributor to Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Last year, the Co-Generation capacity was enhanced from 4.6 MW to 6 MW in line with future growth strategies. The energy consumption during the year decreased by 228,854 GJ compared to the previous year. The energy used per manufactured vehicle increased to 8.80 GJ/ unit compared to 7.34 GJ/ unit in 2019 on account of reduced production. Unit 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Energy consumed within organization GJ 248,622 477,901 409,384 313,080 396,029 Non–renewable Energy consumed within organization – GJ 2,282 1,857 1,395 Renewable Total Energy GJ 250,904 479,758 410,779 313,080 396,029 consumption Energy used per vehicle GJ/Unit 8.80 7.34 6.53 5.22 6.17 produced Energy saving per year GJ 19,821 25,630 22,320 17,307 12,498 TDEM guidelines were used in calculation of energy ﬁgures. Energy consumption per vehicle includes both renewable and nonrenewable energy consumption. The energy saving ﬁgure includes electricity saved by using solar panels installed at IMC plant, installation of LED lights throughout the facility and absorption chillers installed in the plant. Energy Consumption (GJ) 600,000 9 8.80 479,758 450,000 8 396,029 410,779 313,080 7.34 300,000 7 250,904 6.53 6.17 150,000 6 5.22 5 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Moving Towards Renewable Energy We are constantly exploring opportunities to improve the energy mix by transforming from one source to another with continuous improvements in the operational processes. We have installed onsite photovoltaic technology to reduce energy consumption from conventional sources and increase share of renewables. 942 MWh of energy was produced in 2020 compared to 516 MWh in 2019 accounting for 4.25% of our total energy consumption compared to 0.38% in 2019. Installation of additional system with capacity of 4.03 MW was completed in ﬁnancial year 2020. Greenhouse Gases Emissions Increasing Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions are resulting in rising average temperature levels and leading to climate change. These changes are aﬀecting the availability of natural resources, production and consumption patterns and quality of life. At, IMC, we are pursuing cleaner technologies and eﬃcient processes to reduce greenhouse gases emitted from our operations which are already well below the legal allowable limits. The Kaizen and Just-in-Time techniques have helped us to reduce the emissions over the years along with savings in the shape of reduced delivery cost of parts and eﬃcient operations. Our consumption of natural gas and electricity in production activities are the major contributors to our greenhouse gases emissions. We are currently monitoring our Scope-I emission from our operations. There are no Scope-II emissions. The Scope-III emissions of employees commuting to work, business travelling and transportation of materials to plant and products to dealers through supply chain partners were not measured during the year due to non-availability of reliable data. In line with Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050, we have in place a Zero CO2 strategy to reduce emissions over the long run. Our initiatives of reducing energy use through eﬃcient lighting systems and installation of Solar PV have resulted in reduction in electricity use and CO2 emissions over the years. Moreover, our manufacturing plant not only uses highly eﬃcient power generators but also utilizes the heat produced by these generators via absorption chillers and support cooling requirements; this ultimately reduces emissions signiﬁcantly. During the year, the GHG Scope I emissions reduced by 11,404 Mt on account of reduced production. The emissions per vehicle produced were 0.45 Mt compared to 0.37Mt in 2018-19. The emissions intensity increased due to reduced production during the year. Other signiﬁcant emissions comprises of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) in processes using solvents, paints, sealers or hydrocarbon-based chemicals. The emissions are reducing over the years as a result of Kaizen activities of cartridge reduction for low share colour, introducing new chemicals to replace washing thinner for overall cleaning, reducing robot gun distance and adjusting on/oﬀ spray for robot paint loss reduction. 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Unit 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Greenhouse Gases Mt 12,989 24,393 21,866 18,063 21,202 Emissions (Scope I) Emissions per vehicle Mt/unit 0.45 0.37 0.35 0.30 0.33 produced Reduction in Emissions Mt 9,274 8,515 7,850 1,798 961 Emissions of ODS Mt Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil NOx, SOx and other Mt NOx, SOx and other signiﬁcant air emissions within SEQS limits. signiﬁcant air emissions CO2 , CH4 , N2O gases are included in the calculation of CO2 emissions and emission reduction. There were no bio-genic emissions during the year. TDEM and SEQS guidelines were used for emission calculations. 25,000 24,393 0.50 0.45 21,202 21,866 0.37 0.35 20,000 0.40 0.33 18,063 0.30 12,989 15,000 0.30 10,000 0.20 5,000 0.10 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IMC aﬃrms and Million Tree Plantation Initiative determines plantation of Failure of climate-change mitigation and adaption is the number one long-term risk 1 million Trees across Pakistan by impact and number two by likelihood as per the World Economic Forum Global Risk Report 2020. Climate change is resulting in devastating ﬂoods, extreme weather patterns and declining agriculture growth and is aﬀecting economic growth. Climate related ﬁnancial risks of physical and transitional nature are driving businesses to formulate strategies for managing these risks. At IMC, we are taking into account climate risks management in our operations and are committed to playing a bigger role to help meet the climate change impacts. At our manufacturing plant, we are constantly working on reduction of GHG emissions from our operations and moving to net zero carbon footprint for our production plant. To further our eﬀorts and inspire corporates in Pakistan, we pledged a “Million Tree Plantation Drive” across Pakistan. Trees release oxygen into the air, absorb harmful gases from the air and purify it. These protect us from dangerous ultra-violet rays, provide us with food and play a pivotal role in preventing soil erosion, maintaining ecological balance and most especially in lessening the eﬀects of global warming. This Plantation Drive will not only beneﬁt environmentally but also economically and support diﬀerent SDGs. Only indigenous trees which are beneﬁcial to our environment, are selected under this drive and in order to ensure sustainability of the trees planted, local communities are being engaged. All our Dealerships have enthusiastically joined hands with IMC for nationwide implementation. Over a period of one and half years, Indus Motor Company has planted more than 300,000 tree saplings across Pakistan, and primarily in Karachi. The plantation drive will help in tackling the most important issue of climate change and rising temperatures. Bene ts for Tree Plantation Using Water Eﬃciently Availability of fresh and clean water is decreasing worldwide, leading to water scarcity. Pakistan is one of those countries that suﬀers 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Using Water Eﬃciently Availability of fresh and clean water is decreasing worldwide, leading to water scarcity. Pakistan is one of those countries that suﬀers most in terms of water availability per person; the ground water levels are falling and the availability of CHALLENGE 4 Challenge of Minimizing fresh water is a major concern. Water scarcity poses a risk to business and, being and a shared resource with the surrounding communities, requires cautious water Optimizing Water Usage management. We use water in painting and other production processes which put a responsibility on us to manage the water in an eﬃcient way. Over time, we have been working to reduce the consumption of fresh water with the 3R concept of Reduce, Recycle and Reuse and to manage our impact on water. REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE Apply manufacturing Eﬃcient use of water Waste water treatment Kaizen Water is sourced from canals from Keenjhar Lake which has a capacity of 650 hm3. We have an agreement with the Karachi Water and Sewage Board for extracting water which is measured by ﬂow meters installed at the point of extraction. Keenjhar Lake is the second largest fresh water lake in Pakistan and an important source of drinking water for Thatta District and Karachi city. Keenjhar Lake has been declared a Ramsar site under the Ramsar Convention and a wildlife sanctuary. The lake is home to the winter migratory birds and a breeding area as well. The water extracted does not signiﬁcantly aﬀect the water source. The used water is recycled to reduce the intake of fresh water leading to reduced impact on this scarce resource. The water recycling decreased to 7.15% of the total water withdrawal during the year, compared to 10.83% during 2019-20 while water consumption during the year decreased by almost 32% compared to the previous year on account of decreased production. Water withdrawal Unit 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 3 Surface water m 320,219 469,527 458,488 372,697 359,022 3 Ground water m 3 Total water m 320,219 469,527 458,488 372,697 359,022 Water withdrawal and recycling are recorded w ith the help of ﬂow meters. SEPA and Toyota standards are used for measurement of water consumption. Water recycled and 3 m 22,900 50,865 45,805 40,730 71,110 reused 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 500,000 469,527 15 458,488 11.23 400,000 359,022 372,697 320,219 10 300,000 7.29 6.22 7.19 5.05 200,000 5 100,000 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Managing Eﬄuent and Waste Our operational activities result in diﬀerent types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste which is strictly handled as per our policy. Applicable legal requirements regarding waste handling and disposal are strictly followed and no hazardous waste is shipped internationally. Water discharged from operations and the waste thinner are properly treated and recycled to reduce the burden on the environment. A state-of-the-art waste water treatment plant, which is based on Apple Edge technology from KABUTA Japan, is installed at our plant to cater to the recent expansion of the Paint Shop and eﬀective treatment of waste water generated from our operations. Treated waste water is being used for horticulture purposes only, which is not suitable for human consumption. The solid waste and oil are stored at a safe place for disposal to government-approved contractors. The staﬀ working on shop ﬂoor is regularly trained to reduce waste and eﬀectively handle the waste which is inevitable. During the year, we have not experienced any signiﬁcant spill at our plant. Waste water disposal Unit 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Waste water m3 35,390 60,900 Water disposal is recorded with the help of ﬂow meters. SEPA and Toyota standards are used for measurement of water consumption. Waste by disposal method Unit 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Hazardous and Non hazardous waste Reuse/reprocess (used oil, batteries) Ton 9 9 9 9 9 Recovery Ton Incineration (paint sludge, phosphate sludge, chemical sludge, caustic sludge, waste Ton 181 245 213 236 244 water sludge, chemical solvent) Landﬁll Ton 1 1 1 1 1 Onsite storage (waste water) m3 166 166 166 166 166 Other (sale) Ton None of the waste material is reused. Landﬁll and on-site storage is not carried out and waste is disposed of through SEPA-approved contractors. The hazardous waste is being disposed of through approved contractors on a daily basis. The ﬁgures for reuse/reprocess, landﬁll and onsite storage are on an estimated basis. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental Conservation 5S Clean-up Drive IMC continued the “5S Clean-up Drive” which was launched in March 2019 in collaboration with WWF-Pakistan for encouraging students to donate time for pro bono work. The objectives of this Drive are to raise awareness about cleanliness applying the Toyota “5S” philosophy, safe disposal of garbage, plastic pollution and tree plantation. 200 private and government schools are 124 Schools attended expected to take part in the drive to create awareness about the 5S concept, 90 Government 34 Private execution of clean-up activities and participation of students for tree plantation. 80,289 Students reached Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and prolonged lockdown of all educational 56,500 Trees planted at 33 schools institutions, the drive could not be undertaken during the last quarter of 20192020. A total of 124 schools were reached under the drive covering 80,289 students, who planted 56, 500 trees till June 2020. 5S Clean-up Drive Post Independence Day IMC organized a Clean-up Drive to collect the national ﬂags after the Independence Day celebrations to pay respect to our beloved country. More than 50 employees of IMC voluntarily participated in the drive. Our Dealership, Toyota Highway Motors also joined hands for collection of ﬂags under this Drive. 55 57 Our People & Communities SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our People QUALITY GENDER RENEWABLE REDUCE SUSTAINABLE CITIES 4 EDUCATION 5 EQUALITY 7 ENERGY 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 10 INEQUALITIES 11 AND COMMUNITIES Our people play a vital role in delivering exceptional performance and customer delight and maintain brand reputation in the market. We are aware that a productive workplace and skilled workforce are integral for producing high quality safe products and meeting customer expectations. Our Human Resource strategy focuses on attracting suitable people, providing them a healthy environment and training them so that they are enabled to successfully showcase their potential. Our Human Resource initiatives are guided by Kaizen, a commitment to continuous improvement towards business growth – which requires every team member to join the team and to be trained to practice the Toyota Way to develop our workforce capacity, knowledge and skills. We remained committed to ensuring that our operations follow, protect and respect labor standards, human rights laws, declarations and international conventions. Our material topics discussed in this section are identiﬁed on the basis of stakeholders’ engagement and the impact of our operations. These are listed on page 26 which also shows the impact on the basis of which these topics have been categorized as material. The Head of HR is responsible for implementing policies and reviewing performance of labor practices and human rights at IMC. The responsibility for monitoring and ensuring health and safety and safe working conditions rests with the Safety, Health and Environment department. We regularly review the policies and practices of labor practices, human rights and health and safety through meetings at unit level, function level, department level and Company level. Our performance is externally reviewed through safety audits and certiﬁcation of systems and required changes are made in policies and procedures based on the results of the reviews. Workforce Proﬁle IMC provides an enabling workplace to its workforce where people from diﬀerent backgrounds, ideas and beliefs are valued and motivated to deliver to their maximum potential. Our workforce ﬁgures are for the year ended June 30, 2020. 2020 2,855 2019 3,349 2018 3,266 2017 2,849 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The ﬁgures for hiring and attrition relate to the ﬁnancial year 2020. The hiring and attrition ratios are in accordance with industry ratios. The hiring and turnover rates were 7.6% and 19.9% compared to the hiring and turnover rate of 17% and 15% in the previous year. DECENT WORK AND 8 ECONOMIC GROWTH Employees’ Satisfaction To maintain a competitive advantage, brand reputation and meeting corporate objectives, a diversiﬁed and satisﬁed workforce is essential. We regularly engage with our employees through annual get-togethers, meetings and surveys. The objective is to measure employees’ satisfaction and identify areas of improvement to meet the objectives of providing decent working conditions and recreational activities to employees. IMC has installed a spot-cooling system at its plant, making IMC the only plant in Pakistan to do so. This provides a comfortable workplace to employees and enhances their productivity. Based on our exceptional performance in this area, the Pakistan Business Council has nominated IMC as a leader for SDG 8 “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all”. The best practices adopted by IMC were shared with the industry to inspire businesses to meet the targets listed in SDG 8 for ensuring decent working conditions. Please refer to page 16 to see the details of the workshop. Bene ts Life Insurance Health Care Disability/invalidity Retirement Nutrient Dense Air-conditioned Coverage Provision Meal Pick and Drop Facility 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IMC complies with the applicable laws, regulations and international charters in the areas of employment practices, labor practices and human rights. Employees are free to form associations for representing them in collective bargaining with the management as per applicable laws. Our supply chain partners comply with the applicable laws in this area and we have not come across any noncompliance at our supply chain partners. 44% of our workforce is covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). Employees are informed about any operational changes aﬀecting them well before time. However, the notice period is not mentioned in the agreement. Our operations are free of child labor and forced or compulsory labor and we have not come across any such incident at our supply chain partners. We, being a signatory to UNGC, have a strict policy to curb corruption practices in our operations. The management and employees are briefed on anti-corruption policies and procedures as part of the Code of Conduct and at the time of orientation sessions for new workers. Moreover, training on Code of Conduct, which includes anti-corruption policies, is regularly carried out throughout the year. Market-based salaries and beneﬁts are oﬀered to our workforce, enabling them to deliver to their full potential. Our ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men is 1:1 as the salary is based on merit only. IMC does not discriminate between workers on the basis of gender, religion and association and no incident of discrimination was reported during the year. Employees' birthdays, being a special day for employees, are celebrated under Employee Care Program to make them feel valued, recognized and impart a sense of belonging. Training and Education CORPORATE TRAINING FUNCTIONAL TRAINING Training and education of our workforce is an integral part of our Human Resource Management to build skillful and productive human capital. Our training is based on the al n global contents of Toyota and the most fundamental and on Co gi te Re Global nt best business practices which have contributed to Toyota's On the Job Content Development success. The training programs are designed to increase the knowledge, skills and attitude of our employees while taking into account the employee position and role for preparing ca Co l nt Lo nt them for future challenges. e Communicate Toyota Programs Workers are regularly rotated to diﬀerent Focused on Company policies and jobs to equip them with cross-functional skills. learning and practices including All workers are provided with role-based development Code of Conduct and skill-based training at the time of rotation to: or promotion. Customer First approach in every interaction 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Training targets both technical and soft side competencies expectations. The eﬀectiveness of training is ensured through which help employees not only to equip themselves with regular reviews against deﬁned objectives which also help in required skills but also decision-making capabilities. Our Interidentifying areas of improvement. All our employees receive Company Transfer (ICT ) program, involves assigning IMC regular performance and career development reviews. employees to Toyota aﬃliates in Japan, Thailand and Singapore During this year, 58,966 man-hours were spent on training and also the other way around. This is of great importance for compared to 120,290 man-hours spent in 2018-19. The decrease employees in terms of their own development and for the in training man-hours was mainly due to COVID-19 which has Company in terms of the value addition they bring after their disrupted businesses from March 2020 till the close of the exposure to overseas experience. It provides employees with an ﬁnancial year. However, on a cumulative basis, two million enriching platform to learn in a new environment while also training man-hours were crossed. demonstrating their skills in regional Toyota setups in a multicultural environment. We have received encouraging feedback on the performance of those in the ICT programs, indicating the skill and ability of the Pakistani workforce as well as IMC culture and system. The training and development of our workforce also augment our approach to succession planning which is an important element in our Human Resource policy to ensure smooth business, delivering sustainable returns and meeting customers’ 58,966 man-hours training Training in 2020 l Understanding Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) l Eco-driving, waste management, l Handling and storage of hazardous chemicals l Eco-tips based on waste reduction l Environmental awareness l Energy conservation l Spill control and spill kit management l Water conservation and CO2 reduction 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Apprenticeship Program 26th Annual QCC Convention To support skill development, inducting talented workforce and IMC held its 26th Annual Quality Control Circle (QCC) Convention creating livelihood opportunities for young students, IMC runs an in August 2019 under the theme “Workplace Development & Apprenticeship Program where young matriculate students are Employee Motivation – Way to Standardized Work” in Karachi. inducted and nourished via classroom lectures and hands-on The theme was based on recognizing the spirit of Kaizen experience to turn them into talented technicians. This helps (Continuous Improvement), one of the two core pillars of Toyota availability of trained technical staﬀ at IMC. The program beneﬁts Way and its business partners. A total of 15 teams, including 10 young students in learning technical skills and assists in securing from IMC, 2 from its network of vendors and 3 teams from the reasonable livelihood opportunities. Dealership network, presented their Kaizen eﬀorts in improving quality within their respective business areas. The coveted Gold Medal was won by the Quality Assurance and Quality Control Departments, which are scheduled to represent IMC at a Global Quality competition in Japan based on revised plan due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Toyota Commendable Kaizen Award The Customer Satisfaction Kaizen Evolution (CSKE) is hosted by Toyota Motor Asia Paciﬁc (TMAP) every year. All aﬃliates from the Asia Paciﬁc region take part in it to strive towards the common objective of providing the best customer service experience to customers. This year IMC won the Best Kaizen Award in the category of Body and Paint. based on ISO 45001. Our philosophy at IMC is to maintain the Safe and Healthy Workplace highest level of quality product and service quality without harming people and the environment. Our Environmental Safety and Health of the workforce is of utmost priority at IMC. Management System (EMS) is a comprehensive framework and Being a responsible entity, we strive to create and strengthen a conforms to ISO 14001 standards. Business processes and safety culture within our operations and in our supply chain. Our operations are managed in accordance with our environmental health and safety culture includes safety rules, procedures and policies and Toyota's global standards. In IMC, we not only practices to create awareness of safety practices. At IMC, all undergo regular ISO audits but also check our environmental business processes are designed according to our safety policies, conservation activities by conducting internal audits within the rules, standard procedures and global practices to comply with company applying our Environmental Assessment System (EAS) the requirements of Occupational Safety & Health Management which is monitored globally throughout Toyota. System (OSHMS) which are Toyota's global standards developed 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Safety culture at IMC is practiced through eﬀective measures for safety of its workers and their families. communication and reinforcement through a variety of l Compulsory usage of hand sanitizers and face masks channels, engaging all employees and contractors in understanding and adhering to safety programs and policies. l Ensuring social distancing at oﬃces, across the plant and Workers from each shop at IMC plant participate in regular safety canteen circles (focus groups). Toyota's management tools are used to l Work-from-Home improve and enhance safety within operations. We believe in l Social distancing in staﬀ transport KAIZEN and continuously look for further improvement. The activity of JISHUKEN (Identiﬁcation of areas requiring ongoing focus) helps to stimulate KAIZEN. Workers are also encouraged to Safety Month 2020 participate in group-based activity of HIRA (Hazard Identiﬁcation Safety Month is observed each year in April to reinforce the and Risk Assessment) to eliminate safety hazards from processes. commitment to safety. During the whole month, various Competitions are arranged and winners of the activity are activities safety walks, safety audit and training, including awarded and selected themes are shared globally within Toyota. ﬁreﬁghting training, ﬁre simulation evacuation drills, screening of Our health and safety management practices are focused safety videos and awareness sessions are organized. Moreover, towards zero fatalities and injuries. Pulmonary Function test and special safety audits are carried out during the month to check Audio Metry test of Shop ﬂoor workforce is being undertaken by compliance with policies and procedures to enforce the safety professorial physicians regularly every year. Moreover, for system. Competitions are also organized to encourage members catering to health emergency of workforce, a First-aid Centre has for executing safety “Kaizens” in their processes. This year, the been established which is available on a 24/7 basis. Safety Month could not be celebrated due to plant closure amid Toyota Environment Challenge 2050 is reviewed along with our the COVID-19 pandemic, however, this activity will be scheduled 5-Years Action Plan formulated to continue with our safety, later. health and environmental objectives. Globally, Toyota monitors each company against its standards and record the performance. Being a Toyota company, IMC also adheres to all standard 4S + Discipline Management operating procedures and strictly monitors Injury Free Rate as System per direction of our Principal (Toyota). 5S PMRs has been revamped into 4S+Discipline Management All our products and services are regularly reviewed for their System with additional emphasis on creating an ownership health and safety impact during design, production, services mindset along with other workplace management tools. It delivery and product use phases. There were no incidents of noncreates the culture of keeping the rules, visualize and compliance with health and safety impact of products or communicate to understand. One of the key principles of this services. system is Zenin Sanka which demonstrates the importance of In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has brought unexpected participation by every individual especially higher management variables and health risks, for some of which the existing crisis with a clear policy. plans and teams weren't prepared to handle. IMC successfully developed Outbreak Management Plan in response to the global pandemic, in line with health experts, government notiﬁcations and World Health Organization (WHO). IMC took various Health and Safety Committee Health and safety culture is strengthened through the Health and Safety Committee. This Committee includes representatives from employees and management and cover all the workforce. The Committee meetings are held monthly at various levels where issues related to health and safety are discussed and actions to improve health and safety conditions are taken as per need. The agreements with the labour union cover topics of health and safety of the workforce. In line with our commitment to health and safety of our workforce and operations, no Lost Work Day (LWD) injury occurred during the year. Minor Non-Lost Work Day Injuries (NLWD) occurred. All Non-Loss Work Day injuries occurred in non-production areas. IMC does not record loss work day injury and Non-Loss Work Day injury for contractors. Toyota global safety standards (Safety-PMRs) are used to record injuries. IMC does not take into account First Aid cases in calculating injury rate and as per directive of our Principal (Toyota), we monitor and take quick action for ﬁrst-aid cases. However, fatalities are included in injury rate. Lost day calculation takes into account workday schedule and the count begins the day after the incident. Injury rate 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 LWD 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 NLWD 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.7 1.5 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Communities Toyota's Guiding Principles and CSR Policy to pursue social sustainability of the intervention in deﬁned areas. The plant-site contribution activities that help strengthen communities and community is engaged on a regular basis to understand the contribute to the enrichment of society enlighten our CSR Policy. requirements and identify areas for possible intervention. The Our strategy to elevate our societies not only with our products identiﬁed programs are reviewed in line with Company policy to but also with our activities has resulted in signiﬁcant progress in enrich lives and bring prosperity to society. The CSR function with the areas of education, health and customer safety. Our longsupport of the Administration department ensures smooth term success depends on strong relationships with society and implementation of the programs. Our investments beneﬁt playing a productive role in uplifting and developing the communities in deﬁned areas of health, education, customer communities. The IMC CSR Policy also takes a lead from Toyota's safety and skill development. Monitoring of activities is carried Global Vision of enriching lives around the world through the out on a regular basis. Results are reviewed against deﬁned concept of monozukuri (production), create jobs, develop objectives and relevant adjustments are carried out. No impact people, and contribute to society. assessment of the interventions was conducted during the year. Based on our work with communities, we have determined that Our CSR activities are based on need assessment of the there were no signiﬁcant actual or potential negative impacts of communities steered by well-deﬁned policies and procedures our operations on local communities around the plant site. IMC for eﬃcient management and lasting impact. A senior annually contributes 1% of its pretax proﬁt of the preceding year management executive supported by a team is responsible for towards community investment. need assessment, program design, implementation, and 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT External Response to COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic is the deﬁning global health crisis of our time and the greatest challenge we have faced since the World War. The pandemic has threatened millions of lives and caused social and economic disruption suddenly. All public places were closed and employees of companies and universities were asked to work remotely. The banned economic activities and lockdown of cities caused hunger challenges and poverty in communities dependent on daily earnings. Unprecedented health challenges are additional implications of Coronavirus across the globe. Realizing its national obligation, Indus Motor embarked upon with its external response to the COVID-19 pandemic spending around Rs 65 million for lessening the eﬀects of pandemic, as follows; l Donation of Rs. 20 million to “The Prime Minister's COVID-19 Pandemic Relief Fund 2020” to support and strengthen Government's eﬀort to overcome the public health challenge due to spread of COVID-19. l Donation of Rs 4.08 million to Aga Khan Hospital for procurement of a lifesaving Ventilator machine. l Donation of Rs. 1.25 million to SIUT for procurement of 50,000 surgical face masks for their COVID-19 services, in addition another donation of Rs. 7.5 million also made. l Distribution of ration hampers to around 10,000 families of daily wagers in Karachi and Sialkot. l Donated Rs. 10 million to Indus Hospital. 64 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Education Quality education is the cornerstone for improving people's life and bringing prosperity to communities. Currently, Pakistan has the nd world's 2 highest number of out-of-school children with an estimated 22.8 million aged between 5 and 16 years not attending school according to a UNICEF report. In Sindh alone, 6.4 million children are estimated out-of-school and which accounts for around 40% children of the province. We believe that education not only beneﬁts the society by helping to increase economic growth, reducing poverty, reducing crimes, increasing employment, etc., but also helps the individual to earn higher income and therefore improve their living standard. Keeping in view this alarming situation, IMC entered into a partnership with The Citizens Foundation (TCF) for imparting quality education from grassroot level on the outskirts of Muzaﬀargarh and Hyderabad and also for its neighboring communities. IMC has been a great supporter of Habib University and has become one of its most cherished partners for bringing academic excellence through higher education to the nation. Our investment in education is based on the belief that education has a direct impact on the economic growth of the country. We invest in innovative and sustainable education programs that connect students with classroom learning and real-world applications. Our contributions in this area are focused on provision of basic education to children of underprivileged communities, promotion of technology through support to students in pursuing their technological ambitions and partnering for bringing academic excellence through higher education that broadens students' intellectual horizons, harnesses their leadership potential and helps them learn to appreciate diverse perspectives. Through our notable contributions in education, we support SDG-4 “Quality Education” which focuses on inclusive and equitable quality education and promotes lifelong opportunities for all. Toyota-Goth Education Program Toyota Goth Education Program (T-GEP) was initiated in 2008 to provide full ﬁnancial support with the objective of oﬀering elementary and secondary school education to economically disadvantaged communities of neighboring localities where IMC operates. Nurturing their dream for 13 years, the program has gradually expanded the area of operation and scope of classes. The ﬁrst batch of T-GEP, consisting of three students, have completed their Intermediate. These students were enrolled in T-GEP from Class-II and successfully completed their Matriculation in A1 grade. Being from very poor families, two male students have shown their interest in building their career through Indus Motor's Apprenticeship Program. The Program has resulted in signiﬁcantly improving the living standard, way of thinking and, above all, it has helped in eliminating the long tradition of early marriage of girls in the neighboring communities. In the Academic Year 2019-20, there were 261 students enrolled in T-GEP, out of which 58% were girls. A total of 16 students of two batches who have successfully passed their Matriculation examination, are being fully supported by IMC for their college education. For the ﬁrst time last year, seven college students from T-GEP were selected by the Youth Impact for their Leadership Training Program “Markhor-19”, an experiential based training which was held in October 2019 at Shogran. This training program helped them in achieving selfZeeshan, Danish & Rimsha The ﬁrst batch of T-GEP completed Intermediate examination exploration, social activism, instilling the markhor spirit, creating sustainable change through social entrepreneurship, innovation and creative thinking. 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Partnering with The Citizens Foundation The Citizens Foundation (TCF) is engaged in building and running schools, providing primary and secondary education to boys and girls in rural areas and urban slums of Pakistan. It is one of the Rs. 98 million largest privately-owned networks of low-cost formal schools in Pakistan. IMC has contributed to Total contribution the noble cause by supporting two school campuses which were built at Muzaﬀargarh and Hyderabad. These campuses are imparting education to over 1,100 students and generating to TCF employment for the local people. IMC supports these campuses by bearing operational expenses Endowment Fund through providing endowment fund as well as supporting annual contribution. During this year, IMC has released Rs. 3 million to TCF towards operational expenses of the campuses. Moreover, IMC has contributed a total amount of Rs. 98 million towards the TCF Endowment Fund for meeting annual expenses of their campuses including one campus at Orangi Town, Karachi. TOYOTA Eco-Youth Campaign by NUST Automotive Group The Team Toyota NUSTAG of Automotive Group conducted an educational seminar for freshmen undergraduate students at the NUST College of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. The objectives of the workshop were to educate and create awareness among students about climate change, threats posed to the planet, challenges faced while addressing climate change and the dedicated eﬀorts of Indus Motor Company and its aims for the sustainability of the environment. Team Toyota NUSTAG was supported by IMC for competing in Urban Concept Gasoline in the Shell EcoMarathon. The team was the ﬁrst team which cleared technical inspection in the ﬁrst attempt and secured 11th position in rd Urban-Gasoline Concept, which ranked at 3 position country-wise after China and Indonesia and emerged as the Best Urban Concept Team of the Subcontinent. Promoting Skills and Competence to Boost Exports Export Managers Advanced Training (EMAT) th Pakistan is the world's 69 largest export economy with exports of USD 26.7 billion in 2018. The Government of Pakistan has been working to boost exports in the coming years through competence development, enhancing quality of products and exploring new markets. Exports play a vital role in the country's economic development, creation of employment opportunities and help maintain balance of payment. IMC partnered with Habib University Foundation to organize the program for helping Pakistan Exporters to skill up their competency to boost exports. The training program was intensive, delivered by the experienced faculty of the University of Leipzig, Germany, where insights, best practices, winning experiences and strategies of exceptional German Mittelstand (SME) institutions were shared with participants. The EMAT program comprises 2 modules, each delivered over 20 hours, consisting of seminars and coaching characterized by a series of specialized workshops and practical case studies. 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stimulating Technical Education Toyota–Technical Education Program Toyota – Technical Education Program (T-TEP) is Toyota Motor Corporations ﬂagship program to support its worldwide aﬃliates to train and develop human resource in their local communities by establishing long-term aﬃliation with running vocational institutes. The objective is to provide Service-to-Society through familiarizing the young generation with the latest automobile technology, to create employment opportunities and also to bridge the gap of trained automobile technicians in the country. T-TEP was launched in Pakistan in the year 2000 and currently running at four institutes at Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad. A three-year certiﬁcation is oﬀered under the program which enables students to pursue a successful career in the technical ﬁeld. The Toyota philosophy and methods are the cornerstone of this program. IMC has contributed an amount of Rs. 75 million to four T-TEP institutes across Pakistan in terms of trainings, tools and equipment and other development activities. During the year, IMC has contributed an amount of Rs 32 million for the development of Body & Paint facility at these institutes. Since the beginning of T-TEP in Pakistan, IMC has trained 56 instructors successfully, invested more than 967,340 man-hours, graduating 4,397 students who got employment opportunities both within Pakistan and abroad. During the year, IMC conducted the Career Day event at all three T-TEP institutes and accordingly hired 27% graduates at Toyota Dealerships through the T-TEP recruitment drive. 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Health Initiatives Economic development and prosperity depend on healthy societies. Healthy societies not only result in productive workforce, gender equality, and peace and stability but also reduce healthcare expenditure. Taking into consideration these imperatives, our interventions in this ﬁeld focus on provision of basic health facilities to the neighboring underprivileged communities at their doorstep and support SDG-3 “Good Health and Well-Being”. We regularly donate to hospitals, blood banks and other healthcare institutions which provide life-care and health-care services to the underprivileged. Weekly Free Medical Camps To provide basic health care treatment to our neighboring underprivileged communities, Free Medical Camps are being organized three times a week on a regular basis. In January 2020, IMC Management entrusted Saylani Welfare Trust for running the Medical Camps with additional facilities of Blood Sugar Test, Blood Pressure Test and referring serious patients to hospitals on its panel. During the year, 21,894 patients were treated for various seasonal illnesses such as Respiratory Tract Infection (RTI), Gastroenteritis and other general health problems arising from lack of immunity. The medicines were distributed free of cost. Bi-Monthly Free Psychiatric Medical Camps The suicide rate around the globe is on the rise due to poor mental health. Mental health problems aﬀect around one in four people in any given year and 95% of mental health problems are curable. They range from common problems, such as depression and anxiety to rarer problems of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Since 2017, IMC, in collaboration with the Basic Needs Pakistan, (an NGO) has been organizing free medical camps twice a month involving follow-ups as well as awareness campaigns for psychiatric ailments and epilepsy in nearby communities. Last year, around 1,260 checkups were carried out and 49 patients were identiﬁed for treatment and counselling. Apart from checkups, counseling sessions were also organized which were attended by a large number of community members. Corporate Philanthropy for Health Care IMC regularly donates to healthcare institutions to assist them in strengthening the facilities and providing better health services to the disadvantaged communities. During the year, to ﬁght the COVID-19 pandemic IMC contributed; l Donated Rs. 20 million to the “Prime Minister's COVID-19 Pandemic Relief Fund 2020”; l Donated Rs.10 million to Indus Hospital to help provide quality treatment to the underprivileged community during the unprecedented COVID-19 crisis; l Donated a ventilator machine to the Aga Khan University Hospital; l Donated Rs. 7.50 million and 50,000 surgical masks to SIUT to help our hospitals and frontline healthcare workers; CEO Indus Motor, Mr. Ali Asghar Jamali, presenting cheque to Syed Adeebul Hassan Rizvi of SIUT l Provided ration hampers to more than 6,500 families during the lockdown; l Contribution to The Kidney Centre and Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre Karachi. 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Employee Volunteerism Employee volunteerism helps in strengthening employee satisfaction, retention and productivity while doing good in the society. It also beneﬁts the brand and results in better stakeholders’ relations. IMC encourages its employees to participate in volunteer activities to extend support for the causes beneﬁting the public at large. During the year, employees volunteered 4,839 working-hours for various CSR activities including the Company's “Million Tree Plantation Drive”, “5S Clean-up Drive”, food and ration distribution for neighboring communities well-being, provision of medical and educational assistance. 4,839 man-hours of employee volunteering MARKHOR-2019 – Wilderness-based Leadership Conference Markhor Conference is a distinctive social leadership development experiment, a wilderness-based Youth Leadership program that opens up a whole new perspective on the way we view nature. It tests limits of participants while creating a strong community for support and trust. The Markhor-2019 objectives were to instill a Markhor spirit, develop self-awareness, and create innovative thinking and capacity building for social activism. The 5-day Conference Markhor-2019 was organized by The Youth Impact (a non-proﬁt organization) in October 2019 at Shogran. IMC sponsored the Markhor-2019 as the Oﬃcial Women Leaders Partners, providing scholarships to ten female delegates from T-GEP senior students and three from Karachi (Lyari) and Jacobabad as brand ambassadors, on merit and need basis. Start Your Impossible Toyota's global corporate initiative “Start Your Impossible” was formally launched in Pakistan by IMC in 2018. Start Your Impossible initiative inspires Toyota employees, partners and customers to connect to the Company's core belief that mobility goes beyond cars; it is about overcoming challenges and making dreams come true. IMC pledged support to Ms Zainab Barkat, the national wheelchair table tennis player, to represent Pakistan in the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games and fulﬁll her dream of returning as a gold medalist. Ms. Zainab got robust training on Wheelchair Table Tennis in Pakistan and thereafter in China for her selection by the Pakistan Table Tennis Federation for competing abroad in T3 category Table Tennis. The Paralympic Games have been postponed till 2021 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, her participation in the “Start Your Impossible” initiative is an inspiration for other people and highlights the Company's mission of creating a barrier-free society and reinforces its values of humility, hard work, overcoming challenges and perseverance. 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Provision of Food and Ration to Fight Hunger Healthier and happier communities are important for peace, prosperity and economic development. Hunger results in discomfort, distorts law and order and hampers economic activities. Business can play an important role in solving this major issue of hunger by supporting the needy communities. Our activities of ration distribution support SDG-2 “Zero Hunger” which seeks sustainable solutions to end hunger in all its forms and ensures that everyone everywhere has enough good quality food to lead a healthy life. Since inception, IMC has been actively playing its role through provision of cooked food to neighboring communities at their doorstep and ration distribution in the month of Ramzan. The average number of beneﬁciaries under this program is around 20,000 households. In addition IMC continued to support to 110 persons every day by providing nutritious cooked food in Karachi through Saylani Welfare Dasterkhan. Relief Activities for Earthquake Victims in Azad Kashmir Azad Kashmir witnessed a 5.8 magnitude earthquake in September 2019 that brought devastation in Mirpur District. It caused over 40 deaths and around 500 persons were injured. IMC immediately undertook humanitarian support activities for the victims in Azad Kashmir through distribution of ration hampers and blankets to around 500 families. 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Support to Saylani Welfare Trust A sympathetic and smart way for IMC to give back to society is donating its' surplus usable items to assist social initiatives l IMC donated an automatic bread-making machine to Saylani Welfare Trust to help it in extending outreach to the needy and poor sections of the society. Saylani Welfare Trust serves 125,000 destitute people every day with nutritious food. It does so without discrimination and with dignity and grace. l IMC donated metal rooﬁng to Saylani Welfare Trust for building shades at various Saylani-kaDasterkhan points. IMC CSR Team pictured with children and adults of one village community supported by the Company 73 The Way Forward SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Way Forward Severe economic conditions, including currency depreciation, remuneration and beneﬁts, as well as a safe, healthy and stagnant exports, inﬂation and unemployment are putting productive workplace to perform. Our supply chain partners increased pressure on businesses. We must also manage impact help us in meeting our corporate objectives and achieving of the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak and resultant lockdowns, customer satisfaction. We are committed to supporting our which has entirely changed the way we live and work. IMC is fully supply chain partners by working to improve economic returns, committed to playing its role while taking guidance from the provide guidance and training to manage their environmental Toyota Vision, Guiding Principles and best practices in corporate footprint and making contributions for the beneﬁt of society. governance and sustainability management. Transparency helps in establishing a trusted business relationship with our stakeholders and long-term success of the Since last year, the automobile sector has been severely aﬀected business. We are committed to continuing engagement with our due to increasing automobile prices on account of currency stakeholders, working for uplifting of our under-privileged depreciation, increasing taxes and decreased demand due to communities through investment in education, health and reduced disposable income of consumers. These factors have livelihood generation, and promoting skill development and resulted in decreased sales and proﬁtability and require strategic sports for healthier societies. changes in the business plan. However, we are committed to providing high quality and safe products to our customers. We We are committed to continuing our sustainability reporting to keep upgrading our plant and facilities to meet the demand in share our sustainability story and impacts with our stakeholders the years to come after this economic crunch. Moreover, in line for making informed decisions. We are also committed to keep with the “Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050,” we aim to following and supporting: continuously make investments on clean energy resources and eﬃcient energy management. These will enable us to reduce l “Ten Principles” of United Nations Global Compact environmental footprint of our operations and supply chain l Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability Reporting partners to meet our target of net zero impact. Standards Our human capital is important for maintaining our market l Corporate Social Responsibility Voluntary Guidelines position and delivering sustainable growth in the ever-changing 2013 competitive market. We are committed to nourishing our workforce with training and education, providing market-based l Sustainable Development Goals Hazara Motorway M15 75 Annexures SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT NO 1 POVERTY NO 2 HUNGER GOOD 3 HEALTH QUALITY 4 EDUCATION CLEAN WATER 6 AND SANITATION RENEWABLE 7 ENERGY DECENT WORK AND 8 ECONOMIC GROWTH REDUCE 10 INEQUALITIES 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CLIMATE 13 ACTION LIFE BELOW 14 WATER LIFE 15 ON LAND PEACE JUSTICE 16 AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS 87 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. Plot No. N.W.Z/1/P-1, Port Qasim Authority, Bin Qasim, Karachi, Pakistan. www.toyota-indus.com Worldwide Olympic Partner Worldwide Paralympic Partner
