Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 Our sustainability journey Subsea 7 is a global leader in the delivery of offshore projects and services for the evolving energy industry, creating sustainable value by being the industry’s partner and employer of choice in delivering the efficient offshore solutions the world needs. In an ever-evolving energy industry, one of the most significant challenges we face is the increased demand society places on being able to deliver sustainable sources of energy as we transition to a lower-carbon future. Our Company is committed to meeting this challenge and to continuously improve the sustainability performance of our business. Our Values provide the framework for how we behave and what our people, our clients, our shareholders and society can expect from us. They make us who we are. These Values are closely aligned to our six sustainability priorities, since these are the areas we have always known are important to being a preferred supplier and employer. Inside this report 2019 was a significant year in Subsea 7’s sustainability journey. We established a new ‘Sustainability’ Value that specifically CEO’s letter 2 focuses on our environmental and societal behaviours and our Materiality assessment 3 newly formed Sustainability Working Group undertook a Health, safety and wellbeing 4 detailed assessment to set the cornerstones of our Energy transition 6 sustainability strategy going forward. Labour practices and human rights 8 Business ethics 10 We look ahead to 2020’s sustainability plan with enthusiasm Operational eco-efficiency 12 and commitment. We recognise the importance of setting Ecological impacts 14 strong sustainability foundations and will continue to build Additional sustainability topics 16 upon these by establishing action plans and targets. We Data summary 20 understand the challenges, we are embracing the learnings Report abbreviations 22 and taking the opportunities to help Subsea 7 responsibly generate long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders. Sustainability Health, Safety Energy Labour Practices and Wellbeing: Transition: and Human Rights: highlights 0.02 658 80% Lost-time incident Cumulative number of Our people responded frequency rate per offshore wind turbine positively to being treated 200,000 hours worked generator foundations with respect as an individual we have installed to end in the Subsea 7 bi-annual of 2019 Employee Opinion Survey Business Operational Ecological Ethics: Eco-efficiency: Impacts: 4,791 361,164 15 Number of employees Tonnes of scope 1 CO2 Local environmental who have completed emissions from our owned initiatives undertaken compliance and ethics and managed vessels in 10 countries on e-learning (100% of target) 4 continents Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Vision Strategy Stakeholders To lead the way in the delivery of In an evolving energy sector, we Delivering sustainable value for offshore projects and services for create sustainable value by being our shareholders, our people, the energy industry the industry’s partner and employer our clients and our society of choice in delivering the efficient offshore solutions the world needs Differentiators Re lat ion sh ity ip s tiv Cr ea ity bil lia Full-service offering Re across the energy lifecycle tions Solu Install and Inno Concept Engineer commission Extend ty vation Safe Early client Design Procure and Maintain Decommission engagement fabricate ol y lab rit or eg Int ati on C Su sta ce ina an bili ty form Per UN Global Compact In 2019 Subsea 7 became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. This is a voluntary commitment to adopt sustainable and socially responsible business policies and report on their implementation. We are committed to upholding the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact, which cover human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, including the Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainable Development Goals The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide a framework for achieving the agenda and targets set by the UN Member States that collectively signpost what needs to be done to end extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice and protect our planet. We have mapped our six Sustainability Priorities against these goals, eight of which are highly relevant to our stated ambitions. Good health Affordable Responsible Climate action and wellbeing and clean consumption energy and production Decent work Industry, Life below water Peace, justice and economic innovation and and strong growth infrastructure institutions www.subsea7.com 1 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S LETTER UN Global Compact We became signatories of the UN Global Compact and committed to supporting the Building Responsibly programme in 2019. The values of these global programmes are aligned to our Company Values. Our continuing support for them is a firm statement of our commitment to operating responsibly and our belief that working collaboratively with other businesses and organisations is key to ensuring real change on a global scale. Sustainability at Subsea 7 goes beyond the way we work and the behaviours we value to include the business risks and opportunities related to the transition toward lower-carbon sources of energy. Access to affordable energy is a fundamental societal need. We play an important role in helping to supply that energy, from both renewable and non-renewable sources. In order to meet the global energy demand while reducing John Evans, Chief Executive Officer the climate change impact, our industry must seek better and cleaner ways to produce energy and prioritise financial and intellectual capital investment in increasing the supply of renewable energy offshore. “I am confident that Subsea 7, working together In 2019, Subsea 7 formed a Sustainability Working with all our stakeholders, can help produce the Group with senior leaders from functions across the Company working together to identify the material energy the world needs from increasingly priorities for the business and to guide and support the Executive Management Team and Board of sustainable sources.” Directors in the development of our sustainability strategy. This working group reported to the Board Subsea 7 is a global leader in offshore energy services. We create sustainable at regular intervals and sustainability was included value for our stakeholders by delivering the efficient offshore energy solutions the on the agenda at Board meetings. world needs. This is our inaugural Sustainability Report, but working together Our Company has made significant progress already sustainably is not a new concept for us. Subsea 7 has a long heritage in offshore in establishing a sustainable business which stands services, working with clients to help them achieve the right solution for their oil, us in good stead for the future. This is founded on gas and renewable energy projects. our long-established company policies on Health, We embrace a Values-led strategy, and our behaviours and culture are part of Safety, Environmental, Quality (HSEQ), Ethics and our differentiated service approach. Our Sustainability Priorities are closely aligned Human Rights which can be found on our website with our Values and there are material business opportunities and risks associated and which are clearly aligned with the UN Global with our progress and performance towards the ambitions we have set. Compact’s principles. In 2019 we enhanced our Values with the addition of sustainability as a sixth Looking ahead to 2020 and beyond, we remain Value for the business. This calls out explicitly our commitment to protect and focused on the health, safety and wellbeing of our support the environments and societies we work in, whereas previously this people and continue to support best practice when was included within our other Value statements. Our people have embraced it comes to respecting human rights and adoption of this change, increasing their contribution to society through local community good labour practices. We are focused on promoting initiatives such as Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) greater environmental responsibility and committed to events with schools and universities and environmental initiatives to reduce supporting the transition towards lower-carbon sources our greenhouse gas emissions and plastic waste. We helped our people of energy. Subsea 7 continues to prioritise the explore the meaning of sustainability as a Value with events across the importance of conducting our business to the highest business such as the annual Senior Management Team meeting and the ethical standards. Graduate Development events. A new full-time senior position has been created to oversee the delivery of our sustainability ambitions, including setting key performance indicators. We have a clear focus on our sustainability priorities and are motivated to meet our ambitious targets. 2 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materiality assessment Our materiality assessment established the key sustainability priorities relevant to all our stakeholders. Subsea 7’s approach to sustainability is founded on the belief that by material matters: Health, safety and wellbeing; Business ethics; Labour prioritising the more material business opportunities and risks we can practices and human rights; Operational eco-efficiency; Ecological become increasingly sustainable in all that we do. In 2019, to support impact and Energy transition. this strategy, the newly formed Sustainability Working Group undertook The Sustainability Working Group and the Executive Management a review of the Company, sector and societal factors to determine Team have worked together to clearly define each of the six Priorities which of these should take priority for us. and to set long-term ambitions. These were presented to the top We worked with stakeholder feedback from our clients, our eighty managers across the business at our annual Senior shareholders and our people and we observed the wider industry and Management Team meeting in December 2019. Looking ahead to scientific reports. This information was then analysed in detail to create 2020, the Sustainability Working Group and newly appointed Senior a longlist of key topics. All of the topics we discussed are important Vice President (SVP) of Sustainability are working with the functional to us but the longlist focused on those that are applicable to a wide and regional senior leaders to determine which initiatives will have the range of stakeholders and have the greatest long-term impact on most impact and establish the right key performance indicators to our future. Further scrutiny, supported by a specialist sustainability measure our progress going forwards. consultant, enabled us to define six Sustainability Priorities of the most Sustainability priorities Employee health, safety and wellbeing Energy transition Creating, maintaining and promoting a safe, secure and Being the partner of choice for the transition of offshore healthy work environment. energy towards a sustainable future. Labour practices and human rights Operational eco-efficiency Providing working conditions aligned with international Improving the environmental efficiency of our operations best practice with respect to human and labour rights. and our solutions in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and energy use. Business ethics Ecological impacts Ensuring ethical business conduct and compliance by Minimising the impact of our operational activities on those working in and for the company. marine and land-based ecosystems and biodiversity. Additional sustainability topics Human capital development Diversity and inclusion Community impact and relationships Responsible supply chain management Waste management and effluents Stakeholders Our stakeholders are important to us and we are aligning with their expectations on sustainability Society Clients People Shareholders Our Society defines what Our clients expect us to Our people expect us to Our shareholders expect is acceptable and what operate safely, cleanly and keep them safe, treat them us to be fair, balanced and is expected in terms of with integrity. with respect and be a transparent in our interactions corporate behaviour. good employer. with the market. We have a duty to respect the communities and environments we work alongside. www.subsea7.com 3 SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES Health, safety and wellbeing Creating, maintaining and promoting a safe, secure and healthy work environment. Why it is important The safety of our people is our first priority. Our workplaces are Assurance and verification of safety standards are key to a consistently potentially hazardous, particularly when we are working offshore in strong safety performance. Subsea 7 checks activities against our harsh and remote environments. We believe that all our people and internal standards and processes as well as regulatory and legislative those working on our sites are entitled to the same level of protection requirements. We undertook over 250 internal safety audits in 2019 regardless of where in the world they work. To achieve this it is which included checking our vessels, our procedures and our essential that we have the right frameworks in place to enable our documentation. We also use external auditing to ensure we are in people to work safely. Our policies and training programmes are compliance with our obligations relating to the countries and regulatory continuously reviewed to make sure that this is achieved. standards where we operate and to check that our projects and vessels are in compliance with our clients’ requirements. In addition We capture key lessons from across our global operations in order we use third-party auditors to enhance our oversight of our supply to improve our systems, to reduce and ultimately eliminate activities chain. In 2019 we performed over 135 supply chain audits. that have the potential to harm our people, the environment and cause damage to our equipment. We record all incidents and near Keeping our people safe also includes their security at work. We misses in detail and investigate each and every event. Near misses assess the security risks of countries, areas, hotels, airlines and other can be defined as being an event where something happened, means of transportation, to make sure our people are secure and nobody was hurt and nothing was damaged; however had travel safely. Subsea 7 has operations around the world, and some circumstances been slightly different it would have been an incident. of the places we work in are higher risk with regard to adverse By collecting this valuable information and tracking our performance environmental events such as extreme weather, as well as political in our Business Management System we are able to continually or civil unrest and the threat of terrorism. We provide our people with improve our safety performance. We set challenging targets to drive onsite support as required to minimise the risk to personal security. performance improvement with an aim of achieving an incident-free This may include security personnel, company-arranged transport, workplace every day and everywhere we work. We celebrate our travel management plans and travel guides. safety successes with awards for worksites that achieve superior We promote a healthy work-life balance through a combination of performance and communicate details of incidents when they do wellbeing initiatives, protecting against occupational health hazards occur to help our people learn to be safer in all they do. and supporting our employees when they need it most. We recognise the importance of mental and physical heath and support this with resilience training and local initiatives such as mental health first aiders, UN Global Compact education in financial wellbeing and regular sports and social activities. Many of our people have access to a confidential Employee The UN Global Compact recognises the importance of health, Assistance Programme (EAP) that provides support for coping with safety and wellbeing through a number of its Sustainable life’s challenges including health and wellbeing, financial problems, Development Goals. We strongly support this value and ensure stress or anxiety and family issues. we create, maintain and promote a safe, secure and healthy work environment. Our ambitions Promoting safe and healthy workplaces ​ Providing a workplace that is incidentacross our value chain where employees and injury-free at all times, everywhere feel welcome and secure Providing a work environment that ​ Key sustainable development goals encourages, supports and enables healthy choices and lifestyles 4 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our initiatives and projects in 2019 In 2019 our Work Safe Home Safe training programme was delivered in person to over 1,200 senior operations people at workshops worldwide. Every workshop had a member of the Executive, Country or Business Unit leadership team involved with individual participation, sharing their stories and getting engaged in the activities. Our Work Safe Home Safe programme supports Subsea 7’s fundamental priority of protecting and providing a safe environment to those involved in or affected by our activities, where everyone participates and is empowered to stop the job if they feel it is unsafe. This programme will continue to be delivered in locations around the world in 2020. A revised ‘dropped objects’ operating procedure was implemented in 2019 in response to analyses of near miss events reported in prior periods. The procedure aims to minimise the risk posed by operational or equipment failure, particularly when working at heights. One improvement is the inclusion of images of items requiring inspection to make it clearer which of them need to be checked in regular site surveys. To keep our people safe when travelling we introduced a new In 2019, Subsea 7’s Global Welding and Development Centre in Travel Smart mobile phone application. This app was developed by Glasgow, UK, celebrated 10 years without any lost time incidents. Chubb and made available to all our people as part of our business This safety-first team has also achieved nine years without any travel insurance. It provides the user with detailed information about recordable incidents. These milestones were achieved despite the destination they are travelling to, SMS alerts about how to avoid an increase in activity in 2019 with over 20 projects utilising onsite potential travel risks and direct access to medical and security welding expertise. assistance 24/7 wherever they are in the world. It also includes a GPS tracking option, which can be enabled when travelling to high risk locations so that the appropriate support can be swiftly provided if required. Across the Company, some maternity and paternity policies were revised to ensure a fair work-life balance and encourage parents to stay longer with their families. Flexible working hours have also been introduced or revised in most regions. Measuring our progress 0.02 81% Lost time incident frequency rate per Proportion of our people who said that 200,000 hours worked Subsea 7 demonstrates care and concern for employees in the 2019 bi-annual Employee Opinion Survey www.subsea7.com 5 SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES CONTINUED Energy transition Being the partner of choice for the transition of offshore energy towards a sustainable future. Why it is important Global demand for energy continues to grow and, as a preferred The offshore wind farm market has become a significant part of our supplier to the offshore energy industry, Subsea 7 plans to play business. For Subsea 7, renewable energy is an important revenue a proactive role in the construction of sustainable offshore energy stream and we aim to support our clients to accelerate the energy developments around the world and to support the transition of transition and to provide their consumers with increasing volumes of supply towards lower-carbon sources of energy. affordable wind power. We utilise our skilled people and their wealth of marine construction expertise together with our construction Seaway 7 is the renewables business unit of Subsea 7 and has an vessels, equipment and facilities to develop and deliver the best established position in the renewables supply chain, providing our and most cost-efficient offshore wind farm solutions. We have many clients with foundations and cable-lay services for the construction of years of experience in heavy lifting and cable lay in harsh marine offshore wind farms. With over 10 years of experience, we have built environments that is invaluable for the installation of offshore wind and installed hundreds of foundations and many kilometres of farms. Over time we expect that this will result in a growing proportion inner-array cables for fixed offshore wind farms worldwide. Having of our activity coming from renewable energy services. been in the offshore wind market from the early days of its commercial conception, we are one of the most experienced partners for our Floating offshore wind is the next most promising growth area for clients, working on a full engineer, procure, construct and install (EPCI) offshore renewables. Floating wind offers the possibility to further basis or on a transport and install (T&I) scope. support energy transition by allowing greater quantities of offshore wind to be developed by using areas where the water is too deep to The levelised cost of electricity (LCOE) from offshore wind has allow the construction of fixed offshore wind farms. While there are decreased significantly over the last 10 years, driven by increased no significant commercial farms anticipated in the short term there efficiency in transportation and installation, bigger turbines, and cost are a large number of demonstrators and concepts in operation with improvements in the supply chain. As a result of these cost reductions, a number of smaller projects being progressed to provide clean power supported by the capability and expertise of contractors such as to remote offshore oil and gas facilities. We are actively participating Subsea 7, offshore wind farms are now economically viable at very low in many of these projects and are growing our technical capability levels of, or even, no government subsidy. The global offshore wind and expertise in this area to be ready to support future large-scale farm market has grown rapidly with more than 18 GW of capacity commercial developments. Floating wind farms are expected to already installed across the planet. Looking ahead strong growth is become a significant contributor to the energy transition in a five to projected as society looks to increase investment in renewable energy ten year time frame. and carbon-neutral alternatives. Gas has an important role in the transition to lower-carbon energy, as it is an energy source that releases lower carbon emissions to the atmosphere when used to generate power and helps to lessen UN Global Compact dependence on coal. Subsea 7 has extensive expertise and experience in large offshore gas field developments, including the As part of the UN Global Compact’s goal to ensure access to recently awarded Julimar and Scarborough projects offshore Australia affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, we and the recently completed West Nile Delta project offshore Egypt. are committed to progressing and supporting the transition Our proprietary technology and engineering capability supports our towards lower-carbon sources of energy (Principles 7, 8, 9). clients in developing these fields cost effectively and efficiently. Our ambitions Expanding our capabilities in the design, ​ Supporting our clients in their drive construction and installation of costfor lower-carbon and renewable effective fixed and floating wind farms energy solutions with our assets and other offshore energy transition projects and our technology Being a leading supplier of solutions ​ Key sustainable development goals to the growing offshore energy transition sector 6 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our initiatives and projects in 2019 In 2019 the globalisation of the offshore wind market accelerated with significant commitments for new developments offshore Taiwan as well as continued growth in activity offshore Europe, where the market is more established. The US market has begun to emerge, with the first wind farm developments being sanctioned and many other countries looking to evolve their plans. Subsea 7 has had another productive year in supporting the energy transition through the installation of foundations and array cables for new offshore wind farms. By the end of 2019 we had completed the installation of more than 650 foundations and 1,500 km of array cables. This will increase further in 2020 when we will be supporting numerous wind farm developments in Europe, Taiwan and the US. Investing in technology and working collaboratively with partners to support technology development that enables wind farms and gas fields to be developed is at the heart of our energy transition strategy. In addition, some of the patented technology we have developed for oil fields has been shown to have material benefits for lower-carbon energy production. An example is the Electrically Heat Traced Subsea 7 was the EPCI contractor for the installation of 84 wind Flowlines developed for long-distance tie-backs on oil fields which is turbine foundations and associated inner array cables on the also highly effective at preventing hydrates forming in gas pipelines Beatrice Offshore Windfarm, UK. We first started working in 2011 thereby enabling more cost effective production of gas. on the engineering and design with the client, SSE, and were In order to help drive the energy transition it is essential to continue to awarded the EPCI contract in 2016. First power was achieved in reduce the LCOE to enable further investment to be made in fixed and 2018. On completion Beatrice was the world’s deepest bottomeventually floating offshore wind. Increasing the cost effectiveness of founded (fixed) windfarm at 55 metres water depth and generates foundation design, array cable design, transportation, logistics and 588 MW, sufficient to power, on average, 450,000 homes over a installation are fundamental to this and are our key drivers. Innovative 25-year period. installation methods pioneered by Seaway 7, coming from our Research & Development (R&D) programmes, such as monopile installation with the vessel in dynamic positioning mode, have the potential to reduce seabed impact, reduce CO2 emissions and reduce costs whilst helping to accelerate energy transition. Reducing the negative environmental and ecological impact of our operations by innovation are also high focus areas as we seek to drive energy transition sustainably. Measuring our progress 658 $198m Cumulative number of offshore wind Renewables business revenue turbine generator foundations we have generated in 2019 installed to end of 2019 www.subsea7.com 7 SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES CONTINUED Labour practices and human rights Providing working conditions aligned with international best practice with respect to human and labour rights. Why it is important Treating our people and those that work with us fairly and with Subsea 7 is proud to be a signatory to the UN Global Compact, in dignity is fundamental to the way that we work at Subsea 7. We are which the United Nations has set out 10 principles covering human committed to fulfilling our responsibility to respect and protect human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have also signed rights. We strive to protect the rights of individuals working in or up to support the Worker Welfare Principles set out by the Building impacted by our operations, including people who work for our Responsibly organisation. Building Responsibly was launched in 2017 suppliers. This includes a commitment to help prevent modern slavery as a global business-led coalition committed to promoting the rights and human trafficking anywhere in our business or supply chain. and welfare of workers in the engineering and construction sector, Respecting human rights and adopting good labour practices helps it is based on the belief that collaboration is required to deliver better us to better manage our risks. Having a robust procedure and practices across the building and construction industry. channels for people to raise concerns is an important feature of an We are committed to fair and lawful employment practices across effective compliance and ethics programme. It also helps us to recruit the Company and throughout our supply chain. We are an equal and retain talented people around the world. Maintaining good opportunities employer and seek to protect our people from employee relations makes us a stronger and better company capable discrimination and bullying. As a minimum we comply with national of winning market share and performing well for all our stakeholders. legal requirements regarding wages and working hours everywhere we Everyone at Subsea 7 must abide by our Code of Conduct. We have operations. We also apply the International Labour Organisation’s relaunched it in 2019 with refreshed content accompanied by an standards regarding child labour and the minimum working age. awareness campaign and compulsory online training. Fundamentally We support the rights of our people to freedom of association and our Code is all about standing up for human rights in all we do, collective bargaining. wherever we work, so no-one is ever mistreated, abused or exploited By working with established international compacts, standards and by us or anyone we work with. Our Code makes it explicitly clear that organisations we aim to present a united international business we will not accept any abuse of human rights, including human community where we stand alongside others in our industry and other trafficking, forced or involuntary labour and we will not work with industries worldwide to put a stop to human rights and labour abuse. suppliers or service providers that do. We require our suppliers to uphold the same standards when dealing with their employees, contract staff and subcontractors. We require them to commit to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and encourage UN Global Compact our suppliers to report any behaviour that is inconsistent with this code to their contact at Subsea 7 or our Group Head of Compliance and We are aligned with the UN Global Compact in supporting the Ethics. If they are not comfortable reporting to Subsea 7 directly we commitment to respect and protect human rights (Principles 1 encourage the use of our externally administered confidential reporting and 2). line, Safecall. We uphold the UN Global Compact’s labour principles and commit to fair and lawful employment practices across the Company and throughout our supply chain (Principles 3,4,5,6). Our ambitions Applying the principles of Building ​ Working with our suppliers and partners Responsibly and the UN Global to see the principles of Building Compact within Subsea 7 and actively Responsibly and the UN Global monitoring compliance Compact applied across the value chain Ensuring broad understanding of Subsea 7 ​ Key sustainable development goals expectations and commitments to the principles of Building Responsibly and UN Global Compact 8 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our initiatives and projects in 2019 In the first quarter of 2019 Subsea 7 became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. This international co-operative brings together almost 10,000 companies from over 160 countries to adhere to the 10 principles covering human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. As part of the refresh of our Code of Conduct in 2019 we included a new section on people, communities and the planet, in which we pulled together and enhanced our commitments to upholding human rights and high labour standards. Training our people and our suppliers is a key aspect of our responsibility to embed our respect for human rights and labour practices in all the places we work around the world. Subsea 7 has operations in over 25 countries around the world. We identify high risk locations and perform country-level human rights risk assessments to help protect our people and our business from harm. We require our suppliers to commit to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers. We assess each of our suppliers to determine the level of We engaged an independent, expert firm (GoodCorporationTM) to risk regarding a breach of human rights or labour practices and any oversee an assessment of modern slavery, human trafficking and that are determined to be high risk undergo due diligence screening. other human rights risks. We used the insights gained to start the To date, Subsea 7 has received no reports of concerns regarding process of enhancing our relevant policies and procedures. slavery or human trafficking in our operations or those of our suppliers. If any such concerns were reported to us, we would undertake a thorough investigation under the supervision of the Ethics Committee. If the investigation confirmed the existence of issues of concern, we would put in place robust action plans to resolve them and protect the victims. Subsea 7 supports the Worker Welfare Principles set out by the Building Responsibly organisation, a global business-led coalition committed to promoting the rights and welfare of workers. Measuring our progress 80% 19 Proportion of our people responded Speak Up and other compliance and positively to being treated with respect as ethics cases logged relating to: an individual in the Subsea 7 bi-annual human rights (0) labour concerns (19) Employee Opinion Survey www.subsea7.com 9 SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES CONTINUED Business ethics Ensuring ethical business conduct and compliance by those working in and for the company. Why it is important Integrity is one of Subsea 7’s six Values, this means that we are committed to applying the highest ethical standards in everything 1. Top Level we do, treating our clients, people, partners and suppliers fairly and Commitment 2. Risk 8. Monitoring, with respect. Assessment Auditing and and Due As with safety, we take a programmatic approach to embedding a Assurance Diligence culture of ethics and integrity and managing legal risks. The Subsea 7 Compliance and Ethics Programme has been developed to prevent 7. bribery, corruption and other compliance and ethics breaches by the Investigations, Subsea 7 3. Code of Company and all who work for us – including suppliers and other Remediation Compliance and Conduct and third parties. and Ethics Programme Clear Policies Enforcement The programme is underpinned by our values and is summarised in the diagram opposite. It is designed and implemented in accordance with international best practice, including the International Anti-Bribery 4. Management System (ABMS) Standard ISO 37001:2016. 6. Procedures Communication, and Controls Education and While much of our focus in recent years has been on anti-corruption, 5. Speak Up Training Channels and as well as competition/anti-trust, sanctions and export controls, the Culture programme also has a broader scope which is defined by our Ethics Policy Statement and our Code of Conduct (both approved by the Board of Subsea 7 S.A.). In recent years, increased regulatory and stakeholder demands and expectations have brought other1 Committee of the Board of Subsea 7 S.A.. We have an Ethics © Subsea 7 2020 compliance and ethics risks to prominence, including tax evasion, Committee which is attended by senior executives, oversees the human trafficking and modern slavery, and other human rights risks. implementation and continual improvement of the programme, and Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers sets out the key principles of approves the strategy and priorities. In conjunction with the Board, ethical business conduct that our suppliers are required to uphold. it also oversees our Speak Up policy, procedures and channels, and any significant compliance or ethics incidents and investigations, The Compliance and Ethics Programme and function are overseen by and reviews and approves remedial actions taken in response. our Group Head of Compliance and Ethics, who has an independent reporting line to the Corporate Governance and Nominations In order to monitor and continually improve our programme, we conduct internal audits of relevant financial controls, Supply Chain Management (SCM) procedures, compliance with our gifts and hospitality policy and, increasingly, other aspects of our compliance UN Global Compact and ethics programme; and risk-assessment and monitoring visits are made to higher-risk third parties. We have also engaged an external Principle 10 of the UN Global Compact identifies the importance expert firm (GoodCorporation™) to perform independent assessments of businesses working against corruption in all of its forms. of our programme, both at a Group level and in selected countries Through a range of initiatives, policies and processes we have where we have had significant business activity and the corruption risks continued to strengthen our approach to maintaining ethical are perceived to be higher (e.g. Brazil and Egypt). Recommendations business conduct. from such assessments form part of our annual action plans. Our ambitions Embedding a culture of ethics, compliance ​ Ensuring we make a positive impact on and integrity business ethics in our sector, including the supply chain Ensuring only those who uphold our ​ Key sustainable development goals commitments to ethical business conduct can work with or for us 10 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our initiatives and projects in 2019 In October 2019 Subsea 7 held its inaugural Global Integrity Day to raise awareness and encourage discussion about how much our approach to compliance is based on ethics and integrity. Events were held at our worksites around the world, centred around a video message from the General Counsel (Integrity is in Your Hands) and local senior managers speaking about what Integrity means to them on a personal level. The Subsea 7 Code of Conduct was refreshed and relaunched. It summarises the different areas of compliance and ethics risk that Subsea 7 is committed to addressing and includes new or expanded pages to address topics that have emerged or grown in prominence over the last six years. It explains in an engaging and relevant way how As part of our Global Integrity Day, Subsea 7 and its Nigerian joint and why employees and others who work for Subsea 7 should venture Nigerstar 7 hosted a compliance and integrity forum for comply. The refreshed Code of Conduct was the subject of the annual suppliers in Lagos. Approximately 60 suppliers attended and compliance and ethics e-learning. During 2019, 4,791 people participated in an active discussion about some of the ethical completed this training which represents 100% of our target issues faced by them and the importance of integrity to our population. organisation and theirs. We host compliance and ethics meetings and events with our suppliers to ensure we have a shared understanding of how to apply our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, and to help them uphold the commitments set out therein. Our whistleblowing policy was also refreshed and rebranded as our Speak Up policy, in an effort to encourage more people to speak up if they have concerns about possible unethical conduct, and to make clear what happens if such concerns are raised. GoodCorporation™ revisited our businesses in Brazil and Egypt and reported very favourably on the implementation of their recommended compliance and ethics programme improvements. Measuring our progress 4,791 3.03 Number of employees who have Speak Up and other compliance and completed compliance and ethics ethics cases logged per 1,000 employees e-learning (100% of target) www.subsea7.com 11 SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES CONTINUED Operational eco-efficiency Improving the environmental efficiency of our operations and our solutions in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and energy use. Why it is important Subsea 7 recognises the impacts of climate change and its potential Subsea 7’s owned vessels are enlisted in the Norwegian NOx fund, effect on our business, our end markets and on society. We are which supports the shipping industry in cutting NOx emissions by actively engaged in this by seeking ways to be more efficient in the granting financial support to the industry to implement green way that we work and by investing in solutions that lower our technology. This is financed by fees paid to the fund by its members, greenhouse gas emissions and those of our clients. Over 90% of our including Subsea 7. Subsea 7’s new build vessels have NOx-reducing emissions come from our vessels such that our carbon dioxide selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology that reduces NOx emissions correlate strongly with our activity levels in the year. emissions by approximately 75%. The International Maritime Organisation (IMO) is the United Nations We have one of the youngest fleets in the offshore energy construction specialist agency with responsibility for the safety and security of market with an average age of just 11 years. We have invested over shipping and the prevention of marine and atmospheric pollution by $3.5 billion in new vessels since 2010, commissioning 12 new build ships. In 2018, the IMO launched its strategy for the reduction of vessels in that period. We aim to operate a vessel for its entire useful greenhouse gas emissions from ships. This included limiting sulphur life, investing in new equipment and enhancements to extend the life oxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions and setting a target where possible. When a vessel is at the end of its life we are to reduce total annual greenhouse gas emissions from shipping by at committed to recycling it responsibly. All of our redundant vessel least 50% by 2050 compared with 2008. As a result, from January tonnage is recycled under the Hong Kong Convention and the EU 2020 a new low-sulphur limit for fuel came into effect worldwide. All Ship Recycling Regulation. of Subsea 7’s vessels are designed to run on low-sulphur fuel, and We have a comprehensive risk management system with procedures as such no additional investment or action was required as a and tools that identify, analyse, report and manage business risks, consequence of the change in limit. including those related to environmental risks and the effects of climate Four Subsea 7 vessels are listed with the Environmental Ship Index change. We measure key environmental data against internal targets (ESI) in the World Port Sustainability Program: Seven Viking, Seven including fuel and energy consumption, carbon emissions, waste Kestrel, Seven Falcon and Seven Arctic. The ESI identifies seagoing segregation, spills and other incidents. Environmental hazard severity ships that perform better in reducing air emissions than required by is measured through a points system that reflects the potential impact the current emission standards of the IMO. on the environment should an incident occur. We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, publishing detailed information that allows all our stakeholders to review our progress. UN Global Compact Subsea 7 is globally certified to the Environmental Management Standard ISO 14001:2015. This Standard applies to the management We recognise the importance of being actively engaged in of our environmental responsibilities in a systematic manner including tackling the challenges facing our environment. We support the the enhancement of environmental performance as well as the UN Global Compact’s principles on the environment and we achievement of our environmental obligations and objectives. are undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental In addition to minimising our own emissions we are committed to responsibility throughout our Company (Principle 8). providing our clients with improved technology and engineering solutions that enable them to reduce the environmental impact of their offshore energy developments. For example, our Pipeline Bundle Solutions are constructed onshore and towed into position, Our ambitions Investing in technology to improve the ​ ​ Improving our operational efficiency lifecycle carbon footprint of energy to support reduced-carbon emissions​ infrastructure that we offer our clients ​ Enhancing our fleet to reduce ​ ​ Key sustainable development goals operational GHG emissions to achieve a 50% reduction by 2050 12 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT significantly reducing the number of vessel days required for installation and hence lowering emissions arising from the project. We have also signed our first three contracts for the use of Electrically Heat Traced Flowlines. These will be ready for installation in 2020, and will enable long-distance tie-backs with reduced need for new topside processing capacity and reduced power requirements. Our initiatives and projects in 2019 Subsea 7 installed three onshore Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) control centres in 2019, two in our offices in Stavanger and one in Aberdeen. These facilities enable us to operate a ROV with a significantly reduced level of offshore manning. We use 4G communication to link to the ROV, which has been programmed to operate autonomously. This technology is being tested and used in the field today as we work with our clients to progress it to a commercial reality. In 2019, our Life of Field vessel, Seven Viking, was our first vessel to have hybrid power installed (see case study). The initial results have been positive with a fuel saving of approximately 19%, corresponding The conversion of Seven Viking to hybrid power was achieved by to 2,400 tonnes of CO2 saved and NOx savings of 25%. The cost of installing a 1300 kWh battery system, which allows the vessel to the upgrade was shared with its joint owner, Eidesvik, and a grant was optimise the operation of its diesel generators. In particular, provided by the Norwegian Government to cover part of the expense. the battery serves as a spinning reserve during operations, which We are evaluating our fleet to assess the potential for suitability and reduces the number of generators operating, whilst running the cost of converting other vessels to a similar hybrid system. remaining generators at a more energy-efficient load. Additional Approximately 3,500 clean operations were recorded on our vessels saving is achieved by peak shaving, where short-term variations in the year reducing our carbon dioxide emissions by nearly 20,000 of engine load are balanced by the battery. tonnes. A clean operation is considered an activity where a vessel’s carbon footprint is reduced through activities which save energy without compromising safety or execution. Measuring our progress 361,164 3,494 Tonnes of scope 1 CO2 emissions from Number of clean operations performed our owned and managed vessels with our owned and managed vessels www.subsea7.com 13 SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES CONTINUED Ecological impacts Minimising the impact of our operational activities on marine and land-based ecosystems and biodiversity. Why it is important Subsea 7’s fabrication and construction activities, offshore and Some ecological disruption is unavoidable when putting in place new onshore, have an impact on the environments that surround them. subsea infrastructure. The seabed is disturbed by trenching and rock We conduct our business in a way that considers the environment dumping required to install our flow lines and our presence offshore and which aims to keep any negative impact to a minimum and put in can be noisy and disruptive for marine life. Our Bundle Pipeline place procedures to protect biodiversity and the ecosystems we work solutions eliminate the need for trenching and rock dumping and in. We have a Group Health, Safety, Environment and Security policy are a preferred solution for many clients in the North Sea. which gives close attention to achieving regulatory compliance and We also rely on some single-use plastic items, such as cable ties to continually improving our environmental performance through careful secure loads safely and packaging of items received from our suppliers. selection of consumables and working practices designed to reduce We are looking at ways to reduce our dependence on single-use waste, energy consumption and emissions. plastics on our sites and vessels and within our supply chain. Awareness of the impact that our activities may have on the We are a member of the Circular Cleanup programme in Norway. environment and the management of measures to control such Circular Cleanup is a project initiated by the Norwegian Shipowners´ impacts is encouraged through our environmental principles: Association bringing together forces from both the ocean and waste –– Work according to applicable environmental laws, conventions, industries to create new initiatives for cleaner oceans. Subsea 7 protocols and regulations is the project manager for the Plastic Chain Pilot Project that the –– Promote and maintain a positive environmental culture programme is supporting to collect waste offshore and sort it for –– Manage our activities to eliminate or reduce any potential negative recycling in Germany. environmental impact Many of our vessels transit from one ocean to another in the –– Consider environmental sustainability an important element in the course of the year. We are sensitive to the risk of contamination of way we do business ecosystems that can result in disruption to biodiversity through the –– Use planning, design and risk assessment to avoid and reduce introduction of non-indigenous marine life to a new area. We follow environmental risk. all local requirements and legislation to ensure that any risk of contamination though the release of ballast water or from organisms attached to the hulls of our vessels is minimised through vigorous cleaning and decontamination. UN Global Compact Subsea 7 provides decommissioning services to the offshore oil and gas market, helping our clients to safely and responsibly remove and The UN Global Compact’s Environmental principles recognise dispose of obsolete offshore infrastructure at the end of its useful life. the need for businesses to encourage the development of We also take responsibility for our own end-of-life assets, with all environmentally friendly technologies. We are aware of the vessels recycled in accordance with the Hong Kong Accord when impact our activities may have on the environment and we are they are no longer operable. In 2019 there were no vessels removed striving for ways to improve through a range of initiatives from the fleet, but in 2018 five vessels, with an average age of (Principles 7, 8, 9). 35 years, were sold for recycling. Our ambitions Designing energy infrastructure for ​ Making a positive global impact recovery and reuse on marine life in each country where we operate Zero single use plastics onshore ​ Key sustainable development goals and offshore 14 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Onshore yards and offices usually have a lower environmental impact, with sites remaining stable over time and typically co-existing unintrusively with the local environment. There are occasions when additional measures need to be taken. We conduct environmental risk assessments on all our facilities and use them to form an action plan to minimise this impact. Our Pipeline Bundle facility in Wick has constructed bird-nesting areas adjacent to our site, encouraging seabirds to nest safely nearby and reducing the incidence of birds nesting in the fabrication and construction zones. Our initiatives and projects in 2019 Subsea 7 is a founding partner of the SERPENT (Scientific and Environmental ROV Partnership using Existing industrial Technology) Programme, making ROV technology and data more accessible to the world’s science community, to share knowledge and progress deep-sea research. To date, nearly 10 drilling installations using Subsea 7 ROVs and 10 support vessels have contributed to SERPENT from a range of locations including West Africa, West of When installing the Borkum windfarm project offshore Germany Shetland and the Gulf of Mexico. in 2018 and 2019 we used a curtain of bubbles around the site Many of our sites are located in coastal areas and we are proud to while hammering in the foundation piles. This approach was regularly be involved in beach-cleaning events. In 2019 we took part required to lower subsea noise pollution, which can impact in beach-clean activities in the UK, Norway, Brazil and Australia, filling sealife. The sound waves are reflected by the bubbles, reducing hundreds of bags with waste plastic and other litter washed up from the leakage of sound from the construction site. Further we also the sea. Plastic waste at sea can cause significant damage to marine use vibration hammers, which are a quieter alternative to other life and birds so, regardless of the source of the litter, we consider foundation installation methods. it part of our social responsibility to take part in its removal and safe disposal. In 2019 we have continued our drive to reduce single-use plastic with the promotion of reusable alternatives where feasible. We have introduced reusable cups in our offices and have provided offshore crews with refillable water bottles to reduce dependency on individual bottles of water offshore. Measuring our progress 15 0.82 Local environmental initiatives undertaken Environmental incident frequency rate in 10 countries on 4 continents per 200,000 hours worked www.subsea7.com 15 ADDITIONAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Additional sustainability topics Continued commitment to supporting additional material topics that are important to our people, our business and the society we are part of. Human capital development Targeted development Annually we have an intake of graduates around the world who join our Graduate Engineering Development Scheme. The programme is a blend of local delivery, global webinars, team projects and a one-week session in the UK. The programme aims to both upskill the graduates and to ensure that they connect as a group, to encourage working together collaboratively on projects in the future. In addition in 2019 Why it is important we had our second intake of participants into the Career Connect Our people are at the heart of everything we do and supporting all Programme. Career Connect is a two year programme that arms individuals to achieve their full potential is key to Subsea 7’s success. participants with a range of tools to support them in their career and leadership skills development. This programme supports Subsea 7’s Subsea 7 has a well-established range of learning and development focus on wider talent and succession planning, to gain earlier visibility tools to help our people grow their knowledge and abilities in different of the talent pipeline. areas of the business. Development schemes, behavioural models, webinars and a variety of learning content are easily accessible via our digital platforms, designed to promote inclusive and equal learning opportunities amongst our employees. Diversity and inclusion Our employees are encouraged to take charge of their careers and, through one-to-one meetings supported by their direct managers, career development plans are created and reviewed on a regular basis. Areas for development are identified and can be supported by our learning and development tools. The process is driven by the individuals and supported by their functional managers. Why it is important Our initiatives and projects We believe that everyone has the right to be treated fairly, with Inclusive learning dignity and respect, and to have equal opportunities in a supportive, friendly and inclusive environment, free from all forms of discrimination, In 2019 we launched HORIZON, our digital HR platform for our harassment or bullying. Fair employment practices, fair treatment for onshore population and a pilot group offshore. The learning tool was all individuals and equal opportunity on the basis of merit are the launched within the Festival of Learning, an annual event which takes foundation of our development programmes. place in October and focuses on learning and personal development around the world. Through HORIZON our people can access eBooks, We value and promote diversity and regard it as a key to our success. podcasts, webinars and other digital learning content both at work An inclusive and diverse environment fosters creativity and innovation and via their mobiles. At a local level, the learning culture is further and improves decision-making by introducing new ways of thinking. supported by face-to-face training and engagement sessions. We are committed to providing a workplace where everyone can thrive. These principles are well-established and form part of Subsea 7’s Human Rights Policy (as published on the Company website). To support our ambition to provide equal opportunities to everyone in the organisation, a Diversity and Inclusion Steering Committee was established in 2019. Chaired by a member of the Executive Management Team and with representatives of different regions, the Committee’s aim is to role model diverse and inclusive behaviours, influence others and spearhead the agenda, as well as set Subsea 7’s framework for success, ensuring the topic remains a Company priority and evolve the focus as the Company matures. 16 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2019 Elisabeth Proust joined our Board of Directors as an Independent Director and our Executive Management Team has Community impact welcomed Kate Lyne as an Executive VP. We see this as a step forward towards a more gender-balanced senior management which and relationships will contribute to increasing the representation of women at all levels in the Company. Why it is important Subsea 7 operates on a global basis and a core principle of our operating approach is to optimise local content and engage closely with local communities on all levels. We have found that this is essential for the success of our projects and for the long-term growth in the regions where we operate. Key elements of this include commitments to education and skills transfer. We are committed to promoting initiatives that improve the life of the people in the communities around us wherever we work. Those initiatives vary from country to country and can be directly related to the places where our projects are executed or the office from where they are managed. The following are just a few examples of how we work with local communities, illustrating the breadth of engagement as well as geographical reach. We will build on these initiatives through 2020. Our initiatives and projects Malaria Control Programme Subsea 7, through its joint venture Sonamet and in conjunction with Our initiatives and projects the Angolan authorities, has developed a Malaria Control Programme (MCP) in the Lobito and Balombo areas. As part of the project, a In 2019 the number of initiatives related to diversity and inclusion have parasitology laboratory was set up within our medical facilities to obtain increased significantly across the organisation. Local discussion fast and reliable data in order to diagnose cases of malaria and initiate groups were formed to identify gaps and areas for improvement where treatment immediately. To promote prevention in the local community, actions could help to engage more people, supporting their a team of agents was organised and together with external consultants development in a more diverse environment. they started work on malaria control. One of the initiatives was to use To address gender balance, specific programmes and seminars GPS technology to identify the houses of all company employees and were developed and introduced in different regions to support our analyse the data using a geographical information system (GIS). Each female employees to achieve their full potential. We also support a case of malaria was geo-referenced and computer maps helped our number of local initiatives to introduce and encourage young girls to team to develop specific measures to tackle the areas and households Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) subjects where the cases were more frequent. The programme has been and our industry. running since 2002 and it is a unique partnership between Subsea 7 and local authorities to tackle the causes of malaria, directly improving Areas for improvement are identified through feedback loops, with the local community’s health and wellbeing. learning and development support available and tools provided. Women in engineering, inspiring the new generation In Brazil, our team is committed to inspiring young women to adopt engineering as a career by holding regular events with students from the local communities to promote STEM subjects and the Subsea 7 workplace. Similar initiatives are also promoted in other offices including Aberdeen, London, Paris and Norway. Our HR teams have participated in several recruitment events in an effort to attract more women to our graduate schemes. Angola www.subsea7.com 17 ADDITIONAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS CONTINUED Casa da Arvore (Tree House) Brazil Legacy in Egypt – Supporting the Fishing Community This project offers daily mental health assistance for pregnant women During the Giza-Fayoum and Raven (GFR) project in Egypt, Subsea 7 and for children up to nine years old and their parents, as well as supported an NGO which managed a micro-financing project to supporting actions in the local community, such as training for social provide loans to the Idku and Rashid fishing communities. The project care workers. Inspired by Maison Verte, an initiative of the French was selected as part of our local development initiative to give psychoanalyst Françoise Dolto, it is a space for exchanging something back to the two communities within the area where we experiences, promoting autonomy and supporting children vulnerable executed the GFR landfall operations. We provided funds that were to the effects of violence and crime. Since 2004, when the project used to offer interest-free loans to fishing communities to enable started, 1,096 children have directly benefited from the programme. them to buy fishing equipment, new marine engines, nets, and other such equipment. Egypt Supporting local community through sport Brazil Since 2011 Subsea 7 has promoted a project that provides swimming classes twice a week for the local community in Rio da Ostras, Brazil. In addition to swimming, environmental education is part of the Need to Feed the Need programme. Aimed at transforming people’s lives through sports and Subsea 7’s Kuala Lumpur office collaborated with Need to Feed the environmental awareness, the initiative included 265 participants in Need (NFN), a non-governmental organisation that runs a soup 2019. People from all ages benefit from this project that aims to kitchen for the homeless and urban poor in Kuala Lumpur. The NFN improve their quality of life, health and wellbeing. organisation, which was established in 2013, operates solely on voluntary efforts and serves around 400 patrons, including 100 children, on average each week. Subsea 7 donated over 100 bags consisting of stationery, books, food and other items for children. Brazil Malaysia 18 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible supply Waste management chain management and effluents Why it is important Why it is important A significant part of our work is executed by our supply chain. In EPIC Subsea 7 is committed to minimising any impact it may cause on projects outsourced scopes can represent up to 50% of Subsea 7’s the environment. The waste produced in our offices and worksites revenue. We recognise that our supply chain plays an important part is managed according to local or international regulations and in our ambition to deliver our sustainability targets. Our aim is to internal policies and procedures are used to manage waste co-operate closely with our suppliers to achieve a working relationship produced in our vessels. that benefits both parties. We expect our suppliers to have an approach to sustainability aligned with ours and to respect our values Our initiatives and projects and working culture. Many of our offices have been built or upgraded to have better management systems that achieve superior environmental Our initiatives and projects performance. Our corporate office in Sutton has light pollution Subsea 7 has a Supplier Management System to assist and control mitigation with automated window blinds which limit disruption to the process of approving a new supplier and to monitor their progress. the local bat population. It also has a rain water collection system As part of the approval process any potential supplier is required to which reduces our processed water use. provide satisfactory information on a number of sustainability issues including business ethics, human rights and labour practices, health, safety and environment. The pre-qualification process can also include screening for legal and human slavery issues. The level of scrutiny to which suppliers are submitted may vary according to the region where the supplier operates. To ensure a fair bidding process, Subsea 7 promotes open competition among approved suppliers. Bidders are treated fairly and evaluated according to their technical and commercial proposals. During the tender process our suppliers are requested to familiarise themselves with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers which are part of our contractual terms and conditions. Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers outlines our expectations regarding business ethics, human rights, health and safety among other topics. By signing a contract with us, they agree to work according to the principles described in this document. www.subsea7.com 19 Data summary The summary table below represents a range of key metrics associated with our sustainability topics. ​ ​ ​ Measurement Sustainability Priority Definition Coverage Unit 2018 2019 Health, Total incident-free days Group days 336 337 safety and Total recordable incidents Group number 30 26 wellbeing Recordable incidents frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked Group rate 0.22 0.20 Total lost time incidents Group number 6 3 Lost time incident frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked Group rate 0.05 0.02 Total fatal accidents Group number 0 0 Fatal accidents frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked Group rate 0 0 Total number of near miss reports Group number 305 231 Total number of internal safety audits Group number 305 259 Total number of supply chain audits Group number 101 137 Proportion of our people said that Subsea 7 demonstrates care Group % * 81 and concern for employees in the 2019 bi-annual Employee Opinion Survey Total days of health, safety and wellbeing training Group days 3,819 10,963 Energy Renewables business revenue Group million USD ** 198 transition Cumulative number of offshore wind farm monopile foundations Group number 498 518 installed at year end Cumulative number of offshore wind farm jacket foundations installed Group number 140 140 at year end Cumulative number of wind turbine submarine array cables installed Group number 457 510 at year end Cumulative length of wind turbine submarine array cables installed Group km 1,264 1,495 at year end Cumulative number of offshore substations installed at year end Group number 30 32 Labour Proportion of our people responded positively to being treated Group % * 80 practices with respect as an individual in the 2019 bi-annual Employee Opinion Survey and human rights Speak Up and other compliance and ethics cases logged relating Group number 0 0 to human rights Speak Up and other compliance and ethics cases logged relating Group number 23 19 to labour concerns Business Number of employees who have completed compliance and ethics Group number 3,989 4,791 ethics e-learning Proportion of our people required to complete compliance and ethics Group % 36 40 e-learning Speak Up and other compliance and ethics cases logged Group number 47 36 Speak Up and other compliance and ethics cases logged per Group rate 4.41 3.03 1,000 employees ** Data obtained from Subsea 7 bi-annual survey – not available for 2018 ** No data available 20 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ​ ​ Measurement Sustainability Priority Definition Coverage Unit 2018 2019 Operational Scope 1 CO2e emissions from Subsea 7 owned and managed vessels Group tonnes 384,542​ 366,671 ecoScope 1 CO2 emissions from Subsea 7 owned and managed vessels Group tonnes 378,877 361,164 efficiency NOx emissions from Subsea 7 owned and managed vessels Group tonnes 5,333 5,034 SOx emissions from Subsea 7 owned and managed vessels Group tonnes 745 564 Scope 3 CO2e emitted from air miles travelled by our people for work Group tonnes 22,698 26,870 Number of clean operations performed from Subsea 7 owned and Group number 3,647 3,494 managed vessels Reduction in CO2 emissions by clean operations from Subsea 7 Group tonnes 15,089 19,560 owned and managed vessels Operational cost savings due to clean operations from Subsea 7 Group million USD 3.1 4.1 owned and managed vessels Fuel saved due to clean operations from Subsea 7 owned and Group m³ 5,547 7,190 managed vessels Number of hybrid vessels within our fleet Group number 0 1 Reduction in fuel consumption by hybrid vessels (estimated) Group % 0 19 Ecological Environmental incident frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked Group rate 0.64 0.82 impacts Environmental incident frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked Group rate 0.59 0.55 for owned and managed vessels only Number of environmental spills Group number 90 105 Amount of litres spilled per 200,000 hours worked Group rate 10.56 11.76 Number of environmental spills for owned and managed vessels only Group number 35 33 Amount of litres spilled per 200,000 hours worked for owned and Group rate 11.89 4.16 managed vessels only Tonnes of hazardous waste from offshore operations for Subsea 7 Group tonnes 419 97 owned and managed vessels Tonnes of non-hazardous waste from offshore operations for Group tonnes 1037 791 Subsea 7 owned and managed vessels Local environmental initiatives undertaken Group number ** 15 Diversity and Total number of Employees (as per 31st December) Group number 11,142 11,869 inclusion Onshore Headcount Group number 5,201 6,422 Offshore Headcount Group number 5,941 5,447 % of male and female Company-wide, both onshore and offshore Group % 87 / 13 84 / 16 % gender mix of male and female Company-wide Group % M/F M/F Onshore 33 / 12 38 / 15 Offshore 54 / 1 46 / 1 % of male and female onshore at leadership level: Group % M/F M/F Leadership (L+) 89 / 11 89 / 11 Executive Team 83 / 17 75 / 25 Board of Directors 100 / 0 88 / 12 % nationality mix of people by region: Group % 46 56 Europe 17 17 Asia/Pacific 23 23 Americas 14 4 Other % of full-time and part-time Group % 97 / 3 96 / 4 www.subsea7.com 21 Report abbreviations Term Description ABMS Anti Bribery Management System CO2 Carbon Dioxide EAP Employee Assistance Programme EPCI Engineer, Procure, Construct, Install EPIC Engineer, Procure, Install, Commission ESI Environmental Ship Index EU European Union GFR Giza-Fayoum and Raven GIS Geographical Information System GPS Global Positioning System GW Gigawatts HSEQ Health, Safety, Environmental, Quality IMO International Maritime Organisation km Kilometres kWh Kilowatt hours MCP Malaria Control Programme MW Megawatts NFN Need to Feed the Need NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NOx Nitrogen Oxide R&D Research & Development ROV Remotely Operated Vehicle SCM Supply Chain Management SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction SDGs Sustainable Development Goals SERPENT Scientific and Environmental ROV Partnership using Existing Industrial Technology SMS Short Message Service SOx Sulphur Oxide STEM Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics SVP Senior Vice President T&I Transport and Install UK United Kingdom UN United Nations US United States 22 Subsea 7 Sustainability Report 2019 Subsea 7 is a global leader in the delivery of offshore projects and services for the evolving energy industry, creating sustainable value by being the industry’s partner and employer of choice in delivering the efficient offshore solutions the world needs. Subsea 7 is listed on the Oslo Bors (SUBC), ISIN LU0075646355, LEI 222100AIF0CBCY80AH62. Registered office: 412F Route d’Esch, L-2086 Luxembourg Website: www.subsea7.com This report is printed utilising vegetable based inks on UPM Finesse Silk & UPM Finesse Offset, both of which are sourced from well managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®). This report was printed by an FSC-certified and carbon neutral printing company. Both materials are manufactured at a mill that is certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc. Printed by Pureprint.
