thaiunion.com seachangesustainability.org TABLE OF CONTENTS 0 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT 04 02 CEO MESSAGE 08 03 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 12 04 SEAFOOD SOURCING LOCATIONS 14 05 SUSTAINABILITY AT THAI UNION 18 06 OUR MATERIAL ISSUES & STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 28 07 2019 IN BRIEF 38 08 SAFE & LEGAL LABOR 40 09 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 52 10 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS 64 11 PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 76 12 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 84 13 GRI CONTENT INDEX AND UNGC COP 100 14 LLOYD'S REGISTER QUALITY ASSURANCE STATEMENT 1 12 04 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 05 01 up-to-date information about governments, local communities ABOUT Thai Union’s sustainability and civil society. Next, we program, progress, activities engaged external experts and and achievements. our global leadership team This is the seventh sustainability for their insights. The report THIS REPORT report that Thai Union has This report was prepared in addresses items of significant made publicly available and accordance with the Global interest to stakeholders demonstrates our ongoing Reporting Initiative (GRI) important to Thai Union’s commitment to transparency Standards: Core Option and business strategy. across our operations. It its Food Processing Sector provides information on our Supplement (FPSS). In keeping In conducting the analysis annual performance from with the intent of the GRI of internal and external January to December 2019, Guidelines, we have focused on environments, we abided showing our progress against the GRI Standards, as described by the GRI Standards: the key performance indicators below. This report has been sustainability context, (KPIs) and targets outlined in assured by Lloyd’s Register at a materiality, completeness and SeaChange®. limited level. The scope of this stakeholder inclusiveness. report covers companies under To find out more about our To make our report more Thai Union Group, as well as materiality assessments, see sustainable and accessible subsidiaries where we have a our materiality issues section on for readers, last year we 50 percent holding, companies page 28. transitioned to a digitalthat are under Thai Union exclusive approach, with the operational control. report designed and tailored in a PDF format specifically PRINCIPLES FOR for an online audience. This year we have kept this format DEFINING REPORT to maintain this level of CONTENT eco-friendly reporting, as well as ensuring that information Determining the content of this is also freely available and report began by understanding accessible through our the impacts of our value chain SeaChange® website. The on different stakeholders, website delivers the most including suppliers, customers, 06 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED WHAT IS REPORT QUALITY? The GRI Standards define reporting quality via In preparing our report, we listen and a set of quality aspects: accuracy, balance, respond to stakeholder feedback to clarity, reliability and timeliness. help ensure the information we report is balanced and reliable. We have taken numerous actions to meet these: We are moving toward more efficient and effective operations with minimum We continue to improve the quality of adverse social and environmental information in our sustainability reports impacts along the entire value chain. and we publish them in a timely manner, so our stakeholders can effectively We regularly report on key topics and integrate the information in their commitments, including updating on our decision making. progress towards our tuna commitment and other commitments, and providing We value the opinion of our progress reports on key partnerships stakeholders, including employees, and agreements such as our agreement local communities and interest groups, with Greenpeace. In 2019 we released non-governmental organizations, with WWF-UK our fourth annual customers, suppliers and contractors. partnership progress report. COMMUNICATION supporting the environmental and social responsibilities of ON PROGRESS the broader UN Sustainable As a participant in the United Development Goals (SDGs). Nations Global Compact, this report also serves as our annual The report’s content has been Communication on Progress reviewed and approved by the (COP) to stakeholders. The leadership of relevant business COP reports our progress in units at Thai Union and our implementing the Ten Principles Sustainability Committee. There of the UN Global Compact has been no significant change within our sphere of influence, in the materiality reported as well as our progress in compared to the previous year. 08 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 09 that we are helping to create be at the forefront of positive 02 a more sustainable seafood change and to deliver real and industry. Maintaining healthy lasting improvements across oceans, healthy fish stocks, and the entire industry. At the providing an environment where heart of this is transparency. The last decade has seen Thai our workers are in safe and We are committed to being Union continue to develop, both freely-chosen employment are transparent across all our CEO as a global company, providing all incredibly important to us. work, particularly to support our products to consumers all our sustainability efforts and over the world, and as a leader As we embark on the next set new standards for the in terms of sustainability, rising 10 years of our sustainability entire global industry. This MESSAGE to become a major player in journey, this will be more report, and our sustainability influencing best practices important than ever, especially website, are designed to aid in and continuing to make great as we consider the changing this transparency, showcasing progress towards a sustainable, demands of consumers. Around not only our achievements, ethical seafood industry. the world, people are looking but also the areas we’re to their food to not only provide focusing on to make meaningful At Thai Union, our vision healthy nutrition but also be improvements. is to be the world’s most sourced sustainably, in line trusted seafood leader, with their own ethics. At the This 2019 report sets out how caring for our resources to same time, we also recognize we have worked across the nurture generations to come. the role that the oceans and four programs that make up Throughout the last decade we seafood play in combating SeaChange®; namely: Safe have taken this vision to the ongoing challenges such as and Legal Labor, Responsible heart of our business, reflecting climate change, as well as Sourcing, Responsible it in everything that we do. providing healthy, nutritious Operations and People and This Sustainability Report diets for consumers. That is Communities, and how we fulfill looks back on the last year of why we are entering the next our mission to be the seafood a decade which has seen us decade with our Group-wide industry’s leading agent of make incredible strides, both commitment to Healthy Living, change, making a real positive in creating our SeaChange® Healthy Oceans around the difference to our consumers, global sustainability strategy world. Healthy Living, Healthy our customers, and the way the and in then carrying it out and Oceans will allow us to continue category is managed. working towards achieving the to evolve SeaChange® in 2020 commitments that we set. and beyond. This year was filled with important achievements and As one of the largest seafood Sustainability is at the heart success. I was incredibly proud companies in the world, we of everything we do at are proud to take a leadership Thai Union and we have an position and work to ensure unwavering commitment to 10 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 when Thai Union was ranked Seafood Stewardship Index projects and advocating for were recognized as leaders in we sponsor football teams number one in the world in the (SSI), which assessed the better fisheries management. ‘Sustainable Supply Chains’ specifically for homeless Food Products Industry Index contribution of the world’s 30 at the prestigious edie people. This is all part of being of the Dow Jones Sustainability largest seafood companies to Thai Union also took an Sustainability Leaders Awards. a good corporate citizen, as Indices (DJSI) for the second the United Nations Sustainable important step during the year Dr. Darian McBain, Thai Union’s well as an active participant in year in a row. This was also the Development Goals (UN SDGs) to strengthen the sustainability a number of whom were Global Director of Corporate our communities. sixth consecutive year that the of our aquafeed. At the Seafood showcased at our Thai Union Affairs and Sustainability, was Company has been listed on the As part of our commitment to Expo Global in Brussels, we Global Seminar at the end of recognized by CSRWorks Thai Union is committed to DJSI. We achieved an industry traceability, the backbone of offered the world its first taste the year. International as one of Asia’s supporting the United best-in-class 100th percentile sustainability, Thai Union and of commercially farmed shrimp Top Sustainability Superwomen Nations Global Compact ranking for total sustainability its partner WWF released its fed with protein produced from We were also excited to jointly for driving positive change (UNGC) and this report also score and also the same first Sourcing Transparency: natural gas. Calysta’s innovative host the Seafood Business for across the global seafood serves as Thai Union’s annual ranking for Codes of Business Wild Caught Fish and Shellfish and sustainable FeedKind® Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS) industry, and was also among Communication on Progress Conduct, Health & Nutrition, report. Together with WWF-UK, protein allows shrimp farmers Dialogue annual meeting, which those recognized for their (COP) to stakeholders. The Materiality, Supply Chain we also released our fourth to increase their output to meet was held in Phuket. SeaBOS outstanding contribution to COP reports our progress in Management, Environmental annual partnership progress global demand while reducing brings together scientists combating modern slavery implementing the Ten Principles Reporting, Genetically Modified report on their European pressure on the planet’s from the Stockholm Resilience at the Anti-Slavery Australia of the UNGC within Thai Union’s Organisms, Water Related partnership, working to improve resources by replacing fishmeal Centre at Stockholm University, Freedom Awards. We also sphere of influence. Risks, Human Rights and Talent the sustainability of seafood from wild fish specifically the Royal Academy of Sciences welcomed an independent Attraction & Retention. supply chains by considering caught for protein in shrimp in Sweden and 10 of the largest evaluation on the positive I would urge you to read our key topics such as traceability, feed. seafood companies in the progress of our Ethical Migrant 2019 Sustainability Report to Thai Union was also ranked supply chain analysis, world, with the aim of leading a Recruitment Policy, carried out learn more about how we are number one on the inaugural implementing improvement As we continued to explore global transformation towards by ethical trade consultancy bringing positive change to the food-tech innovation, Thai sustainable seafood production Impactt. global seafood industry. I am Union created a venture fund and a healthy ocean. extremely proud of the work with an initial commitment Of course, like any good that we do and the progress we of US$ 30 million, exploring The safety of our products corporate citizen, we must pay have made. I’m looking forward I would urge you to read our 2019 potential investments in companies developing is paramount at Thai Union. To strengthen our efforts, we attention to the communities in which we operate. Thai Union to continuing this journey. Sustainability Report to learn more breakthrough technologies. announced a new Combating is active across the world about how we are bringing positive We kicked off by investing in Food Fraud and Food Defense on both a local and Group change to the global seafood Flying Spark, an alternative protein start-up. Thai Union Strategy, which will help protect our food supply chains level. We participate in beach clean-ups and sponsor local industry. I am extremely proud also partnered with the National from intentional contamination events to play a role in cultural, of the work that we do and the Innovation Agency (NIA) and Mahidol University’s Science through a series of robust programs to combat food fraud. as well as sustainable growth and education. In Bangkok, Thiraphong Chansiri Chief Executive Officer progress we have made. I’m looking Faculty to launch SPACE-F, the for example, we were a proud Thai Union Group forward to continuing this journey. first global foodtech accelerator Our sustainability efforts in sponsor of the 21st Bangkok in Thailand, which recruited 24 2019 did not go unnoticed. International Festival of Dance global startups into its program, Thai Union and WWF-UK and Music, while in Europe 12 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 fourth year in a row. In 2019, we ranked number one on the OUR VALUES 03 inaugural Seafood Stewardship Passionate Responsible Index (SSI), which assessed the contribution of the world’s 30 Humble Collaborative WHO WE ARE largest seafood companies to the United Nations Sustainable Respectful Innovative Thai Union is a global seafood Development Goals (UN SDGs). BUSINESS leader bringing high-quality, healthy, tasty and innovative OUR VISION COMPANY seafood products to customers PORTFOLIO for more than 40 years. We are To be the world’s most OVERVIEW the world’s largest producer trusted seafood leader, caring Thai Union portfolio brands of shelf-stable tuna products for our resources to nurture include global market leaders with annual sales exceeding generations to come. Chicken of the Sea, John THB 133.3 billion (US$ 4.1 West, Petit Navire, Parmentier, billion) and a global workforce OUR MISSION Mareblu, King Oscar, and of over 44,000 people who Rügen Fisch, along with are dedicated to pioneering To be the seafood industry’s Thai-leading brands SEALECT, sustainable, innovative seafood leading agent of change, Fisho, Qfresh, Monori, Bellotta products. making a real positive and Marvo. Learn more in our difference to our consumers, 2019 Corporate Annual Report, In 2018 and 2019 our our customers and the way including consolidated financial sustainability efforts were the category is managed. statements. View our maps recognized as we were ranked detailing our operations and number one in the OUR GOAL footprint on the SeaChange® Food Products Industry Index website. of the Dow Jones Sustainability We are committed to Healthy Indices (DJSI). SeaChange®, Living, Healthy Oceans. our global sustainability strategy, With a focus on health and successfully drove our score wellbeing across our group’s with an industry-best-in-class portfolio, we will strengthen 100th percentile ranking for the growth and profitability total sustainability score, and of our core businesses and best-in-class 100th percentile expand into new, attractive rankings in nine categories. This areas. We will continue to lead marked the sixth year in a row the industry on sustainability we were included in the DJSI. while attracting and retaining Thai Union was also named to talent. the FTSE4Good Index for the 14 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 Thai Union is committed to sourcing transparency in its supply chains. To improve transparency, Thai Union produced a Transparency Report for our European operations in 2018. Building on this, in 2019 we have included additional species in the Seafood Sourcing Locations map published here, based on the top species sourced by volume. In 2020, we will publish a Transparency Report covering our global 04 operations, in line with the Ocean Disclosure Project. *FAO AREA SEAFOOD 67 61 SOURCING TUNA 31 34 77 71 LOCATIONS 81 87 41 47 51 57 81 SARDINE AND *FAO AREA MACKEREL 27 18 27 SALMON 27 61 SALMON (FARMED) 21 61 67 67 Poland 21 61 ATLANTIC HERRING 34 ANCHOVIES 71 Ecuador SPRAT Peru POLLOCK 57 87 Chile Morocco Argentina MAHI MAHI 16 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 10 27 SHRIMP AMERICAN LOBSTER 21 • Gulf of Maine, U.S. JUMBO FLYING • Gulf of St. Lawrence, SQUID Canada • Prince Edward Island, Canada SCALLOPS • farmed • wild 87 *FAO AREA SNOW CRAB BLUE SWIMMING CRAB 71 • Nova Scotia, Canada • Newfoundland, Canada • Gulf of St. Lawrence, Canada *FAO AREA 18 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 environmental and economic also a significant part of our 05 performance across our commitment to transparency operations and into our across our operations. supply chains. Recognizing Our sustainability website, this responsibility to show SeaChange®, not only leadership, we heeded our showcases our achievements, SUSTAINABILITY stakeholders’ calls with but provides updates on the SUSTAINABILITY AT THAI UNION SeaChange®, Thai Union’s areas we have identified for sustainability strategy with improvement. Sustainable development is measurable commitments essential to the future of to delivering real, lasting AT THAI UNION Thai Union’s business and our changes in the way we operate. growth; it is fundamental to SeaChange® aims to drive being a responsible corporate a positive transformation citizen for both our employees throughout the global seafood and our global community. industry. Being transparent, not only showcasing our achievements, We think of SeaChange® as but highlighting the areas we a journey that covers every have identified for improvement, aspect of the seafood business: is fundamental to our vision of from how we look after the being the world’s most trusted oceans to how we manage our seafood leader. waste; from the responsibility we take for our workers to As a global seafood leader, building brighter futures for we have a responsibility to the communities around our set the standard for social, key sites. SeaChange® is As a global seafood leader, we have a responsibility to set the standard for social, environmental and economic performance across our operations and into our supply chains. 20 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED OUR OVERARCHING OBJECTIVES Sustainable seas, Workers Legal and now and for future are safe, legally licenced vessels, generations employed and operating empowered responsibly OUR PROGRAMS Safe & Legal Labor Responsible Operations Responsible Sourcing People & Communities Providing safe, legal and The way we operate must be Traceability is the key to At Thai Union we take The backbone of our (UN SDGs) and is guided by our emissions by 21 percent by freely-chosen employment in environmentally responsible improving the transparency responsibility for improving sustainability strategy is the commitment to the UN Global 2050. At the same time, we our own facilities and in supply and show a duty of care for and operational practices the lives of those living and chains is critically important our workers. of the entire seafood supply working in the regions in which ability to fully trace our seafood Compact. must also respond to the to Thai Union. chain. we operate. – from catch to consumption. evolving needs of consumers, Fair Labor Goals and Responsible Operations Responsible Sourcing Goals People and Communities With full traceability in place, As one of the world’s largest who are increasingly looking Roadmap Goals and Roadmap and Roadmap Goals and Roadmap we will be able to identify, seafood companies, we also to swap carbon-heavy investigate and improve recognize that we have both the proteins for seafood while SeaChange® is an integrated plan of initiatives, organized into four programs, to drive meaningful improvements across the entire global seafood industry. performance on key issues responsibility and the capacity also seeking foods that are such as labor and responsible to be a leader for positive sustainable and innovative. sourcing. change. The oceans are the This provides us with foundation of our business and opportunities well-suited OUR OPERATING PRINCIPLES While this work is designed healthy oceans are critical, to not only our seafood Good Governance Transparency Partnerships and Collaboration to have a positive impact not only for our future but for products, but also new on the seafood industry, the that of the planet, particularly and exciting areas such as Robust leadership, policies and processes We will remain transparent in all We have and will continue to actively ensure our business is focused on communications with stakeholders, seek out NGOs, governments and industry milestones we achieve under in combating climate change. alternative proteins. That delivering our sustainability objectives customers and the industry, sharing our partners to work with us on initiatives our programs will also deliver Ocean-based solutions to is why we are committing and is ethical across all our operations. learnings and providing regular updates designed to deliver against our overarching against the United Nations climate change could help to Healthy Living, Healthy on our progress. objectives. We will continue to share our findings so the entire industry can benefit Sustainable Development Goals reduce global greenhouse gas Oceans. from our experience and findings. 22 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 from our seafood production, growth and bridging them to and their KASIKORN Business and leading by example to but is also contributing towards key stakeholders as one of the Technology Group (KBTG) to help improve the industry traceability through its printing partners in SPACE-F, the first develop blockchain solutions as a whole. One of our key innovation. This innovation will and most comprehensive global to help protect workers’ rights. collaborations in 2019 was with make it possible to identify tuna FoodTech startup incubator and Through the collaboration we the Seafood Business for Ocean species from raw materials, the accelerator based in Thailand. developed a proof of concept Stewardship (SeaBOS). As a SUSTAINABILITY partners to work with on new catch location of Skipjack tuna SPACE-F was established in trial test to enable workers founding member of SeaBOS, developments and innovations. and the origin of individual fish 2019, in partnership with the to safely and securely store we are part of a significant COMMITTEE based on genetic profiles. National Innovation Agency their personal identification platform for collaboration The Sustainability Committee In 2019, we opened our new of Thailand and the Faculty of documents on the blockchain between science and industry. meets twice per year and is Global Innovation Center (GIC). With our partners, we have also Science at Mahidol University. which can be accessed by chaired by Mr. Thiraphong The GIC houses more than 40 worked on such innovations as Startups are involved in such recruiters, workers and Thai For example, in 2018, SeaBOS Chansiri, President & CEO, Doctoral Degree scientists and sustainable alternative protein key areas as alternative proteins Union for identity verification members agreed to support the with Dr. Darian McBain, Global over 120 researchers in the FeedKind®, developed by our and working on innovative related to employment. Global Dialogue for Seafood Director of Corporate Affairs fields of marine biotechnology, partner Calysta. FeedKind® packaging solutions. Traceability (GDST), as well and Sustainability, as co-Chair. engineering, medicine, food enables shrimp farmers to COLLABORATION as to join the Global Ghost Gear Initiative (GGGI) in 2019. It brings together team science and nutrition from increase their output to meet We are also working members across functions and around the world. They work growing global demand without with partners such as AT THAI UNION Thai Union was already proud locations throughout the world. to coordinate, exchange putting pressure on the planet’s KASIKORNBANK, a Thai bank, Sustainability can only be partners with both of these Dr. McBain also sits on the achieved through collaboration organizations and has been Global Leadership Team and the and shared goals, as actively implementing beta Risk Management Committee highlighted by UN SDG 17 – tests of the interoperable to ensure there is a direct link In order to remain at the forefront Partnerships for the Goals. traceability standards in our between sustainability and the of sustainability, we recognize We are committed to change tuna and shrimp supply chains. Board. that we must be constantly innovating In 2019, we also co-hosted the fourth Keystone Dialogue INNOVATION IN and further developing, not only our since the start of SeaBOS, SUSTAINABLE technology, but the products that which was held in Phuket, Thailand and where we issued SEAFOOD we offer. a joint statement with Charoen Pokphand Foods PCL (CPF) In order to remain at the on tackling modern slavery to forefront of sustainability, knowledge and expertise resources, replacing fishmeal ensure our supply chains are we recognize that we must in R&D and use the latest from wild fish specifically free of illegal labor. be constantly innovating and technologies to provide the best caught for protein in shrimp further developing, not only our outcomes for consumers and feed. technology, but the products the environment. The GIC not that we offer. This is a process only develops products such as Thai Union also fosters which can take place in-house marine ingredients, which make potential FoodTech startups but may also require external a fuller use of the co-products by accelerating business 24 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 Throughout 2019, Thai Union Education Working Group UN SUSTAINABLE Thai Union is a member of participated in a number of Meeting; and speaking at the DEVELOPMENT the UNGC and has worked to discussions on a wide range MSC Seafood Futures Forum implement the commitments in of topics that are crucial to 2019 on the importance of GOALS AND UN its Ten Principles since 2013. SeaChange® and our work to collaboration for a sustainable GLOBAL COMPACT promote sustainable practices seafood industry. across the industry. These While our work is primarily included demonstrating Thai Union is deeply committed designed to have a positive HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT our commitment to combat to working with partners, impact on the seafood modern slavery and end governments and NGOs to industry, the milestones we Thai Union will support and Thai Union will uphold the Thai Union will support a unethical recruitment practices tackle challenges and improve achieve under our programs respect the protection of freedom of association and precautionary approach to at the 2019 Issara Global best practices across the will also deliver against the internationally proclaimed the effective recognition environmental challenges; Forum in November, and at industry and will continue United Nations Sustainable human rights; and of the right to collective the Sydney-held conference to advocate for meaningful Development Goals (UN bargaining; Undertake initiatives Implementing Australia’s change. SDGs) and are guided by our Make sure that they are not to promote greater Modern Slavery Act – Knowing commitment to the UN Global complicit in human rights The elimination of all forms environmental Your Supply Chain. We also Compact (UNGC). This report abuses. of forced and compulsory responsibility; and shared our experience on serves as Thai Union’s annual labor; ethical recruitment with global Communication on Progress Encourage the The effective abolition of development and diffusion business leaders at the third (COP) to stakeholders. child labor; and of environmentally friendly annual Global Forum for Responsible Recruitment in In line with SeaChange®, technologies. Bangkok. Thai Union is focused on The elimination of delivering across all the discrimination in respect We made a wider call for action SDGs but is focused on three of employment and ANTI-CORRUPTION through sustainable seafood contributing to broad societal occupation. at the Asia Pacific Day for the change. Thai Union will work against Ocean Forum and reaffirmed corruption in all its forms, our commitment to gender including extortion and parity at the ELEVATE CSR Asia bribery. Summit. At the same time, we were pleased to share our experiences and progress at a number of conferences and panels, including at the launch of the Thailand Responsible Business Network; at the Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation (AOSEF) Working Committee and Investor 26 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CASE STUDY 1 SEABOS In particular, SeaBOS aims to make progress against SDG 14 – Life Below Water, although In 2015 academics from the Stockholm Resilience many of the other SDGs are also influenced. Centre (SRC) first published a paper in PLOS SeaBOS members are the CEOs of the largest One about transnational corporations acting seafood businesses in the world, supported by as the ‘Keystone Actors’ in marine ecosystems. their technical teams and scientists from academic From this paper, the SRC sought to bring the institutions around the world. In 2019 Thai Union keystone actors together in person, and a unique co-hosted the fourth Keystone Dialogue in Phuket, collaboration between science and industry was Thailand. formed. There are six Task Forces in SeaBOS today: The first Keystone Dialogue was held in 2016 in the Maldives. From the initial meeting, Task Force I: Addressing IUU and forced the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship labour (SeaBOS) was formed. The intent is to develop a Task Force II: Improving traceability in global common understanding and common approach seafood to some of the most pressing issues that face the Task Force III: Working with governments to oceans and the seafood industry across the wild improve regulations capture, aquaculture and feed businesses. The Task Force IV: Transparency and Governance SeaBOS initiative is hosted under the patronage of SeaBOS of HRH Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden, an Task Force V: Reducing plastic in seafood Ambassador for the UN Sustainable Development supply chains Goals (SDGs). Task Force VI: Climate Resilience In addition, new and emerging areas are under consideration such as work towards reducing the use of antibiotics in aquaculture. Members attending the annual Dialogue of the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS) Dialogue 28 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 prioritize our sustainability and what they felt Thai Union 06 risks and define appropriate should address in the next responses to emerging phase of SeaChange® from corporate challenges. 2021 to 2025. MATERIALITY IN Given our global scale of The internal survey directly RISK ASSESSMENT operations, our material issues gathered feedback from Thai OUR MATERIAL and impacts are complex Union teams and departments One way we assess our and transcontinental. Thai globally, including the Human materiality is through our Union carried out a materiality Resources, Investor Relations risk management procedure. assessment, which analyzed and Communications teams in ISSUES & Through reviewing activities our worldwide operations Bangkok, marketing teams in and partnerships, assessing to identify and prioritize the Thai Union brands and factory forthcoming legislation and the most important issues to our personnel worldwide. The implementation of regulations, stakeholders and the business intent was to engage internal STAKEHOLDER customer preference and as a whole. This resulted in stakeholders that may not feedback, as well as media our identifying our material otherwise have direct input profile and risk. Thai Union issues, including those related into the sustainability process continuously monitors the to environmental, social and and understand better their materiality of issues and the governance risks. Building on perspective on what aspects ENGAGEMENT impact they have on our internal stakeholder feedback in our of SeaChange® they felt risk profile. These risks are December 2015 materiality had been most effective and presented quarterly to the Risk assessment, we developed relevant, as well as how our Management Committee. It our SeaChange® sustainability sustainability work has affected is important to us that we not strategy, which we launched in their daily business activities. only address the issues that 2016. They were also asked for input we understand are important to regarding the next evolution of us as a global seafood leader, Additionally, in 2019, we carried SeaChange®. but that we are also tackling out a structured stakeholder the issues that are of greatest engagement process to The external stakeholder importance to our stakeholders review and input on our 2025 survey included 11 groups of and partners around the world. SeaChange® goals. This stakeholders, with more than 70 process included a two-phased people targeted in the survey. STAKEHOLDER approach – interviews with key internal stakeholders, ENGAGEMENT and a survey of our external stakeholders. In both cases, Thai Union regularly engages they were asked to provide with our key stakeholders, input and discussion on what allowing us to understand and was most important to them 30 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 external stakeholders, and • All teams replied that For example, previously Climate were generally aligned with the they would like to see Change and Environmental existing pillars of SeaChange®. sustainability being further Protection were considered These included: integrated across Thai as one item, whereas in Union, with teams outside 2019 the survey showed • Continuing to improve of the core sustainability that stakeholders are placing traceability for all species team taking responsibility separate emphasis on these and raw materials and for meeting SeaChange® issues. Thai Union is committed educating consumers commitments and targets to combating climate change, and investors in regions particularly in light of the report including China and • Climate Change and from the High-Level Panel on Thailand regarding the Environmental Management Building a Sustainable Ocean meaning of sustainability, were high priorities for the Economy which highlighted the particularly in regards future, particularly with importance of the oceans in to where products are regard to reducing Thai reducing carbon impacts and sourced from. This would Union’s carbon footprint of dietary change in reducing naturally fall under the and effectively measuring carbon footprints, globally. We Responsible Sourcing pillar Greenhouse Gas (GhG) also have a number of initiatives of SeaChange® emissions and water waste and programs to improve energy use and efficiency in • Ocean Plastics were also our plants, such as installing among top concerns raised EMERGENT ISSUES solar panels as part of the Sun by our staff, who indicated a AND CHANGES TO Seeker solar panel project. desire to engage more with MATERIALITY Going forward beyond 2020, local authorities to raise we will also include Climate awareness and collaborate However, the external survey in Action, UN SDG 13, as one of MATERIALITY importance of those issues did Sourcing, Environmental on reducing ghost gear particular did also show some the key UN SDGs that we are change. In particular, Ocean Protection, Health & Safety new, emergent issues, as well focusing on. MATRIX & SURVEY Plastics, which had previously in the Workplace are very • Corresponding to the Safe as separating previous issues FINDINGS been the top concern, fell to closely aligned with the four & Legal Labor pillar of into more than one, for added An emergent issue was only number nine, a significant pillars of SeaChange®, which SeaChange®, there were focus. stakeholder concern over the EXTERNAL SURVEY drop. At the same time, are: Safe & Legal Labor, suggestions of ensuring our use of antibiotics. Thai Union Human Rights became the Responsible Sourcing, People & commitments to labor rights is aware of this issue and, FINDINGS most widely-held concern. Communities and Responsible across all our facilities as a founder member of the In the main, the survey of Responsible Sourcing climbed Operations. Seafood Business for Ocean external stakeholders showed to number two from number • Under the same pillar, Stewardship (SeaBOS) has consistency in the issues that four most important previously. INTERNAL SURVEY departments wanted identified the use of antibiotics they were concerned about. FINDINGS to assess our current in aquaculture as a key focus The majority of existing issues Encouragingly, the top leadership gender gap, for further work. were carried across from the four items identified by In general, the internal with regard to increasing previous materiality matrix. stakeholders, namely: stakeholders indicated similar the proportion of women However, the degree of Human Rights, Responsible concerns and priorities to general managers and directors 32 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 Health & Safety in the Economic Growth and Safe & In line with the results of As per the survey results, these Workplace has also been Legal Labor as one of the four our external and internal issues closely follow the pillars identified as a new issue at the pillars of SeaChange®, with a stakeholder surveys, we have of Thai Union’s SeaChange® front of stakeholders’ minds. number of related programs updated our Materiality Matrix strategy, particularly as Human Thai Union is deeply committed and activities. as follows: Rights and Labor Protection to UN SDG 8, Decent Work and and Responsible Sourcing remained the top priority. We Materiality Matrix are also working closely with LOOKING TO THE organizations such as the Human Rights FUTURE Global Ghost Gear Initiative Survey respondents were also (GGGI) on the issue of ocean Responsible Sourcing IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS asked to select the issues plastics and will continue to Environmental Protection Health & Safety that they believe will be the improve our environmental in the Workplace most important to the seafood performance, including industry over the next five reducing our carbon footprint Food Fraud/Safety years. The top responses can and GhG emissions. Transparency and Governance be found in the chart below: Thai Union is aware of the Communities importance of these issues, as well as the other key Climate Change Top indicated challenges for the seafood industry concerns highlighted by our over the next five years stakeholders going forward. Ocean Plastic We are prepared to tackle Innovation them as central priorities for Use of Antibiotics the next decade and beyond of Human Capital SeaChange®. Development Human Rights and Labor Protection IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS SUCCESS Responsible Sourcing Environmental Protection EXISTING 1) Ocean Plastic 4) Responsible Sourcing 7) Long-Term Commitments Ocean Plastic Pollution 2) Human Rights 5) Transparency & Governance 8) Innovation 3) Climate Change & ENV Protection 6) Communities 9) Human Capital Development FOLLOWING SURVEY 1) Human Rights 5) Food Safety/ Food Fraud 9) Ocean Plastic 2) Responsible Sourcing 6) Transparency & Governance 10) Innovation 3) ENV Protection 7) Communities 11) Use of Antibiotics 4) Health & Safety in the 8) Climate Change 12) Human Capital Development Workplace 34 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 FEEDBACK FROM THAI UNION’S STAKEHOLDERS OUR OUR ISSUES THAI UNION RESPONSES ISSUES THAI UNION RESPONSES STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS Investors • Improvement of business • Transparency and governance End-consumers • Eco-labelling • Innovation and product responsibility performance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax • Competitive price (quality, food safety) • Good governance policy and reporting) • Food safety • Transparency of information • Investor Relations Communications • Product quality (health and nutrition) team, quarterly face-to-face investor • Social and environmental • Responsible sourcing updates with sustainability briefing responsibilities • Can trackers and traceability data as • Social and environmental • Climate change and environmental • Eco-labelling (e.g. MSC, dolphin well as product information responsibilities protection safe, ASC, BAP, carbon footprint of Suppliers • Fair trade • Responsible sourcing (traceability, products) • Consistency expectation viability) Employees • Fair compensation and benefits • Human rights and fair labor practices • Increasing orders • Vessel Code of Conduct • Fair labor practices • Human capital development • Supplier audits and capacity building • Safety and wellness • Management program Customers • Product quality (health and nutrition) • Innovation and product responsibility • Career development and opportunity • Global program of harmonization of • Eco-labelling (e.g. MSC, dolphin (quality, food safety) • Work-life balance work standards safe, ASC, BAP, carbon footprint of • Increased customer communication • Brand ambassador program and Thai products) and face-to-face meetings on Union Global rollout sustainability held globally Daily/Migrant • Fair compensation and benefits • Human rights and fair labor practices • Offering more sustainable alternatives workers • Fair labor practices • Human capital development to meet customer demand • Safety and wellness • Responsible sourcing Communities • Legal compliance • Transparency and governance • Climate change and environmental (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax protection policy and reporting) • Updates on GGGI partnership, • Social and environmental responsi• Nutritional information our Tuna Commitment, Sourcing bilities • Communities Transparency report with WWF • Partnership in community development • Socioeconomic development Government • Legal compliance • Transparency and governance • Participation in government (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax programs policy and reporting) 36 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED OUR ISSUES THAI UNION RESPONSES STAKEHOLDERS NGOs • Social and environmental responsi• Climate change and environmental bilities protection • Marine conservation • WWF Sourcing transparency report • Participation in social and environmental programs • Transparency of information • Transparency and governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) • TUE transparency report International • Regulatory compliance • Transparency and governance organizations • Transparency of information (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) • Social and environmental • Joint workshops such as with the ILO responsibilities Communities • Transparency of information Academia • Social and environmental • Climate change and environmental responsibilities protection • Marine conservation • Communities • Participation in social and • Collaboration with Stockholm environmental programs Resilience Centre through SeaBoS • Collaboration with University of Sydney Media • Transparency of information • Transparency and governance • Timeliness of information (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) • Engagement on material issues 07 2019 IN BRIEF Our sustainability strategy, SeaChange® is at the heart of Thai Union's business. We continued to make positive progress in 2019; part of our ongoing efforts to drive change across the global seafood industry. 40 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 CASE STUDY 2 Providing safe, legal and freely-chosen employment for COMMITTED TO DIVERSITY workers in our own facilities 08 The inclusion of women in the workforce provides widespread and in our supply chains is benefits to a business. Not only that, it ensures greater support for critically important to Thai society as a whole, with women providing extra income for families. Union. We want to consider In the seafood industry, gender imbalance is an ongoing challenge, how we can meet or exceed so at Thai Union we are pursuing an aspiration of having 50/50 international frameworks such gender parity across all levels of management. as the UN Guiding Principles on SAFE & LEGAL Human Rights, legislation such In 2019, the gender ratio for Thai Union management was 52 percent as Modern Slavery Acts and male and 48 percent female, while in non-management positions, most importantly, ensure that female workers make up 61.5 percent compared to 38.5 percent men. people have safe and legal work LABOR to help them fully participate Across the global seafood industry, the participation of women in in society. While we have decision-making levels are still minimal, with about 90 percent of significant programs in place directorships occupied by men. for our own employees, we are also partnering with specialist The Company introduced the Thai Union Group Diversity Policy in organizations and NGOs to 2018, with gender diversity a key component given there are a large ensure that those working in number of women working for the Company and within its supply the wider industry are also chains. With a diverse customer base, having a diverse workplace protected. also helps Thai Union better understand our target markets. Thai Union does not own We have implemented a series of benefits to support women in the any vessels but we are using Company, including the opportunity to extend maternity leave, flexible our leading market position working arrangements, a production line in the plant for only pregnant to improve labor conditions employees, additional security for women working nightshift in our throughout the entire seafood plants, breast feeding rooms, resting rooms for pregnant or nursing supply chain. We know that women inside and outside of the operation line, along with a preschool full traceability of all our program for their children and financial support. seafood products, from catch to consumption, will help Unfortunately, women continue to face disadvantages and accurately identify gaps in safe discrimination. At Thai Union we strongly believe that gender and legal labor and, critically, equality is a fundamental human right and a business benefit. We give workers a voice. are working hard to ensure our Company is a champion for women’s We are committed to this work rights and gender equality, and setting the standard for the global and to helping the industry seafood industry. There have been no deliver against UN SDG 8, instances of discrimination reported aiming to provide decent work through our global operations. and economic growth for communities and individuals throughout the world. 42 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 CASE STUDY 3 CASE STUDY 4 CONTINUOUS commissioned by Humanity United and The THE BLOCKCHAIN AND signature of the personal document on IMPROVEMENT IN ETHICAL Freedom Fund. WORKERS' RIGHTS blockchain. RECRUITMENT The study found that as a result of Thai Union’s A significant challenge in the seafood industry Using KASIKORNBANK’s innovation platform, policy, there was a large reduction in recruitis tackling forced labor. The confiscation of this was developed to capture the standard ment-related costs paid by workers; we saw 9 personal documents from migrant workers such workflow procedures for recruiting agents, percent higher job satisfaction levels among as passports or work permits has, in some cases, workers and Thai Union, which has a role in workers recruited under the policy, while all been common practice. In essence, this is a form verifying the documents of migrant workers from workers reported that they felt safer during the of forced labor. worker home countries such as Myanmar. process. Recruiting workers has also become Through the platform, workers could store easier—when the Company issues a demand Thai Union takes seriously its responsibility to passports, work permits and other important letter for workers from Myanmar there are now protect all of our workers across the world and documents on their mobile phone as electronic more applicants than posts available and, at the continues to explore new and innovative ways documents. All these documents can be verified same time, turnover of workers recruited under to address this issue. One technology with the as to who the real issuer is. The intention is to the policy was 91.2 percent lower in 2018 than potential to provide a longer-term solution is enable workers to have greater access to their One of the overarching objectives of SeaChange® workers that weren’t part of the program. The blockchain. personal data and be less likely to encounter is that all our workers are safe, legally employed program has also been praised through reports bonded or forced labor through control of their and empowered. This is critically important that recruitment agents have become more Working in collaboration with KASIKORNBANK, own personal documents. If physical copies of to Thai Union, and is backed by our Business professional and are being recognized for their a digital banking leader in Thailand, and an their passport or work permit were confiscated, Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct (introduced ethical credentials. innovation team from Kasikorn Business-Techthey could still access them online when in 2015), our Ethical Migrant Recruitment Policy nology Group (KBTG), we developed a proof of authorities requested them and prove that the (introduced in 2016), our Vessel Code of Conduct Impactt also stated that Thai Union’s policy was concept trial testing the ability of recruiters, document is authentic. and Vessel Improvement Program (introduced an example for other companies to follow as they workers and Thai Union to store the digital in 2017) and our Supplier Code of Conduct implement a fair and transparent recruitment (introduced in 2018). Together these policies process. support our commitment that all employees should have access to safe and freely chosen Thai Union is proud to take a leadership position employment. when it comes to promoting transparency, which we believe is critical in preventing modern In 2019, ethical trade consultancy Impactt slavery remaining hidden in the dark. The published an independent evaluation which roadmap and reports created with Impactt can be found that the changes Thai Union had made viewed here. in its recruitment policy were “a significant landmark in improving migrant recruitment practices.” The report, Ethical Recruitment and the Employer Pays Principle: Translating Policy Into Practice, followed a six-month evaluation of our Ethical Migrant Recruitment Policy, 44 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 CASE STUDY 5 While the platform was developed primarily from GIVING WORKERS A VOICE member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and a perspective of recruitment, we are exploring the has worked to implement the commitments in its potential benefits blockchain could have for the supply chain. Across our facilities in Thailand, Blockchain is a key technology Ghana_TU_Whistl seafood industry at large, with the ability to use the worker welfare committees provide workers with eblower platform_Poster A2_R2.pdf 1 12/12/2562 BE 6:21 PM Ghana_TU_Whistleblower platform_PosterA2_R2.pdf 1 12/12/2562 BE 6:21 PM application among workers outside of Thai Union enabler helping in identity WE ENCO URAGE a voice – an important pillar in our human rights jumpstarting change on a wider scale. due diligence framework. With migrant workers’ proofing as part of an WE ENCOURAGE YOU TO REPORT YOU ILLEGAL TO REPORT ILLEGAL ORUNETHICAL OR ACTIVITY UNETHICAL ACTIVITY THROUGH trade union rights restricted by law in Thailand, industry-wide platform. We THROUGH SPEAKSPOUT!! One of the challenges is the varying legal the committees provide an alternative channel requirements in different jurisdictions in relation to documentation – some insist that physical copies of have been a pioneer in the blockchain space since EAK OUT !! for Thai Union to establish a social dialogue with workers. Elections for the committees are organized documents be presented. If authorities can accept THAI UN in collaboration with the Migrant Workers Rights that blockchain ensures that documents are verified 2016. We are glad to work THAI UNION COM COMPLIANCEREPOPLIANCE CM MY Y M C YOU CAN IO • Fraud, corruption & bribery GETN IN TOUCH ABOUT: • Improper supplier or contractor activity YOU CA • Fraud, N GET IN TOUCH ABOUT: Network (MWRN). In 2019, there were a total of REPORTING HOTL RTING CY corruption • Improper & bribery CMY together with Thai Union C • Accounting, auditing and internal financial controls K supplier M or contracto • Misconduct/inappropriate behaviour• Accounting, Y INE CM auditing r activity and securely stored, this has the potential for a 10 committees across all Thai Union facilities. MY • Miscondu HOTLINE and inter CY CMY • Antitrust activity ct/inappr nal finan • Antitrust opriate cial cont K • Retaliation activity behaviou rols • Retaliatio r • Confidentiality and misappropriation n • Confident on this remarkable project. • Securities violations iality and wider impact across a broad range of industries Collectively, they held 47 meeting sessions • Securities misappro • Conflicts of interest violations priation • Conflicts YOU CA • Sexual harassment of inter N FIND • Discrimination or harassment • Sexual harassme est IT ONLIN YOU CAN FIND IT ONLINE AT thaiunion • Theft E AT • Discrimin nt .ethic with labor issues. throughout the year. ation or harassme calling 84 spoint.com • Theft Respect for human rights or by • Environmental protection, health and safety nt thaiunion.ethicspoint.com , • Unsafe working conditions 4205187 , • Environm • Unsafe ental prot ection, healt or by calling 8442051874 • Gifts and entertainment 4 • Gifts and working condition h and safet y • The ser • Violation of company policies entertain s vice is con • Violence or threats • Violation of company ment and can fidentia • Violence remain ano l about violation or policies is an important corporate • The service is confidential if reques • Anything else potentialor violation threats nymous • Anyt hing else and can remain anonymous ted of ethics, policy, law of ethic about viola The committees are able to consult with employers s, policy, tion or pote if requested • Calls are law ntial viola tion not record • We hav ed EVERY ONE OF US MUST PRACTICE • Calls are not recorded e a strong responsibility which relates to HONESTY AND INTEGRITY IN FULFILLING EVERY OUR against policy RESPONSIBILITIES AND COMPLYHON on worker welfare, offer advice to the employer ONE OF WITH OUR • We have a strong policy retaliation ESTY AND US MUST PRAC report for anyPOLICIES AS WELL AS ALL APPLICABLE RESPONS LAWS INTEGRITY TICE against retaliation for any made in good AND REGULATIONS. IBILITIES IN FULF POLICIES AND COM ILLING OUR • Giv faith AS AND REGU WELL AS ALL PLY WITH APPLICAB OUR report made in good faith e detaile PLEASE SPEAK OUT!! LATIONS d informa . LE LAW on welfare, inspect, control and supervise welfare S PLEA all related stakeholders such including tion IT’S HERE TO HELP YOU SE SPEA • Give detailed information WH WHEN and O, WHAT, AND TO PROTECT IT’SOUR HERE TO K OU T!! including WHO, WHAT, WHERE HE COMPANY AND ITSD TO PROT AN LP YOU WHEN and WHERE EMPLOYEES! COMPAN EMPLOY AND ITS Y EC T OUR arrangements, and put forward guidelines on as employees, customers and EES! welfare arrangements. They also provide suppliers. It is essential to Thai Union with greater awareness of issues in the sustainability, which is part of factories as they arise and help identify any risks or Our workers are the heart and soul of Thai Union. violations at our factories. our core strategy. So it’s incredibly important that we give them a Thai Union is a global, multinational company and as Silawat Santivisatvoice, and that we protect them as they go about such migrant workers form a significant part of the Senior Executive Vice President, their daily jobs. We do this on several levels, Thai Union workforce. Last year 17-year-old Phurit KASIKORNBANK. ensuring everyone across all of our operations are Chansiri interviewed migrant workers from across able to stand up and be heard. the Company to explore the similarities in different migration experiences, and the important role Providing safe, legal and freely-chosen employment migration plays in a global business environment. not only ensures our workers are protected but The video, which can be viewed here, was played also helps us deliver against the United Nations at the Global Forum for Responsible Recruitment in Sustainable Development Goal to provide decent Bangkok in 2019, where Thai Union demonstrated its work and economic growth for communities and individuals around the world. Thai Union is a 46 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 CASE STUDY 6 efforts to combat modern slavery and promote safe anonymity available. Through the platform, all HEALTH & SAFETY TRAINING In addition to partnering with ITF to co-host and legal labor throughout the Company’s supply workers worldwide can report any concerns related health and safety training workshops, chains. to violations outlined in Company policies, the Code Working to ensure safe & legal labor throughout Thai Union also works with the International of Conduct, or any fraud, abuse or other misconduct our supply chains often goes beyond the setting Labour Organization (ILO) to select information As part of our efforts to promote greater levels in the workplace. This allows workers to be heard of guidelines and audits. If there’s no practical and promote it among fisher communities, of accountability and transparency across our more than ever before. Importantly, the solution is component then we may find ourselves in the alongside other important partners within the operations, Thai Union last year introduced a new also available for suppliers, contractors or clients. position of setting rules that our suppliers are not seafood and fishing industry. That is being Whistleblowing Platform for all staff and workers Since the launch of the platform there have been equipped to follow. To avoid this situation, promoted among fisher communities, along with to ensure strict compliance with ethical and legal nine claims reported, with seven closed and two Thai Union regularly works with partners such as other important partners within the seafood and standards in the workplace. remaining in progress as of this report. the International Transport Workers’ Federation fishing industry. (ITF) to host workshops and training sessions to Developed in partnership with Navex, a recognized, help our suppliers understand how they can make reliable and independent provider of global sure that their workers are equipped to deal with compliance solutions, Speak Out – The Thai Union any of the emergencies that an industry like fishing Compliance reporting hotline is available online, can present and to take the information found in and through toll-free numbers reachable from the vessel audits and create useful, practical advice. 15 countries, 365 days of the year, with complete In 2019, Thai Union and the ITF co-hosted a health and safety training workshop for more than 70 fishers in Chumphon, Thailand. Participants received a range of guidance, including first aid and basic medical training techniques such as CPR and how to effectively respond to a potential life-threatening Audits alone won’t change the industry and situation while at sea. Each it’s important that we practise what we preach fisher also received a medical and assist those key links in our supply chain to kit containing supplies to use operate in a safer manner and give their workers while on board vessels. The the skills they need to be safe in their work. workshop also covered basic instruction on fire safety and good health practices as well as how to use bank accounts in Thailand. 48 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 THAI UNION’S VESSEL CODE OF CONDUCT In 2017 we introduced our The full VCoC with all clauses Fishing Vessel Improvement can be viewed here. The Program and Vessel Code of accompanying guidance VESSEL FOCUS ON CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Conduct (VCoC) to provide document can be viewed here. AUDITING Central to the program is driving continuous improvement. This can only be achieved by working with our clear guidance to the fishing HISTORY suppliers. This program provides us with the opportunity to engage with not only the supplying companies vessels from which we but also the fishermen to understand the challenges and where improvements can most change the source, as well as aim to drive VCOC AUDIT Thai Union’s history of situation for all involved. continuous improvement of PROGRAMS carrying out third-party labor and ethical conditions in auditing on the vessels that Thai Union works with consultants, suppliers, experts and our customers to develop and implement the fishing sector. It supports Under the VCoC, Thai Union it sources from pre-dates projects that will increase the level to which our suppliers meet the clauses in the audits. our work towards UDN SDG 8 implements a rolling program the VCoC. Prior to the – Decent Work and Economic of independent audits of the launch of the VCoC, we In October 2019, Thai Union signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with our customers Nestle, Growth. vessels that we source from. carried out the below The J.M. Smucker Company and Mars Petcare to collaboratively fund projects throughout 2020 to improve In 2019, two third-party audit audits: the working conditions of fishermen on vessels, focusing on the findings from vessel audits. programs were conducted by consultancy firms, one in 2015/16 – Thailand and another for the audits of vessels supplying tuna vessels we source from fish for fishmeal into the globally. Every audit results Thailand shrimp feed supply AUDITS AND Between October 2018 to July in a report for each individual chain RESULTS 2019, 38 audits were carried The VCoC is an extension of the vessel, assessing the level to out on trawl and purse seine Thai Union Business Ethics and which the vessel has met the 2016/2017 – For the global tuna audit vessels in eight of Thailand’s Labor Code of Conduct, which different clauses of the VCoC, audits of vessels supplying program, from August 2018 to ports. is built on 12 fundamental i.e. whether the clause is either into the European supply the end of 2019, consultants principles and focuses on fully met, partially met or not chains for tuna carried out audits on 70 vessels A key part of the audit process topics such as crew contracts, met. Where a clause is only in the Atlantic, Pacific and is carrying out interviews with recruitment and treatment of partially met or not met at all, a 2017/2018 – Indian Oceans. These vessels the crews, to ensure that workers, wages, discrimination, Vessel Improvement Program audits of vessels supplying go to sea for varying lengths of worker voice and perspective is verifying crew age, the right (VIP) needs to be initiated to fish to be processed in time and use a range of gear integrated within our approach. to freedom of association, and reduce the number of Areas for Thailand types, including trawl, purse These provide an important health and safety. The VCoC Continuous Improvement (AFIs). seine, pole and line and long opportunity for the consultants is signed by all new suppliers line. The two audit programs to understand conditions for before we enter into a new will continue through 2020, crew onboard the vessels. business relationship and Thai again auditing both Thai and Interviews are completed for Union is working to ensure that global tuna vessels. In 2020, every audit and are strictly all existing suppliers have also tuna audits will focus on vessels confidential, taking place both signed it. participating in the Fishery individually and in groups. Improvement Projects (FIPs) which Thai Union sources from. 50 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 MEASURING Audit Standard, and relevant often than Thai vessels THE PERCENTAGE OF MET VCOC local legislation. CLAUSES BY PRINCIPLE Thailand program COMPLIANCE • For Thai vessels, Principle THE 12 Global tuna program 6 saw the lowest level of PRINCIPLES OF 99 100 100 100 100 The audit programs provided VESSEL CODE OF being met of all principles 100 91 THE VCOC 90 84 information about the vessels CONDUCT AUDIT 80 77 76 70 73 that we source from so that we • Thai vessels met clauses of 1. Business Is conducted can focus on the improvement PROGRAM RESULTS Principle 7 more often than lawfully and with 60 57 62 54 work. This included: global tuna vessels integrity. 41 40 contracting, administration In particular, the VCoC audits 2. Work is freely agreed 40 38 32 relating to payments, record of Thai and global tuna vessels • In Principle 4, Thai vessels and with documented 29 keeping for hours and injuries, found that there were a number were found to meet all terms of employment, 20 health and safety and grievance of similarities across vessels of the clauses every time legally procedures. using different gear types and whereas the global tuna 3. Workers are treated 0 principle 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 operating under different flag program met the clauses to equally, with respest The VCoC is made up of 10 States. a level of 70 percent. and dignity. * Audits are carried against the individual clauses of each Principle, rather than the principles. Of these, the first 10 4. Work is conducted Principle as a whole. Results for all of the clauses within each Principle are then were used in the audit programs There has been a perception NEXT STEPS voluntarily with no aggregated to show an overall score for each Principle. ** As the process of auditing vessels for social and ethical conditions matures, and as to the end of 2019, this was that vessels from Thailand forced or compulsory understanding of the nuances grows, it is expected that results and conversations because Principles 11 and 12 operate differently, or have • We will continue to engage labor. will become more refined. refer: 11. to environmental different challenges to other with stakeholders through 5. Workers are of an factors which are not currently fishing fleets around the world. presentations, working appropriate age. part of the VCoC audit program; The VCoC audit programs groups and publishing case 6. Workers are paid fair and 12. to the need for have allowed us to analyze the studies and proof points wages. The Fishing Vessel Code of Conduct is one of the monitoring ongoing audit performance of different fleets 7. Working hours for all many ways in which Thai Union can demonstrate its results which will be relevant in against the same standards and • A comprehensive review workers are reasonable. commitment to drive continuous improvement, not the future as re-audits occur. compare results regarding AFIs. of the VCoC related 8. Workers can exercise only in its own operations, but across the seafood They have therefore not been documents will be their right to form / join industry. included in the data. The key results were: completed and we will unions and to bargain work with our stakeholders collectively. Implementing the VCoC audit program enables In addition to the audits, • For Principles 1, 3, 5 and to develop new ways 9. Workers' health and Thai Union to support and work with others to the consultants completed 8, there was a high level of to develop the program safety are protected at benchmarking exercises meeting the clauses (over 75 further, including working work. improve the lives and employment of those in our comparing the VCoC against percent met) with consultants to carry 10. Workers have access to supply chain, and help the industry move towards several other standards on out more audits fair procedures. more sustainable and ethical practices. working conditions on fishing • In comparison, for Principles 11. Business embraces Tracy Cambridge – vessels. These included: ILO 2, 9 and 10 the vessels met • The VCoC and VIPs are part sustainability and C188, the Responsible Tuna the clauses less, with 9 of our ongoing commitment reduces environmental Responsible Sourcing Fishing-Freezer Purse Seiners being met less in Thailand and efforts to drive impact. Director (Europe) (AENOR), the Responsible than for global tuna vessels. continuous improvement 12. Progress and Fishing Vessel Scheme, the For Principle 2, global tuna both in our operations and compliance are Seafood Task Force Vessel vessels met the clause less the wider industry monitored. 52 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 on traceability, but also Similar to most sectors, the 09 engagement. We view our seafood industry has inherent suppliers as partners and we risks that Thai Union actively support and encourage them works to mitigate. These risks to meet the high standards include: our customers and other The seafood industry is stakeholders expect. This • Illegal, unreported and RESPONSIBLE complex, whether looking at includes training for 93 unregulated (IUU) fishing, a wild-caught or aquaculture individuals from 51 suppliers of legal compliance risk fisheries. Given the complexities food ingredients, packaging and of the seafood industry, we logistics on our Business Ethics • Labor and human rights SOURCING recognize the importance of and Labor Code of Conduct, as violations, a social risk proactively addressing both well as training for 50 captains emerging and ongoing issues and crew supervisors from 30 • Fish population depletion, in our dynamic business vessels on health and safety at an environmental risk environment. Supply chain sea. management is at the heart of the Responsible Sourcing program within SeaChange® and is vital to the effective and successful management of our business. Traceability is the key to improving the transparency and operational practices of the entire seafood industry. With traceability in place, we can track every product—from catch to consumption—and we can ensure our suppliers abide by the same sustainability commitments as Thai Union. Without full traceability of our supply chain, we cannot begin to understand its risks. As such, we refer to traceability as the backbone of SeaChange®. Our Responsible Sourcing program focuses not only 54 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 Our supply chain management • Carried out audits on fish • Further developed our Global fishery responsible sourcing performance 2019 primarily focuses on the and non-fish suppliers in eObserver program in sourcing of raw fishery and Thailand against the Vessel partnership with the Nature aquaculture materials as these Code of Conduct (VCoC) Conservancy, particularly processes have the highest and began to develop and focusing on Pacific Longline 37% potential to carry risk. But we implement improvement fishers 8.1% also recognize the need to manage our supply chains for plans, as well as training programs 100% a range of other categories— 96.7% from packaging to non-seafood ingredients to logistics. Tuna sourced from ISSF PVR vessels Thai Union continued to work Percentage of PVR listed large scale purse seine vessels Share of tuna soured Share of wild-caught salmon Share of tuna sourced Share of from MSC fishery or FIP sourced from MSC fisheries from MSC fishery or Pole and Line with our partners to deepen our for Thai Union markets FIP globally caught tuna understanding and approach to 2019 2018 in Europe responsible sourcing. In 2019 * Share of tuna sourced from MSC fishery or FIP globally refers to all tuna sourced by Thai Union for branded and we: non-branded products • Released our first Sourcing Transparency: Wild-Caught Share of shrimp raw materials sourced from internationally certified farms Fish and Shellfish report in 100% 100% Internationally Certified partnership with WWF Others • Offered SeaWeb delegates a tour of the Thai Union Feedmill in Thailand to Percentage of PVR listed vessels for all fishing gear types show them the world’s Thai Union Frozen Thai Union Seafood Okeanos Food Chicken of the Sea Frozen Foods most sustainable aquafeed 2019 2018 2017 in production 18% 21% 31% • Offered the world its first of total of total of total shrimp shrimp shrimp taste of commercial shrimp procurement procurement procurement fed on Calysta’s FeedKind® volume volume volume protein at the Brussels 89% 79% 92% Seafood Show 82% 79% 69% • Launched new Fishery Improvement Projects *Decrease from 2017 to 2018 is due to larger purchase volume in 2018 from (FIPs), including the new vessels not PVR listed, primarily Pole and line vessels Pole and Line Tuna FIP in Senegal 56 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 Share of internationally certified farmed salmon sales revenue CASE STUDY 7 Thai Union Europe Chilled CALYSTA FEEDKIND® 2019 2018 As the world’s population continues to grow, so too will demand for sustainable protein. In line with this, Thai Union continues to explore new, innovative ways to develop and bring to market products that are more sustainable. 9.0% 5.8% Working in partnership with leading alternative protein producer Calysta, Thai Union last year developed commercially farmed shrimp fed with 71.3% 79.5 protein produced from natural gas. 13.4% 7.5% for consumers, and the use of alternative proteins At the Seafood Expo Global in Brussels, shrimp like FeedKind® also allows companies such as served to visitors was farmed on a feed using Thai Union to provide traceability and reduce OTHER OTHER FeedKind® protein and marine ingredients seafood fraud. 6.3% 5.8% derived from Thai Union tuna byproducts. This was a world first. What also made this Also, as part of its strategy to pursue alternative product exciting was that Calysta’s innovative proteins, Thai Union also launched a US$ 30 and sustainable FeedKind® protein contains a million venture fund to invest in innovative unique carbon signature that can help the food companies that are developing breakthrough industry provide traceability and integrity to its technologies in food-tech. One of the key focus DIGITAL The Trax digital mapping Global Dialogue on Seafood supply chain. areas of the fund is alternative proteins and its TRACEABILITY system provides better Traceability (GDST) to develop first investment has been in alternative protein visibility into our supply chain, key data elements and interThe benefits of using alternative proteins such start-up Flying Spark, which uses fruit fly larvae Digital traceability continues which helps us conduct an operability for the seafood as FeedKind® have the potential to deliver that in nature feed on fresh fruits. While the larvae to be an important part of our effective risk analysis. For our industry. immense benefits. FeedKind®, for example, allows only have a lifespan of only seven days, during that supply chain management. wild-caught species, we also shrimp farmers to increase their productivity to period their body mass multiplies 250 times. Our custom-built traceability started conducting thorough help cater for rising demand around the world system, Trax, provides us stock and market analysis on a while not adding to the pressure on the planet’s Flying Spark uses technology with digital data management monthly basis, enabling us to resources by replacing fishmeal from wild fish that allows cultivation and tools to not only run our global more accurately forecast fish specifically caught for protein in shrimp feed. In processing to be done at low operations efficiently, but also availability. The analysis takes addition, it helps eliminate unsustainable fishing cost and with almost zero waste to facilitate the functionality into consideration a number activities often associated with the production of because all parts of the larvae of our can trackers, which are of conditions, including stock fishmeal for feed. are used. This gives Flying Spark found on our brands’ products status, fishery regulations an edge over conventional protein sources — not around the world. In recent and closure periods, climatic The aquaculture sector will play an important only those from meat and plants but also over years, Trax has been expanded conditions, ocean currents and and growing role in providing sustainable protein other insects, such as crickets and grasshoppers. to cover more of our facilities more. Throughout 2019 we and supply chains. have continued to support the 58 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CASE STUDY 8 COMBATING GHOST GEAR IN dedicated work plan to achieve its goals with the GGGI. Thai Union has been recognized for setting OUR OCEANS best practices in terms of policy and commitment to address the problem of ALDFG, and was highly commended for making this issue integral to the Company's overall business strategy in World Animal Protection’s Ghost Beneath the Waves 2019 report. As a global seafood leader, Thai Union has the position to influence the wider industry and, to help illustrate the issue and its challenges, in June 2019 Thai Union collaborated with the Responsible sourcing is more than just how the GGGI to launch the #GhostGearReborn campaign fish and seafood used in our products is caught. in Thailand. The first activity of #GhostGearReWe must also be aware of the effects our industry born was a dive in Thailand where members of has on the ocean, even after the vessels have GGGI and Thai Union, including the Thai Union left the area. Abandoned, Lost and Discarded President and CEO, came together to remove lost Fishing Gear (ALDFG) or Ghost Gear, represents a fishing gear from the ocean off Koh Larn island. threat to animals in our oceans because it has the The GGGI represents another opportunity potential to reduce fish stocks, damage habitat for Thai Union to work with partners around and kill millions of animals every year. In fact, the world to combat key issues that affect the research indicates that 70 percent of global fishing industry and to demonstrate that macroplastics debris in the open ocean is fishthe global seafood industry is committed to ing-related if measured by weight. It’s for this taking action to address the issue of ghost gear reason that, in 2018, Thai Union joined the Global throughout its supply chain. We also intend Ghost Gear Initiative (GGGI) in a drive to help to carry out research on Fishing Gear Practice reduce the growing issue of Ghost Gear. and Management in Thailand. This project will involve research taking place in five Thai ports Healthy living and healthy oceans are integral throughout 2020. to Thai Union’s business. Thai Union has made a commitment to ensure safer, cleaner oceans More information on by driving economically viable and sustainable Thai Union’s work with the GGGI solutions to the problem of ghost fishing gear and and the #GhostGearReborn dive marine litter globally. This commitment drives can be viewed in this video. Thai Union’s work with the GGGI, which, in 2019, saw the Company be the first to publish a 60 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 THAI UNION TUNA COMMITMENT HELPING THE Projects (FIPs), where we work • FIPs: https://youtu.be/ In December 2016, as part of WHY WE MADE Additionally, Thai Union is a INDUSTRY with a range of stakeholders, Fyg9_U4ytoM our SeaChange® sustainability member of the United Nations including our suppliers, WWF strategy, Thai Union made a THE COMMITMENT Global Compact (UNGC), IMPROVE and industry peers. In 2017 we • What is a fishery?: https:// commitment for ‘our tuna to As one of the world’s largest and we are focused on We know we cannot achieve signed a landmark agreement youtu.be/I-DikSs4kRs be sustainably sourced, with canned tuna providers we contributing to the delivery of our Tuna Commitment alone. with Greenpeace and, in an aim to achieve a minimum recognize our responsibility to the United Nations Sustainable That’s why we work with a 2019 we engaged MRAG, a • The development of FIPs of 75 percent of our branded work to ensure that tuna stocks Development Goals (SDGs). range of partners and other consulting firm dedicated to that will contribute to our tuna products produced are healthy for generations In particular, our Tuna stakeholders to help drive promoting sustainable utilization Tuna Commitment is well with raw material originating to come. Providing nutritious Commitment contributes to positive change in the industry. of natural resources to conduct underway. By the end of from fisheries that are either seafood and playing our part SDG 14, Life Below Water. Thai Union is a founding a third-party audit of this 2019 we were involved Marine Stewardship Council in combating climate change member of the International agreement. Their report can be in 10 ongoing tuna FIPs. (MSC) certified or in a Fishery through supporting dietary Seafood Sustainability found here. The progress of these FIPs Improvement Program (FIP), by shifts, among other measures, Foundation (ISSF) and share can be tracked on the end of 2020.’ is why Thai Union has made a their goal that all tuna fisheries More information on FIPs and the independent site: commitment to Healthy Living, should be capable of meeting fisheries can be found on the fisheryprogress.org. The commitment was further Healthy Oceans, of which our the MSC Fisheries Standard. SeaChange® website and on promoted at the European Tuna Commitment is a crucial One of the key ways to do this YouTube: Commission’s Our Ocean pillar. is through Fishery Improvement Conference in Malta in 2017 and, in 2018, we released our first update on the commitment, OUR 2018 AND 2019 PROGRESS summarizing 2017 activities and • Fish accounts for about 17 percent of animal protein consumed progress. by the global population and overall provides about 3.2 billion 2019 2018 people on the planet with nearly 20 percent of their animal We are undertaking significant protein, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of MSC 2% 7% work to update SeaChange® the United Nations (FAO) FIPs 77% 44% and our Tuna Commitment to continue our journey beyond • In 2019, the High Level Panel for Building a Sustainable Ocean Total 79% 51% 2020 and into the new decade. Economy recommended that dietary shifts—including eating more sustainably-harvested fish—can play a significant role in * Total refers to tuna sourced from MSC fishery or FIP for Thai Union branded products combating climate change while providing this healthy protein to consumers • The EAT-Lancet Commission also published its 2019 study, which sets out guidelines for The Planetary Health Diet. These guidelines look to help everyone eat a healthy, nutritious diet, which also looks to reduce the carbon footprint of the food we eat and includes portions of fish and other seafood to achieve this 62 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 Thai Union’s commitment is for all of our tuna to be sustainably sourced, with an aim to achieve a minimum of 75% of our own brands of tuna coming from fisheries that are Marine Stewardship Council certified, or in a Fishery Improvement Project (FIP) by the end of 2020. We have been working to establish new FIPs that bring together stakeholders to identify environmental challenges in a fishery, develop a plan to address them, and work together to implement the plan. The below shows our progress in establishing these FIPs. FISHERY IMPROVEMENT Thai Union’s Global Tuna Commitment is built around PROJECTS traceability and is designed to address stock sustainability, labor issues and Illegal, Unregulated and Unreported (IUU) fishing in the fishing industry. The great progress we have made in meeting our OUR TUNA targets for our Tuna Commitment is a testament to COMMITMENT the work we have done in placing SeaChange® and Thai Union’s Tuna Commitment our Tuna Commitment at the heart of our business PROGRESS strategy. In Europe, the Thai Union However, there is still a significant way to go. We branded range includes will continue to drive initiatives such as further Hawesta, Rügen Fisch, King Oscar, John West, implementing our Vessel Code of Conduct (VCoC) Petit Navire, Mareblu, and our e-observer programs to improve working MerAlliance and has conditions across the industry. We will also continue over 600 MSC-certified to work with our partners and stakeholders to products. These are sold identify fisheries that will benefit from engaging in in more than 10 different the FIP process to aim for MSC certification. countries across Europe. Additionally, John West We are considering our new goals for the coming has won “MSC UK Canned decade, both in terms of our seafood sourcing, and 2017 • LL Tunago; Albacore, Bigeye Yellowfin; Longline Pacific Brand of the Year” for their will ensure we live up to our dedication to Healthy 2019 • Western Central Pacific Tuna; Bigeye, Skipjack, Yellowfin; Purse Seine Ocean range of MSC-certified • Pacific tuna longline (Liancheng); Albacore; Longline products three years in Living, Healthy Oceans. 2017 • The Sustainable Indian Ocean Tuna Initiative; Yellowfin, a row in 2017, 2018 and Indian Skipjack, Bigeye; Purse Seine Ocean 2018 • Indian Ocean Tuna Longline; Albacore, Bigeye, Yellowfin; Longline 2019. Thai Union also produces MSC-certified 2017 • Brazil FIP; Skipjack, Yellowfin, Bigeye; Pole & Line (suspended) Dr. Darian McBain products for our customers 2018 Global Director of Corporate Atlantic • Eastern Atlantic Tuna; Yellowfin, Skipjack, Bigeye; Purse Seine • Ghana Tuna Pole & Line; Yellowfin, Skipjack, Bigeye; Pole and Line under their private labels. Affairs and Sustainability Ocean 2019 • Eastern Atlantic Tuna Pole & Line; Yellowfin, Skipjack, Bigeye; Pole and Line In progress • South Africa; Albacore; Pole and Line Gulf of 2019 • Thailand Longtail Tuna; Tongol tuna; Purse Seine Thailand thaiunion.com 64 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65 want everyone who works for Environmental Management 10 Thai Union to play an active System, ISO 50001: Energy role in delivering our safety, Management System, OHSAS health and environmental 18001: Occupational Health goals—we see safety and and Safety Management environmental protection as System, Kosher, Halal, and Thai Union has many initiatives everyone’s business. We also Best Aquaculture Practices RESPONSIBLE in place to help ensure we strive to make advances in (BAP). operate responsibly and our occupational health and manage some of our most safety policies, continually Our products include material issues. In line with strengthening our safety information for consumers to OPERATIONS the UN Sustainability Goals, standards, procedures and ensure that they are consumed we are focused on UN SDG processes. Details about safely. The products meet the 12 for Responsible Production Thai Union’s environmental highest level of quality as we and Consumption, and UN performance can be found implemented a Combating SDG 13 for Climate Action. here. Food Fraud and Food Defense Looking to 2020 and beyond, Strategy to protect our food we believe these will play an FOOD SAFETY supply chains from any risk of even more important role in our intentional and unintentional sustainability strategy. AND COMBATING contaminations. FOOD FRAUD Global environmental risks such as climate change, Our Quality Management CLIMATE resource consumption and System is the platform that CHANGE AND waste management have an we use globally to ensure increasingly negative impact consistent food safety, ENVIRONMENTAL on our oceans which, in turn, compliance with quality IMPACT threatens the marine species on standards and to create value which we depend. The way we for consumers. GHG Emission operate has to be environmenreduction target tally responsible and also show We continuously strive for a duty of care for our workers in excellence in food safety, 2020 Target how we operate. food integrity, environmental Reduce GHG emissions protection, and energy by 30% per ton We have initiatives in place that management system which are of production contribute to water reduction, reflected in numerous national (Compared to 2016 baseline figure) energy consumption, waste and international accreditations to landfill reduction, reducing including: GMP, HACCP, BRC, greenhouse gas emissions ISO 9001: Quality Management and accident reduction. We System, ISO 14001: 66 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 67 Thai Union is committed to • We also reduced our Greenhouse gas reduction 2016 2019 Tons CO2 SAFETY, protecting the environment by greenhouse gas intensity HEALTH AND minimizing our consumption emissions by 18 percent, 2016 594,453 ENVIRONMENT of natural resources, reducing or about 87,547 tons CO2 the adverse impact on the equivalent in 2019. Total 49,814 In 2019, we increased our environment. environmental reduction focus on Safety, Health and programs have realized a 2017 544,639 87,547 Environment (SHE), putting • In 2019 we exceeded our cost saving for Thai Union 8,145 Ton CO2 safety first for our internal 2020 targets for water of more than USD 24 million management systems. consumption reduction and since 2016. 2018 536,494 By implementing our SHE waste to landfill reduction. 29,588 standards across all Thai With these efforts, Thai Union Union workplaces, we ensure • We have reduced our is moving toward becoming a 2019 506,303 that each facility operates water and waste to landfill low-carbon organization and to the same standards. We by 22 and 67 percent reducing the impact of GHG on systematically integrate Data covers factories in: Thailand, Vietnam, France, Portugal, Poland, Ghana, the respectively, compared the environment and society. Seychelles and the US SHE and energy conversion with 2016 and have made considerations into our business progress towards our processes to build a safe greenhouse gas intensity workplace and mitigate injury reduction target. and fatality risks. Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Keeping our workers safe Global environmental performance 2016 vs 2019 1.00 0.89 is of paramount importance 0.90 0.80 53% and, in 2019, we were able to 0.74 0.70 26% reduce major incidents in the 0.60 0.57 categories of manual-han18% 22% 67% 0.50 0.42 2020 0.40 Target dling of push carts, contact 10% 10% 47% 0.30 0.5 with sharp objects and contact 9% 13% 39% 0.20 with moving machinery from 0.10 59.10 0.00 Group 165 cases in 2018 to 102 in 0.87 0.78 0.78 15.11 14.94 2019, a 36 percent reduction. 0.71 13.65 11.78 38.75 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 Our LTIFR also decreased from 31.34 2020 2020 19.27 Target 0.57 to 0.42 in 2018 and 2019 Target Target 20% 30% 20% reduction Data covers employees, contractors and visitors in offices, factories, farms respectively. and hatcheries in Thailand, Vietnam, France, Portugal, Poland, Norway, Ghana, reduction reduction Seychelles, and the US 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 GHG (TonCo2 /TonFG) Water (m /TonFG) 3 Waste to landfill (kg/TonFG) Data covers factories in: Thailand, Vietnam, France, Portugal, Poland, Ghana, the Seychelles and the US 68 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 69 Lost time accident case 2018 vs 2019 SUSTAINABLE developing and implementing achieve Thai Union’s goals sustainable packaging for carbon footprint reduction PACKAGING initiatives, our environmental and environmentally-friendly Manual handing-pushing and lifting Packaging is an important footprint is reduced. By packaging. In 2018 we component of any product exploring sustainable packaging announced our packaging goal Contact with moving 77 cases 52 cases and contributes significantly in our innovation research, we and have continued to work machinery 2018 2019 to a company’s overall ensure a continuous pipeline of towards it throughout 2019. Contact with sharp object 183 Total lost time cases 100 Other Total lost time cases environmental impact. By improvements, which will help Entanglement cases 348 45 Cases 202 20 cases cases 29 THAI UNION PRIMARY PACKAGING ASSESSMENT 2019 30 Slip, 26 Poor condition, 19 Other, 109 43 cases cases Overall assessment of Thai Union Group packaging CATEGORY PACKAGING TYPE PROBLEM ACTION All packaging types that Has one or more of the following Identify different materials are not recyclable due characteristics or material types: which can be easily Top 3 accident reduction 2018 vs 2019 (number of cases) 33% to material, design and Carbon black plastics, PVC, recycled/composted or 77 Red lack of widely available PVDC, PS, ePS, straws, cutlery, consider a change to 2018 56% 30% recycling infrastructure. multi-material bags/sachets/ packaging design. 2019 52 45 43 pouches, multipack wrappers. 30 All packaging types Has both easily recyclable Identify easy to recycle/ 20 that have some easily components (green category) compost alternatives recyclable components, as well as components that fall for the non-recyclable Orange while other components under the red category or other components or consider Contact with moving machinery Contact with sharp object Manual handling-pushing are non-recyclable or to components that hinder the overall a change to packaging and lifting be improved. recyclability. design. However, despite our focus on of the new plant is underway Thai Union conducted a All packaging types Packaging types with sealing Improve packaging design Safety, Health and Environment, and is expected to be root cause investigation to which may present closures, plastic films, foils, and look for alternatives on 1 June 2019 there was a fire completed in Q4 2020. understand the causes and barriers or challenges thin layers, paper labels with for those components that at the Thai Union Ingredients to implement measures to Yellow to recycling despite no washable adhesive, or other might represent a barrier Tuna Oil Refinery in Rostock, Tragically, in 2019, there prevent reoccurrences. These adopted material. These components that are not widely or challenge to recycling. Germany. The plant was not was one fatality of a third-party included identifying areas for items can be identified recycled in practice and that might in operation at the time of the contractor on Thai Union improvement in our contractor as ‘recyclable ready’. represent an issue to recycling. fire and there were no staff premises. An independent management as well as risk All packaging types Keep looking for better onsite, and so there were no contractor was engaged in analysis at our farm operations. easily recyclable both in alternatives and improved injuries reported. Damage was working on a water pipeline These are being worked on and Green practice and at scale. design to reduce material quickly assessed and clean-up at our TMK Farm shrimp will be integrated into the SHE consumption and and salvage operations were farm when a member of their Management Program, targeted environmental footprint. launched within a short time crew was sadly trapped in a for launch in 2020. after the incident. Construction landslide. 70 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Green • Aluminum cans • Tin-coated steel cans • Glass jar + aluminum lid • Cans + cartonette • Cans + carton cluster Yellow 2 4 1 • Monomaterial plastic cups (PP) 9% • Cans with monomaterial plastic wrapper (LDPE) 3 • Cans with monomaterial plastic lid (PP) • Other items with monomaterial plastic 67% Orange Combination of easy-to-recycle and hard-to-recycle-components 18% 5% • Multipack cans with wrappers (PET/PVC) • Salad boxes + plastic fork • Cardboard + plastic foil (PE/PA) Red • MIxed/multimaterial pouches 3 • Mixed/multimaterial bags 6 • Mixed/ multimaterial sachets Packaging types are intended as examples of packaging, not the complete Thai Union • PVC/PVdC/PS/ePS plastic items portfolio. The values refer to the number of • Carbon black plastic items different, primary packaging types. • Plastic cups with fork included In order to achieve our global improve in order to promote models as we progress into commitment, as a priority we a circular economy, minimize the next decade, as well as are working with partners to the impact of packaging waste compostable alternatives to find solutions for the packaging on the environment, and in further improve our packaging types that fall into the red and particular help protect the performance. orange categories and move marine environment from the them into the green or yellow impact of plastic pollution. categories. Even with packaging that currently falls into green Thai Union will continue to or yellow, we are constantly explore the possibility of reviewing and looking to adopting reusable business 72 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 73 CASE STUDY 9 CASE STUDY 10 JOHN WEST: HEALTH & Throughout the year, a number of employees also REDUCING ENERGY joined the Great Swim events in the UK, the John Renewable energy is central to the operation of WELLNESS AT WORK West Spring 10K, the Liverpool Spring 10K and CONSUMPTION our factories and in achieving the CO2 goals set the Gaelforce 10K Trilogy in Ireland, all of which under SeaChange®. One of our key ongoing and were sponsored by the Company. In 2019 we placed a strong focus on saving long-term initiatives has been the Sun Seeker energy to ensure our factories are making the Project. Sun Seeker began in 2017, when we But the mental health and wellbeing of team transition to a low carbon economy. Through began to install solar rooftops in our factories members is just as important as their physical the year we have carried out initiatives such as and has continued to improve our renewable health. To improve this, crew members take part improving steam pipelines, sourcing high-quality energy consumption since then. Sun Seeker was in a range of activities, including mindfulness coal, reducing steam pressure, improving cold originally implemented at Thai Union Group PCL workshops, resilience training, blood pressure storage management, installing energy-efficient (Cold storage 5 and 6) in Samutsakorn province, checks, a treasure hunt around Liverpool to equipment, and energy recovery. In 2019, these Thailand. It was installed on the roof of the cold raise awareness for World Mental Health Day, initiatives reduced 882,826 GJ, or 17 percent storage facility with a total power capacity of guest speakers, and in-office massages and other lower compared with 2016. 935.55 kW or approximately 1,273,000 kWh alternative therapies. annually, meaning that we are able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 720 tons All employees are encouraged to take one paid CO2 equivalent per year. volunteer day each year to support the charity Making sure our employees also focus on of their choice. Employees have supported the Since 2018, Sun Seeker panels were installed in their health and wellbeing is just as important homeless Olympics, volunteered at local hospices, Thai Union Manufacturing (TUM) and Songkla as keeping them safe from injury at their and been involved in beach and canal clean-ups. Canning (SCC) factories. In 2019, we installed workplaces. Of course, being a manufacturer of nutritious panels in Thai Union Group PCL (Cold storage 4, seafood products, nutrition is a huge part of Warehouse Fish 1, Fish 1 plant) and Thai Union In particular, John West in the UK places health and wellbeing at work. Throughout Feedmill (Samutsakorn plant). From 2018 to 2019, enormous emphasis on employees balancing the year, teams within the Company take the we achieved 5.6 MW in savings and are projected their physical and mental wellbeing, and chance to cook for the office; using healthy to achieve more than 11 MW in 2020 and beyond. bringing everyone together to participate in Thai Union products to show how simple it is to We have a comprehensive roadmap for Sun various activities to build a strong team spirit. cook great-tasting meals that are nutritious and Seeker installations and will be installing in Thai In 2019, they partnered with Virgin Pulse great for the mind and body. Union Group PCL (Warehouse Fish 2, SCM plant), to launch the 100-day Global Challenge, an and Thai Union Seafood in 2020, with a further interactive platform designed to improve habits, eight MW planned for beyond that. physical activity, sleep, nutrition, balance and focus. The challenge was a huge success, with 82 percent of employees participating and setting goals for themselves and their teams. These included completing a minimum of 10,000 steps each day or joining walking lunches. 74 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 75 CASE STUDY 11 CASE STUDY 12 TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE REDUCING PLASTIC IN Thai Union Group company MerAlliance took the challenge of reducing plastic packaging to At the Asia Pacific Day for the Ocean forum, PACKAGING heart and, over the year, carried out in-depth hosted by the United Nations Economic and Social Reducing plastic has been at the forefront of the research and investigation into ensuring Commission for Asia and the Pacific in November minds of consumers, corporates and governments that their products are packaged in a more 2019, Dr. Darian McBain called for greater action alike. It’s important that Thai Union also sustainable, environmentally-friendly manner. on climate change, an issue which affects us all recognizes the importance of reducing plastic As a target, they set only having five grams of and that reached even greater prominence and use in our products, or at the very least providing plastic per every 100 grams of product. international attention over the last year. As a easily recyclable plastics to ensure that we are company which relies upon the oceans to produce helping the world cut down on plastic pollution Initially, MerAlliance considered using APET sustainable and healthy seafood, Thai Union is in our oceans and on land. plastic, which is 100 percent recyclable for also very aware of the unique role that the oceans product packaging and was a clear possibility. can play in combating climate change. Ocean-based Renewable Energy, Ocean-based As a good corporate citizen, this is a responsibility However, currently in France, recycling logistics Transport, Coastal and Marine Ecosystems, that we take very seriously. At the same time, is mainly focused on recycling plastic from Oceans are an ecosystem that cover 71 percent Fisheries, Aquaculture and Dietary Shifts, as well consumers are putting pressure on retailers to bottles and there are still challenges around of the planet’s surface and make up 95 percent of as Carbon Storage in the Seabed. stock products that are packaged in less damaging recycling packaging used for fish products. There all the space available to life on the planet. At the materials. In 2019 it became more important than is therefore the consideration that significant same time, they also regulate the global climate Thai Union has already made its commitment to ever to ensure that we are moving in the right amounts might still find its way to being system—absorbing 93 percent of the heat trapped reduce GHG emissions in our own operations and direction, particularly in light of our commitment incinerated. Another way had to be found. by human-generated carbon dioxide emissions, has made significant progress, as well as progress to ensuring that 100 percent of our branded and 25 – 30 percent of annual C02 emissions. on sourcing more sustainable seafood. With packaging is reusable, recyclable or compostable With this in mind, the solution became clear. By Without the oceans as a buffer, these would Healthy Living, Healthy Oceans, going into the by 2025. using a cardboard sleeve with a very thin lining remain in the atmosphere and increase global next decade we look to focus more on the shift of plastic between the cardboard and fish, it was warming. But climate change has taken a huge to healthy dietary shifts, and initiatives to help possible to reduce 50 percent of plastic use on toll on the world’s oceans. As a result of increasing combat climate change through our supply chains key products, including salmon, trout, haddock carbon emissions, oceans are becoming warmer and investing in coastal and marine ecosystems and tuna. These products, part of our Emincés and more acidic, with wide-reaching impacts. such as mangroves. range are thinly-sliced, smoked products. The Marine ecosystems are under threat. Many introduction of the new packaging means that fisheries have shifted and the ability of the oceans Thai Union is uniquely positioned to play a key MerAlliance has been able to beat its target of five to provide food, livelihoods and safe coastal role in these solutions through SeaChange®. grams of plastic to every 100 grams of product, habitation for billions of people is at stake. Ocean stewardship will never cease to be a reaching a level of two grams in 100 grams. priority for Thai Union. The oceans are of crucial importance to us, and the planet, as we look to combat climate change and produce sustainable seafood. New research from the High-Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy has found five ocean-based solutions to climate change. These are: 76 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 77 generated, or the amount of Thai Union’s leadership 11 waste reduced. In addition, development programs are the impact of the programs guided by our Capability is assessable, including the Framework and Leadership impact and benefit to the local Expectations are defined A global company, Thai Union community, stakeholders or internally and emphasize the is committed to helping environment, as well as the links between our core values, PEOPLE & improve the lives of those living impact to Thai Union. goals and business context. and working in the regions The framework and leadership where we operate through There is a global challenge of model help ensure we continue our People and Communities how to feed an estimated world and enhance our track record COMMUNITIES pillar in SeaChange®. This population of nine billion people as an organization that achieves includes cleaning marine by 2030. Without sustainable business results, engages environments, working to end seafood production, from and retains our employees, hunger through food donations wild capture to aquaculture to and serves as an industry role and humanitarian aid to disalternative proteins, the world is model. aster-struck communities, unlikely to achieve UN SDG 2 – to educating children and Zero Hunger. providing nutritional information to consumers and local HUMAN CAPITAL communities. We work with partners to provide work INVESTMENT education, including health and safety training. Thai Union is We believe that learning and also a keen supporter of culture development is an important, in our communities, sponsoring ongoing investment to enhance professional athletes and the our employees’ skills and arts. capabilities. At Thai Union, we are committed to continuously We have implemented a range developing our workforce of activities and programs based on individuals’ needs, where we operate, in line with readiness and vocational our sustainability strategy and requirements. We do this by the UN SDG. These programs providing high-quality capacity respond to stakeholder and building programs that support community needs. Project employees’ career aspirations outcomes are measurable, and help them become effective for example accounting for contributors and leaders. the number of people who benefited, amount of income 78 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 79 CASE STUDY 13 CORPORATE these initiatives are significant, with non-governmental (NGO) SOCIAL and others are much more partners and civil society to INVESTING IN CHILDHOOD modest, but, big or small, facilitate social dialogue and RESPONSIBILITY when combined, they tell a capacity building through EDUCATION IN OUR AND COMMUNITY very compelling story about our training, workshops and COMMUNITIES business and the things that practical demonstrations INVESTMENT matter to our Company. Thai Union recognizes education is an important Thai Union is also committed For example, ensuring that all foundation for a better life, in support of UN SDG Thai Union has worked together to community and cultural workers are an appropriate age 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth. In 2019 with private sector peers, development through its is a priority for Thai Union. One we officially opened our fourth preschool for the local government, international sponsorships. In Bangkok, we of the actions we have taken is children of migrant workers in Samut Sakhon. organizations and civil society were a key sponsor of the 21th to ensure our migrant workers These schools help children prepare to enter the bodies to address social and Bangkok Dance & Arts Festival in Thailand understand their Thai education system, so they can progress to environmental problems. and throughout the world rights and the rights of their primary school. They also ensure the children From cleaning beaches and we participate in fundraising children to access education are safe during the day, providing their working protecting endangered species through sports, as well as to help prevent instances of parents with peace of mind. Thai Union has to educating children of migrant sponsoring community events child labor and trafficking. spent THB 10 million to build preschools for the workers and conducting and sports teams. Migrant workers with children children of migrant workers in Thailand since nutritional workshops for in Thailand often lack access 2013, in partnership with the Labour Protection local communities—Thai RIGHTS to education due to insufficient Network (LPN). We aim to establish five schools Union is committed to good knowledge about the Thai by the end of 2020. corporate citizenship and we AWARENESS school system. To tackle this, regularly engage with our Thai Union supports a number We also organized key education and wellbeing countries to help them study biochemistry, local communities to carry The rights and equal, fair of projects in Thailand and initiatives at the preschools, hosting a biotechnology, environmental biology, exercise our community engagement treatment of migrant workers beyond in school systems, from photography workshop, nutritional workshops physiology, forensic science, material science and and development programs. remains a priority for Thai building preschools for the and a football clinic co-hosted with Samut engineering, microbiology and immunology, plant In Thailand, all of our Union. Thai Union has many children of migrant workers, Sakhon F.C. Asia Pacific Canning also held a science, and toxicology. As part of CONNEXT manufacturing locations are initiatives underway to help and supporting schools to digital literacy workshop to help learn the ED, we also held a career enhancement program regularly involved in local protect the rights of migrant develop through CONNEXT-ED, fundamentals of using digital technology, for 67 secondary students, encouraging them to community engagement or workers in Thailand and to supporting how children are guidelines for using social media, media literacy, pursue higher education to enhance their career development programs. Review beyond, including collaborations fed while at school. communication in the digital era as well as digital prospects. our progress updates for our law and digital health. People and Communities here. For students further along their educational Thai Union is a major donor journey, in association with Mahidol University to famine and disaster relief we also granted science scholarships to programs every year around international graduate students. We awarded the world. Much of the work scholarships to 11 graduate students from six is delivered at local levels though our brands; some of 80 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 81 CASE STUDY 14 3 CASE STUDY 15 3 WFP KENYA 1.27 Kenyan Shillings, delivering much needed DONATING PRODUCT food to help income in rural Kenya. The study was designed those affected Thai Union is passionate about supporting local to show how a national program providing As a food producer, we have a vital role to play in by flooding in communities, in particular helping children to daily lunches to all 8.9 million children in public supporting the less fortunate in the communities Thailand and grow and thrive. As a global corporate citizen, we primary schools could have a potential local and in which we operate, or those that are in crisis. Myanmar. This take this responsibility seriously and are always national economic impact. This supports our work around UN SDG 2 Zero donation included exploring new opportunities where we can have Hunger. Thai Union has a number of programs more than 260,000 a positive impact. In addition, the results potentially demonstrate and initiatives to ensure that we are able to cans of SEALECT how a program such as this could show a support those in real need, including providing products and 500 Last year, we received some promising outcomes dramatic improvement in the nutrition of humanitarian relief in the wake of tropical storm boxes of pet food to make sure that we were from a study we supported with the United schoolchildren while also supporting local Pabuk, and sending product to crisis areas such including precious animals in our humanitarian Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Kenya, economies through a single policy. You can watch as Syria and Yemen as they have been afflicted efforts. In Thailand and Myanmar we were able which tested a national school meals program in a video about the Kenya study here. with war and other disasters. to reach 51,000 vulnerable households to support collaboration with the University of California, them in times of need. Davis (UC Davis) Agricultural and Resource Additionally, there are often times where our Economics Department. tinned and other products have minor defects In the US, Chicken of the Sea and Thai Union or damage to the packaging, or have only a short have donated products to support food banks Initial analysis of the study revealed that each time left before their use-by date. While this including in Georgia and Los Angeles and have Kenyan Shilling sent to a home-grown school has no effect on the food inside or its safety or even donated toys to the Spark of Love Christmas meals program school creates an additional edibility, naturally we are unable to provide them Toy Drive carried out by the El Segundo Fire to retailers for their shelves. In these cases, the Department. products are carefully assessed to ensure they are safe and then are donated to worthy causes such As one of the world’s largest seafood companies, as homeless and other charities. UN SDG 2 is absolutely central to our business and is one of the key ways that we can live up However, donations of food and working to our Healthy Living, Healthy Oceans promise. towards Zero Hunger goes beyond donations to We are in a strong position to be able to assist humans. Pet Care is a key pillar of Thai Union’s everyone, from the people that need aid, to the international business and we are also aware animals that depend on us—a responsibility that that there are times where we can help look after we take very seriously. pets and animals as well. Around the world, Thai Union regularly donates product to help pets and More information on our other animals that are also affected by disaster humanitarian activities and areas or that are otherwise disadvantaged. In donations can be found at our the UK, we donate damaged cans and products sustainability website or in the to organizations which then feed cats and dogs media section of our corporate which do not have homes or owners to look website, here and here after them. In October 2019, Thai Union donated respectively. 82 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 83 CASE STUDY 16 3 CASE STUDY 17 3 SUPPORTING THE ARTS & all the way over to modern and contemporary CLEANING UP OUR productions. SPORTS COMMUNITIES Thai Union is committed to Healthy Living, Thai Union has committed to Healthy Living, Healthy Oceans. As well as delivering proper Healthy Oceans and has partnered with nutrition and protein to consumers, we also organizations such as the Global Ghost Gear actively encourage healthy, active lifestyles Initiative (GGGI) to ensure that we are playing through sport. In 2019, Thai Union signed on to our part helping to keep the oceans clean from be the official sponsor of Pajaree Anannarukarn, harmful debris such as Abandoned, Lost and a 19-year old Thai Ladies Professional Golf Discarded Fishing Gear (ALDFG). However, we’re Association (LGPA) golfer in her debut tour. also aware of the responsibility we have as a good Thai Union also continued its sponsorship of corporate citizen to look closer to home and often volleyball in Thailand, sponsoring the SEALECT closer to shore where our customers, consumers Tuna Volleyball Championships, a partnership and staff live and work. that has lasted for more than 20 years. Thai It’s important that Thai Union plays a vital Union is also a sponsor of Samut Sakhon Football Across the world, Thai Union employees do in John West Holland also cleaned the canals role, not only in providing healthy and ethical Club. their part to make sure that we’re working in around Amsterdam. In the US, Chicken of the nutrition to consumers worldwide, but that communities that are clean and healthy. To this Sea have also taken part in a number of beach we also work to develop and nurture the Healthy Living, Healthy Oceans end, our companies hold regular beach, canal clean-ups throughout Southern California. communities in which we operate. This includes is central to Thai Union and goes and park clean-ups. In Thailand, employees from donations and sponsorships to help those less beyond food and diets to ensure Thai Union Group PCL joined a beach clean-up It is not enough that we are only conscious of the fortunate but also means that we should support that we are participating in at Ban Pe Beach on the East coast of Thailand. health of the oceans that we source our products the cultural development of these areas as a vibrant and active communities. More than 60 employees from the Emerging from, but also that we make sure that we are good corporate citizen and a member of these Markets team partnered with members of the doing everything we can to ensure that we are communities. local administration, Glaeng District Volunteer positive and valued members of the communities Group and Ban Pe Botanical Garden to collect in which we operate. Making sure that we In 2019 we worked hard to ensure that we 365 kilograms of mixed litter and waste from help clean up and keep our cities and regions were living up to our promise of developing the shoreline. This followed the #GhostGearReclean is a large part of this, as well as providing and nurturing the culture and health of our born diving campaign, which not only sought to further opportunities for us to engage with our communities. A highlight of this was our remove ghost gear from off Koh Larn in Thailand, communities and partners to show real value sponsorship of the 21st Bangkok International but also incorporated a beach clean up at Taewen beyond simply producing food. Festival of Dance and Music, which took place Beach. Our CEO, Thiraphong Chansiri, a keen from 21 September to 23 October. The Festival diver, took the opportunity to participate. celebrated 21 years of bringing the best in opera, ballet, music and more to a growing Bangkok In Europe, Mareblu employees joined their audience. The six weeks of performances covered long-standing partner Legambiente to clean the everything from the classical end of the scale, grounds of the Cascini Mulini Ascuitti and staff 84 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 85 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 12 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE UNIT 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Business Overview Mil Net sales 125,182.81 134,375.11 134,937.27 133,284.64 126,275.25 THB PERFORMANCE Total Cost Mil Operating cost 118,366.04 127,569.85 130,015.94 130,041.82 122,490.94 THB SUMMARY Mil Employee wages and benefits 12,802.27 10,795.08 12,540.22 12,492.17 11,900.57 THB Mil Cash paid for interest expenses 1,234.16 1,009.31 2,182.09 1,925.34 2,006.41 THB Mil Dividend paid 2,719.99 2,982.06 3,006.36 2,819.53 1,908.83 THB Mil Cash paid for corporate income tax 1,070.65 1,706.59 857.54 433.25 -56.77 THB Mil Asia 321.72 117.47 185.56 237.38 168.05 THB Mil EU & Africa 573.50 1,103.80 433.91 172.23 328.79 THB Mil North America 175.44 485.32 238.07 23.63 -553.60 THB Corporate responsibility & Mil 137.15 117.72 135.16 108.76 74.46 community investment THB Innovation & Product Responsibility R&D spending as percentage of sales % 0.19* 0.22 0.22 0.27 0.17 Reference: Performance of Key Environmental and Social Indicators, available on https://www.thaiunion.com/en/sustainability/report 86 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 87 GLOBAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT NO. PERFORMANCE DATA1 UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 Lost Time Injury Cases per 0.89 0.74 0.57 0.42 Total workforce people 49,177 51,143 47,314 44,551 Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 200,000 Employees, hours worked Full time employee (FTE) people 13,381 12,803 13,582 14,319 Contractor, Visitor Daily staff people 35,796 38,340 33,422 30,212 2 Lost Time Injury Lost days N/A N/A N/A 3.53 Severity Rate (LTISR)2 per 200,000 Average hours of training per year Hour/employee 18 15.0 5.6* 4.7 Employees, hours worked Average amount spent on training Thai Baht 4,279 7,544 3,505 3,120 Contractor, Visitor per FTE 3 Lost Time Injury Cases per 0.89 0.74 0.59 0.46 Human capital return on investment Thai Baht 12.26 10.81 10.53 10.24 Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 200,000 Employees hours worked ATTRACT & RETAIN TALENT UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 4 Lost Time Injury Lost days 7.48 5.82 8.91 3.96 Employee Engagement survey % of employees 66.04 82.92 82 83.5 Severity Rate (LTISR) per 200,000 engaged Employees hours worked Total employee turnover per FTE % 14.43 14.98 13.23** 16.10 5 Lost Time Injury Cases per 0.37 0.14 0.00 0.02 Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 200,000 Asia % 14.33 13.5 14.98 ** 17.74 Contractor hours worked US Region % 10.5 30.74 26.00** 26.78 6 Lost Time Injury Lost days N/A N/A N/A 0.03 Severity Rate (LTISR) per 200,000 EU Region % 6.93 16.16 10.27** 11.31 Contractor hours worked DIVERSITY UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 7 Working Hour Hours 138,562,813 139,855,687 119,279,654 114,415,914 Employee worked Gender distribution by level Total management people 1,148 967 1,140 1,129 8 Working Hour Hours 2,430,099 2,814,596 3,744,761 13,274,667 Contractor worked Total management – female ratio % 37.8 43.12 43.33 46.06 9 Fatality Case Cases 0 1 0 0 Total management male people 714 550 646 609 Employee Total management female people 434 417 494 520 10 Fatality Case Cases 1 4 0 1 Contractor * GRI 102 – 48: We have changed our assumptions for average training hours as some Thai Union operating companies have changed calculation units from hours to minutes Remark: ** GRI 102 – 48: For consistency we have amended our method of calculation of turnover percentages. Previously, this was 1 Data reporting scope refers to Performance of Key Environmental and Social Indicators, available on calculated by averaging the percentage turnover from each operating company. This is now calculated by dividing the total https://www.thaiunion.com/en/sustainability/report number of leavers by the number of fulltime employees in each region to provide a more accurate view 2 No data recorded for contractors and visitors in 2016 2018 88 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 89 UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 Management male people 714 550 646 609 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Top management people 17 22 26 24 2016-2018 FACTORY1 INDICATOR UNIT 2016 2017 2018 Middle management people 161 119 143 144 Product Volume: Total Product Volume (t metric) Ton 685,987 700,856 690,219 Junior management people 536 412 480 441 GHG EMISSION UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total GHG Intensity TonCO2/ 0.87 0.78 0.78 ton FG Management female people 434 417 494 520 Total Emission Ton CO2 594,453 544,639 536,494 Top management people 3 3 3 2 GHG Scope 1 Ton CO2 422,695 366,642 369,540 Middle management people 47 43 49 51 GHG Scope 2 Ton CO2 171,758 177,997 166,954 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Junior management people 384 371 442 467 Total Energy Intensity GJ/tonFG 6.92 6.39 6.21 UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Energy Consumption GJ 4,743,738 4,477,417 4,283,160 Total non-management people 11,892 10,516 12,442 12,009 Total Direct Energy GJ 3,465,181 3,161,286 3,043,495 Fuel Oil (Bunker Oil) GJ 807,813 887,411 731,721 Total non-management – female % 55.61 59.48 61.20 60.44 ratio Natural Gas GJ 309,133 296,547 263,269 Total non-management male people 5,279 4,261 4,827 4,751 Diesel GJ 579,392 200,414 133,767 LPG GJ 469,180 396,040 427,493 Total non-management female people 6,613 6,255 7,615 7,258 Coal GJ 1,100,035 1,203,587 1,341,402 Proportion of local hiring of senior % 80 59.82 50.00 33.33 Gasoline/Petrol GJ 4,188 2,907 2,048 management (HQ only) Bio-gas GJ 66,966 59,307 50,700 Freedom of association – number people 626 877 586 564 of employees represented by trade Biogasoline GJ 1,550 union Wood Pallet GJ 128,474 115,071 88,317 % 7.91 80.47** 81.24** 82.88 Solar Panel GJ 3,228 Number of consultants / negotiations Number of 26 9 10 10 Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) GJ 1,264,778 1,305,374 1,239,665 with trade union sessions Remark: 1. Data reporting scope refers to Performance of Key Environmental and Social Indicators, available on https://www.thaiunion.com/en/sustainability/report 90 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 91 2016-2018 FACTORY1 2019 FACTORY1 INDICATOR UNIT 2016 2017 2018 INDICATOR UNIT ASIA TUE USA GLOBAL WATER Product Volume: Total Product Ton 570,637 131,107 12,753 714,498 Volume (t metric) Water Withdrawal Intensity m3/ton FG 15.11 14.94 13.65 GHG EMISSION Water Withdrawal m 3 10,363,474 10,471,711 9,421,412 Total GHG Intensity TonCO2/ 0.75 0.53 0.52 0.71 Municipal Water m3 7,730,992 7,735,211 6,435,806 ton FG Surface Water2 m3 1,553,552 1,428,179 1,537,961 Total Emission Ton CO2 430,526 69,778 6,603 506,906 Ground Water m 3 1,011,892 1,242,813 1,405,195 GHG Scope 1 Ton CO2 281,293 53,779 1,980 337,052 Rainwater Collected by Organization m3 67,038 65,508 42,451 GHG Scope 2 Ton CO2 149,232 15,998 4,623 169,854 Sea Water m3 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Recycled and Reused Water m3 1,035,902 813,250 934,366 Total Energy Intensity GJ/tonFG 5.71 4.55 5.36 5.49 WASTE TO LANDFILL INTENSITY Total Energy Consumption GJ 3,256,037 596,496 68,378 3,920,912 Waste to landfill intensity kg/tonFG 59.10 38.75 31.34 Total Direct Energy GJ 2,215,336 434,609 35,626 2,685,571 Total waste to landfill kg 40,540,146 27,155,495 21,628,046 Fuel Oil (Bunker Oil) GJ 422,783 247,573 670,356 NON HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL3 Natural Gas GJ 78,720 35,574 114,295 Reuse kg 26,134,837 Diesel GJ 70,014 66,251 17 136,283 Recycling kg LPG GJ 182,701 9,451 10 192,163 Composting kg 5,863,325 Coal GJ 1,379,047 1,379,047 Recovery, including energy recovery kg 754,919 Gasoline/Petrol GJ 1,049 1,893 24 2,966 Incineration without heat recovery (i.e.mass burn) kg 1,434,238 Bio-gas GJ 26,701 30,721 57,422 Landfill kg 40,425,476 26,770,065 21,524,027 Biogasoline GJ 1,343 1,343 HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL3 Wood Pallet GJ 115,116 115,116 Reuse kg 387,641 Solar Panel GJ 16,582 16,582 Recycling kg 207,256 Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) GJ 1,040,701 161,887 32,753 1,235,341 Composting kg Recovery, including energy recovery kg 41,641 Remark 1. Data reporting scope refers to Performance of Key Environmental and Social Indicators, available on Incineration without heat recovery (i.e.mass burn) kg 5,870 https://www.thaiunion.com/en/sustainability/report Landfill kg 114,670 385,430 104,019 Remark: 1: Data reporting scope refers to Performance of Key Environmental and Social Indicators, available on https://www.thaiunion.com/en/sustainability/report 2: For 2016-2019 Surface water including rivers, lakes, wetlands, reservoirs,creeks and sea water 3: Non Hazardous Waste Disposal and Hazardous Waste Disposal are collected and reported following GRI 306-2 92 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 93 2019 FACTORY1 FARM & HATCHERY INDICATOR UNIT ASIA TUE USA GLOBAL INDICATOR UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 WATER Product Volume: Total Product Ton 903 199 235 371 Volume (t metric) Water Withdrawal Intensity m /ton FG 3 12.72 6.95 19.48 11.78 GHG EMISSION Water Withdrawal m3 7,258,921 911,427 248,376 8,418,724 Municipal Water m3 5,061,830 830,331 248,376 6,140,537 Total GHG Intensity TonCO2/ 4.76 14.59 10.65 7.64 ton FG Surface Water 2 m 3 820,624 81,096 901,720 Total Emission Ton CO2 4,294 2,903 2,504 2,834 Ground Water m3 1,332,888 1,332,888 Rainwater Collected by Organization m3 43,579 43,579 GHG Scope 1 Ton CO2 487 342 307 265 Sea Water m 3 249,948 249,948 GHG Scope 2 Ton CO2 3,807 2,561 2,197 2,570 Recycled and Reused Water m3 1,054,318 29,497 140,438 1,224,253 ENERGY MANAGEMENT WASTE TO LANDFILL INTENSITY Total Energy Intensity GJ/tonFG Waste to landfill intensity kg/tonFG 15.21 34.56 43.85 19.27 Total Energy Consumption GJ 33,097 22,468 19,592 21,562 Total waste to landfill kg 8,678,918 4,530,683 559,270 13,768,871 Total Direct Energy GJ 6,585 4,634 4,388 3,783 NON HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL3 Fuel Oil (Bunker Oil) GJ Reuse kg 1,489,458 1,489,439 2,978,897 Natural Gas GJ Recycling kg 19,237,515 1,672,868 351,167 21,261,550 Diesel GJ 6,474 4,445 4,231 3,572 Composting kg 2,823,204 2,823,204 LPG GJ Recovery, including energy recovery kg 1,118,845 714,170 1,833,015 Coal GJ Incineration without heat recovery kg 1,289,490 1,289,490 (i.e.mass burn) Gasoline/Petrol GJ 111 189 157 211 Landfill kg 8,671,487 4,344,809 559,270 13,575,566 Bio-gas GJ HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL3 Biogasoline GJ Reuse kg 236,571 309 236,880 Wood Pallet GJ Recycling kg 70,840 5,003 75,843 Solar Panel GJ Composting kg Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) GJ 26,512 17,834 15,204 17,779 Recovery, including energy recovery kg 175,982 16,104 192,086 Incineration without heat recovery kg 6,230 4,556 10,786 (i.e.mass burn) Landfill kg 7,431 185,874 193,306 Remark: 1: Data reporting scope refers to Performance of Key Environmental and Social Indicators, available on https://www.thaiunion.com/en/sustainability/report 2: For 2016-2019 Surface water including rivers, lakes, wetlands, reservoirs,creeks and sea water 3: Non Hazardous Waste Disposal and Hazardous Waste Disposal are collected and reported following GRI 306-2 94 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 95 FARM & HATCHERY OFFICE INDICATOR UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 INDICATOR UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 WATER Product Volume: Total Product Ton Volume (t metric) Water Withdrawal Intensity m3/ton FG GHG EMISSION Water Withdrawal m3 1,555,953 1,492,820 1,715,316 2,858,950 Municipal Water m3 14,576 13,791 11,206 22,696 Total GHG Intensity TonCO2/ Surface Water2 m3 1,448,571 1,437,854 1,687,986 712,674 ton FG Ground Water m3 92,806 41,175 15,380 Total Emission Ton CO2 604 559 632 897 Rainwater Collected by Organization m3 744 GHG Scope1 Ton CO2 86 20 40 16 Sea Water m3 1,972,299 GHG Scope 2 Ton CO2 518 539 592 881 Recycled and Reused Water m3 10,192 69,776 ENERGY MANAGEMENT WASTE TO LANDFILL INTENSITY Total Energy Intensity GJ/tonFG Waste to landfill intensity kg/tonFG Total waste to landfill kg 83,170 99,670 93,637 81,505 Total Energy Consumption GJ 4,883 3,880 4,914 6,856 NON HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL3 Total Direct Energy GJ 1,233 291 819 762 Reuse kg Fuel Oil (Bunker Oil) GJ Recycling kg 110 257 Natural Gas GJ Composting kg 2 Diesel GJ 16 10 272 217 Recovery, including energy recovery kg Incineration without heat recovery kg 1,040 536 LPG GJ (i.e.mass burn) Coal GJ Landfill kg 93,297 81,311 Gasoline/Petrol GJ 1,217 281 547 544 HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL3 Bio-gas GJ Reuse kg Biogasoline GJ Recycling kg 76 269 Composting kg Wood Pallet GJ Recovery, including energy recovery kg Solar Panel GJ Incineration without heat recovery kg Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) GJ 3,650 3,589 4,095 6,095 (i.e.mass burn) Landfill kg 340 194 Remark: 1: Non Hazardous Waste Disposal and Hazardous Waste Disposal are collected and reported following GRI 306-2 96 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 97 OFFICE INDICATOR UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 REPORTING COVERAGE WATER 2019 REPORTING COVERAGE COMPANIES AND GROUPS OF % HOLDING Water Withdrawal Intensity m /ton FG 3 COMPANIES BY TU SALES ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL*** UNIT: BILLION % INDICATORS INDICATORS Water Withdrawal m 3 15,927 15,950 10,586 22,761 BAHT Municipal Water m3 15,927 15,950 10,586 17,966 1. ASIA Surface Water1 m3 Thai Union Group PCL TU 13.00 10.30 ✓ ✓ Ground Water m3 Thai Union Manufacturing Co., TUM 99.66 18.30 14.50 ✓ ✓ Rainwater Collected by Organization m3 Ltd. Sea Water m3 Songkla Canning PCL SC 99.55 4.90 3.90 ✓ ✓ Recycled and Reused Water m3 Asian-Pacific Can Co., Ltd. APC 99.54* 0.80 0.60 ✓ ✓ WASTE TO LANDFILL INTENSITY Yueh Chyang Canned Food YCC 99.55* 0.30 0.30 ✓ ✓ Waste to landfill intensity kg/tonFG Co., Ltd. Total waste to landfill kg 63,000 66,700 885 4,794 Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd. TUS 51.00 3.00 2.40 ✓ ✓ NON HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL2 Pakfood PCL PPC 99.74 4.80 3.80 ✓ ✓ Reuse kg Recycling kg EHS Training and Services Co., EHS 100.00 N/A <2 years Composting kg Ltd. (formerly known as “T-Holding Recovery, including energy recovery kg Co., Ltd.”) Incineration with out heat recovery kg (i.e.mass burn) Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd. TFM 66.90 4.80 3.80 ✓ ✓ Landfill kg 1,425 4,665 Thai Union Graphic Co., Ltd. TUG 98.00 0.10 0.10 ✓ ✓ HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL 2 Seafood International One SIC1 60.00** 0.20 0.20 N/A N/A FZCO Reuse kg Recycling kg 169 Thai Union Online Shop Co., TUO 100.00 ✓ In Progress Ltd. Composting kg Recovery, including energy recovery kg 250 Thai Union China Co., Ltd. TUC 100.00 0.40 0.30 N/A In Progress Incineration without heat recovery kg TMAC Company Limited TMAC 100.00 0.10 0.10 ✓ ✓ (i.e.mass burn) Thai Union Ingredients Co., Ltd. TUI 100.00 0.10 0.10 <2 years <2 years Landfill kg 299 130 Thammachart Seafood Retail TSR 65.00 0.10 0.10 N/A <2 years Remark: Co., Ltd. 1: Data reporting scope refer to Performance of Key Environmental and Social Indicators (https://seachangesustainability.org/wp-content/uploads/Performance-of-Key-Environmental-and-Social-Indicators.pdf) TOTAL ASIA 50.90 40.30 2: For 2016-2019 Surface water including rivers, lakes, wetlands, reservoirs,creeks and sea water 3: Non Hazardous Waste Disposal and Hazardous Waste Disposal are collected and reported following GRI 306-2 98 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED REPORTING COVERAGE 2019 REPORTING COVERAGE COMPANIES AND GROUPS OF % HOLDING SALES COMPANIES BY TU ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL*** UNIT: BILLION % INDICATORS INDICATORS BAHT 2. EUROPE & AFRICA Thai Union Europe One Group TUE1 100.00* 19.80 15.70 ✓ ✓ Thai Union Trading Europe B.V. TUTE 100.00* 2.10 1.60 N/A <2 years Meralliance Group MA 100.00* 4.70 3.80 ✓ ✓ King Oscar Group KO 100.00* 1.20 1.00 ✓ ✓ Thai Union Germany GmbH TUGe 100.00* 4.60 3.70 In Progress In Progress Thai Union Canada Inc. TUCa 100.00* 0.30 0.20 In Progress In Progress TOTAL EUROPE & AFRICA 32.80 26.00 3. USA Tri-Union Seafoods LLC TRI-U 100.00* 11.20 8.90 ✓ ✓ Tri-Union Frozen Products Inc. TUFP 100.00* 29.80 23.60 N/A ✓ U.S. Pet Nutrition LLC USPN 100.00* 1.50 1.20 ✓ ✓ TOTAL USA 42.50 33.70 GRAND TOTAL 126.30 100.00 95% 96% Remarks: The above data refers to sales structure after exclusion of intercompany transactions. From Annual Report 2019 page 63 (https://investor.thaiunion.com/misc/ar/20200318-tu-ar2019-en-01.pdf) * Owned by Subsidiaries of TU ** SIC1 was restructured to joint venture starting May 2019 *** Social indicators of Occupational Health and Safety <2 years: The facility has been operating or acquired for less than 2 years, thus outside Thai Union's scope of Environmental & Social Reporting. N/A: The facility is not identified as a manufacturing facility, thus outside Thai Union's scope of Environmental & Reporting. In Progress: Environmental & Social Reporting of this facility is in progress. 100 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 101 GENERAL EXTERNAL STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES 13 GHG EMISSION GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Back cover GRI 102-2 Activities, brand, products and P. 13-16 services GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover and Annual Report P. 1 GRI CONTENT GRI 102-4 Location of operations Annual Report P. 10-11 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report P. 1 GRI 102-6 Markets served P. 13 and Annual Report P. 16-21 INDEX AND GRI 102-7 GRI 102-8 Scale of the organization Information on employees and other workers P. 13 P. 13 and 87 UNGC COP GRI 102-9 Supply chain P. 14-16 and Annual Report P. 8-11 GRI 1-2-10 Significant changes to the No significant change organization and its supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or P. 65 and https://www.thaiunion. approach com/en/sustainability/ environment GRI 102-12 Externally developed economic, P. 24-25 environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses GRI 102-13 Membership of Associations P. 23-25 GRI 102-14 Statement from senior P. 8-9 decision-maker GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and P. 13 norm of behavior GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report P. 28-46 102 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 103 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE GENERAL EXTERNAL MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION / EXTERNAL STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASSURANCE ASPECT INDICATORS NOTES ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ECONOMIC (COMMUNITIES, TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE) GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups P. 34-36 Economic GRI 103 Management Annual Report P. 152-156 Performance Approach GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement P. 88 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders P. 29-31 GRI 201-1 Direct Economic P. 85 and Annual Report GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement P. 29-31 value generated P. 22 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concern raised P. 30-32 and distributed REPORTING PRACTICE Transparency GRI 103 Management P. 19-21 and Annual Report Annual Report P. Approach P. 99-101 GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 64-67 GRI419-1 Non-compliance https://investor.thaiunion. with laws and com/misc/investor_ GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries P. 5 regulations in note/20190806-tu-investorGRI 102-47 List of material topics P. 32 the social and note-2q2019-en-02.pdf GRI 102-48 Restatements of information P. 87 economic area GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting No change Community GRI 103 Management P. 77 and Approach https://seachangesustainaGRI 102-50 Reporting period P. 5 bility.org/about-seachange/ GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report P. 5 people-and-communities/ GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle P. 5 GRI 413-1 Operations with P. 78 GRI 102-53 Contact point of questions regarding the report Back cover local community GRI 102-54 Claim of reporting in accordance with the GRI P. 5 engagement, Standards impact P. 100 – 112 assessment and GRI 102-55 GRI content index development GRI 102-56 External assurance P. 104-106 programs 104 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 105 MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION EXTERNAL MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION / EXTERNAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASPECT INDICATORS /NOTES ASSURANCE ASPECT INDICATORS NOTES ASSURANCE ENVIRONMENTAL (ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, CLIMATE CHANGE AND OCEAN PLASTIC) Emissions GRI 103 Management P. 65-67,74 and https:// Approach seachangesustainability. Energy GRI 103 Management P. 65-67 and Approach org/about-seachange/rehttps://seachangesustainasponsible-operations/ bility.org/about-seachange/ responsible-operations/ GRI 305-1 Direct (scope 1) P. 66,67,91,93 and 95 * GHG emissions GRI 302-1 Energy P. 89,91,93 and 95 consumption within GRI 305-2 Energy indirect P. 91,93 and 95 * organization (scope2) GHG GRI 302-3 Energy intensity P. 89 and 91 emissions GRI 305-4 GHG emissions P. 91 and 93 * GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy P. 66-67 and 73 intensity consumption GRI 305-5 Reduction of P. 66-67 Water GRI 103 Management P. 65-66 GHG emissions Approach Effluents and GRI 103 Management P. 65 and https:// GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by P. 90, 92,94 and 96 * waste Approach seachangesustainability. source org/about-seachange/reGRI 303-2 Water sources P. 90,92,94 and 96 * sponsible-operations/ significantly affected by GRI 306-2 Waste by type P. 90,92,94 and 96 * withdrawal of water and disposal method GRI 303-3 Water recycled and P. 90,92 and 94 * Ocean plastic GRI 103 Management P. 58,69 and reused Approach https://seachangesustainability.org/ocean-plasticsand-marine-debris/ GGGI Best Best practical P. 58 and 83 Practice recovery of Framework fishing gear after it has been lost or abandoned. 106 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 107 MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION / EXTERNAL MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION / EXTERNAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASPECT INDICATORS NOTES ASSURANCE ASPECT INDICATORS NOTES ASSURANCE SeaBOS Reducing ocean P. 26,69-70 and 75 SOCIAL (HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES, RESPONSIBLE SOURCING, LONG-TERM COMMITMENT, plastic, mapping HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT, AND OCEAN PLASTIC) Taskforce sources, Forced or GRI 103 Management P. 41 presences, and compulsory Approach types of plastic labor in seafood production. GRI 409-1 Operations and P. 46-47, 49-51 suppliers at SOCIAL (HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES, RESPONSIBLE SOURCING, LONG-TERM COMMITMENT, HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT, AND OCEAN PLASTIC) significant risk for incidents Human GRI 103 Management P. 41 of forced or Rights and Approach compulsory ethical labor labor practices Responsible GRI 103 Management P. 53, 60 and https:// GRI 412-3 Significant P. 42, 48-51 sourcing Approach seachangesustainability. investment org/about-seachange/reagreements and sponsible-sourcing/ contracts that include human FP 1 Percentage P. 54 rights clauses of purchased or underwent volume from human rights suppliers screening compliant with company’s GRI 103 Management P. 31 and https:// sourcing policy Approach seachangesustainability. org/about-seachange/responsible-operations/ GRI Percentage of P. 88 102-41 total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 108 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 109 MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION / EXTERNAL MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION / EXTERNAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASPECT INDICATORS NOTES ASSURANCE ASPECT INDICATORS NOTES ASSURANCE SOCIAL (HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES, RESPONSIBLE SOURCING, LONG-TERM COMMITMENT, SOCIAL (HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES, RESPONSIBLE SOURCING, LONG-TERM COMMITMENT, HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT, AND OCEAN PLASTIC) HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT, AND OCEAN PLASTIC) FP 2 Percentage P. 55-56, and 61 Human GRI 103 Management P. 77 of purchased Capital Approach volume which is Development verified as being GRI 404-1 Average hours P. 87 in accordance of training with credible, per year, per internationally employee recognized responsible Safety in the GRI 103 Management P. 67 and production Workplace Approach https://www.thaiunion. standards, com/en/about/environbroken down by ment-health-and-safety standards GRI 403-2 Types of P. 68 and 86 * Supplier GRI 103 Management P. 48 and injury and assessment Approach https://seachangesustainarates of injury, for labor bility.org/about-seachange/ occupational practices responsible-sourcing/ disease, lost suppliers/ day, and absenteeism, GRI 414-1 New suppliers P. 48 and 50 and number of that were work-related screened using facilities social criteria GRI 414-2 Negative social P. 50-51 impacts in the supply chain and action taken 110 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 111 MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION / EXTERNAL UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASPECT INDICATORS NOTES ASSURANCE Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the P. 21, 41-46 FOOD SAFETY AND USE OF ANTI-BIOTICS protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Food safety GRI 103 Management P. 65 and HUMAN RIGHTS and use of Approach https://www.thaiunion.com/ Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not antibiotics en/products-and-brands/ complicit in human rights abuses. combating-food-fraudand-food-defense-strategy Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of P. 41-46 and P. 88 Management Annual Report association and the effective recognition of the right to Approach collective bargaining. FP 5 Percentage P. 65 of production Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and manufactured LABOR compulsory labor. in sites certified by third party according to inPrinciple 5 The effective abolition of child labor. ternationally recognized food Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of safety standard employment and occupation. FP 12 Policy and P. 31 and Omission practice on https://www.thaiunion.com/ on reporting Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary P. 65-75 antibiotic en/innovation/at-a-glance identifying approach to environmental challenges. species and breed type. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater NNOVATION ENVIRONMENT environmental responsibility. Innovation GRI 103 Management P. 22-23 and Approach https://www.thaiunion. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of encom/en/innovation/our-apvironmentally friendly technology. proach-to-innovation GRI 203-1 Infrastructure P. 22-23 and Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in P. 21, 24-25 investments and https://www.startupthaiANTI-CORRUPTION all its forms, including extortion and bribery. services support land.org/space-f-to-expedite-foodtech-startups-th/ 112 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 113 LR Independent Assurance Statement • Auditing TU’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or mis-statements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling processes and systems. We also spoke with key people in various facilities responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. Relating to Thai Union Group Plc.’s Sustainability Report for the • Sampling of evidences to confirm the reliability of the selected specific standard disclosures as below operations; calendar year 2019 • Thailand: Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd. at Samutsakorn, Pakfood Public Co., Ltd. at Bangkok, Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd. at Songkla, Thai Union Feed mill Co., Ltd at Samutsakhon, Asian-Pacific Can Co., Ltd. (Canning Plant) at Samutsakorn and TMK Farm Co., Ltd. (TMK2) at Suratthani; This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Thai Union Group Plc. (TU) in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. • Vietnam: Yueh Chyang Canned Food Co., Ltd. and; • USA: Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC. Terms of engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LR) was commissioned by TU Group PLC. (TU) to provide independent assurance on Observations its Sustainability Report 2019 “the report” against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier using LR’s verification approach. LR’s verification procedure is based • Stakeholder inclusivity: on current best practice, is in accordance with ISAE 3000 and AA1000 AS and uses the following principles of inclusivity, We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from TU’s stakeholder engagement process. materiality, responsiveness and reliability of performance data. TU has open dialogue with all of its stakeholders to understand their growing expectations. • Materiality: Our assurance engagement covered TU’s subsidiaries in Asia and the United State under its direct operational control only, We are not aware of any material issues concerning TU’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from and specifically the following requirements: the report. It should be noted that TU has established extensive criteria for determining which issue/aspect is material • Confirming that the report is in accordance with: and that these criteria are not biased to the company’s management. GRI Standards (2016) and core option • Responsiveness: GRI Food Processing supplement Sector TU has addressed the concerns of stakeholders in all regions in relation to GHG emissions and ocean plastic. However, • Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for only the selected indicators listed below: 1 we believe that future reports should Environmental: GRI 303-1 Water withdraw by source, GRI 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions, GRI 305-2 Energy disclose safety statistic of contractor indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions and Waste by type and disposal method (GRI 306-2) discuss how TU establishes governance with new business partners. Social: GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and • Reliability: number of work-related fatalities. Data management systems are considered to be well defined, but the implementation of these systems varies across TU’s operational facilities. TU should consider interim verification to further improve the reliability and timeliness of Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of TU’s subsidiaries where it has no operational control and all its disclosed data and information. its operations and activities outside of Asia and the United State. Our assurance engagement also excluded the data and information of its suppliers and any third-parties mentioned in the report. LR’s standards, competence and independence LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The LR’s responsibility is only to TU. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. TU’s outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the report and for approach applied is rigorous and transparent. maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the report is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of TU. This verification is the only works undertaken by LR for TU and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. LR’s Opinion Based on LR’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that TU has not, in all material respects: • Met the requirements above • Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as no errors or omissions were detected • Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this report. Opart Charuratana Dated: 14 May 2020 The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional LR Lead Verifier judgement of the verifier. On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements Lloyd’s Register International (Thailand) Limited focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement 14th Floor, Sirinrat Building, 3388/46 Rama IV Road is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Klongton, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 THAILAND LR’s approach LRQA reference: BGK00000472 LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks though were Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any • Assessing TU’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the correctly. We did this by reviewing documents and associated records. terms and conditions set out in that contract. • Reviewing TU’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. in their Report and updated overtime. We did this by benchmarking reports written by TU and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2020. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. 1 GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty. thaiunion.com | seachangesustainability.org Thai Union Group Public Company Limited Contact HEAD OFFICE John Merva 72/1 Moo 7, Sethakit 1 Road, Tarsrai Sub-district, European Communications Manager Muang Samut Sakhon District, Samut Sakhon Province john.merva@thaiunion.com john.merva@thaiunion.com 74000 Thailand Tel: +66 (0) 3481-6500 (Automatic 7 Lines) Fax: +66 (0) 3481-6886 BANGKOK OFFICE 979/12 M Floor, S.M. Tower, Phaholyothin Road, Phaya Thai, Phaya Thai, Bangkok 10400 Thailand Tel: +66 (0) 2298-0024, +66 (0) 2298-0537 Fax: +66 (0) 2298-0548, +66 (0) 2298-0550
