2019 WE CONTRIBUTE TO BETTER HOUSING A YEAR OF GROWTH AND HOUSEHOLD FINANCES 93 NEW COLLEAGUES PAGE 57 PAGE 13 PAGE 42 WE HAVE GREEN SWEDEN’S MORTGAGES ONE OF SWEDEN’S MOST ­SATISFIED MOTIVATE OUR BEST WORKPLACES ­CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS PAGE 4 PAGE 4 PAGE 34 WE CONTRIBUTE TO BETTER HOUSING AND HOUSEHOLD FINANCES We are passionate about creating opportunities and solving problems related to housing and household finances. We know that SBAB can do much more than merely lend money. We want to be a part of changing the world and help meet the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. We have a responsibility for the people and areas of society affected by our business, both now and in the future. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 1 EYE ON THE HOUSING MARKET Insights from the Come Home Report “There is a major need for information and expertise when it comes to sustainability and climate-smart housing,” says Claudia Wörmann, Housing Economist at SBAB. 30 52 RESPECT AND EQUALITY Respekttrappan for all During the year we launched Respekttrappan (eng. Respect ladder) online for companies and organisations to use, free of charge, as part of their efforts to ­create more inclusive workplaces. GREEN MORTGAGES Tomorrow’s status symbols 36 SBAB is inspiring consumers to purchase tomorrow’s super fashionable products through its Green Mortgage. 2 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Content ABOUT SBAB 4 The year in brief 6 Statement from the CEO 10 The wider world, trends and d ­ riving forces 12 Offering and value creation 14 Our sustainable governance model 18 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals THE YEAR AND GOALS 22 SBAB’s target areas 24 Fulfilment of goals 26 Responsibility and transparency 42 An attractive workplace 54 Sound finances FINANCIAL REPORTING 64 Group performance 65 Market overview 67 The Retail business area 70 The Corporate Clients & Tenant-­ 58 Owners’ Associations b ­ usiness area 72 Funding and liquidity 74 Risk and capital management 80 Statement from the Chairman 82 Corporate Governance Report CLIMATE RISKS IN THE RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO 89 Proposed appropriation of profits 90 Board of Directors Climate change is 92 Executive Management 94 Income statement affecting the housing 94 Statement of comprehensive income 96 Balance sheet 98 Statement of changes in equity and property market 100 Cash-flow statement 102 Financial notes “We have to make an overall risk assessment, and climate risks should of course be a natural part of that assessment,” says SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Axel Wallin, Head of S ­ ustainability at SBAB. 169 Sustainability notes 177 Sustainability reporting in a ­ ccordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 178 UN’s Sustainability Development THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Goals 179 TCFD Reporting How SBAB 180 GRI/COP index ­supports the 182 The Board of Directors’ signatures 183 Audit Report Sustainable 186 Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report 187 Five-year Summary 188 Alternative performance measures Development 189 Contact details and addresses Goals The Annual and Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. It also constitutes SBAB’s Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact, a ­sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and information on how SBAB contributes to the 2030 Agenda for The 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable sustainable development. For additional information about the Report and the reporting principles, see page 169. Development Goals (SDGs) The pages that have been audited have been colour-coded in black are an integrated part in the table of contents. The remaining pages, excluding the Corporate 18 of SBAB’s operations Governance Report, have been subject to a limited assurance engagement. The Corporate Governance Report has been subject to a and governance. ­statutory review by the company’s auditor. While every care has been taken in the translation of this report, ­readers are reminded that the original report, signed by the CEO and the Board of Directors, is in Swedish. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 3 The year in brief Satisfied customers and committed employees SBAB SWEDEN’S MOST SATISFIED RETAIL CUSTOMERS RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES 2019 SWEDEN’S MOST SATISFIED CUSTOMERS – SBAB had Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers according to Swedish Quality Index (Swe: Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (SKI)), which measures customer satisfaction in SBAB the banking and finance sector each year. With a customer satisfaction score of 76.3 out of SWEDEN’S 100, we rank well above the sector average of 69.3. The drivers behind this are responsibility MOST SATISFIED and transparency. SBAB is clear and simple in its interaction with customers. With us, CORPORATE CUSTOMERS ­customers don’t need to negotiate their mortgage rate or buy extra services to obtain PROPERTY ­satisfactory conditions. LOANS SBAB’s corporate customers appreciate our accessibility and our sustainability efforts. 2019 SBAB received a customer satisfaction score of 76.3 out of 100 in SKI’s survey, in relation to the industry average of 67.8. This means that we, for the second consecutive year, have Sweden’s most satisfied customers in terms or property loans to corporates and tenant-owners’ associations. Read more on page 26 A year of strong results Total lending, SEK bn Total deposits, SEK bn 384 364 131 335 125 297 296 112 97 +5% 77 +4% 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 4 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 The year in brief ONE OF SWEDEN’S BEST WORKPLACES – During the year we advanced yet another step in becoming an attractive workplace and employer. SBAB finished in fourth place on Great Place To Work’s list of Sweden’s top workplaces for 2019 within the large organisations category. To be one of Sweden’s best workplaces requires a We believe that motivated and committed long-term, significant commitment from everyone at SBAB. employees are the key to our long-term success This year’s performance is a clear sign that our values-driven and competitiveness. At SBAB, we dedicate as way of working, with our self-driven employees and inclusive much energy and focus to our employees’ leadership at its core, motivates and engages us. experience as we do to the customer experience. We need people who are motivated, who can identify needs and opportunities, and who can act on them. For us, it is important that everyone at SBAB thrives in the workplace, that we Read more on page 42 feel good, that we can be ourselves and that we feel that we can jointly contribute and develop every day. Net interest income, SEK million Selected key metrics GROUP SEK million 2019 2018 3,473 3,362 Net interest income Net commissions 3,473 –14 3,362 –49 2019 2018 Net result of financial transactions 26 –65 Expenses –1,187 –1,049 Operating profit, SEK million Credit losses/recoveries –26 11 Operating profit 2,308 2,241 2,308 2,241 Return on equity, % C/I ratio, % 11.7 33.7 12.1 32.0 2019 2018 CET1 capital ratio, % 13.1 12.5 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 5 Statement from the CEO 2019 was a very successful year. A record performance, record high lending volumes, Sweden’s most satisfied customers and one of Sweden’s best workplaces mean we look to future ­challenges full of confidence. At the same time, we are not underestimating the challenges posed by the rapidly changing market and the uncertainty of the world around us. Review of 2019... I t has become somewhat trendy to use the English word “­disruption” to describe something that significantly affects ­consumers and customers. But some of the nuance is lost in translation to Swedish. I think translating it as “disturbance” sounds too mild and vague – something like “revolutionary change” is a better approximation. The banking and financial market is undergoing a revolutionary change, as is the housing market. For the companies who are affected, a revolutionary change can be hard to notice because they are fully occupied with their daily tasks. Change is often driven by external factors. Sometimes it takes a while to gain traction, but when it does, it changes everything. Take, for example, the relationship that shopping malls and clothing stores have with e-commerce, THE LADDER – The ladder is one of our symbols that helps us to live by our values in daily operations. The ladder has seven rungs. We don’t want to find ourselves at the foot of the ladder complaining and questioning. We want to be high up the ladder, since that is where we generate tempo through acting, ­implementing and delivering. Read more on page 45 6 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Statement from the CEO which is now in full swing. Or how the old mobile phone manufacturers responded to the technological development of smart phones. Or, today, look at the traditional banks. The banks need to respond to ­digitalisation and new customer needs. Just like any business, banks also need to respond to sustainability and expectaOUR SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE MODEL – tions of increased social responsibility. Expectations that come from every We govern our business through our sustainable governance ­stakeholder. Are these areas undergoing model. It clearly and simply describes what our purpose is, a revolutionary change for banks? where we are going, what steps we will take to get there and Yes, of course. how we will achieve it. How is SBAB responding to these changes? We have a sustainable Read more on page 14 ­governance model that recognises the changes affecting consumers and customers. We consider the changes a p ­ ossibility Responsibility and transparency Responsibility and transparency were for building a fantastic SBAB that is comessential success factors in us having petitive over the long term. That is why Sweden’s most satisfied customers we steer our operations towards achieving goals in three target areas that we “For high levels of trust regarding both residential mortgages and property loans in 2019, according to think cover the revolutionary changes and the best customer Swedish Quality Index (Svenskt Kvalitetgoing on in our market and in our surroundings. These three target areas are experience.” sindex, SKI). Year after year, our customers have been very satisfied. SBAB has Responsibility and transparency, An been at the top of the list for three of the attractive workplace, and Sound finances. As customers, we prefer to purchase last five years for Sweden’s most satisfied The business community’s ambition goods and services from suppliers who residential mortgage customers and for to operate more sustainably is becoming ensure that their operations are longSweden’s most satisfied property loan even stronger. In 2019, for example, term sustainable. We want to feel like we customers (corporates and tenant-­owners’ nearly 200 of the USA’s largest compaare making the world a better place associations). A fantastic achievement of nies signed a joint declaration stating through our consumption. The younger which we are extremely proud. their responsibility is not just to create generations are clearly the driving forces Digitalisation is changing customer shareholder value but also to create behind this development. behaviour and expectations. Being a cusvalue for other stakeholders, primarily There is proof everywhere that tomer must be simple, and using a service employees and customers. This sounds ­sustainable business is profitable. Hammust be easy. As a c­ ustomer, I also want self-evident, but the importance of clariburger chains’ sales increase when they help solving other problems in my problem fying it in this declaration cannot, in my sell vegetarian hamburgers and place area. In our ecosystem, housing and opinion, be overstated. There are also charging stations outside their restauhousehold finances, we solve our customother obligations, like in the 2030 rants. Domestic flights are decreasing ers’ problems. HittaMäklare helps you find Agenda for Sustainable Development, while rail travel is increasing. More people a real estate agent to sell your home; where the importance of commerce’s are choosing green electricity. And so on. Booli helps you find and evaluate housing role in creating a more sustainable world Proof can also be found with our cusfor sale; and SBAB helps you finance your has become even clearer. tomers. They appreciate the transparhome. Together with our business partIt is self-evident for SBAB that our ency in our mortgage offering, with clear ners, we offer services in household responsibility is to create value for all and simple interest rates they do not finances such as insurance and legal stakeholders that we affect with our need to negotiate. Our residential mortcounselling. Ecosystem offerings are operations. For us, this big-picture gage and housing financing customers clearly a revolutionary change going on in ­perspective is obviously a business issue. also appreciate our work in creating the market, and which will change how Motivated and committed employees at ­sustainable residential areas and energy-­ services are offered and purchased. In SBAB create a better and more responsiefficient housing through green loans, 2020, we are launching a shared visual ble customer offering. This, in turn, creates advisory services and information. concept and a uniform customer experilong-term growth and increased profitResponsible and sustainable business is ence through a new, Group-wide graphic ability. All of this comes together in our critical for SBAB’s current and long-term profile and a new brand concept. Over sustainable governance model. competitiveness and p ­ rofitability. the long term, our ecosystem will S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 7 Statement from the CEO c­ ontribute to increased customer l­oyalty, world and making a difference in our Samhall’s Visa Vägen (eng. Showing the cost efficiency and growth as well as work. We need to be motivated by someWay) prize for the best employer in the strengthened profitability. thing more than just a paycheck. If a Värmland/Örebro/Dalarna/Dalsland Responsibility and transparency go company takes responsibility for creating regions based on our approach to inclutogether with reputation and trust, which value for all key stakeholders – customers, sion. I would like to take the opportunity to go together with brand position. The SBAB owners, employees and society – then it recommend that you try respekttrappan.se. brand has a strong position, a position that attracts more motivated and ­committed Respekttrappan (eng. Respect ladder) is optimal for operations. SBAB is posiemployees. started as our internal work tool for a tioned as a considerate friend, which is Being motivated by a company’s more inclusive workplace, but we further exactly the position that a bank offering goals and what it does and being refined it and are now offering it to other residential mortgages and housing engaged by the manner in which we ourcompanies and organisations, free of financing wants to have. We want to be – selves contribute is a dream we all share. cost. Respekttrappan is one example of and we are – the customer’s trustworthy In this scenario, we all thrive, feel good, how – guided by our values – we change companion in the housing journey. Brand perform well and have fun at work. the world with what we know and do. recognition is also important. It is importSBAB’s mission is critical to our motivaWe really are a values-driven comant to reach out, to find new customers tion and SBAB’s values-driven way of pany. This means that our values are and to grow. SBAB is the most recognised working is essential to our commitment. always an active guide in our daily work. mortgage brand in the greater Stockholm The majority of our newly recruited staff Our values coordinate our approach, area, and one of the most recognised in say that our values and our corporate which enables us to perform better Our all of Sweden. Compared with other banks, culture were important to their decisions values steer us strategically and in daily our brand is a c­ ompetitive advantage. to start working for SBAB. In our operations. Our values are with us when employee surveys, we see that we are we recruit, when we give feedback, An attractive workplace primarily motivated by our responsibility during salary setting, in leadership trainand our mission – to contribute to better ing, in the customer offering, in supplier housing and household finances – and relationships, in our work environment “For strong motivation, are committed first and foremost to our and so on. Our values-driven way of values-driven way of working. working has made us one of Sweden’s, commitment and Respect, equality and inclusion are at and Europe’s, best workplaces. This year, higher performance.” the core of our corporate culture. Our differences enrich us and create the best SBAB was ranked fourth in Sweden and twentieth in Europe as the best workcommercial solutions, which in the long place among large organisations As employees, we are increasingly motiterm means higher revenue and lower according to Great Place to Work. vated by, and engaged in, changing the expenses. During the year, we accepted THE HELICOPTER & THE LIGHTHOUSE – The helicopter and the lighthouse are two of our symbols that help us to live by our values in daily operations. Because everything is interrelated, we need to see the bigger picture to be able to prioritise and take the right decisions in different parts of operations. In a valuesdriven business, such as SBAB, everyone is a leader and leads by ­setting a good example. As lighthouses, we guide each other towards our vision. Read more on page 45 8 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Statement from the CEO THREE PARTICULARLY PROUD MOMENTS 1 2 3 WE LAUNCHED... WE DEVELOPED... WE REACHED OUR TARGET OF... We launched Respekttrappan We developed our values-driven We reached our profitability externally for companies and way of working to a point that ­target of no less than 10% return organisations to use, free of places us among Europe’s best on equity. charge, as part of their efforts to workplaces. create more inclusive workplaces. Sound finances project to replace our core banking sysWith forward tempo and humility tem. Our costs in relation to our lending One success has followed another the (C/L) was 0.32% and our costs in relalast few years. We have celebrated our “For high growth, a tion to our income (C/I) was 34%. This makes us one of the most cost-efficient successes and they have given us the energy to pick up the pace and accomlong-term perspective residential mortgage banks in Sweden. plish even more. Tempo and an ability to For several years, the Swedish resiput things into motion are essential for and a good return.” dential mortgage and housing financing maintaining a competitive edge. Our market has been characterised by high vision is clear – to offer the best residenEverything is interconnected. When we margins and healthy profitability for tial mortgages in Sweden. At SBAB, more are motivated and committed, we perform banks. At the same time, customers have and more people can hit the ground runbetter and create a competitive, responnever had interest expenses as low as ning. At SBAB, fewer people need to stop sible and transparent customer experithey have been now, due to the and ask for help. This characterises us as ence that results in satisfied customers extremely low interest rate environment. a purposeand values-driven growth and growth. Growth and cost-­efficient The banks’ mortgage margins peaked in company based on inclusive leadership operations create conditions for healthy 2016 and 2017; they have since and self-driven employees. profitability, which is a prerequisite for decreased 0.30–0.40 percentage At the time of writing, in March 2020, our stakeholders’ trust, for investments points. At the same time, the Riksbank the Corona crisis has created considerand for future competitiveness. This is the has raised the repo rate from negative able uncertainty about the immediate same advantageous position that char0.50% to 0%, which has increased the future. It gives a humbling perspective, acterised 2019. banks’ deposit margins by an equivalent even if our successes and our strong posiCompetition for residential mortgage margin, since the deposit rates has not tion fill us with confidence. customers was intense during the year, been raised. The overall effect is that the Heartfelt thanks to all of my 700 talunderscored by the loss of growth we banks’ total interest margins has ented colleagues for their fantastic perexperienced in the beginning of the year. declined somewhat. formance and impressive results in 2019. Credit growth on the market during the Construction of new housing has I am very proud of everything we accomlast few years has declined, and in comdecreased over the last few years, plished this year. We succeed together. bination with new market entrants the though at the end of 2019 we saw signs competition for customers has increased of stabilisation and even, possibly, an and mortgages rates have decreased. increase. With a strong focus on sustainWe actively worked on our customer offerability, we have been active and will ing during the year to ensure competitive ­continue in 2020 with the ambition to mortgage rates for satisfied customers and finance even more new housing in to drive growth, and we were successful. ­Sweden. Investors showed great interest Klas Danielsson, The operating profit for the year was in affordable rental properties during the CEO SEK 1,788 million, our highest ever. Folyear and we were successful in our cuslowing a challenging first quarter, growth tomer relationships and captured market was healthy. Lending during the year shares. We see good opportunities to increased 5.4% to SEK 384 billion, and continue to strengthen our existing cusdeposits increased 4.5% to SEK 131 biltomer relationships and to establish new lion. We are continuing to invest in longones. For tenant-owned properties, the term competitiveness and our expenses market remained less favourable during rose 13.2% year-on-year. We are investthe year, with lower margins and intense ing in digitalisation and new technology, competition. inter alia, including the critical ongoing S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 9 The wider world, trends and ­driving forces A world in constant change All companies must continuously adapt and reinvent themselves in today’s changing world. Technological, economic, social and regulatory developments all have an impact on the conditions and opportunities linked to our operations. Sweden’s economy and zero interest 2019, however, optimism has begun to a multitude of regulations. These regularates dawn in the Swedish housing market. tions have increased considerably since The long interest rates have followed the Uncertainty has apparently declined the financial crisis and are likely to condeclining trend in several countries among those building housing as well as tinue increasing in the future. Some claim during the last 30 years, including in those buying and selling housing in the that regulatory development has meant Sweden. Negative market interest rates secondary market. problems for households, construction for Swedish 10-year government bonds A reasonable estimate of the current companies and overall economic develand 5-year housing bonds were noted in housing shortage in Sweden would be opment. Others claim that increased summer 2019, which is very unusual from around 160,000 residences. This is due regulation is necessary to maintain a historical perspective. Since February to the population growing faster than the ­financial stability. 2015, the Riksbank has had a negative construction of new housing. It will probarepo rate, but chose in December 2019 bly take more than building more housing Digitalisation is redrawing the playing to raise it to 0% despite a clear decline in to solve the problem. Households need to field and changing customer behaviour the Swedish economy. Inflation during have the financial ability to demand housTechnology is advancing rapidly, not this period increased from around 1% to ing at prevailing price levels. least in respect of digitalisation of bankcloser to 2%, while real economic growth We live in a changing society. Many ing and financial services. Digitalisation was initially healthy. The Riksbank’s assesspeople have come to Sweden from other enables new services and changes cusment is that the repo rate will remain countries. We are ageing. More people are tomers’ behaviour and expectations. unchanged for the near future. Based on choosing to live in cities rather than in rural Many established operators are working this, we expect a moderate, long-term areas. Such changes can have major conintensively to retain and defend their upturn in market interest rates and mortsequences for many important functions positions. On the other hand, many new gage rates over the next few years. in society, including the housing market. players (“Fintech” companies) are ready to compete for customers by offering new Housing market trend High level of regulation solutions and new business models. The price drop a few years ago marked The financial sector is potentially one of the beginning of a period with reduced the most regulated sectors of the economy. production, difficulty selling housing and An operator that wants to offer savings longer advertisement periods. Since midand loan products has to contend with 10 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 The wider world, trends and ­driving forces Ten trends affecting customers that we are responding to SBAB has identified ten trends that specifically affect our operations, our customers and our customer offering for future long-term competitiveness. We have deemed these trends important to follow and understand so we can appropriately develop our interaction with customers and the customer offering for the best possible customer experience. 1 OMNICHANNEL & 360 ECOSYSTEM 6 Customers expect a simple, smooth, personal and When a customer uses a specific service or good, that ­relevant experience throughout their entire journey, often generates other needs to be met. For example, regardless of channel. Companies need to manage purchasing an airline ticket often leads to booking a contact possibilities in the channel that best suits the rental car and a hotel room. These kinds of related customer at any given moment. ­services are called an ecosystem. Through meeting more needs during the customer’s life cycle, companies can strengthen and extend the customer relationship. 2 DIGITAL PROCESSES Many new actors are appearing across several ­industries that, through digitalisation, want to be a SUSTAINABILITY 7 part of the customer experience. This includes the The world has a new business plan – the 2030 Agenda banking industry. The digital processes trend is also for Sustainable Development. The world, society and about ­increasing automation and minimising manual customers are increasingly demanding sustainability. data entry. Companies need to ensure that their offering is sustainable – both in terms of non-discrimination and accessibility as well as products and services with 3 NEW/ALTERNATIVE FUNDING SOURCES ­positive effects on our society and the climate. New/alternative funding sources consist of new varieties of traditional funding sources, for example green or social bond financing, as well as other types of funding PERSONALISATION 8 sources, for example securitisations and mortgage The personalisation trend is growing. Products, services, funds. This trend could affect the conditions for content and offerings are adapted and customised ­different actors to offer different types of loans. based on each consumer. Successful personalisation creates a better customer experience, which in turn leads to increased customer satisfaction and loyalty. 4 AI & DATA MANAGEMENT  ompanies must become better at controlling and C managing information to distinguish themselves and SPEED 9 their offering from other competitors. This includes Speed is a key ability for survival and long-term comworking smart, using predictive models and machine petitiveness in today’s changing digital world. This learning, to find out what to offer customers before includes reducing lead times and increasing delivery they even ask for it. Tomorrow’s companies are datacapacity. driven, with a high level of maturity within analysis and self-service. EFFICIENCY 10 5 OPEN BANKING Efficiency is a major focus area in the banking industry. In the future, marginal costs will be close to zero. It is R  egulations such as PSD2 create an openness of important to continuously improve efficiency. When ­information and transaction data, the very essence of companies are more efficient, they can provide faster which can change the future of the customer experiresponses to customers, increase quality and offer ence in banking. More customer needs can be met ­better terms. Customer satisfaction and internal through the use of customer data from other players. employee satisfaction increases as things become ­better and simpler. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 11 Offering and value creation We enable consumers to purchase their own homes and companies to finance residential properties. Through responsible operations, we want to enable and facilitate for the many people in life’s different housing phases. How we create value Our customers Private individuals The Retail business area offers services within housing and household finances, such as savings and loan products, insurance mediation, housing search engine services and real estate-agent services. The core product is residential mortgages. 279,000 Residential mortgage customers Activities are operated under the SBAB, Booli and HittaMäklare brands. SBAB does not have any offices for physical customer meetings – we meet our customers and users digitally or by telephone. Our market share in terms of residential mortgages amounted to 8.47% at year end, which makes us the fifth-largest residential mortgage bank in Sweden. Booli.se is Sweden’s second-largest search engine for 350,000 Savings customers housing with almost 900,000 unique visitors each month. Corporates and tenant-owners’ associations The Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business area offers ­property financing solutions to property companies, housing developers and tenant-owners’ associations as well as savings accounts to companies and organi2,100 Housing financing customers sations. We finance multi-family dwellings. These properties could be existing or in the process of being newly built. Our lending to this segment corresponds to around a quarter of SBAB’s total lending. We offer personal service to our customers, who are concentrated in growth regions surrounding our offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The market share for property lending to corporate 12,500 Savings customers ­clients was 11.23% at year end and the market share for lending to tenant-­ owners’ associations was 9.55%. HOW WE ACHIEVE OUR RESULTS – Our lending to private individuals, property companies and tenant-owners’ associations totalled SEK 383.8 billion at year end. We receive interest as compensation for these loans. The difference between the interest expense on funding and the total sum paid by our ­borrowers in the form of interest is referred to as net interest income. Put simply, our final earnings consist of the net interest income less expenses for running our operations and credit losses. 12 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Offering and value creation ’s ecosystem SBAB DR EA M LL & SE SE CH AR How we create value We contribute to better housing and household finances There is a series of challenges that are ­economically, socially and environmentally related to homes and properties. E Through our operations, we want to be LIV BU part of the solution to many of the Y ­challenges facing society. Our offering Services relating to housing and household finances Residential mortgages and housing financing are our most important services and primary source of income. We want to expand our offering and build long-term customer relationships by offering valuable services that enable and facilitate for the many people in life’s ­different housing phases.Through our services in Booli, HittaMäklare and SBAB, we want to create Sweden’s best customer experience within the housing and household finances ecosystem. Commodities Necessary building blocks for our offering Financial capital Data We receive our financial capital from three different sources: Large quantities of data and knowledge are accumulated in equity from owners, funding via the capital markets and deposour operations, such as how the housing and residential mortits from the public. In return, we pay interest. We convert this gage markets work. We use this data transparently and responfinancial capital to the core of our offering: different types of sibly to improve the customer experience by refining existing loans and financing for our customers. services and products as well as developing new ones. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 13 Our sustainable governance model How we govern our business We govern our business through our sustainable governance model. It clearly and simply describes what our purpose is, where we are going, what steps we will take to get there and how we will achieve it. The balance between what we will do and how we will do it is a prerequisite for realising our vision – to offer the best residential Read more about trends mortgages in Sweden. on page 11. Where Vision: To offer the best residential mortgages in Sweden Responsibility An attractive Sound and workplace finances ­transparency What How An innovative approach A values-driven way focused on housing of working Business idea Regulatory Our Inclusive Self-driven & Strategies framework values leadership employees Why Mission: To contribute to better housing and household finances 14 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Why Where What How Our sustainable governance model Why Mission To contribute to better housing and household finances SBAB is a purpose-driven company. Our mission explains why we exist and what we as a company contribute to. Our mission makes us proud and committed. It is the reason why we are motivated to go to work each day – filled with energy to do good things for our customers, for SBAB and for society as a whole. Our mission explains that our business is responsible and sustainable and that we play an important part in the national economy. Everything we do should be contained within our mission – it governs our behaviour and sets out the actions that will lead us to achieve our vision. Where Vision To offer the best residential mortgages in Sweden Our vision is our destination and what we want to offer our customers. Our vision encourages us to constantly improve. SBAB’s focus and main product is residential mortgages. When we talk about our vision, residential mortgages mean residential mortgages to private individuals and housing financing for tenant-owners’ associations and property companies. Offering the best residential mortgages in Sweden entails great demands for innovation and consideration. When we have achieved our goals within our three target areas – Responsibility and transparency, An attractive workplace and Sound finances – then we will have realised our vision. Then we will offer the best residential mortgages in Sweden. Responsibility An attractive Sound and workplace finances transparency Read more on Read more on Read more on page 26 page 42 page 54 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 15 Our sustainable governance model Why Where What How What | An innovative approach focused on housing Business idea Strategies Regulatory framework SBAB’s business idea is to be innovative The development of digital banking and Efficient risk management, regulatory and considerate in our offering of loans financial services is gaining momentum. compliance and internal governance and savings products to private individNew players are driving developments and control are prerequisites for conuals, tenant-owner associations and and new regulations are redrawing the ducting banking operations. property companies in Sweden. playing field. Simply offering a compaGood control enables a high tempo Innovative means continuously developrable banking service is no longer a within operations. Regulation of the ing and improving our customer offering. ­winning strategy for the future. banking and financial sector has Consideration means consistently, An ecosystem is a single entity with increased considerably over the past few responsibly and with transparency putting ­services that help customers solve their years. Regulatory developments have our customers first, whatever the s­ ituation. problems and fulfil their needs. Services had various effects on SBAB, including Loans are residential mortgages, housing relating to housing and household increased capital and liquidity requirefinancing and consumer loans. Savings finances represent SBAB’s ecosystem. ments, and have also required adaptation products are deposit ­services. Niche excellence within our ecosystem to existing and forthcoming regulations, Our lending to private individuals, and driving development in our niche such as the Mortgage Credit Directive, tenant-owners’ associations and property with services that customers love, use the Payment Services Directive (PSD2), companies is concentrated in Stockholm, and value is a recipe for future success. the General Data Protection Regulation Gothenburg and Malmö as well as other It is also exactly what SBAB’s strategy is (GDPR) and new repayment requireuniversity cities and growth regions all about. ments. Our efforts to ensure good regulawhere demand is strongest. We have a number of operational tory compliance include a large number strategies that aim to illustrate the way of policies and instructions. We promote to offer the best residential mortgages in a corporate culture where every employee Sweden and clarify our position within is expected to take responsibility all the the ecosystem. These include strategies way, to act ethically and to comply with for the customer offering and distribution the applicable regulations. within each business area, along with IT, risk, funding, HR and brand strategies. UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS – The business sector and SBAB have an important role to play in achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. We have identified and prioritised four goals that we consider particularly important for our operations. The goals are an integrated part of our operations and guide us to making even more responsible and long-term ­sustainable ­decisions. Read more on page 18 16 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Why Where What How Our sustainable governance model How | A values-driven way of working SBAB is a values-driven company growth, profitability and long-term trust and commitment required to help ­competitiveness. everyone act in an independent and selfSuccess in a competitive market in conWe work actively to develop our driven manner. Leaders serve as role stant change requires a values-driven ­values-driven way of working, with selfmodels, establish targets and frameway of working. Our values-driven way driven employees and inclusive leaderworks, are clear about expectations and of working involves inclusive leadership ship at its core. Our values-driven way of demonstrate trust by refraining from and self-driven employees making working involves ensuring that we always micromanaging or delegating solutions. smart decisions in their daily work. work with our values as guidance – to This creates the pace necessary for SBAB practise, talk, discuss and give feedback. Read more on page 42 to be competitive. This approach is It involves always enabling everyone to based on clarity, transparency and trust, take initiatives and make smart decisions. which promote and create determinaThe values-driven way of working tion, courage, speed, fresh ideas, everyplaces major demands on having bold day innovation and continual learning. leaders with a holistic perspective. By The result of this is satisfied customers, serving as role models, they build the OUR VALUES – Our four values, with their explanatory sub-items, represent our attitude and the basis of our corporate culture. We are We work fast We take responsibility We succeed proud professionals and smart – all the way together • I am business minded and • I act immediately and • I think one step ahead • We set and meet our goals I deliver. own the issue. • We make decisions where and celebrate achievements. • We all take responsibility • We learn by doing. we can. • I am straightforward and to for our customers. • I keep thinks clear and simple. • I am money conscious. the point. • We strive for long-term • I challenge the status quo • We act sustainably. • My knowledge is your ­relationships. and think outside the box. ­knowledge. • I make a difference and am • I continually develop my skills. • We collaborate and calibrate. part of the big picture. • I am humble and care for others. • We love doing business. • We are inclusive and learn from diversity. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 17 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals How SBAB supports reaching the Sustainable Development Goals By signing up to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, world leaders have committed to achieving three things by 2030: ending all forms of poverty, fighting inequalities and tackling climate change. SBAB’s role and responsibility when it comes achieving the SDGs is based on our operations and what we do best – housing and household finances. Creating possibilities and solving problems linked to housing and household finances is an obvious part of our business and mission. It is an aspect that drives us GOAL 8 | Decent work and forward, each and every day. As a player economic growth in the Swedish housing market and part of Swedish society, SBAB can do so much Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, more than merely lend money. By looking full and productive employment and decent work for all. outwards and working together with other players in the housing market, we are able TOGETHER WITH TARGETS to make it more sustainable from both a societal and environmental perspective. 8.1 | Sustain per capita economic growth in accordance with national To ensure that the full force of SBAB’s circumstances and, in particular, at least 7 per cent gross domestic business is exploited to contribute to ­product growth per annum in the least d ­ eveloped countries. ­better housing and household finances, 8.5 | By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent we have identified and prioritised four work for all women and men, including for young people and persons of the UN’s 17 SDGs within the 2030 with ­disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. Agenda for Sustainable Development; four SDGs that we consider particularly 8.10 | Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to important and relevant for our operations. encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial The prioritised goals have been chosen ­services for all. through internal workshops and ranking exercises within operations, the Executive WHAT DOES THE GOAL ENTAIL FOR SBAB? Management and the Board, and curWe want our operations to contribute to growth and jobs in Sweden. rently comprise an integrated part of our We want to ensure that international guidelines and principles are governance model. They guide us in terms ­followed and that inclusive, equal and diverse workplaces are proof making even more responsible and moted. We want to work alongside our customers and suppliers to long-term sustainable business decisions ensure acceptable and fair working conditions, with active standpoints and represent an important basis for pritaken against undeclared wages, bribes and corruption. It is also a orities within our operations. Naturally, we question of enhancing our accessibility – we want SBAB’s services to have a responsibility to contribute to the be inclusive and accessible to all residents in Sweden. fulfilment of the other 13 goals too. On 25 September 2015, the UN’s member states adopted the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development, a universal agenda that contains the SDGs. 18 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 GOAL 11 | Sustainable cities GOAL 12 | Responsible consumption and communities and production Make cities and human settlements inclusive, Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. safe, resilient and sustainable. TOGETHER WITH TARGETS TOGETHER WITH TARGETS 11.1 | By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe 12.8 | By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant and affordable housing and basic services and information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles upgrade slums in harmony with nature. 11.3 | By 2030, enhance inclusive and sustainable WHAT DOES THE GOAL ENTAIL FOR SBAB? urbanization and capacity for participatory, integrated and sustainable human settlement planning and We want to make the housing and residential mortgage markets more ­management in all countries. transparent and inclusive. To make well-informed and sound decisions, our customers need to understand the various issues pertaining to WHAT DOES THE GOAL ENTAIL FOR SBAB? ­housing and household finances. For this reason, we want to spread and increase awareness within this area – something we want to achieve in By adding extra sustainability criteria to our credit as accessible and simple a way as possible. ­processes, we want to continue contributing in different ways to the creation of more sustainable and inclusive cities and societies. We engage in a recurrent dialogue about sustainability with our customers and offer customised products and services for this purpose. Other GOAL 13 | Climate action important aspects include working to ensure healthy competition in the market, counteracting u ­ nreported employment at construction sites and p ­ romoting the Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. construction of safe housing. In addition, we want to promote by way of coordination and c­ ollaboration the possiTHE OVERALL GOAL PRIORITISED. bility for all residents in S ­ weden to have their own home. NO PRIORITISED TARGET. WHAT DOES THE GOAL ENTAIL FOR SBAB? Our operations afford us many opportunities to influence our customers and the market through requirements, stimuli and dialogue with the aim of combating climate change. We want to promote sustainable societies with energy-friendly and climate-smart homes and properties, for Read more on page 178 ­example via green mortgages. By linking our funding with our lending, we want to offer investors the opportunity to get involved and have an influence. Of course, we also want to reduce the carbon footprint within our own operating activities. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 19 SBAB’s target areas 20 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SBAB’s target areas 2019 AND OUR GOALS We do not make a distinction between ­business goals and sustainability goals – the basis of our entire business must be sustainable. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 21 SBAB’s target areas We have established three strategic and sustainable target areas for the ­business. Together, these comprise the basis for how we will steer and drive our operations forward in the short and long term to contribute to sustainable societal development. SBAB’s target areas In dialogue with our stakeholders We have identified a number of particularly important stakeholder groups that all affect and are affected by our operations. The dialogue with stakeholders guides our strategic and business planning and helps us prioritise and focus on the right aspects. CUSTOMERS – The confidence our INVESTORS – Investor confidence in ­customers have in SBAB determines our SBAB is based on investors’ interaction ability to develop in many respects, and with our employees as well as on a belief therefore also our ability to take on a in our business model and our ability to greater role in societal development. contribute to positive and sustainable economic development. EMPLOYEES – Motivated and committed employees are a prerequisite for OWNER – SBAB is wholly owned by the THE PUBLIC – Confidence from the our success and one of the most important Swedish government. The state’s owner­general public and other stakeholders success factors in terms of achieving ship policy stipulates that state-owned such as NGOs, business partners, media, our vision. enterprises should serve as role models in suppliers and stakeholder organisations the area of sustainable business and affects our opportunities to develop the ­otherwise act in a manner that generates operations in the desired direction. It is public confidence. This has inspired us to also a prerequisite for attracting new clarify our role in the sustainable develcustomers, establishing long-term opment of society. ­relationships and growing. 22 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SBAB’s target areas Analysis as the basis MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT – SBAB’s sustainability efforts GAP ANALYSIS – In 2018 we conducted a comprehensive are reported according to GRI. The process includes structural analysis, known as a gap analysis, with the aim of identifying and prioritising material sustainability topics. In ensuring that we manage risks and opportunities relating late 2016 and early 2017, we completed an assessment to to sustainability within our three target areas. 50 prioritised determine SBAB’s material sustainability topics. This work areas were identified as part of this analysis, which are included interviews with Board members, the Executive now being addressed throughout SBAB. Management, employees, the owner, corporate customers, business partners, stakeholder organisations and NGOs. In addition, a extensive online surveys were also conducted among our retail customers. Read more on page 169 Read more on page 169 Three target areas Based on the stakeholder dialogue and materiality assessment, we have established three strategic and sustainable target areas for the operations. The gap analysis has helped us ­calibrate and focus our work. Responsibility and An attractive Sound transparency workplace finances Read more on page 26 Read more on page 42 Read more on page 54 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 23 Fulfilment of goals Fulfilment of goals SBAB’s vision – to offer the best residential mortgages in Sweden – is defined by our three target areas. Each target area contains a number of general short and long-term goals. Reaching the long-term goals means we will have realised our vision. Target areas Goals for 2019 Results 2019 2018 2017 Responsibility and transparency Sustainability: Ranking in Sustainable Brand Index (SBI) Top 4 8th 5th 6th Transparency: Proportion of customers who believe that SBAB has an offering that is straightforward and easy to 85% 83% 85% 83% understand Residential Customer satisfaction: Sweden’s most mortgages 1st 1st 3rd 3rd satisfied customers according to Swedish Quality Index (Svenskt Kvalitetsindex, SKI) Property loans 1st 1st 1st 2nd An attractive workplace Equality and diversity: Equality between women/ men in management positions (within the range) 45–55 % 43/57% 44/56 % 45/55 % Employee experience: Percentage of employees who consider SBAB, all in all, a very good workplace 85% 91% 85% 79% Committed employees: Total Trust Index in Great Place to Work’s annual employee survey 81% 86% 81% 74% Sound finances Profitability: Return on equity over time ≥10% 11.7% 12.1% 12.5% Dividend: Ordinary dividend based on profit for the year after tax, taking the Group's capital structure into account ≥40% 0% 40% 40% CET1 capital Capitalisation: The CET1 capital ratio ratio ≥0.6% 2.4% 2.2% 6.0% and total capital ratio above ­regulatory requirement communicated by the Swedish FSA Total capital ratio ≥0.6% 5.2% 3.7% 10.9% 24 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Fulfilment of goals Explanation We make no distinction between sustainability and business. A sustainable approach to our business and operations allows us to be competitive in the short and long term. We use the SBI, a brand survey with a focus on sustainability, to monitor how customers and the general public view SBAB’s responsibility. In 2020, we will follow up the goal through our own quarterly sustainability index. We strive to be as transparent, simple and clear as possible in our customer offering and in our communication. This helps our customers take smart and informed decisions. Read more on pages 26–41 Satisfied customers are a prerequisite for strong results and an important testament of our progress in achieving our vision. Transparency, responsibility, simplicity, accessibility and good service combined with digitalisation and a sustainable customer offering are all crucial to success. Equality and diversity are two of the most important issues of our time. We also know that demographically diverse organisations perform better. For us, equality is an important dimension within diversity and equality. We have set a target that at least 45% of management positions should be held by the underrepresented gender. A positive employee experience is a prerequisite for high performance and thereby realising our vision. We want Read more an overwhelming majority of our employees to have a strongly positive experience of SBAB as a workplace. on pages 42–53 Commitment drives performance. If we are engaged at work we perform at a high level and drive development and change. Committed employees affect and develop each other. Together they create a genuinely attractive workplace. Strong profitability is the ultimate testament of an efficient business. Satisfied customers who drive growth along with underlying cost efficiency shape the conditions for long-term profitability. Our target is to achieve a return on equity exceeding 10% over time. Part of our funding comes from our owner, the Swedish state, in the form of equity. In return for its contribution, the owner receives a return in the profit generated by operating activities. In accordance with the owner’s dividend target, at least 40% of profit after tax is to be distributed, taking SBAB’s capital structure into consideration. At an Extraordinary Board Read more Meeting held on March 17, 2020, the Board of Directors resolved to not propose a dividend for the financial year 2019. on pages It is important for SBAB to be well capitalised, since this promotes confidence from our stakeholders, financial 54–61 stability and the opportunity to grow. According to our capital targets, the CET1 capital ratio and the total capital ratio should, under normal conditions, be at least 0.6 percentage points higher than the requirement communicated by the Swedish FSA. The capital targets were adjusted on 31 December 2018, from 1.5 percentage points to 0.6 percentage points, as a result of the Swedish FSA’s revised method for applying the risk-weight floor for Swedish residential mortgages. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 25 Responsibility and transparency As a bank and services supplier within housing and household finances, SBAB has an important role in the national economy. We are part of a financial infrastructure that enables consumers to purchase their own home and ­companies to finance residential properties. With this comes great responsibility. 2019 Highlights Responsibility and transparency An attractive workplace Sound finances SWEDEN’S MOST SATISFIED RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE CUSTOMERS – According to Swedish Quality Index (SKI), SBAB had the most satisfied residential mortgage customers in Sweden. With a customer satisfaction score of 76.3 out of 100, we rank well above the sector average of 69.3. Responsibility and transparency recur as central themes in SKI’s survey, with high scores Selected key metrics awarded to SBAB in areas such as product quality, value and reliability. GREEN MORTGAGES TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT CUSTOMERS – In 2018 we launched our Green Mortgages to customers who live in single-family homes or apartments in multi-family dwellings that hold a valid energy per2,584 Number of new build homes formance certificate (EPC) with energy class A, B or C, that is, in line with or financed by SBAB above the energy consumption requirements placed on new builds in Sweden. 15.8 The better the energy class, the greater the reduction to the mortgage rate. At the end of 2019, 11,585 customers had a Green Mortgage with SBAB, corresponding to a volume of SEK 15.8 billion. Green Mortgages, SEK bn COUNTERACTING CHALLENGES IN THE CONSTRUCTION SECTOR – 60% Research has shown that housing construction in Sweden in some instances involve unreported employment and salary dumping, as well as a lack of respect for human rights along the supply chain. SBAB, together with representatives of other banks, construction companies and employee and indusAverage LTV ratio in the residential try organisations, started a project to investigate how we can cooperatively mortgage portfolio find methods to address the problem. 26 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Responsibility and transparency We have extensive experience with housing financing, and matters Target Outcome related to homes and housing have long been deeply ingrained in SBAB’s roots. In our daily work, we have a responsibility as well as considerable opportunities to contribute to positive development in all the areas impacted by our operations. We endeavour to Top 4 Sustainability 8th 2019 offer financial products and services that are sustainable for both individuals, property companies or tenant-owners’ associations as well as society at large. Responsibility and transparency in four parts 85% 83% Responsible and transparent offering Sound and responsible credit granting is the very foundation of our operations. For us, this involves being open and clear in respect of our terms, conditions Transparency 2019 and products, and that we responsibly conduct sales, marketing and credit approvals. We think it is important to spread information and share our expertise, insights and skills. Thanks to access 1st Customer satisfaction 1st 2019 to large amounts of data, we proactively engage in dialogues with our customers in order to increase awareness and transparency in the housing and credit markets. Read more on pages 28–32 (residential mortgages) Our operations build on trust As a bank, we regularly manage 1st Customer satisfaction 1st 2019 large amounts of sensitive data, including personal information about our customers. It is crucial that we respect personal integrity, act ethically and ensure a high level of security if we are to win the confidence of our customers and the general public in SBAB. (property loans) Read more on page 33 Together for the climate The business sector, including SBAB, has an important role to play in achieving the national and international climate and environmental goals. We support and finance sustainable housing that results in less environmental impact. We Supporting the Sustainable also develop products and services that help our customers think and act more sustainably in everything that involves the home. Development Goals Read more on pages 34–37 An inclusive housing market Through dialogues and collaboration, we want to contribute to improved, healthier and more ­inclusive housing environments. We believe that it is important that communities and homes are built based on the preconditions that apply today, and perhaps more importantly, tomorrow. Read more on pages 38–39 More details about the target area are available on page 173 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 27 Responsibility and transparency Responsible and transparent offering Customers appreciate a competitive, With us you don’t need to negotiate transparent and simple pricing model for your mortgage rate residential mortgages. For us, it is a self-­ As a customer with us, you don’t need to evident part of a trustworthy customer negotiate your mortgage rate or buy extra relationship. It is also a major reason for services to obtain satisfactory conditions. our growth and our capture of market We do not believe that the interest rate shares. you get on your residential mortgage should depend on who you talk to at the We strive for increased transparency bank, how you are dressed or how well-­ in the residential mortgage market spoken you are. Our residential mortgage The difference between listed rates and interest rates are based on the current average rates for residential mortgages listed rates for each maturity, as published remains very high. Many banks start with on www.sbab.se. The customer’s specific high listed rates and apply occasional interest rate is presented as a deviation rebates or individual rate-setting after from the listed rate. This deviation is based negotiations. Whether or not customers on the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio, that is, the purchase other products or services by the residential mortgage as a percentage of bank is another factor. the market value of the property, the propAt SBAB, we always strive to be erty’s energy rating and to a certain extent straightforward, clear and transparent in the size of the residential mortgage. Our our offering. Our customers should always customers can work out for themselves feel secure in having SBAB as their bank the interest rate they would receive on and creditor. One of our overall sustainwww.sbab.se. This model gives our customable business goals is exactly about that: ers transparent guidance regarding the our offering should be straightforward and determining factors in the relationship easy to understand, which was true for between the borrower’s rate and the list 83% (85) of our residential mortgage rate. It is also why the difference between ­customers in our latest brand survey. our listed and average interest rates for residential mortgages is often s­ ignificantly lower than many other banks in the market. SBAB SWEDEN’S RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY LEADS TO SATISFIED MOST SATISFIED ­CUSTOMERS RETAIL CUSTOMERS – RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES The skills, professionalism and consideration Customer perception of SBAB is meaningful shown by our employees on a daily basis are SBAB’s reputation and trustworthiness with 2019 made visible, among other things, in surveys customers and the public are important conducted by Swedish Quality Index. factors in success and competitiveness. We continuously measure the public’s Swedish Quality Index (SKI) ­perception and experience of SBAB as a SBAB SKI measures customer satisfaction in the sustainable brand through surveys like Susbanking and finance sector each year. tainable Brand Index (SBI). The survey SWEDEN’S SBAB’s customer satisfaction score aims to map and analyse brands in relation MOST SATISFIED relating to residential mortgages to sustainability, based on a consumer perCORPORATE CUSTOMERS increased during the year to 76.3 (73.4) spective. In the 2019 survey, SBAB finished out of 100. Customer satisfaction for the in eighth place out of a total of 14 instituPROPERTY industry as a whole increased to 69.3 tions within the Bank category. SBAB has LOANS (67.9). We received particularly good determined that SBI’s survey does not fully 2019 results in the survey in areas such as prodreflect our work in sustainability, so in 2020 uct quality, value for money and reliability. we will replace it with our own quarterly SBAB’s customer satisfaction score sustainability index that will more clearly relating to property loans to corporates measure SBAB’s overall sustainability and and tenant-owners’ associations increased brand efforts. Our goal is to be in the top in 2019 to 76.3 (74.0) out of 100, with the three of the banking industry. sector average at 67.8 (69.1). Our results were particularly strong within areas such as product quality and service. 28 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Responsibility and transparency “One of our overall sustainable business goals is about us having an offering that is straightforward and easy to understand.” Help in making good decisions the public and the media. They contribReaching the entire nation One of the most important parts of our ute analyses and forecasts linked to the Much of SBAB’s marketing communicaoffering is about explaining, supporting Swedish economy, interest rates and the tion aims to increase understanding of and sharing our expertise. Being there housing market. financial issues. In 2019, we continued when our customers need us. We want to our communications and brand initiative tear down barriers of difficult and comOur guiding services launched in 2017 under the theme plicated, and make housing and houseWe guide customers in issues regarding “Boendeekonomi är jättekul” (Eng. hold finances simple, fun and accessible. housing and household finances through Household finances are really fun), with Things are often easier absorb when they our websites and apps. Some examples the aim of increasing public interest in are fun. Better informed people are also include “Räntematchen”, “MittBoende”, the subject. able to make better decisions. “Bytabostadsguiden” and “Värdeguiden”. Through our housing search Well-informed spokespersons engine service, Booli, we are able to supOur Head Economist and our Housing ply statistics about supply, demand and Economist spread information and share price trends for housing. their expertise with customers, investors, S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 29 INSIGHT | THE COME HOME REPORT Important insights from the Come Home report How are our relationships and life choices affected by the current housing market? What are the challenges, and what changes need to be implemented to create an improved, inclusive and sustainable housing market? These are some of the issues that SBAB investigated in the Come Home report. At the start of 2019, SBAB completed an for information and expertise when it comes to extensive study of the Swedes' relationship to sustainable and climate-smart housing. Those the home and the housing market. The study of us in the housing sector have a shared resulted in the Come Home report. responsibility to show the way and clarify “We have to constantly stay updated and aware of what’s happening in our changeable The Come which initiatives are necessary for everyone to become even better at living sustainably in our world. This is where the Come Home report Home report. homes,” says Claudia. will play an important role. It’s a thorough study of Swedish people’s thoughts about their Young people hit hardest by dysfunctional housing that will be of great use to all of the housing markets operations at SBAB. Both I and our Head The housing situation affects relationships and Economist, Robert Boije, use the Come Home family planning in several ways. According to report when we’re out lecturing or participat“Many equate living Claudia, young people are hit extra hard by ing in debates. We want to spread information sustainably with high a dysfunctional housing market. For example, and share our expertise, our insights and our expenses and major a relatively large portion put off searching for skills to customers, investors, the public and and/or applying for an education or a job the media. The Come Home report has investments. because of their living situation. Three out of become an important source of knowledge ten women would not be able to afford to and an important way to communicate it,” remain in their homes if their partner could no says Claudia Wörmann, Housing Economist longer contribute financially. at SBAB. “The living situation described in the Come Home report must be incredibly stressful. We want to live more sustainably, but do not Many probably stay in an unfulfilling relationknow how ship, or have to continue living with an ex-­ One important insight from the report is that partner because of a lack of housing options. Swedes are climate-aware people who want Moving in together too quickly, which almost to do more to live more sustainably in their half of young people feel that they have done, homes, even if knowledge about how to be even also affects separation statistics. When commore sustainable and climate-smart seems paring age cohorts, it is clear that today’s scarce. 54% admit that they do not know how young people are the most affected. Work, to do so, or what they can do to help more. love, personal development – most things are “The report also makes it clear that many affected by whether or not you have your own equate living sustainably with high expenses home,” ­concludes Claudia. and major investments. There is a major need 30 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 About the report At the start of 2019, SBAB completed an extensive study of the Swedes' relationship DID YOU KNOW? to the home and the housing market. The study, based on in-depth interviews with Three out of ten women would households across Sweden, a digital survey of around 1,500 individuals and interviews with not be able to afford to remain selected experts, resulted in the Come Home Report (Swedish: Komma Hem-rapporten), in their homes if their partner which was published during the second quarter. In the report, SBAB investigated could no longer contribute aspects such as how people feel about their homes – for example, what makes a home a financially. home and fosters well-being – as well as highlighted current challenges and identified possibilities for creating a more sustainable housing market. The report provides solid decision data for driving both public debate and ­collaboration around many important ­housing market issues. Read the whole report at www.sbab.se S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 31 Responsibility and transparency Responsible credit granting We want our credit granting and credit growth to be sustainable in the long term – for SBAB, our customers and for society. We do not want our customers to have problems paying interest and amortisations. This means we have a responsibility to finance homes for customers who are creditworthy. In turn, this requires extensive knowledge and understanding of our customers and their circumstances, whether it is a question of lending to consumers, property companies or tenant-owners’ associations. ESSENTIAL FOR SOME, How we grant a residential mortgage GOOD FOR EVERYONE Our granting of credit to consumers is – based on a credit approval process that We want SBAB’s products and services determines whether a customer has the to be accessible to everyone. Since financial capacity required to meet their 2018, a cross-functional working group commitment. We always need to get bethas worked to ensure that our channels ter, and more efficient, at assessing credare accessible for people with disabiliitworthiness so as to ensure that SBAB’s ties. The group works closely with the risk taking is always reasonable and that organisation Axess Lab, who specialise our customers are assessed according to in accessibility. their circumstances and do not borrow amortise. We have also noticed a too much. decrease in how much our customers We endeavour to have a streamlined, borrow in relation to their gross income, digital and fast credit approval process referred to as their debt-to-income ratio. for as many customers as possible. HowStrong dialogue with our housing ever, this process does not suit all cusRead more on page 56 financing customers tomers. We often need to deviate and SBAB’s credit approval of corporates and make some adjustments that aim to If a customer has difficulty making tenant-owners’ associations is primarily establish a credit process that better ­payments based on their repayment capacity. reflects today’s society including in terms Our ambition is to initiate a dialogue as ­Customers are managed individually by of constellations of borrowers as well as early as possible in cases where we disa team consisting of an account manager, forms of income and employment. cover customers are having difficulty an analyst and a loan administrator. paying their mortgages. Our insolvency In contrast to retail lending, we meet Amortisation and debt-to-income ratio team has extensive experience and works ­corporate and tenant-owners’ association At SBAB we believe that amortisation actively to help these customers. We run customers via individual meetings to share and a low debt-to-income ratio help the entire insolvency management proour expertise, gather necessary informaensure sound household finances. In cess, which means that throughout the tion and to create a close c­ ustomer recent years, we have noticed an process it is SBAB that helps our ­relationship. increase in how much our customers ­customers, not an external third party. SIMPLIFIED CREDIT APPROVAL PROCESS FOR CONSUMERS Housing Credit Credit cost LTV ratio Granted rules scoring credit calculation 32 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Responsibility and transparency Our operations build on trust We regularly manage large amounts of SBAB helps protect the Swedish financial Code of Conduct sensitive data, including personal inforsystem from being exploited. SBAB has a SBAB’s Code of Conduct is resolved by mation about our customers, which unit, Anti-Financial Crime (AFC), with the Board and provides guidance on how requires system support, procedures particular responsibility for our work in we should act and conduct ourselves in and follow-up processes. As a bank we these matters. various situations and the inherent also have a duty to protect the financial responsibilities of being a SBAB system from people and companies that Money laundering and financing of employee. Employees, managers, want to exploit it for malicious purposes. ­terrorism ­consultants, members of the Executive It is crucial that we respect personal We conduct a yearly risk assessment to Management and Board members are integrity, act ethically and ensure a high identify and assess the risk that SBAB will responsible for understanding and comlevel of security if we are to win the be exploited for money laundering and plying with our Code. During the year, ­confidence of our customers and the the financing of terrorism, and we have a we updated the Code to better reflect general public in SBAB. policy for this issue that has been resolved our development as a company, for by the Board. Important aspects of our example regarding SBAB’s view on susHow we manage cyber threats efforts include achieving a high level of tainable enterprise and inclusion. Identity theft, spyware, trojans and other customer awareness, having risk-based forms of cyber-based threats are major procedures and an adapted transaction-­ Supplier Code current societal problems. Companies, monitoring system in place, carrying out Since 2017, SBAB’s Supplier Code has banks, authorities and legislators are regular checks, following regulatory been an appendix to all new major working intensively to tackle the changes developments carefully and training agreements. It addresses SBAB’s view and challenges posed by digitalisation employees. Internal training is conducted and expectations of our suppliers’ susand the connected society. Data partly via classroom exercises and partly tainability efforts and compliance with breaches can have major consequences through annual e-learning courses that international guidelines. The code is for those affected, including power are obligatory for all employees. published on www.sbab.se. ­disruptions, increased costs, legal consequences, but perhaps more important Corruption Whistleblower function than all – reduced customer confidence. Corruption undermines democracy, During the year we implemented a new SBAB has a dedicated security group ­renders financial growth more difficult, whistleblower function through an extertasked with ensuring and maintaining distorts competition and entails serious nal supplier, through which employees a high level of cyber security in our operlegal and reputational risks. SBAB has an are able to report serious improprieties ations. The group works proactively on internal policy regulating how our operacommitted by senior executives and key increasing risk and security awareness tions should work to counteract bribes personnel at the SBAB Group. Instrucwith our customers and our employees, and other forms of corruption. The policy tions regarding this function are availas well as on improving security in our is designed to reflect the Code on Gifts, able for all employees on our intranet. systems. Each year, all of SBAB’s employRewards and other Benefits in Business No whistleblower events occurred in ees are obliged to take an obligatory published by the Swedish Anti-­Corruption 2019. course in this area and we work continuInstitute. We conduct ongoing training ously to spread knowledge and inform and risk evaluations in this area. our customers about what they should watch out for and what measures they should take to protect themselves and their computers. SBAB’s security unit is also responsible for our Security Incident Response Team (SIRT), which is responsible for identifying, analysing and rectifying IT security incidents. Our efforts to counteract financial crime and corruption There has been more focus over the last few years on the banking sector’s involvement with financial crime, particularly money laundering. It is extremely important that the banking sector as a whole takes active steps to counteract and to manage financial crime. By conducting operations in a manner that combats money laundering and financSBAB’s Code of Conduct ing of terrorism as well as other crimes, S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 33 Responsibility and transparency Together for the climate Homes account for a large proportion of the total energy consumption in Sweden and many of them do not meet prevailing energy consumption requirements. Our financing and credit granting enables us to i­ nfluence the market through requirements, terms and dialogue with the aim of reducing energy ­consumption. GREEN LENDING PRODUCTS MOTIVATE OUR CUSTOMERS – It should feel good to be climate-smart – not just for your conscience, but also for your wallet. Since 2018 we have offered our Green Mortgages to customers who live in single-family homes or apartments in multi-family dwellings that have a valid energy performance certificate with energy class A, B or C, that is, in line with or above the energy consumption requirements placed on new builds in Sweden. The better the energy class, the greater the reduction to the mortgage rate. We see the Green Mortgage as a way to motivate our customers to invest in more energy-­ efficient homes. At the end of 2019, 11,585 customers had a Green Mortgage with SBAB, corresponding to a credit volume of SEK 15.8 billion, or around 5.4% of SBAB’s total residential mortgage portfolio. We have been offering two other green lending products for a longer period. Our Green Investment Loans, aimed at tenant-owners’ associations and property companies, are loans with a particularly advantageous interest rate for customers intending to implement sustainable investments in their properties. To obtain a Green Investment Loan, the loan must be able to be approved in a normal credit approval process, the customer must have existing loans with SBAB and the loan must fulfil SBAB’s criteria for environmental improvement or energy-efficiency enhancements. These could include replacing windows or investing in a new, fossil-free heating source, for example. At the end of the year, 56 corporate and tenant-owners’ association customers had a Green Investment Loan with SBAB, corresponding to a credit volume of SEK 165 million (141). We also offer a consumer loan with a similar structure, known as the Energy Loan. At the We help our corporate and tenant-­ end of 2019, we had granted 204 Energy Loans, corresponding owners’ association customers become to a credit volume of SEK 19.8 million (11.7). more sustainable Social and environmental sustainability have become areas of increased focus in recent years. Property companies experience higher sustainability requirements, for example from municipalities that make land available, and tenant-owners’ associations want to lower their running costs. We actively promote increased energy efficiency in our customers’ properties. We do this through a variety of initiatives, such as by providing information that helps our customers come to an understanding of their own energy consumption relative to that of other property owners. Such a realisation could, for example, result in a re-­prioritisation of maintenance plans and investments in energy optimisation. The information is supplemented by a free consultation with 34 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SBAB’s business partners in the technical employees together with our business equipment arena. We can also impact partner Kivra. energy consumption through differing choices with our new lending, in which “We actively promote Since 2008, we have measured the company’s carbon dioxide emissions. financing of new construction is a key increased energy A summary of SBAB’s climate report is component. We have had an internal target since efficiency in our available in the sustainability notes. 2016 regarding the average energy ­customers‘ properties.” Green bonds ­consumption in residential properties Considerable interest exists in building financed by SBAB. This target is to a sustainable society with energy-friendly reduce the average energy consumption and climate-smart housing. Similarly, from 135 kWh/sq.m. to 122 kWh/sq.m. there is considerable demand from invesper property by 2022. The result for 2019 account managers at our three offices in tors to fund these developments through was 129 kWh/sq.m. per property (130). Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. green bonds. In mid-2016, we became With so few offices, the environmental the first bank in Sweden to issue a green Environmental impact of our own impact of our operations is relatively bond. Since then we have been a ­operations minor. But we still want to reduce the ­recurring issuer. We are a digital bank. We have no impact we have. We do this by travelling branch offices for retail customers and climate-smart and implementing meaare reached by our digital channels and sures to improve energy efficiency at our Read more on page 60 over the telephone. For corporates and offices. We also actively work to limit tenant-owners’ associations, we have postal distribution to customers and S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 35 INSIGHT | GREEN MORTGAGES So fabulous – SBAB presents tomorrow’s status symbols Homes account for a large proportion of the total energy consumption in Sweden. Reducing energy waste and creating a more sustainable world requires new status symbols. With meat guilt, flight guilt and the Greta A warm feeling and a gleam in your eye effect, the view on status symbols has According to Patrik, an important part of the changed. Patrik Söder, Head of Marketing at campaign, aside from informing more customSBAB, explains that the concept of sustainability ers about SBAB’s Green Mortgages, is to is increasing in status. strengthen the perception of SBAB as a “More people want to be perceived as liv­sustainable actor in society. ing sustainably, and things that manifest sus“Naturally, with a warm feeling and a tainability – living green with geothermal gleam in your eye. Because household heating, solar cells and water-saving taps – finances are really fun. From our position, we have thus become status symbols,” says Patrik, can entertain and educate and be serious and and continues: easy-going – at the same time. Always with the “Based on these insights we created the goal of improving our customers’ housing and marketing campaign ‘Status Symbols,’ which “As always, we want household finances. was rolled out in November 2019. The camto offer both enter“As always, we want to offer both entertainpaign, inspired by the fashion world and its tainment and knowlment and knowledge about a topic that many status symbols of jewellery, watches and brand think is pretty boring. I think we succeeded this name clothing, promotes our ideas for tomoredge about a topic time too,” concludes Patrik. row’s status symbols: insulation, LED lamps that many think is and water-saving taps. We want the campaign pretty boring.” to inspire and motivate people to buy these fashionable products. By investing in measures to improve energy efficiency at home, customers are also increasing their opportunities to take advantage of our Green Mortgage. HOW GREEN IS “To reinforce the message we also produced three short, informative and humorous YOUR HOME? commercials where our Head of Sustainability – gives advice about how to improve your At the campaign’s page on home’s energy efficiency, whether it’s an older www.sbab.se, is a simple test you can house or a new build.” take to see how green your home is. You can also find tips about how to make it more sustainable. 36 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 DID YOU KNOW? Low-energy light bulbs, water-saving taps and insulation are tomorrow’s status symbols. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 37 Responsibility and transparency An inclusive housing market Through dialogues and collaboration, we want to contribute to improved, healthier and more inclusive housing environments. It is important that com“We still aim to increase our financing munities and homes are built based on of new builds, since we want to help the preconditions that apply today, and perhaps more importantly, tomorrow. reduce the structural deficit of housing in ­Sweden.” Major demand for new housing The overall pace of construction of new homes is expected to remain far below the actual need. After the powerful drop at the beginning of 2017, housing investHSB Dela, a form of housing designed for responsible property management and ments are expected to stabilise at a level young people, in which customers purlong-term value creation. We like to colof just over 40,000 homes per year. This chase half of the apartment, and jointly laborate around different social projects roughly corresponds to the expected own the other half with HSB. They have where we can contribute our expertise growth in population and subsequent the option to purchase the remaining and experience. need for new housing, but is not sufficient portion after ten years. We also collaboto address the initial deficit of at least rate with BoKlok, a housing concept We coach young people in vulnerable 160,000 homes. developed by Skanska and IKEA, which neighbourhoods We still aim to increase our financing develops and builds sustainable housing For several years, we have collaborated of new builds, since we want to help with good design, function and quality at with the football club FC Rosengård, reduce the structural deficit of housing in low prices. which runs the labour market project Sweden. Newly built properties are also Boost in the Malmö region that aims to more energy-efficient than older properSafe, comfortable and sustainable help long-term unemployed youth find ties. In 2019, SBAB was involved in the housing environments work or begin studying. Employees at financing of 2,584 new build homes Social exclusion and integration are disSBAB contribute to the content of the (1,791). cussed within the general debate about project by giving lectures and inspire our suburbs. A negative image is frearound the subject of everyday personal New build homes quently conjured up by the media. The finances several times a year. financed by SBAB police, the public employment service, In 2019 we also participated in a colschools and social welfare offices are laboration with Changers Hub, a network 2,584 often commented on in these contexts. for young people in the outskirts of StockSBAB has a broad mission that holm, whose members have demoninvolves everyone in society, not just strated a need and a desire for quite those who live in owned homes or in some time to learn more about private (1,791) socially privileged areas. Properties in finances. During the year we provided some suburbs are beginning to need help by, for example, developing the Need is not the same as demand major renovation. Major property portfofinancial course CREAM, where we also Credit austerity during the last few years lios with renovation requirements place participated as a lecturer. and overproduction of homes in certain comprehensive demands on financing price segments and municipalities has over a long period. SBAB manages major Dialogue and partnerships with propcontributed to a mismatch between the transactions and also has a specific intererty companies and tenant-owners’ homes that have been built, or that are est in improving living conditions for peoassociations even currently under construction, and ple in less socially privileged areas. SBAB’s Corporate Clients & actual demand. Population growth does We firmly believe that a serious owner Tenant-Owners’ Associations business not only comprise people who have the sees the benefit of having dialogues with area regularly participates in trade shows financial capability to demand an own residents and investing in a secure, and holds seminars that are primarily home at prevailing price levels. More pleasant and sustainable residential aimed at trustees and board representanew and cheaper homes are needed environment. As a financier, we think it is tives from tenant-owners’ associations. that people can afford. Political meaimportant that the property owner In 2019, we participated in 13 trade sures are required along with collaboraensures responsible management. There shows to share expertise and experience, tion between housing market players. In are many property owners who do a lot forge new contacts and learn about addition to spreading knowledge about to reduce insecurity, encourage particitrends, while gathering the sector’s the problems, SBAB holds discussions pation, improve school performances thoughts about the future. We also with customers and other players about and improve health, for example. A close arranged six own seminars during the potential collaborations. One example is civic dialogue is a success factor for year, whereby experts from SBAB or our 38 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Responsibility and transparency network are invited to address topics employee organisations as well as SBAB We have collaborated with Stockholms such as board liability, energy efficiency support the proposed requirements. The Stadsmission in different ways to support measures, and new legislation affecting issue is very complex since it involves their work to find housing solutions for tenant-owners’ associations. During the many actors across several industries and people living in homelessness. During Almedalen Week, we joined various consideration must be given to a broad 2019, we financed Bobyrån, an adminisproperty companies in seminars and spectrum of applicable laws, regulations trative unit within Stockholms Stadsmission panel discussions on how property and processes. This means that there is a that helps socially marginalised people find ­companies, public housing companies, great deal of prevailing uncertainty over a more permanent housing solution. In politicians and other stakeholders could whether banks can expand requirements 2019, Bobyrån managed approximately cooperate to address the housing shortin credit granting beyond normal credit 70 apartments. age and create better social housing approval. This work is continuing in 2020. With the aim of helping create a environments where people are satisfied ­better housing situation for homeless and and can feel safe and secure. Read more on page 40 socially vulnerable people, we also ­support Situation Stockholm and Faktum, Ethics and human rights in new housing Everyone has a right to a home and societal and cultural magazines whose construction social security idea is to attract readers and thereby Alongside the rapid pace of building in The right to a home is stipulated in both create work and a personal income for Sweden during the 2010s, a worrying the UN Convention on Human Rights and the magazine’s sellers. The aim is to development has been observed conin the Swedish constitution. At least ­support these individuals in their return cerning how homes and infrastructure 33,000 people are homeless in Sweden to a more orderly life. are built. Several investigations have today. This is a failure on both a humanishown occurrences of tax avoidance, tarian and societal level. unreported employment and salary dumping, as well as a lack of respect for human rights along the supply chain at construction sites. In autumn 2018, SBAB invited several construction and property companies to a project meant to identify potential requirements that banks might set in their credit granting to combat economic crime at construction sites. The requirements were set in writing in 2019 and are based on being able to digitally monitor and review construction sites through electronic time reporting. Thirty-two construction and property companies, housing developers, industry and Image courtesy Stockholms Stadsmission. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 39 INSIGHT | FAIR PLAY IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY Initiative to counteract unreported employment in the construction industry Unreported employment and tax avoidance are problems within parts of the construction industry. In 2018, SBAB initiated a project with a large portion of the construction industry to address the problem. Crime within parts of the construction and Banks have received the construction property sector affects several actors. Banks ­industry’s proposal risk granting credit unwillingly that ultimately A large portion of all new builds in Sweden ends up in the pockets of criminal networks, are financed by banks. Close, positive relawhere the money is used within economic tionships between banks and their customers, crime. Human rights are violated when conas well as thorough analysis prior to granting struction workers, most often foreign, are credit, mean that banks are normally well either paid under the table or have salaries informed about their customers, Carl explains, well below the terms of prevailing collective and continues: agreements in the market, or when they are “Over time, the construction industry has forced to work irregular working hours and developed into long chains of subcontractors. with insufficient protection on work sites. “Naturally, we want These aren’t always monitored sufficiently Established construction companies risk losing to prevent all forms thoroughly by the main contractor, and this is out to unfair competition. Ultimately, this also why we see so many examples of financial result in Sweden losing several billion of tax of economic crime crime in Sweden. If banks took more responsiincome each year. According to Sweden’s where the banking bility when granting credit to construction and Serious Fraud Office, crime in the construction system is exploited.” property companies, by setting requirements industry is beginning to reach alarming levels. for increased monitoring of construction sites Carl Lindståhl, Sustainability Strategist at and subcontractors, that would help reduce SBAB, explains that SBAB in 2018 opened a the problem and also ensure healthier compedialogue with construction industry representition within the construction industry. tatives to solve the problem – a dialogue “The proposed requirements are now being Kraftsamling för en driven by several construction industry represund kreditgivning till discussed by several of the banks in Sweden sentatives and that resulted in several proposen sund byggbransch that finance new builds, and efforts will als for potential expanded terms in credit ­continue during 2020.” granting meant to positively influence the ­construction industry. Increased monitoring at all stages “Collaboration between construction and By setting more stringent requirements in property companies, banks and authorities is credit granting, which can be reviewed digione way to solve the problem and counteract tally, banks and actors in the construction undocumented employment. That’s why, in industry can better monitor the supply chain, 2018, SBAB started a project together with Carl claims, reducing the risk of economic several construction and property companies. crime and human trafficking. “The project aimed to identify potential “Banks will not be able to stop the criminalrequirements that banks could set that could ity, but we could make it more difficult to avoid be reviewed and monitored through electronic the tax system. Naturally, we want to prevent time reporting. The potential requirements all forms of economic crime where the banking proposed are ones that banks in Sweden that system is exploited.” finance new builds and renovations, such as SBAB, could use in granting credit to the ­customer responsible for the new build and the construction site. 40 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 DID YOU KNOW? Unfair competition in the ­construction industry means that Sweden loses several ­billion of tax income each year. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 41 An attractive workplace SBAB’s employees are the company’s most important asset by far. Motivated and committed employees are a prerequisite for our ­success, competitiveness and long-term value creation. 2019 Highlights Responsibility and transparency An attractive workplace Sound finances ONE OF SWEDEN’S AND EUROPE’S BEST WORKPLACES – SBAB finished in fourth place in Great Place to Work’s list of Sweden’s best workplaces in Selected key metrics 2019, in the Large Companies category. We ranked 695 20th in the same category in all of Europe. RESPEKTTRAPPAN FOR ALL – During the year we launched Respekttrappan (eng. Respect ladder) Number of employees online for companies and organisations to use, free of charge, as part of their efforts to create more inclusive workplaces. SBAB HONOURED FOR OUR WAY OF INCLUDING 93 Number of new colleagues 2019 (net) – In September, we accepted Samhall’s Visa Vägen (eng. Showing the Way) prize for the best employer in 92% the Värmland/Örebro/Dalarna/Dalsland regions based on our approach to inclusion. “I can be myself here” 42 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 An attractive workplace Target Outcome 45–55% Equality 43/57% 2019 & diversity 85% Employee 91% 2019 To achieve our vision, we need everyone who works at SBAB to be engaged, motivated and to share our attitude and values. We dedicate as much focus to our employees’ experience experience as we do to the customer experience. SBAB strives for all employees to feel comfortable being themselves, to have balance in their lives and to feel like we 81% Committed 86% 2019 are all contributing and growing together. We work actively to develop our values-driven way of working, with self-driven employees and inclusive leadership at its core. It is a matter of giving everyone at employees SBAB the tools and courage they need to take initiatives, make wise decisions and implement and test new ideas. That is how we create the speed necessary to build a competitive company in today’s rapidly changing ­market. SBAB emphasises the value of employees with different Supporting the Sustainable experiences. At our company, it is a given that everyone has the same rights, obligations and opportunities in Development Goals every aspect related to the workplace. We want SBAB to be an equal workplace with a high level of integrity that encourages differences and diversity. We are convinced that a mixture of opinions, talents and backgrounds enriches and strengthens our company and thereby our competitiveness. More details about the target area are available on page 174 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 43 An attractive workplace Our people at SBAB The initial time at a new workplace is vital All of us at SBAB have unique personalities, for an employee to feel welcome and skills and experiences that have led us to work here – but we also have a shared 91% secure in his/her career choice. It is important to understand the big picture, regardless of role. Boendeoch boendattitude. We define our attitude through our values, which form the foundation of “I’m proud to tell eekonomiresan (eng. The housing and our corporate culture. We want to work household finances journey) and Boost together in a manner that creates ­people where Camp, our oneand two-day introductempo, determination, efficiency and I work” tion programmes, aim to introduce new innovative thinking. The way we work employees in an energising, motivating together is essential for SBAB to remain a and inclusive manner to SBAB’s corpolong-term ­competitive company. We are rate culture and our values-­driven way of convinced that our values-driven way of working as well as to SBAB as a whole. In working is the solution, with self-driven 2019, we completed eight Boendeoch employees and inclusive leadership at ways forward. SBAB improves and grows boendeekonomiresan days for a total of its core. stronger by recruiting committed individu145 new employees and six Boost Camps When we recruit, we focus on finding als that contribute with their differences, for a total of 127 new employees. future colleagues who share our values. skills and experiences. We want to We want to attract individuals with increase diversity at SBAB by challengpotential for development who want to ing and developing how we attract work with other colleagues to find new ­candidates. 44 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 An attractive workplace Values-driven way of working and self-driven manner. A self-driven We need considerable competence and SBAB is a values-driven company that organisation where everyone makes talent when it comes to leading and livenables employees to be self-driven and smart decisions in their daily work, gets ing with change. Our aim is to make sure to take their own sensible decisions in the a tempo that outperforms traditional, that change management becomes a everyday work. The values-driven way of hierarchical and bureaucratic companies. part of our DNA and our corporate working involves ensuring we work with Aided by agile working principles, ­culture. With full transparency regarding our values in mind – using them as a we strive to further develop a working our sustainable governance model, we basis to consistently practise, discuss and approach characterised by cooperation, want to clarify how everyone’s input give feedback. At SBAB, it is not the continuous learning and full transpar­contributes to our vision and our goals. Executive Management that decides in ency. To optimise for value-generating Consequently, we enable employees to detail how we reach our goals by deleactivities, we deliver often and work understand how their specific duties gating and issuing instructions. Instead dynamically to test and teach ourselves. ­contribute to the whole and why they the focus is always on our employees. By We strive to create autonomous teams specifically are important for SBAB’s serving as role models, our leaders build that, aided by targets and frameworks, ­success. the trust and commitment required to decide themselves how to achieve goals. help employees act in an independent OUR VALUE DRIVERS – “The values-driven way of A value driver (sw. Värderingsdrivare) is a role model employee who working involves ensuring incorporates our values into their life. Through their philosophy and we work with our values in behaviour, it is clear that they have worked hard to achieve our vision and create value for SBAB. This could be a specific behaviour, mind – using them as a an improvement, a saving, a feeling – in principle, any demonstrably basis to consistently consistent action that drives our vision. Since the first value drivers were elected in December 2015, a total of 50 employees have ­practise, discuss and received the award and a place on our digital “Wall of Fame”. give feedback.” Three employees were appointed as value drivers in 2019. TOOLS TO HELP US APPLY A VALUES-DRIVEN WAY OF WORK – Our symbols are practical tools in daily life – they symbolise how we are to act in our day-to-day work. The glass of water The helicopter symThe lighthouse The door symbolises The ladder symboThe fried egg symsymbolises trust. bolises the imporsymbolises the sigcourage. To dare to lises our ability to bolises our infinite The glass is being tance of seeing the nals we send out. think different and take initiatives. The responsibility. To filled by showing bigger picture. To About the importo step out into the higher up the ladtake on responsibiltrust, whereas water be able to undertance of being an unknown. der, the more power ity beyond our own spills out when we stand different parts ambassador and of initiative. role of function. act incorrectly. and details. leading by good examples. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 45 An attractive workplace 88% “I feel like I make a difference here” Commitment and experience Being a really attractive workplace requires persistence and a long-term, significant commitment from every employee. This means a shared responsibility in daily routines, where trust, approachability, knowledge sharing and cooperation are essential for everyone to feel energised and thrive together. We measure the progress we have made in our perception of our workplace through our annual employee survey in collaboration with the company Great Place to Work (GPTW) and through supplementary quarterly employee surveys. The aims of such surveys are to increase our understanding of our employees’ commitment and how they experience SBAB, based on the areas of trust, pride and camaraderie. In so doing, we want to create a basis for analysis and dialogue at departmental and team level, as well as a clearer understanding of the activities we should be focusing on to improve and maintain our employees’ experiences of SBAB. GREAT PLACE TO WORK In the most recent employee survey, – 91 percent (85) of employees consider SBAB an overall great place to work. The Every year, Great Place to Work conducts a world-wide worklevel of employee engagement, the Total place study that evaluates the quality of thousands of workTrust Index, in GPTW’s annual survey places from two perspectives: employee and employer. In increased to 86 percent (81). Sweden, several hundred organisations participate, and the best have the chance to win a seal of approval. SBAB finished in fourth place in this year’s list of Sweden’s top workplaces in the Large Organisations category. A ranking that also led to us being named the 20th best workplace in Europe in the same category. 46 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 INSIGHT | INTRODUCTION TO CUSTOMER SERVICE Creating engagement from day one Customer service in Karlstad is the unit that recruits the most employees every year. It is of the utmost importance that new ­colleagues have as solid and comprehensive an introduction as possible to maintain the high confidence in SBAB. SBAB’s introductory training in Customer Service is comprehensive and lasts between ten and 14 weeks. Jenny Sjöwall, Head of the Training Team, explains the importance of making sure new employees understand and become part of the big picture instead of only focusing on learning their work tasks. Can you explain more about how you revised the introductory training this year? “We’ve had solid introductory training for several years but we noticed that there was a gap in the experience between the introduction itself and the everyday work What do the first days on the job work tasks. This is why we’ve worked hard that followed it. In 2019, we took addilook like for a new colleague in to give employees a sense of SBAB and tional steps to develop the introduction, ­Customer Service? why they’re important here. We want to with more focus on daily work experi“Like with all other new hire processes at create engagement from day one, and a ences, the big picture and the social SBAB, we begin our shared journey even sense of security that comes from knowdimensions, to make it easier for employbefore the employee’s first day on the ing they’ve chosen the right employer. ees to start working,” says Jenny, and job. The manager starts a relationship The big picture is incredibly important for continues: through a greeting that also provides motivation. We continuously collect feed“New employees spend their entire information about practical tasks. At the back and adjust the contents and training period in our training team, office, we spend two days getting to arrangement. There’s a big difference which also includes at least three menknow each other in groups and learning between how the introduction looks tors. The number of mentors varies based more about SBAB and our corporate cultoday and when we started.” on the size of the group. All of the ture. We weave theory with practice and account managers in Customer Service employees also complete the first step of Have you seen any results from the new can apply for the role at each new round Respekttrappan to understand right away working method yet? of training. Mentorship is considered a how we work with respect and equality, “Yes, absolutely. Many more people pass development possibility and is very popuand that they are expected to contribute the licensing exam for mortgage loans on lar. Working with rotating mentorship in these efforts.” the first try, more people take in the informakes the workplace dynamic more lively mation during training quicker and there – a mentor not only contributes their What is the goal of this arrangement? is a higher level of quality and comfort in knowledge, but also their contact net“Being new in Customer Service is tough. employees afterwards. It’s quite obvious work so that employees quickly feel welEverything is new: the company, colthat the experience and understanding of come in the corporate culture. This year, leagues, work tasks. The initial phase is SBAB, both as a company and as a workover 95 employees completed our introrelatively long and there’s a lot of knowlplace, is essential for the performance.” duction, along with 19 different mentors.” edge to take in. It’s easy to only focus on S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 47 An attractive workplace Inclusive leadership We train new leaders and employees in which explains why regular progress SBAB’s values-driven way of working inclusive leadership, through activities meetings between manager and places major demands on having bold including our leadership development employee form an obvious part of our leaders with a holistic perspective. We programs. In 2019, 40 people completed ongoing work. Management by objecwork with inclusive leadership, which is the program. We also work with existing tives is important for defining and clarifyabout participation, trust, responsibility leaders through workshops in manageing the direction of, and the framework and clarity as well as equality and diversity. ment groups and through our much-apfor, what has to be attained. This work is With our values-driven way of working, preciated Ledarforum (eng. Leader given substance through an individual everyone at SBAB is a leader. We need to forum), which has been completed four annual plan, which is continuously constantly develop the ability to lead and times during the year. ­followed up and adjusted. take responsibility to drive our business ­forward and to set a good example. Learning & Development Mortgage licencing We focus intently on developing a learnIn 2019, we continued to mortgage ing organisation. It is important to ensure licence the majority of our employees. that the work we conduct is up-to-date, Under the EU Mortgage Credit Direc94% relevant and contributes to the right business value and long-term skills developtive, the personnel at organisations that offer credit, credit brokering or advisory ment. Skills are perishable, which is why services in the field of mortgage credits “Employees are opportunities for learning and continuous to consumers are required to possess given a lot of development are strategically important special knowledge and skills. SwedSec priorities. Licensing AB has developed a skills test responsibility” We believe in the self-driven employfor personnel who work with mortgages, ee’s own strength, ability and will to which in turns leads to a licence to be grow. We know that motivation is able to work with mortgages. By year ­intrinsic, which is why we invest so much end, 578 employees had an active mortin creating the conditions for motivation gage licences. Leaders who are responsible for personand the desire to learn. Our developWe have also created conditions for nel have an especially important responment efforts are based on the “70–20– more efficient learning by digitalising sibility within our inclusive leadership. 10-model.” The model means that 70% other regulatory requirements and other They serve as role models, establish tarof our ­learning should come from our knowledge requirements from classroom gets and frameworks, are clear about existing role, 20% from learning from courses to e-learning programmes. expectations and demonstrate trust others through networks or coaching and Today, the main intention of our through not micromanaging. This only 10% from traditional training. ­classroom courses is to serve as in-depth enables us to increase the pace and Reflection and feedback are also discussions and to provide understanding enhance decisiveness and daily innovation. important for learning and development, of more complex issues. OUR HR STRATEGY – CORPORATE CULTURE We have made long-term, focused efforts in our HR strategy. It includes seven focus areas: ­corporate culture, leadership, respect and equality, LEADERSHIP attracting and recruiting, learning and development, health and remuneration. By continuously ATTRACTING & LEARNING & ­RECRUITING DEVELOPMENT and determinedly working in these areas, we want to achieve our long-term goal of being one of HEALTH REMUNERATION ­Sweden’s best workplaces. RESPECT & EQUALITY 48 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 An attractive workplace 86% “Employees are ­encouraged to ­maintain a work-life balance” Our focus on our psychosocial workplace coaches, subsidised health insurance environment is to feel relevant and conand expanded parental pay. We also siderate. Vardagsstödet (eng. The everystrive to actively prevent long-term sick day support), our professional counselleave through partnerships with occupaSustainable employees ling, provides knowledgeable and anonytional health services. We want to enable everyone who works mous help in finding solutions as early as Another part of our proactive efforts with us to have a sound balance in life possible and offer ways ahead in both in health is creating the conditions for all through a sustainable workload. Life consimple and difficult issues. Our managers of us to understand the big picture, what sists of many different phases and chalare trained in health-promoting leadera work environment entails and what it lenges both at work and outside. We ship and adapt the workplace, as much looks like at SBAB in particular. With the want to create a healthy working envias possible, to every individual’s needs goal of clarifying how we work and which ronment and to proactively support every and wishes. Through our digital health responsibilities managers have by proemployee through our health-related iniand wellness portal, employees can viding substance and examples, in 2019 tiatives. We believe in preventing illness choose between several types of healthwe developed our own work environment by offering a variety of proactive health care offerings in all of the locations training. The digital training is available initiatives that contribute to the well-­being where we operate. Additionally, we have for all employees and is obligatory for all and sustainability of our employees. several activities arranged by our wellness managers. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 49 An attractive workplace 92% “I can be myself and drives change, growth and innovainclude respecting and affirming differhere” tion. Our HR strategy helps us ensure ences. We want all of our employees to that we are always focused on respect feel that they are seen, appreciated and and equality. Inclusion is a central conrespected for who they are. cept in our values. SBAB also has a policy As proof our work with respect and that emphasises the value of employees equality, in 2019 we accepted an award with different backgrounds. from the “Nyckeltalinstitutet” for the best One of our targets concerns equality equality index (JÄMIX) among finance Respect and equality between men and women in manageand insurance companies in Sweden. For SBAB, it is a given that all employees ment positions. At year end, 43% (44) have the same rights, obligations and were women and 57% (56) were men. opportunities in every aspect related to Respect and equality are about much the workplace. We want to be an equal more than just gender. They include all workplace with a high level of integrity the targets and activities implemented that encourages difference. We are conwith the aim of promoting equal rights vinced that a mixture of opinions, talent and opportunities at the workplace and and backgrounds enriches our company thereby combat discrimination. They also SBAB HONOURED FOR OUR WAY OF INCLUDING – In September SBAB accepted Samhall’s Visa Vägen Statement from the jury: (eng. Showing the Way) prize for the best employer in the “Through noticing and affirming individuals based on their Värmland/Örebro/Dalarna/Dalsland regions based on our abilities rather than their disabilities, SBAB creates an incluapproach to inclusion. The Visa Vägen prize is awarded by sive workplace that allows people to grow and develop in the Samhall to those in the industry who help bring individuals best possible way based on their own circumstances. The with disabilities integrate into the labour market. SBAB won company shows that the right person in the right place can be the prize for the Karlstad office’s kitchen and cleaning staff, a role model for others and that diversity provides more skills.” who we hired through Samhall. 50 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 An attractive workplace RESPEKTTRAPPAN – SBAB’s values-driven way of working is based on our values. Inclusion with respect and equality is at the core of our values. Inclusion creates commitment and makes us an attractive employer, which makes us more efficient and stronger in our business. The #metoo movement in autumn 2017 clearly showcased the lack of respect and equality at workplaces. Together with the Make Equal foundation, in 2018 we created the Respekttrappan (eng. Respect Ladder) tool, which is a practical tool with seven steps of exercises. Respekttrappan is a tool focused on a playful approach to create the preconditions that, from differing perspectives and in various ways, enable us to learn more about, to reflect on and talk about respect and equality. Respekttrappan is based on a change perspective. Each step includes various exercises of differing character that address different subjects. Some exercises are individual, but most are group-based. These eye-opening exercises c­ reate trust within the group and can lead to strong emotional ­reactions and discussions. Everyone at SBAB completes the exercises on work time together with their groups. In 2019 we launched Respekttrappan externally at www.respekttrappan.se for companies and organisations to use, free of charge, as part of their efforts to create more inclusive workplaces. “In 2019 we launched Respekttrappan externally at www.respekttrappan.se for companies and organisations to use, free of charge, as part of their efforts to c­ reate more inclusive ­workplaces.” vykort_efter.indd 1 2019-06-26 15:15:19 7. Do. 7. Gör. 6. Map. 6. Kartlägg. 5. Reflect. 5. Reflektera. 4. Experience. 4. Upplev. 3. Quiz. 3. Quizza. 2. Learn. 2. Lär. 1. Think. 1. Tänk. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 51 INSIGHT | SBAB’S RESPECT AND EQUALITY EFFORTS SBAB and Make Equal launch Respekttrappan – for everyone! In the wake of #metoo, SBAB and Make Equal decided How does Respekttrappan solve this? “Respekttrappan is a tool focused on an to use their collective strength to promote increased approach to create the preconditions respect and equality, both at work and in society. that, from differing perspectives and in various ways, enable us to learn more about, to reflect on and talk about respect and equality. It begins with us Carina Eriksson, Head of HR, what is Why are you choosing to broaden the and we need to work from the inside the background for these efforts at focus to more than just harassment and out,” says Carina. SBAB regarding respect and equality? abuse? Isn’t that enough? “Respekttrappan is based on a “At SBAB, it is a given that all employees “This is a classic question and many change perspective. Each step includes have the same rights, obligations and ­companies today work very reactively. various exercises of differing character opportunities in every aspect related to They handle the problem when it that address different subjects. By workthe workplace. But for us, respect and becomes visible, through registered ing with Respekttrappan, we create the equality are much more than that. This complaints and so on. This doesn’t creconditions for every participant to also means that behaviour we might not ate any change – it treats the symptoms, become aware of what they weren’t prethink about, norms and habits that we not the disease. Additionally, it’s more viously aware of, which is incredibly might not notice in our daily lives, should efficient to work preventively and save important. We all need to understand no longer be acceptable. It is not good money as well as human suffering. I usuthat the world maybe doesn’t look or business sense to exclude others and we ally talk about the violence pyramid as an work the same way for me as it does for want to address all these issues we perexample of how jargon, a culture of others, and that depends on many haps neither think about nor see, and we silence, objectification and t­ raditional ­different things,” says Frida. want to address them tangibly – now. gender roles lay the foundation for and At SBAB as well as at other companies. even enable more degrading v­ iolations. What is the plan moving forward? We want to do what we can to change In other words, harassment and other “In 2019, we made Respekttrappan the world.” serious violations don’t occur in a vacexternally available for other organisauum, but are legitimised over time tions and companies to use free of Frida Hasselblad, CEO of the Make through, for example, sexist jargon and charge. We think this is incredibly importEqual foundation, what made you want an organisational culture that permits ant, so we want to help in any way we to take this journey with SBAB? abuse. And vice versa. In organisations can. The plan is to continue to spread “We’re solutions-focused equality with clear values and an inclusive climate, this knowledge and support other comexperts at Make Equal and we work with there’s no foundation for severe violations panies who are brave enough to work methods and tools for practical equality towards other persons,” says Frida. with the tool,” says Carina. efforts. We work to shift the focus to how “I agree with Frida on this. We need to “Yes, we’re seeing interest from a lot we can all be a part of the solution instead create real change if we’re going to get of companies, and some have already of the problem. When someone underanywhere, both as a company and as a started, but we need to do more. Both stands that equality is important, we can society. Many of the problems brought up with getting everyone to understand the help through how we can create change. by #metoo are based in norms and habimportance and advantages of working This was what we saw at SBAB: the will its that most of us probably aren’t even with this, but also with having the courand the conviction to c­ reate change aware of. Everyday things that we’re so age to start. And then the perseverance were already there. That’s precisely what used to that we don’t react to them,” to keep going. Small but practical steps our goal is as well. SBAB’s employees continues Carina. forward create a better workplace where have invested a lot of work hours in the more people can reach their full potenexercises in Respekttrappan and listening tial,” concludes Frida. to all of the conversations and insights they’ve led to gives you a powerful feeling.” 52 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 DID YOU KNOW? In organisations with clear ­values and an inclusive ­climate, there’s no foundation for ­severe violations towards ­ other persons. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 53 Sound finances Our responsible and transparent loans and savings services contribute to better housing and household finances for our customers and for society. We invest for long-term competitiveness and we are growing and capturing market shares. Growth and cost efficiency lead to profitability and sound finances. 2019 Highlights Responsibility and transparency An attractive workplace Sound finances HEALTHY GROWTH AND STABLE FINANCIAL ­PERFORMANCE – Lending growth for residential mortgages was healthy after a somewhat weaker start at the beginning Selected key metrics of the year. Total lending increased 5.4% to SEK 383.8 billion (364.2). The results were strong and SBAB’s financial key metrics were stable. GREEN COVERED BOND – In early 2019, the SBAB 5.4% Lending growth Group became the first institution in Sweden to issue a green covered bond backed by residential mortgages and 0.32% property loans. INVESTMENTS FOR FUTURE COMPETITIVENESS – We continue to invest in the future in areas such as customer C/L ratio (costs/lending) experience, customer service, digitalisation and IT. We also continued the replacement of SBAB’s entire core banking system during the year. A modern and flexible IT system is important for strengthening SBAB’s ability to develop digital services, improve interactions with customers, improve 12.75 Green bonds outstanding, SEK bn the customer experience, create cost efficiency and secure SBAB’s future competitiveness. 54 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Target Outcome ≥10.0% 11.7% Profitability 2019 ≥40% 0% Dividend 2019 ≥0.6% 2.4% CET1 capital ratio 2019 ≥0.6% 5.2% As part of the housing market and financial system, SBAB has a responsibility to promote a national economy that is sustainable Total capital ratio 2019 over the long term. Well-functioning banks contribute to growth, societal development and employment and constitute an important element of financial stability. To ensure SBAB’s long-term competitiveness, our operations need investments. Investments, in turn, require growth and large Supporting the Sustainable business volumes. We want to grow responsibly, with good ­profitability and always at an acceptable risk. Good profitability Development Goals requires high long-term cost efficiency with low marginal costs for growth and developing the customer offering. Sound finances are a prerequisite for our ability to achieve ­sustainable operations, and by extension to create value for SBAB, our stakeholders and society in general. More details about the target area are available on page 176 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 55 Sound finances Responsible growth t­ aking is always reasonable and that our SBAB’s total lending amounted to SEK Growth is central for companies in comcustomers borrow the right amount at 383.8 billion at year end, compared with petitive markets. If they grow, it is proof the right price. SEK 364.2 billion at the end of 2018. This that their customer offering is in demand. Responsible growth also involves corresponded to net growth of 5.4% in Responsible lending is a prerequisite ensuring that our growth is sustainable 2019. Deposits also exhibited strong for responsible credit growth. SBAB’s over the long term with respect to the growth during the year, increasing 4.5% credit granting must be sustainable over ­climate. We want to help the housing to SEK 130.5 billion. The fact that so many the long term. We have a responsibility to and properties we finance become more people choose to become customers of finance homes for customers who are energy-efficient. We can achieve this SBAB is clear confirmation that we have creditworthy – we do not want our custhrough stimuli in the form of green lendan attractive and esteemed customer tomers to have problems paying interest ing products, technical consultations and offering. and amortisations. We always need to strategic choices in our lending. Different develop our ability to assess creditworthisustainability criteria will likely be given ness so as to ensure that SBAB’s risk more importance in future credit granting decisions. GOOD CREDIT QUALITY IS IMPORTANT Read more on pages 69 and 95 – Good credit quality is important for SBAB’s long-term profitability because it helps us avoid losses. We have a responsibility to ensure that our customers do not end up in difficult situations if, for ­example, interest rates increase. Good credit quality is also a condition for a high credit rating, which facilitates SBAB’s access to advantageous funding. We work determinedly and continuously to ensure good credit quality in our lending portfolio. Important metrics include debt-to-income ratio and loan-to-value (LTV) ratio. We follow the quality of our inflows carefully and make adjustments as necessary. This has meant adapting operations to new amortisation regulations and developing existing credit rules. An important instrument for ensuring good credit quality is our pricing model, which gives our customers incentive to reduce risk for themselves as well as for SBAB. We have also worked on distribution and customer communications customised for target groups. The credit quality of SBAB’s lending remains healthy and the risks entailed in lending are deemed low. Net credit losses for 2019 totalled SEK 26 million (recoveries: 11). This corresponded to a credit loss ratio of –0.01% (0.00). At the end of 2019, the average LTV ratio in SBAB’s mortgage portfolio was 60% (61). 56 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Sound finances Total lending, SEK bn 384 364 335 297 296 +5% 15 16 17 18 19 Total deposits, SEK bn 131 125 112 97 +4% 77 15 16 17 18 19 Net interest income, SEK million Selected key metrics GROUP 3,473 3,362 2019 2018 Balance sheet items 2019 2018 Total lending, SEK bn 383.8 364.2 Total deposits, SEK bn 130.5 124.9 Income statement items Return on equity Net interest income, SEK million 3,473 3,362 11.7% 12.1% Net commission, SEK million –14 –49 Net result of financial transactions, SEK million 26 –65 2019 2018 Expenses, SEK million –1,187 –1,049 Credit losses, SEK million –26 11 Operating profit, SEK million 2,308 2,241 C/I ratio Key performance indicators 33.7% 32.0% Return on equity, % 11.7 12.1 C/I ratio, % 33.7 32.0 2019 2018 CET1 capital ratio, % 13.1 12.5 Dividend, % 0 40 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 57 INSIGHT | CLIMATE RISK ANALYSIS “Our initial analyses and climate stress tests show that relatively few customers in the foreseeable future will be affected and that the impact on SBAB’s operations are therefore deemed to be limited.” Climate risk a ­ nalysis of SBAB’s residential ­mortgage portfolio Climate change is affecting the housing and property market. Sea levels are rising and extreme weather patterns are becoming more violent and more frequent. “We are exposed to climate risk in our 700 million. This type of incident will be in the foreseeable future will be affected lending. The risks are different dependmore common in a future, changed cliand that the impact on SBAB’s operaing on the geographic location and will mate. For existing buildings, preventive tions are therefore deemed to be limited. be more extensive over time. As a longand adaptive measures will be importHowever, some geographic areas are term supplier of mortgages, it is relevant ant. With new housing production, the exposed to more risk than others. It is to analyse different climate scenarios, conditions and placement are important, important that we act responsibly and both in the short and long term,” says as well as the design and material inform our customers of the risks posed Axel Wallin, Head of Sustainability at choices. We have to make an overall risk by climate change when we have comSBAB. assessment, and climate risk should be a pleted our analyses,” says Axel, and Changes in the average annual natural part of that assessment.” ­continues: ­temperature have consequences for the In 2019, SBAB conducted stress tests “In 2020, we will continue to refine climate in the form of rising sea levels, for climate-related risk to understand the the initial analyses. It’s also our ambition more rain, earlier springs, lower ground impact on the residential mortgage to continue to communicate and eduwater levels and fresh water shortages. ­portfolio. This was based on recommencate our customers about climate risk For buildings and collateral it is thus dations from the Task Force on Climate-­ and how to adapt property to a new important to understand the risks for Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). ­climate in the future,” concludes Axel. flooding, collapse, landslides and erosion. The stress tests evaluate how securities in “Increased precipitation can increase SBAB’s residential mortgage portfolio water penetration in basements and are affected by different scenarios, for cause problems with damp. This has example rising sea levels and hundred-year financial consequences. In August 2014, flooding events in Swedish watercourses. downpours in Malmö caused material “Our initial analyses and climate stress damage of between SEK 600 and tests show that relatively few customers 58 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Sound finances Cost efficiency Another metric for cost efficiency, which Extraordinary Board Meeting held on In recent years, banking operations have is also an important part of SBAB’s interMarch 17, 2020, the Board of Directors become increasingly complex and nal monitoring, is the C/L ratio – costs in resolved to not propose a dividend for demanding due to increased digitalisation relation to lending. In 2019, SBAB’s C/L the financial year 2019. For more inforand its consequent change in customer ratio amounted to 0.32% (0.30). mation, refer to Note G 5. needs as well as regulatory developments, especially around issues concernProfitability Capitalisation ing customer experiences, reporting, Profitability creates the prerequisites for It is important for SBAB to be well capicapital and liquidity. This increased growth and investments in our operatalised, since this promotes increased ­complexity has led to an increased need tions. Profitability also provides SBAB confidence from our stakeholders, finanfor investments which in turn increase with the preconditions for building stable cial stability and the opportunity to grow fixed expenses for conducting banking own funds, which is crucial for creating lending. We also hold capital to ensure operations. confidence among our stakeholders such the company’s resilience in more adverse Digitalisation and new customer as savings customers, bond investors, economic conditions. To a large extent, behaviour fundamentally change the ­ratings institutes and government authoriSBAB’s capital requirements are govvalue of the customer offering, how it is ties. We achieve profitability through erned by laws and regulations, superoffered and what the customer pays for developing and working with both revevised by Finansinspektionen (the Swedish each product and service. Digitalisation nue and cost streams. The revenue factors FSA). Through our capital targets we makes it significantly easier to compare with the largest impact are growth in the govern which safety margins we want in products and prices, which increases the form of more customers, growth in lendrelation to the regulatory requirements. competition for goods and services. The ing and interest margins on lending. As The Board resolved in 2018 to adjust the expenses for distributing services digiregards costs, low marginal costs is the buffer levels in SBAB’s capital targets as tally, including financial services, are low. most important factor for achieving longa result of the amended method for The marginal cost of offering one more term cost efficiency, both for conducting applying risk-weight floors for Swedish component is thus also low. When necesoperations and for growth. SBAB’s profitresidential mortgages. According to the sary investments have been made, the ability target specifies a return on equity adjusted targets, under normal condibanks’ marginal costs are extremely low, of no less than 10% over a business tions, SBAB’s CET1 capital ratio and which means that the price the customer cycle. Return on equity in 2019 total capital ratio should be at least 0.6 pays for a digital banking service in a amounted to 11.7% (12.1). percentage points higher than the CET1 competitive market is also close to zero. capital requirement communicated by One exception is the price on money Dividend the Swedish FSA. The Swedish FSA’s borrowed – this is a finite resource. Part of our funding comes from our requirements corresponded at year end ­Borrowing money entails a risk, which is owner, the Swedish state, in the form of to a CET1 capital ratio of 10.7% and a why borrowed money always has a price. equity. In return for its contribution, the total capital ratio of 14.9%. At the end of We are a digital bank, which means owner receives a return through the the year, the CET1 capital ratio that we have no physical bank offices profit generated by operating activities. amounted to 13.1% (12.5) and the total and that most of our customer meetings In accordance with the owner’s dividend capital ratio to 20.1% (18.1). This protake place in digital channels and over target, at least 40% of profit after tax is vides a comfortable margin to both interthe phone. Cost-efficiency is therefore to be distributed, taking SBAB’s capital nal targets and external regulatory very important. To ensure SBAB’s longstructure into consideration. At an requirements. term competitiveness, we invest in our operations. Not only to improve our ­customer offering, but also to make ourselves more efficient and make it possible for us to grow with the lowest possible marginal costs. We want the marginal REPLACING THE CORE costs for growing with more customers BANKING SYSTEM and larger volumes to be so low that we – will always be able to offer competitive In 2017 we began the replaceterms on our credits and services. ment of SBAB’s entire core bankSBAB’s expenses increased 13.2% ing system. The project is ongoing during the year to SEK 1,187 million and requires considerable time (1,049) primarily due to increased operand resources. Modern, flexible ational investments in areas including system support comprises a key customer experience and customer sercomponent for strengthening vice, digitalisation and IT. One way of SBAB’s future competitiveness, measuring total cost efficiency is the C/I and its ability to develop digital ratio – costs in relation to income. This is services and enhance the digital a metric that describes how much each customer interface. The project krona earned actually costs SBAB. We is expected to be completed continue to be the most cost-efficient in 2021. residential mortgage bank in Sweden with a C/I ratio of 33.7% (32.0). S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 59 INSIGHT | GREEN MORTGAGES A green cycle of funds In mid-2016, SBAB became the first developments through green bonds. Since our first green bond in 2016, we have been bank in Sweden to issue a green a recurring issuer of green bonds in different bond. Since then SBAB has been a debt classes.” recurring issuer, explains Fredrik Jönsson, Head of Treasury at SBAB. Green covered bond In early 2019, SBAB published a new, updated In 2008, the World Bank issued the world’s first framework for issuing green bonds. green bond. Since then the market for green “The new framework is broader and also bonds has grown significantly, not least in includes our Green Mortgages. This meant ­Sweden. “By purchasing that we, during 2019, were able to become “A green bond actually works just like a green bonds, the first player in Sweden to issue a green cov­normal bond, the exception being that the the ered bond backed by residential mortgages ­investors can be and property loans.” funds raised are to be used for environmentally or climate friendly projects. By purchasing involved and The issue amounted to SEK 6 billion, which green bonds, investors can be involved and finance projects means that it is one of the largest green bonds finance projects that are sustainable,” says that are sustainissued on the Swedish market to date. Fredrik, and continues: “Of course it’s exciting to be at the cutting able.” edge of this type of transactions, and to steer “Considerable interest exists in building a sustainable society with energy-friendly and the housing market in a more sustainable climate-smart housing. Similarly, there is condirection together with our customers and siderable demand from investors to fund these investors,” concludes Fredrik. ABOUT SBAB’S GREEN BONDS GREEN BONDS IMPACT Green Bonds Impact Report 2019 GREENING – REPORTING THE FUTURE The funds SBAB raises through our green bond issues are – used to finance or refinance residential properties that Eligible investment objects within meet a number of energy-efficiency criteria or hold cerSBAB’s green bond frameworks tain environmental certification. The terms for onward amounted at year end to SEK 24.5 lending and the conditions for issuing our green bonds ­billion. According to SBAB’s calculaare described in more detail in SBAB’s green bond tions, these objects are estimated to SBAB Bank AB (publ) AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation — SCBC) frameworks (“SBAB Green Bond Framework 2016” and generate an annual avoidance in “SBAB Green Bond Framework 2019”), available on GHG emissions corresponding to www.sbab.se. The independent climate and environ13,048 tonnes CO2e. SBAB’s share mental research institute, Center for International of the financing is expected to corre­Climate and Environmental Research – Oslo (CICERO) spond to an annual avoidance of has reviewed SBAB’s sustainability work and approved 7,559 tonnes of CO2e. the investment categories chosen as green investments. SBAB’s two green bond frameworks are classified as Medium Green. Green bonds outstanding at the end of the year totalled SEK 12.75 billion (3.75). 60 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 DID YOU KNOW? In 2019, the SBAB Group became the first institution in Sweden to issue a green covered bond backed by residential mortgages and property loans. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 61 2019 Financial report 2019 FINANCIAL REPORT SBAB’s operations continue to develop favourably with healthy volume growth, stable financial results and strong KPIs. 62 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 2019 Financial report Condensed income statement Condensed balance sheet + SBAB’S income SBAB’S assets 2019 2019 SEK million (2018) SEK billion (2018) Net interest income 3,473 Securities (liquidity reserve) 77 SBAB’s largest and most important revenue item is net interest (3,362) In order to maintain high liquidity, SBAB has various forms of (72) income, which comprises the difference between SBAB’s securities, mainly in the form of a liquidity portfolio. The interest income and interest expenses. Interest income is liquidity portfolio was set up to ensure access to finance at primarily from SBAB’s residential mortgages and housing times when SBAB’s normal funding sources are not operating loans, while interest expenses mainly comprise SBAB’s costs for satisfactorily. funding and deposits. Lending to the public 384 Net commission –14 SBAB’s largest asset item in the balance sheet is lending to the (364) Net commission mainly comprises income from insurance (–49) public. This item comprises residential mortgages and broking and other credit-related fees and expenses related to consumer loans to private individuals as well as housing loans funding and valuations. to corporates and tenant-owners’ associations. Net result of financial transactions 26 Lending to credit institutions 0 The net result of financial transactions arises through SBAB’s (–65) For short-term liquidity management, SBAB utilises, inter alia, (3) application of financial instruments and as a result of the repo market to invest or borrow money from other banks. accounting valuation effects. Derivatives 13 Other operating income 36 SBAB utilises various forms of derivatives both on the asset and (8) Other operating income primarily consists of income from the (32) liability sides to protect the company against undesired subsidiary Booli Search Technologies AB. changes in interest rates or exchange rates. Total income 3,521 Total assets 476 (3,280) (448) – SBAB’S expenses SBAB’S liabilities and equity 2019 2019 SEK million (2018) SEK billion (2018) Expenses –1,187 Deposits 131 SBAB’s expenses mainly comprise personnel, premises and (–1,049) SBAB’s lending is funded by, among other things, deposits from (125) marketing costs and costs for IT and business development. the public. Deposits refer to private individuals, corporates or tenant-owners’ associations saving money in SBAB’s savings Credit losses –26 accounts, in return for interest on their savings. Credit losses arise when SBAB’s customers are unable to pay (11) interest and make loan repayments. We always work to minimise credit losses, based on our adopted risk tolerance Liabilities to credit institutions 11 See the comment under the post “Lending to credit (7) levels. According to regulatory requirements, we also prepare institutions” above. for expected credit losses through provisions. Tax –520 Issued debt securities (funding) 304 The largest part of SBAB’s lending is financed through (291) Tax consists of income tax of 21.4% of net profit for the year (–515) wholesale funding, which is referred to in the balance sheet as with an addition for tax adjustments and any adjustments of tax issued debt securities. for previous years. Total expenses –1,733 Derivatives 1 See the comment under the item “Derivatives” above. (1) (–1,553) Subordinated debt 5 SBAB utilises subordinated debt to strengthen its capital (5) position. The fact that the debt is subordinated means in the event of a bankruptcy, the debt will be realised only when other liabilities have been paid. = Net profit/loss for the year 1,788 Equity 22 (1,726) (17) The net profit for the year comprises total income less total expenses. Net profit is returned to equity. Total liabilities and equity 476 (448) S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 63 Group performance Group performance General information Business development ability to develop digital services and The Board of Directors have signed, and Lending to the public increased 5.4% enhance the digital customer meeting. thereby submitted, the Annual and Susduring the year to SEK 383.8 billion The number of FTEs increased from 602 tainability Report in its entirety. (364.2). New lending totalled SEK 75.5 to 695 over the year. Personnel costs The statutory annual report, including billion (74.3). Of total lending at year amounted to SEK 630 million (543). this administration report, is revised and end, SEK 291.6 billion (276.7) comOther expenses exclusive of depreciaincludes pages 62–79, 89 and 94–168. prised residential mortgages, SEK 2.3 tion, amortisation and impairment SBAB has prepared a statutory susbillion (2.2) consumer loans, SEK 38.4 amounted to SEK 486 million (474). tainability report pursuant to the requirebillion (33.8) lending to property compaDepreciation, amortisation and impairments of the Annual Accounts Act. The nies and SEK 51.5 billion (51.5) lending ment of PPE and intangible assets statutory sustainability report is included to tenant-owners’ associations. amounted to SEK 71 million (32). in the sustainability report that has been The C/I ratio was 33.7% (32.0). prepared in accordance with the GRI Financial results Standards: Core option. SBAB’s sustainOperations continued to develop well Credit losses ability data is shown in cross reference to in 2019. SBAB’s operating profit was Credit losses totalled SEK 26 million the Annual Accounts Act and the GRI on SEK 2,308 million (2,241). The return (recoveries: 11). pages 177 and 180–181. The Sustainon equity was 11.7% (12.1). ability Report has been subject to a limDividends and appropriation of profits ited assurance review. Income At an Extraordinary Board Meeting held The Corporate Governance Report Net interest income grew to SEK 3,473 on March 17, 2020, the Board of Direchas been subject to a statutory review, million (3,362), mainly due to higher tors resolved to not propose a dividend which is less comprehensive than an lending volumes, of which the majority for the financial year 2019. For more audit or auditor’s review. pertained to residential mortgages, and information, please refer to note G 5. lower guarantee fees. Guarantee fees The detailed proposed appropriation of Organisation and operations amounted to SEK 287 million (349) for profits can be found later in this report. SBAB Bank AB (publ) has two business 2019, of which SEK 244 million (299) areas: Retail and Corporate Clients & comprised the resolution fee and SEK Remuneration Tenant-Owners’ Associations. At 31 43 million (49) the the national deposit On 27 February 2020, the government December 2019, SBAB had 695 (602) guarantee fee. decided on new guidelines for remuneremployees at five offices: 288 (267) in The net commission expense was ation and other terms of employment for Solna, 37 (28) in Stockholm, 354 (292) SEK 14 million (expense: 49). The senior executives in state-owned enterin Karlstad, 7 (7) in Gothenburg and change was mainly due to a non-recurprises. These guidelines will be applied 9 (8) in Malmö. Our main IT unit and ring commission expense to a former for the respective companies from the central functions are in Solna. Booli is business partner regarding mediation of 2020 Annual General Meeting and will located in Stockholm. Our Customer mortgages during the comparative period replace the previous guidelines for Centre and Operations are located in in conjunction with the termination of the remuneration and other terms of Karlstad. In Gothenburg and Malmö, partnership. Otherwise, the item was employment for senior executives in there are local account managers serving ­negatively affected by lower commission state-owned enterprises adopted in the Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ income from insurance mediation. 2016. These guidelines are included in Associations business area. The net result of financial transactions the state’s ownership policy. The most increased to SEK 26 million (expense: recently adopted guidelines are proFinancial targets 65), mainly due to differences in value vided in Note IC 5. Our owner, the Swedish government, has changes in hedging instruments and established the following overall financial hedged items as well as the remeasureEvents after the balance sheet date targets for SBAB: ment of credit risk in derivatives. Information about events after the • Profitability: A return on equity of no ­balance sheet date is provided in less than 10% over a business cycle. Expenses Note G 5. • Capitalisation: The CET1 capital ratio Expenses grew to SEK 1,187 million and total capital ratio should be at least (1,049) due to increased operational For further information, please contact: 0.6 percentage points above the investments in areas including customer Further comments on the Group’s financial requirements communicated by the experience and customer service, digitiposition can be found later in this report. Swedish FSA. sation and IT. Efforts to replace SBAB’s Read more on page 95 • Dividend: Ordinary dividend of at least core bank platform are ongoing and 40% of profit for the year after tax, takrequire considerable time and resources. ing the Group’s capital structure into Modern, flexible system support comaccount. prises a key component for strengthening SBAB’s future competitiveness, and its 64 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 market overview A more stable housing market despite a weaker economic trend Activity in the Swedish economy and Low interest rates help the Swedish low investment and subdued private those around us slowed considerably in economy ­consumption. 2019. However, due in part to the supInitially in 2019, the global economic Long interest rates have fallen globally port of falling long interest rates, conditrend remained relatively favourable and in 2019, and are expected to remain low tions in the housing market have stabistable, and generally, no slowdown was in the forthcoming years. The key interest lised following the previous collapse in expected over the coming years. Howrate in the USA is 1.75% following cuts new production. ever, as the year came to a close, the by the Fed in three steps. Over the past tone of assessments changed rapidly and three years, the US economy has thus Developments in the Swedish housing pointed toward 2019 becoming the been impacted by clear upturns and market impact SBAB’s lending and profweakest year since the financial crisis. downturns in the key interest rate. In itability. In turn, developments in the The decline in trade in the wake of trade Europe, however, the ECB has elected housing market are affected by the genconflicts, political uncertainty in many to keep its key interest rate at 0%, where eral state of the Swedish economy. Swecountries and companies’ low willingness it has remained since the start of 2016, den is a small, heavily export-dependent to invest comprised critical factors drivwith no increase expected in the economy that is highly influenced by ing this development. For Sweden, howcoming years. international economic developments. ever, the weakness of the krona has Therefore, in addition to the housing and helped rapid export growth despite weak residential mortgage market, SBAB folinternational demand. The low growth in lows global and domestic macroecoSweden’s GDP in 2019 was instead due nomic developments. to soft domestic demand stemming from Housing price trend Lending growth Deposit growth (HOX index 2005=100) (Percentage, 12-month change) (Percentage, 12-month change) Index % % 350 12 20 10 300 15 8 250 6 10 4 200 5 2 150 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 Total Households, mortgages Households Houses Households, consumer loans Non-financial corporates Apartments Corporates, property loans Tenant-owners’ associations Source: Valueguard, Statistics Sweden (SCB). S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 65 market overview A more stable housing market, Cont. While Swedish interest rates follow interOver the last few years, many housing which essentially corresponds to demand national rates, albeit there may be some developers have had difficulty selling for the growing population, but does not displacement in terms of the economy. their newly produced apartments. For address the underlying housing shortage The Riksbank’s repo rate decision is critisome housing developers, the difficulties of 160,000 units. cal for short-term interest rates. Short have resulted in such measures as lowinterest rates rose at the end of 2018 as ered prices and temporary grace periods Deposits grew faster than lending a result of the Riksbank’s decision in for monthly fees, which have also conDuring the year, households’ mortgages December 2018 to raise the repo rate to tributed to uncertainty regarding the grew 4.9% (5.5) to SEK 3,445 billion –0.25%. Thereafter, they remained relaprice trend for housing. The difficulties (3,284), while loans to tenant-owners’ tively stable in 2019, while long interest are linked to demand for housing not associations increased 1.8% (5.6) to SEK rates slowly declined. Towards the end of meeting the price levels asked for hous491 billion (482). Lower growth rates 2019 however, both short and long intering. The SBAB Booli Housing Market were partly attributable to lower housing est rates began to rise slowly, in anticipaIndex shows clearly that demand is a turnover and partly to the construction of tion of the Riksbank deciding to increase problem that has increased rapidly over tenant-owner apartments. Consistently the repo rate to 0%, as it actually did in the last few years. Since August 2019, it low interest rates, a strong development December. is also the foremost hindrance for housin household income and a large supply ing construction according to the of newly produced housing have all supA more stable housing market National Institute of Economic ported this trend. Households’ consumer After essentially standing still in 2018, Research’s monthly Economic Tendency loans increased 10.3% (8.8) during the housing prices gradually started to rise in Survey. Lower sales have also resulted in year to SEK 248 billion (225). 2019. For the country as a whole, house reduced cash flow for these developers At the end of 2019, households’ prices rose 4.4% and prices for tenantand limited their possibilities for building deposits amounted to SEK 2,007 billion owner apartments increased 4.6%. This more housing. (1,909). During the year, retail deposits signalled dawning optimism in the housChanges in housing prices clearly increased 5.1% (7.3). Rising incomes ing market, which was also reflected in impact production rates for new housing. and a relatively healthy labour market rapidly shortening advertisement periods A period of reduced production followed have provided households greater for new housing production and a genin the wake of the fall in prices a couple opportunities to save, while the slowing eral increase in housing sales. Housing of years ago, and rising prices in 2019 economy has contributed to the desire to turnover, in other words the number of have probably helped stop production save. Households’ deposits, which largely homes sold in relation to the total numdeclining further. All together, this means comprise short-term accounts, therefore ber of housing units, was however lower that the annual production rate has increased at a faster rate than their than normal, particularly for tenantdecreased by more than 30%, from mortgages, despite the low interest rate. owner apartments, which was due to the almost 64,000 housing units in 2017 to The market for deposits from non-finanrepayment requirement. around 43,000 units in 2019. Annual cial corporates, including tenant-owners’ production rates are projected to exceed associations, grew 11.8% (5.6) in 2019 40,000 housing units moving forward, to SEK 1,180 billion (1,055). 66 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Retail business area Retail business area The Retail business area offers services customer offering, competitive rates and Composition of collateral in the loan within housing and household finances, high levels of brand awareness. New portfolio, Retail such as savings and loan products, insurlending amounted to SEK 59.1 billion ance mediation, housing search engine (62.2) in 2019. At the end of the year, SEK billion 2019 2018 2017 services and real estate-agent services. we had 279,000 residential mortgage Mortgage deeds 146.2 140.0 126.5 The core product is residential mortcustomers (270,000) allocated over Tenant-owners’ rights 145.3 136.6 121.5 gages. Activities are operated under the 178,000 mortgage objects financed SBAB, Booli and HittaMäklare brands. (172,000). The residential mortgage Municipal guarantees and direct loans to SBAB does not have any offices for physimarket share was 8.47% (8.41) at the municipalities 0.1 0.1 0.1 cal customer meetings — we meet our end of the year, which puts SBAB in fifth Government customers and users digitally or by teleplace after the four major banks. Data guarantees 0.0 0.0 0.0 phone. Our market share in terms of resifrom Statistics Sweden show that SBAB’s Bank guarantees 0.0 0.0 0.0 dential mortgages amounted at to 8.47% share of net growth in the residential at year end, which makes us the fifth-largmortgage market totalled 9% (17) over Other collateral 0.0 0.0 0.0 est residential mortgage bank in Sweden. the year. Consumer loans 1) 2.3 2.2 2.0 Booli.se is Sweden’s second-­largest SBAB’s lending is concentrated to the Total 294.0 278.9 250.1 search engine for housing with over Stockholm, Öresund and Gothenburg 1) Unsecured loans to retail customers. 900,000 unique visitors each month. regions, which together represent 84.8% Our strategy is to offer a differentiof the residential mortgage stock. The ated, value-creating customer offering large majority of SBAB’s residential mortPartnerships within the housing and household gage customers choose shorter maturA smaller part of SBAB’s lending to confinances ecosystem with a clear focus on ities. The share of total lending with a sumers is carried out in partnership with residential mortgages. three-month fixed-interest period other participants. At year end, the total amounted to 73.5% (70.1) at the end of volume of mediated residential mortResidential mortgages the year. gages amounted to around SEK 25 bilDuring the beginning of the year, clear At the end of 2019, the average LTV lion (46), which is equivalent to 8.5% signs emerged that competition had ratio in SBAB’s mortgage portfolio was (16.5) of SBAB’s total lending to retail changed in the residential mortgage 60% (61). At the same date, the average customers. Approximately SEK 15 billion market. Several of the major banks residential mortgage to retail customers (18) of the distributed residential mortannounced their intent to make defendamounted to SEK 1.7 million (1.6). gages were mediated under SBAB’s own ing residential mortgage market shares brand. The remainder, about SEK 10 biltheir top priority. The smaller mortgage Condensed income statement, Retail lion (28), were mediated residential banks strengthened their offerings with mortgages using other brands, with campaign interest rates and bundled SEK million 2019 2018 2017 SBAB as the underlying creditor. offers, while new market participants Operating income 2,691 2,568 2,457 During the fourth quarter 2019, started to elbow for space. As a result, SBAB’s partnership with ICA Banken Expenses –957 –848 –766 our growth slowed. We strengthened our regarding the mediation of residential offering, thereby returning to healthy Net credit losses –16 –10 7 mortgages was discontinued. ICA Bankgrowth in the second quarter. Operating profit 1,718 1,710 1,698 en’s mediated loan portfolio (SEK 19.3 During the year, the total volume of Return on equity, % 11.8 12.6 14.4 billion at 30 November 2019) remains on retail mortgages increased 5.4% (11.5) SBAB’s balance sheet and customer relato a total of SEK 291.6 billion (276.7) tionships transferred to SBAB after the driven by the continued strength of the collaboration ceased. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 67 Retail business area Retail business area, Cont. During the fourth quarter, SBAB and ­ artners are to promote transparency in p Savings accounts Sparbanken entered into an amendment the customer offerings and act in such a In comparison with the zero interest agreement relating to the parties manner that strengthens confidence in offered by the major banks, SBAB’s parternship agreement regarding the SBAB and the financial market in genattractive offering with straightforward mediation of residential mortgages eral. We prioritise business partners and favourable terms has resulted in (SEK 9.7 billion at 31 December 2019). where we see growth potential through many customers choosing to save with According to the amendment agreemodern and digital distribution methods, us. Deposits are extremely important if ment, Sparbanken Syd is entitled to primarily online and via mobile phones. we are to have a competitive offering in mediate new residential mortgages on terms of residential mortgages and housbehalf of SBAB until 30 November 2020 Consumer loans ing financing, since it comprises a valuat the latest and to acquire the entire A consumer loan is a loan without a able and growing share of our funding loan portfolio, or parts thereof, during requirement for collateral. Unlike resifor lending. Our savings accounts offer the period from 1 July 2020 until 31 dential mortgages, consumer loans are competitive interest rates, are free of December 2023. Further information will not connected to any specific purpose, charge, have free withdrawals and are be provided in conjunction with the comalthough they are frequently used to supcovered by the national deposit guaranpletion of any acquisition of residential plement residential mortgages in relation tee. Retail deposits during the year mortgages by Sparbanken Syd. to home finance. At the end of the year, amounted to SEK 92.0 billion (87.1). At SBAB will continue to broker residenthe total consumer loans amounted to the same date, the market share was tial mortgages under its own brand via SEK 2.3 billion (2.2). At the same date, 4.68% (4.65). The increase was due to a selected partnerships where we see a the market share was 0.83% (0.87). At competitive savings rate, marketing iniclear added value. It is of material impor31 December 2019, about 34,000 custiatives to position the savings products tance to achieving responsible growth tomers (32,000) had consumer loans in the market as well as a continuing high that all distribution channels work suswith SBAB. level of deposits in savings accounts by tainably. This means that business households. At the end of the year, Increased market shares During the year, the total volume of retail mortgages increased around 5.4% to SEK 291.6 billion (276.7) driven by the continued strength of the customer offering, competitive rates and high levels of brand ­awareness. The residential mortgage market share increased to 8.47% (8.41). Volume and market share, New lending and redemption, Volume and market share, ­residential mortgages ­residential mortgages deposits, retail SEK bn % SEK bn SEK bn % 300 12 80 100 10 250 10 60 80 8 40 200 8 60 6 20 150 6 0 40 4 100 4 –20 20 2 50 2 –40 0 0 –60 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 Residential mortgages, SEK billion New lending Redemption Deposits, SEK billion Market share, % Total Market share, % 68 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Retail business area approximately 350,000 (329,000) retail number of unique visitors per month to compensation to the homeowner in case customers held savings accounts with www.booli.se was around 919,000 of damage to the home or house. These SBAB. (930,000) over the year. Booli’s monthly products protect our customers, but they home valuation email had approximately also add value for SBAB, as good insurance User trends 400,000 subscribers at the end of 2019. protection reduces the risk of credit losses. Our customer offering is an ecosystem HittaMäklare is Sweden’s largest serof services relating to housing and housevice for finding and recommending real hold finances. Through the services we estate agents. HittaMäklare’s service for provide in Booli, HittaMäklare and SBAB, locating estate agents was used by about we wish to help our customers meet their 86% of the registered estate agents in needs and solve issues in life’s housing Sweden. journey. Every month, many visit SBAB’s webInsurance broking site to manage their mortgages and savWe offer two insurance products that are ings or to find inspiration about housing related to residential mortgages and and household finances. The average housing in different ways: mortgage number of unique visitors per month to insurance and home insurance. Mortwww.sbab.se was around 443,000 gage insurance insures customers (505,000). During the year, the SBAB against unemployment or sick leave, app reached 90,000 monthly active by compensating the monthly cost of the users. loan. Mortgage insurance also means Booli.se is a popular platform for findthat the borrower’s residential mortgage ing information about supply, demand may be wholly or partially written off in and price trends for housing.The average the event of death. Home insurances pay Sound credit quality in the lending portfolio We work determinedly and continuously to ensure sound credit quality in our lending portfolio. This has meant adapting ­operations to new amortisation regulations, developing existing credit rules and implementing more risk-based pricing. In addition, we are working on distribution and customer communication customised for target groups. Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio Average debt-to-income ratio Geographic distribution of in the mortgage portfolio in new lending in 2019 the mortgage portfolio LTV 0–50% 28% (28) Debt ratio ≤3.5 45% (38) Stockholm region 63.8% (65.3) LTV 50–75% 47% (46) Debt ratio <3.5 – ≤4.5 38% (38) Öresund region 11.0% (10.9) LTV 75–85% 18% (18) Debt ratio >4.5 18% (24) Gothenburg region 10.0% (9.7) LTV >85% 7% (8) University and growth areas 9.3% (8.4) Other regions 5.9% (5.7) S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 69 Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners' Associations business area Corporate Clients & TenantOwners’ Associations business area The Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Composition of collateral in the loan at least once a year. At 31 December Associations business area offers housing portfolio, Corporate Clients & 2019, SBAB’s total lending to corporate financing solutions to property companies, Tenant-Owners’ Associations clients and tenant-owners’ associations housing developers and tenant-owners’ amounted to SEK 89.9 billion (85.3), of associations as well as savings accounts to SEK billion 2019 2018 2017 which SEK 38.4 billion (37.2) comprised corporates and organisations. We finance Mortgage deeds 88.8 83.7 83.5 lending to corporate clients and SEK multi-family dwellings, existing as well as 51.5 billion (51.0) lending to Tenant-owners’ rights 0.0 0.0 0.0 new construction. Our lending to this segtenant-owners’ associations. ment corresponds to around a quarter of Municipal guarantees and direct loans to SBAB’s total lending. We offer personal municipalities 0.6 0.8 0.9 Property companies service to our customers, who are concenActivity in the corporate market was high Government trated in growth regions surrounding our and housing remained an attractive guarantees 0.0 0.1 0.1 offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg and investment for domestic and internaBank guarantees 0.0 0.0 0.0 Malmö. The market share for lending to tional investors. Volumes in the transaccompanies was 11.23% at year end and Other collateral 0.5 0.8 0.5 tion market posted new records in 2019. the market share for lending to Total 89.9 85.3 85.0 In parallel, the pace of new construction tenant-owners’ associations was 9.55%. has slowed since the record year 2017. Property financing The amount of new housing construction Condensed income statement, Corporate We finance multi-family dwellings, both for the full-year 2019 is projected to Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations privately owned and owned by amount to 42,000, corresponding to a tenant-owners’ associations. The properdecline of 34% compared with 2017. SEK million 2019 2018 2017 ties may consist of existing buildings or New lending to property companies Operating income 826 800 734 new construction, where we mortgage was healthy and amounted to SEK 8.7 bilthe land with development rights and the lion (4.4) in 2019. Total lending totalled Expenses –224 –199 –193 construction, and offer final funding. In SEK 38.4 billion (33.8) at the end of the Credit losses/ our credit process, we monitor developyear. The number of large property comrecoveries –11 21 17 ments in the property market on a regupany customers amounted to 72 (70). At Operating profit 592 622 558 lar basis, and conduct a review and risk year end, the market share for lending to Return on equity, % 11.6 11.7 8.8 evaluation of all customer relationships property companies was 11.23% (10.88). Increased lending volumes to property companies SBAB’s lending to property companies during the year increased to a total of SEK 38.4 billion (33.8). At the same date, the market share was 11.23% (10.88). Geographic distribution of the loan Volume and market share, New lending and redemption, portfolio, Corporate Clients & Corporate clients Corporate clients Tenant-Owners’ Associations SEK bn % SEK bn 40 16 12 35 14 8 30 12 4 25 10 20 8 0 15 6 –4 10 4 –8 5 2 Stockholm region 49.0% (53.1) 0 0 –12 Öresund region 16.7% (16.0) 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 University and growth areas 16.1% (15.1) Gothenburg region 9.9% (8.3) Lending to corporate clients, SEK bn New lending Redemption Other regions 8.4% (7.4) Market share, % Total 70 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners' Associations business area As a result of the changed market condiConstruction loans with low margins, not least in the major tions for the new construction market, 2019 2018 metropolitan areas. where demand for new apartments does Approved construction loans, The number of customers declined not always match the offering of newly No. 70 62 and amounted to 1,731 (1,801) at the constructed apartments, we have Approved construction loans, end of 2019, which is in line with SBAB’s applied a more restrained approach to SEK bn 14.0 14.1 strategy to focus on larger customers and our lending in this segment over the past Of which disbursed, % 64 69 customers in regions where SBAB has a few years. Primarily in Stockholm, though physical presence and the possibility of also in other growth areas, the pace of establishing good customer relations, but construction and price trends for new At 31 December 2019, our lending to was also a result of the intense price apartments has been particularly high. commercial properties amounted to SEK competition. Sweden’s housing market has a regional 2.6 billion (3.2). nature and the construction slowdown Savings accounts has been clearest in the Stockholm area, Tenant-owners’ associations Deposits from corporates and whereas the Malmö region continues to At the end of 2019, our lending to tenant-owners’ associations increased offer good business opportunities. tenant-owners’ associations amounted over the year, totalling SEK 38.6 billion We set higher pre-sales requirements to SEK 51.5 billion (51.5). New lending (37.9), and the market share was 2.94% on binding purchase agreements before totalled SEK 6.8 billion (6.6). At year (3.66) at the end of 2019. At year end, the start of production and larger own end, the market share for lending to 8,200 corporate clients (9,100) and investments when lending to new build tenant-owners’ associations was 9.55% 4,300 tenant-owners’ associations projects. Also, SBAB focuses lending on (9.53). The market for lending to (4,300) held savings accounts with SBAB. established customer relationships and tenant-owners’ associations remains large, experienced property developers. dominated by intense price competition Continued intense competition in lending to tenant-owners’ associations SBAB’s market share for lending to tenant-owners’ associations remained essentially unchanged in 2019 owing to ­continued intense competition. At year end, the market share was 9.55% (9.53). Volume and market share, New lending and redemption, Volume and market share, Tenant-owners’ associations Tenant-owners’ associations deposits, Corporate clients & Tenant-owners’ associations SEK bn % SEK bn SEK bn % 60 18 12 40 4 35 50 15 8 30 3 40 12 4 25 30 9 0 20 2 15 20 6 –4 10 1 10 3 –8 5 0 0 –12 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 L ending to tenant-owners’ associations, New lending Redemption Deposits, SEK billion SEK billion Total Market share, % Market share, % S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 71 Funding and liquidity Funding and liquidity Funding operations 2019 in brief Funding Strategy SBAB’s operations are primarily funded The year was characterised by generally Through access to stable and competithrough the capital market, but since falling interest rates driven by softer tive funding, we ensure that SBAB can 2007, also increasingly through deposits tones and lower key interest rates from offer lending at attractive terms. from the public. The SBAB Group is the US and EU central banks. To support We actively work to diversify our active in both the senior unsecured bond economic developments and inflation sources of funding through increased market through the Parent Company expectations, the ECB announced furretail and corporate deposits. Growing SBAB, as well as in the covered bond ther quantitative easing through expanddeposit volumes have in recent years market through the wholly owned subsiding its bond-buying program and more reduced our dependence on capital iary SCBC. favourable terms for European banks to markets at the same time as these have borrow funds from the central bank. All provided us with a better and more balLong-term funding sources together, the above resulted in decreasanced funding mix. Limit ing credit spreads and historically low The cornerstones of our funding stratEuro Medium Term Note Programme interest rates in a number of currencies. egy are to promote diversified funding (EMTN), SBAB EUR 13 billion In 2019, the SBAB Group issued longand to be a regular issuer in both the Euro Medium Term Covered Note term bonds for a total of SEK 57.3 billion Swedish and European markets. Active Programme (EMTCN), SCBC EUR 16 billion (73.7). During the year, a SEK 6 billion liability management, in part through Swedish covered bond programme, [No fixed five-year green covered bond and a SEK repurchasing bonds with short remaining SCBC limit] 3 billion five-year green senior non-prematurities, as well as a balanced maturity ferred bond were issued. In August, profile are other key elements. We also SBAB issued a SEK 2.0 billion Additional attach great importance to regularly Short-term funding sources Tier 1 Capital loan (AT1) for the first time meeting and updating investors in the Limit since 2016. The underlying reason for markets where we operate, primarily in Swedish Commercial Paper the transaction included strengthening Sweden and Europe. Programme (SVCP) SEK 25 billion SBAB’s own funds and supporting future European Commercial Paper growth. Unsecured funding Programme (ECP) EUR 3 billion Issued debt securities outstanding Long-term funding (total funding) amounted to SEK 303.6 SBAB’s business involves mortgage lendbillion (290.8) at the end of the year, of ing, which in turn requires stable longwhich SEK 246.8 billion (234.8) comterm funding. Continued strong deposit prised covered bond funding and SEK inflows and healthy liquidity have con56.8 billion (56.0) unsecured funding. tributed to a slight reduction in the need Funding sources, Funding sources, distribution by Outstanding maturity profile, Group ­currency, Group Group SEK bn 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 Swedish benchmark covered bonds SEK 71% (73) 0 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 33 34 38 SCBC 29.6% (34.5) EUR 28% (26) Deposits 29.7% (34.2) Other currencies 1% (1) EMTN programme SBAB 12.6% (14.6) EMTCN programme SCBC 26.6% (14.6) Subordinated loans 1.1% (1.4) ECP 0.4% (0.6) SVCP 0.0% (0.1) 72 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Funding and liquidity for long-term unsecured funding in the Liquidity Key figures for liquidity last few years. In 2019, SBAB started The primary purpose of SBAB’s liquidity 2019 2018 efforts aimed at fulfilling the Swedish reserve is to act as a provision for situaSurvival horizon 290 400 National Debt Office’s minimum requiretions when the ability to obtain liquidity ment for own funds and eligible liabilities from other sources is limited or rendered LCR, % 1) 271 283 (MREL) by the end of 2021. At year end, materially more difficult. SBAB’s liquidity NSFR, % 2) 134 122 long-term unsecured funding amounted reserve primarily comprises liquid, inter1) According to the European Commission’s Delegated to SEK 55.1 billion (53.2), of which SEK est-bearing securities with high ratings. Regulation with regard to liquidity coverage 6.0 billion (0) comprised senior non-­ At the end of the year, the market value of requirements. For all currencies combined. preferred bonds and SEK 49.1 billion the assets in the liquidity reserve 2) In line with forthcoming regulations, from 30 September 2019, SBAB calculates the net stable funding ratio (53.2) other senior unsecured bonds. amounted to SEK 77.6 billion (73.7). (NSFR) in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2019/876 ­ aking the Riksbank’s and the ECB’s hairT of the European Parliament and the Council. Previously, the NSFR has been calculated pursuant to the Basel Short-term funding cuts into account, the liquidity value of the regulations. The comparative figures have not been Short-term funding in the form of comassets was SEK 74.5 billion (70.7). Both restated according to the new calculation method. mercial paper continues to represent a external regulations and internal limits limited part of SBAB’s total funding and dictate the size and composition of the Credit rating amounted to SEK 1.7 billion (2.8) at year liquidity reserve. Securities holdings are Longand short-term credit ratings from end. We mainly use short-term funding to limited by asset class and by country, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s were manage and balance liquidity between respectively, and must have at least an unchanged during the year. different periods. AA rating on acquisition. In addition to these collective limits, limits for individual Rating Covered bond funding issuers may also be set. Investments are Standard & Funding through the issue of covered mainly in SEK, EUR and USD and we use Moody’s Poor’s bonds is carried out by the wholly-owned derivatives to manage the portfolio’s Long-term funding, SBAB A1 A subsidiary, AB Sveriges Säkerstallda interest-rate and currency risks. Long-term funding, Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered SCBC Aaa – Bond Corporation — SCBC). Total covGreen bonds in the liquidity reserve Short-term funding, ered debt amounted to SEK 246.8 billion At the end of 2019, our holdings in green SBAB P–1 A–1 (234.8) at the end of the year, of which bonds amounted to about SEK 3.8 billion SEK 155.1 billion was in SEK and SEK 91.7 (2.4). It is our aim to increase these holdbillion was in foreign currencies. ings within the scope of the current investment policy. SCBC in brief SCBC’s primary operations comprise the issue of covered bonds in the Swedish and international capital markets. The company’s funding programmes have received the highest possible long-term rating of Aaa from the rating agency Moody’s. SCBC does not conduct any lending activities itself, but instead acquires loans from SBAB, with the aim that these are included wholly or in part in the cover pool that serves as collateral for SCBC’s covered bonds. Information on SCBC’s covered bonds and cover pool is published monthly on www.sbab.se. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 73 Risk and capital management Risk and capital management Risk management involves ensuring that SBAB is resilient in different situations and that the company is capitalised to the effect that even unexpected Cre risk dit risks can be managed. ity ri id Liq sk SBAB’s independent risk control function u identifies, analyses and develops methods to manage various types of risks in our operations. The main risk is credit risk SBAB’s target Busines arising from lending primarily to retail rket customers, but also to tenant-owners’ risk associations and multi-family dwellings. s ri Ma In addition, SBAB is exposed to credit risk sk in treasury operations, above all the counterparty risk for the derivatives and O pe rational risk repo contracts SBAB enters into in order to manage financial risks. Other risks in SBAB’s operations pertain to market risk, Sust ainability risks SBAB’s risk appetite liquidity risk, business risk and operaRead more on pages 77–79 tional risk. SBAB retains sufficient capital and liquidity to cover these risks, even in stressed situations. SBAB is currently well capitalised and has own funds that comfortably exceed both the internally estithat an event occurs as well as the Risk governance mated capital requirement and the capiimpact the event could have on SBAB’s All measurable risks are monitored and tal requirement calculated by the Swedish profit, capital, liquidity or value. In accorreported to the Board of Directors. The FSA. Liquidity risk is managed beyond dance with the risk policy, the risks have Board of Directors bears overarching capital by maintaining a liquidity reserve been classified using SBAB’s Risk apperesponsibility for SBAB’s total risk expoand through diversified funding. tite framework. The framework includes a sure. It is the Board's responsibility to definition of the risk SBAB is willing to ensure that operations are conducted SBAB’s risks and risk management assume to achieve its business objectives with good internal controls. The CEO is Risk is defined as a potentially negative within the framework of the long-term responsible for ongoing operational impact that may arise due to ongoing or strategy. management and monitors that each future internal or external events. The unit’s, including the risk control units, Read more on page 78 definition of risk includes the probability reporting to the Board of Directors is conducted in accordance with the relevant instructions. Independent risk control units within Risk are responsible for the identification, quantification, analysis The three lines of defence and reporting of all risks. The Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) is responsible for the Operations Risk and compliance Internal audit independent risk control units within Risk and reports directly to the CEO and the Owns and manages risks Supports, controls Assesses on assignment Board of Directors of SBAB. in day-to-day operations. and follows up. from the Board of Directors. RISK RISK RISK 1ST LINE 2ND LINE 3RD LINE 74 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Risk and capital management Risk strategy Risk taking The scope of acceptable risks is clearly The Board adopts the strategic direction SBAB’s risk taking is kept at a level consislinked to how important these are to and the overarching risk level that SBAB tent with short-term and long-term plans SBAB’s business model, in other words is willing to accept, based on the business for strategy, capital and financial stabilthe positive effects anticipated to be and how value is created for customers. ity. An important part of SBAB’s business achieved in the form of expected reveThis means SBAB is to consciously expose model is that the risks to which SBAB is nue, cost savings or the mitigation of itself only to risks that are directly conexposed are low and predictable. In realother risks. SBAB minimises undesired nected to or are regarded as necessary ity, this does not mean that each individrisks through appropriate functions, for its operations. SBAB’s profitability is ual credit exposure has very low risk, ­strategies, processes, procedures, dependent on its ability to assess, manrather that the total lending portfolio ­internal rules, limits and controls. age and price risks. It is also about mainconsists largely of low-risk loans and that taining sufficient liquidity and capital to every loan’s internal risk effect is such meet unforeseen events. Knowledge and that the total risk is limited. The basis for awareness of any risks that SBAB may be SBAB’s appetite for various types of risk is exposed to, together with the right that each risk should fit within a well-deexpertise to estimate the size of existing fined segment of our risk-bearing capacand potential risks, is therefore absoity. Risk-bearing capacity primarily refers lutely necessary for our operations. All to the capacity to cover expected and risks must be evaluated based on the risk unexpected losses by means of our ongoappetite decided by the Board. ing earnings capacity and own funds. Credit risk trends in 2019 The overall credit quality in SBAB’s loan focus on established customer relationdetermined by the Swedish FSA and portfolio is deemed as good. In 2019, ships and large, experienced property a bank’s actual average risk weight for credit risk in SBAB’s portfolio decreased, developers, whereby both the customer exposures to the commercial real estate despite the increase in total lending. The and SBAB apply higher pre-sales sector. The risk weight has been set at trend was largely attributable to an requirements for binding purchase 35% for corporate exposures collaterimprovement in the probability of default agreements before the start of producalised by commercial real estate and 25% (PD) risk metric. PD has decreased for tion. Moreover, when lending to new for corporate exposures collateralised by retail customers, which encompasses the construction projects, requirements commercial residential properties. The majority of lending. apply for a higher own investment comadditional capital requirement will be The rate increase tolerance among pared with the financing of existing applied in 2020 during the Swedish FSA’s SBAB’s customers is deemed as good. buildings. Enquiries for financing rental assessment of the banks’ capital requireAverage debt-to-income ratios for apartment projects have risen and there ments as part of the FSA’s annual super­ inflows in 2019 were lower than historic is increased interest in financing student visory review and evaluation process levels, which was due, inter alia, to the housing, sheltered housing and elderly (SREP). more stringent amortisation requirement care homes. SBAB already has a limit decided by implemented in 2018. The loan-to-value On 28 January 2020, the Swedish FSA the Board for its exposure to commercial (LTV) ratio for newly disbursed loans rose decided on additional capital requireproperties and the decision is assessed slightly in 2019. In terms of the total resiments for Swedish banks’ lending expoas having a marginal effect on SBAB’s dential mortgage stock, LTV ratios sures to the commercial real estate sector. risk-weighted assets. declined over the year due to reasons This decision was based on the proposal including a slight upward trend in the presented by the Swedish FSA in a memohousing ­market. randum on 27 November 2019 that was SBAB maintained volumes and growth then submitted for consultation. The addiin terms of new construction p ­ rojects tional capital requirement corresponds during the year. Lending continues to to the difference between a risk weight S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 75 Risk and capital management Climate and sustainability risks review and, where necessary, set lion. During the year, the risk exposure In 2018 and 2019, SBAB completed a requirements to counteract the adverse amount (REA) increased to SEK 120.6 project to define, measure and follow up impact. These efforts are inspired and billion (114.1), mainly driven by higher sustainability risks in a more structured guided by international legislation and lending volumes (EAD) corresponding to manner. The basic principle is that susguidelines. We conduct an ongoing SEK 5.5 billion, of which SEK 3.7 billion tainability risks can not be separated ­dialogue on sustainability risks across all was attributable to the effect from the from other risks. There are elements of operations. Forthcoming rules and recrisk-weight floor. In addition, SBAB has sustainability risks across SBAB’s entire ommendations pertaining to climate introduced a REA surcharge of SEK 0.8 operations. have resulted in SBAB placing more billion. The surcharge pertains to corpoSBAB’s approach to sustainability risk importance, in conjunction with lending, rate SME exposures and aims to compenencompasses the risk of, direct or indion identifying and mapping risks for sate for the current pro-cyclical effect rect, negative impacts on SBAB’s operafinancial consequences as a result of that exists in the existing models for credit tions and target attainment in terms of its ­climate change. risk, within which PD has declined in line three sustainability objectives. It also with the favourable economic climate. Read more on page 77 includes the risk of, direct or indirect, Net profit for the year is included in negative impacts on SBAB’s capacity to the calculation of own funds and Tier 1 Capital adequacy contribute to prioritised SDGs within the capital. Expected dividend in accorSBAB’s CET1 capital ratio amounted to 2030 Agenda for sustainable development dance with SBAB’s dividend policy has 13.1% (12.5) at year end. At the same framework. It is particularly important to not been deducted in line with the decidate, the total capital ratio was 20.1% follow and measure, direct or indirect, sion from the Board of Directors to not (18.1). This can be compared with the negative impacts on SBAB’s reputation propose a dividend for the financial year capital requirements from the Swedish and the confidence of its stakeholders, 2019. FSA, which correspond to a CET1 capital such as the general public, customers, The leverage ratio amounted to ratio of 10.7% and a total capital ratio employees and investors as well as how 4.30% (3.77) at 31 December 2019. of 14.9%. SBAB’s capital targets1) corclimate and environmental risks could Further information on capital responded at year end to a CET1 capaffect the market values of underlying ­adequacy is provided in Note RC 8. ital ratio of not less than 11.3% and a collateral and properties. total capital ratio of not less than 15.5%. In accordance with the Annual Capital requirements, and consequently Accounts Act, this report defines sustainSBAB’s capital targets, increased during ability risk as the risk that SBAB’s opera1) On 23 August 2018, the Swedish FSA decided to amend the year as a result of the Swedish FSA’s the method for applying the risk-weight floor for Swedtions, directly or indirectly, negatively decision to raise the countercyclical ish mortgages, which was previously applied in Pillar 2, impact or are impacted by its operating by replacing it with the corresponding requirement within buffer value from 2.0% to 2.5%. The the framework of Article 458 of the Regulation on Prudenenvironment in the areas of human tial Requirements for Credit Institutions and Investment amendment entered force on 19 Seprights, social conditions, the climate and Firms. The change means the capital requirement is set as a tember 2019. requirement in Pillar 1. The amendment entered force from the environment as well as anti-corrup31 December 2018 and applies for two years. Given the CET1 capital increased SEK 1.5 biltion efforts and other actions against above amendment, SBAB’s Board has decided to translate lion to SEK 15.8 billion (14.3) during the the buffer levels, expressed in percentage points, in SBAB’s financial crime. capital targets. After the adjustments, which entered force year. Net profit had a positive impact on in parallel with the change on 31 December 2018, SBAB’s SBAB’s aim is to manage climate and CET1 capital of SEK 1.8 billion. Own CET1 capital ratio and total capital ratio must, under norsustainability risks with a risk-based mal conditions, amount to not less than 0.6 percentage funds increased SEK 3.6 billion during points above the requirement communicated by the Swedapproach integrated into daily operaish FSA, which is published in the Swedish FSA’s quarterly the year to SEK 24.3 billion (20.7), tions. In the event of high risk, the aim is report on Swedish banks’ capital requirements. In nominal mainly due to the issue of an Additional terms, this corresponds to a buffer level of 1.5 percentage to conduct an in-depth sustainability points before moving the risk-weight floor and is in line with Tier 1 capital loan (AT1) of SEK 2.0 bilthe earlier capital targets. Components of the capital target 2019 2018 Total Total SEK million capital % CET1 capital % capital % CET1 capital % Capital requirements from the Swedish FSA 17,912 14.9 12,942 10.7 16,451 14.4 11,723 10.3 – Of which, Pillar 1 minimum requirement 3,637 3.0 2,046 1.7 3,473 3.0 1,954 1.7 – Of which, Pillar 1 risk-weight floor, Swedish mortgages 6,009 5.0 3,380 2.8 5,658 5.0 3,182 2.8 – Of which, Pillar 2 core requirement 2,249 1.9 1,499 1.2 2,200 1.9 1,467 1.3 – Of which, Capital conservation buffer 3,014 2.5 3,014 2.5 2,854 2.5 2,854 2.5 – Of which, Countercyclical buffer 3,003 2.5 3,003 2.5 2,266 2.0 2,264 2.0 SBAB’s capital target 18,635 15.5 13,665 11.3 17,136 15.0 12,408 10.9 SBAB’s actual capital 24,282 20.1 15,830 13.1 20,713 18.1 14,263 12.5 76 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Risk and capital management Climate and sustainability risks Risk area Risk description Impact on SBAB Risk mitigation measures Personnel, social Internal: In its own operations, risk is primarily linked to SBAB Damage to reputaSBAB has determined a long-term, focused and extended conditions and as an employer and SBAB’s corporate culture. Motivated and tion and negative HR strategy. SBAB has clear company-wide goals to support human rights committed employees are a prerequisite for SBAB’s success. impact on the ­equality and diversity and to ensure a positive employee experiSBAB’s operations and corporate culture affect the work Group’s financial ence and high employee commitment. SBAB has an equality and The risk of SBAB’s opera­conditions of employees. Risks pertaining to personnel position. diversity policy and an equality plan that emphasises the value of tions, business relationships include health and safety at the workplace, the occurrence employees with different backgrounds. SBAB’s Code of Conduct and business undertakings of discrimination, remuneration levels and workloads. provides guidance on how employees should act and conduct having a negative impact on themselves in various situations based on SBAB’s values and the personnel, social conditions External: SBAB is exposed to risks linked to personnel, social inherent responsibilities of being a SBAB employee. and human rights. conditions and human rights in conjunction with lending to property companies, for example when lending to new conSBAB aims to manage risks linked to personnel, social conditions struction projects with several levels of subcontractors. The and human rights in lending through in-depth customer diacontrols performed by the main contractor in areas such as logues and industry collaboration. SBAB has a Supplier Code working conditions are made more complex when production that addresses SBAB’s view and expectations of our suppliers’ is outsourced. SBAB is also exposed to these risks in conjuncsustainability efforts and compliance with international guidetion with the procurement of services and goods. lines and principles. The area also encompasses the risk that SBAB’s services and Accessibility comprises a key area for product and service develproducts are not available to all members of society. Accessiopment. SBAB conducts accessibility tests on an ongoing basis. bility pertains to equality and non-discrimination, and is a crucial prerequisite for people with disabilities to be able to Read more on pages 32–33, 38–41, 42–53, 169–181 exercise their human rights and fundamental freedoms. Examples of relevant policies within the area, in addition to those mentioned above, include Remuneration Policy, Equality and Diversity Policy, Work Environment Instruction, Whistleblower Process Instruction, Ethics Policy and Policy for Sustainable ­Eneterprise. Climate and the Internal: SBAB’s operations are exposed to transition risks in Negative impact on Environmental risk is mainly managed through a broadened environment cases where SBAB does not succeed in adapting operations the Group’s finan­customer dialogue, internal training, product development and to the higher environmental and climate requirements set by cial position. customer communication. In our credit granting process for The capacity to adapt opertomorrow’s sustainable economy. This also applies to demand property companies and tenant-owners’ associations, certain ations to changes in the clifor SBAB’s products and services. The physical climate risk sustainability criteria are considered as a part of the overall mate and the environment. linked to SBAB’s operations primarily pertains to the risk of assessment. increased damage and value declines in assets and collateral Climate risk is divided into as a result of climate change. In 2019, SBAB completed an initial analysis of how the future transition risks and physical ­climate could impact the mortgage portfolio. The analysis indirisks. Physical risks entail a External: SBAB is exposed to climate and environmental risks cates that rises in sea levels and the risk of flooding have limited physical impact on, for in conjunction with its credit granting. Future climate impact on SBAB’s portfolio. The work is continuing in 2020 with example, properties as a changes could affect customers’ capacity to pay and the the aim of reporting risks according to the recommendations of result of climate changes, value of assets and collateral. Physical climate risks encomthe Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). while transition risks encompass, inter alia, higher sea levels, extreme weather as well as pass financial effects resultcollapses and landslides. Read more on pages 34–39, 58, 60–61, 169–181 ing from an inefficient transition to an economy with SBAB’s policies, business planning and strategies incorporate lower carbon emissions. ambition levels in terms of the company’s indirect and direct ­climate impact. Examples of relevant policies within the area, in addition to those mentioned above, include the Policy for ­Sustainable Eneterprise, Credit Policy, Risk Policy and Credit Instruction. Anti-corruption efforts Internal: The occurrence of corruption or financial crime Reputational risk SBAB has a separate unit, Anti-Financial Crime (AFC), which and other actions against could seriously affect the confidence of the public, the owner, and sanctions. acts to strengthen SBAB’s overall capacity to prevent financial financial crime customers and employees in SBAB and thereby the compacrime. SBAB’s efforts in this area encompass, inter alia, conductny’s future competitiveness. The risk of corruption or financial ing risk assessments, obtaining a good level of KYC, monitoring While there is no definitive crime is relevant to all parts of SBAB’s operations. activities and transactions, continuous training and ensuring definition for the concept of adequate internal control through examination in the first, corruption, it is often External: Corruption and financial crime undermine democ­second and third lines in terms of daily operations, procedures described as an act whereby racy, hinder economic growth and distort competition in and processes. people utilise their position ­society. The risk of corruption or financial crime is relevant at to obtain unfair advantage every stage where money is handled. This means that SBAB SBAB has an internal framework regulating how operations for their own benefit. Finanrisks being used throughout the value chain, whether it should work to counteract bribes and other forms of corruption. cial crime encompasses involves deposits from the public, funding from capital marThe framework is designed to reflect the Code on Gifts, Rewards money laundering, financing kets or lending to the public (private individuals, corporates and other Benefits in Business published by the Swedish of terrorism, fraud and other and tenant-owners’ associations). Anti-Corruption Institute. To that end, SBAB conducts ongoing economic crime. Irrespective training in this area. of the concept, it is clear that corruption and financial Read more on pages 33, 38–41, 169–181 crime comprise significant threats to individual compaExamples of relevant policies in the area, aside from those mennies and society at large. tioned above, include Policy and Instruction for Counteracting Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Compliance with Financial Sanctions, Ethics Policy, Policy for Sustainable Eneterprise, Whistleblower Process Instruction, Code of Conduct and Supplier Code. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 77 Risk and capital management Risks in SBAB’s risk appetite Risk type Risk appetite Classification Level Credit risk in lending operations The risk that the counterparty does not fulfil its payment obligations towards SBAB. Credit risk arises in Wanted risk Medium conjunction with loans and loan commitments, as well as in connection with value changes in pledged assets entailing that these no longer cover the Group’s receivables. The credit risk also includes concentration risk, which refers to the increase in credit risk that arises in large exposures to individual counterparties, or in the case of concentrations toward specific regions or industries. Read more in Note RC 1 Credit risk in treasury operations Defined as the total of investment risk and counterparty risk. Counterparty risk is defined as credit risk Necessary risk Low in financial derivatives that arises when the value of the instrument changes resulting from variations, for example, in interest rates or currency exchange rates, which means SBAB recognises a receivable against the counterparty. In addition, counterparty risk entails that SBAB’s financial counterparties cannot meet their commitments under the contracted repos. Investment risk is defined as credit risk in financial investments and entails the risk that a debtor does not fulfil its payment obligations, meaning either completes payments late or not at all. Investment risk arises through investments in the liquidity portfolio and the investment of surplus liquidity. Read more in Note RC 2 Market risk The risk of loss or reduced future income due to market fluctuations. Market risk includes interest-rate Necessary risk Low risk, currency risk, basis risk and spread risk. Currency risk refers to the risk that changes in the exchange rate for SEK against other currencies result in losses or lower future income. Interest-rate risk is defined as the risk that variations in interest rates result in losses or lower future income as assets and liabilities have different fixed-interest periods and interest terms. Spread risk refers to an exposure to changing conditions between interest costs for different issuers. Basis risk refers to the risk associated with deposits and lending that are locked to different interest bases. Read more in Note RC 4 Operational risk The risk of losses due to inappropriate or unsuccessful processes, human error, faulty systems or Necessary risk Low external events, including legal risks. The forms of operational risk applicable to SBAB are shown in the categorisation of types of events. Examples of types of events that could be applicable are internal and external fraud, work conditions and environment, damage to tangible assets, disruptions to the business operations and systems, transaction management and process control. Legal risk includes the risk that agreements or other legal transactions cannot be completed in accordance with specific terms and conditions or that judicial proceedings are started that could have a negative impact on SBAB’s operations. Operational risk includes compliance risk. Regulatory compliance is essential in maintaining confidence in SBAB’s operations. Even rules that are not legally binding, but that reflect a market practice or ethical guidelines, affect SBAB’s approach to employees and customers. Read more in Note RC 5 Business risk The risk of declining earnings due to harsher competition, inappropriate strategies or erroneous Necessary risk Low decisions. SBAB differentiates its business risk between strategic risk and the risk of weaker earnings. Strategic risk is defined as the risk of a loss arising due to unfavourable business decisions, erroneous implementation of strategic decisions or a lack of sensitivity to changes in the industry, the political environment or legal circumstances. The risk of weaker earnings encompasses the risk of, for example, reduced margins, which in turn may arise due to more expensive financing or more intense competition. Read more in Note RC 6 Liquidity risk The risk that the company will not be able to meet its payment obligations on the date of maturity without Necessary risk Low the related cost increasing significantly. Short-term liquidity risk measures the risk of being impacted in the short term by a lack of liquidity, while structural liquidity risk is a measure of the mismatch between assets and liabilities in terms of maturities, which risks leading to a lack of liquidity in the longer term. Read more in Note RC 3 78 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Risk and capital management Risk profile Risk management SBAB primarily offers housing mortgages to consumers, Credit risk is central to SBAB’s business model and it is considered to be the dominant risk in operations. tenant-owners’ associations and property companies Credit granting in SBAB is characterised by responsible credit granting taking into account the customwhere collateral comprises mortgage deeds in immovable er’s long-term repayment capacity and resilience as well as the value of posted collateral. Credit rules property or rights-of-use. The majority of SBAB’s customer and credit management are continuously analysed, processed and improved. Corporate clients are probase is concentrated to major metropolitan areas. cessed individually while retail customers are analysed using a structured process in conjunction with the credit approval process. Concentration risk and major exposures are carefully monitored and followed up. SBAB’s counterparty risks and investment risks are low Counterparty-risk exposure is primarily covered through collateral agreements in which the counterparty and are not considered dominant risks. provides collateral in an effort to reduce exposure. Investment risk is mitigated as SBAB only invests in interest-bearing bonds with high credit ratings. SBAB’s market risk is low and is not considered Interest-rate risk is to be mitigated through direct funding or the use of derivatives. Funding in internaa dominant risk. tional currencies are hedged through currency swaps or invested in matching currencies to mitigate ­currency risk. Operational risk is a natural part of all business. SBAB Within SBAB, risk management consists of uniform valuation and reporting of operational risk.The analysis aims to optimise the relationship between costs for reducof risk levels in all operations is conducted on a regular basis and reported to the Board, the CEO and the ing risk and any of its potential outcomes. SBAB considers Executive Management. Self-evaluation of processes that are considered significant is performed at least operational risk to be a prerequisite for implementing the once per year. Within the framework of changes with potential effects on the bank’s risk level, risks are business concept efficiently and competitively, taking into identified in an early stage of the change process. Prior to implementation, the change process is qualaccount operations, strategy, risk appetite and the macro ity assured by representatives from the second line of defence. Unexpected events that can negatively environment. affect the bank are to be reported as incidents and managed according to pre-determined instructions. SBAB’s business risk is low and is not considered Risks related to strategy and earnings are evaluated on an ongoing basis over the year within the first a dominant risk. line’s strategy work. Strategically important decisions are managed within the framework for managing material changes. Furthermore, the Board receives an annual evaluation of the material risks that clearly addresses strategic business risk and the bank’s overall earnings. Business risk is also included in the calculation of the Pillar 2 capital requirement as part of SBAB’s stress tests, and where the effects of a scenario corresponding to a normal economic downturn are evaluated. SBAB has a low liquidity risk and diversified funding. SecuSBAB’s liquidity strategy includes proactive and continuous liquidity planning, active debt management rities that are part of the liquidity reserve have high credit and an adequate liquidity reserve. The funding strategy takes into consideration the expected maturity ratings and are eligible as collateral with either the Rikson the asset side. On this basis, SBAB limits its structural liquidity risk by maintaining diversified funding bank or the European Central Bank, to guarantee liquidity. with sufficiently long maturities. SBAB has several liquidity metrics, for which limits apply, most of which are monitored and reported on a daily basis. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 79 Statement from the Chairman Well-functioning corporate governance with good regulatory ­compliance, risk management and internal governance and ­control are essential for us to reach our vision and enjoy the ­confidence of our stakeholders. Trust is the foundation of our operations W e are continuing to deliver on our strategy and posted strong results in 2019. We have Sweden’s most ­satisfied customers in terms of residential mortgages to private individuals and property loans to corporates and tenant-owners’ associations, and our financial key metrics continue to develop satisfactorily. SBAB offers simple and straightforward terms and conditions, transparent pricing, high availability through digital and telephone services, and mindful ­service. This is a major contributor to our continued growth and capture of market shares. Total lending increased 5.4% in 2019 to almost SEK 384 billion – a healthy growth and a clear signal that our customers appreciate SBAB’s offering. We diligently follow housing market trends and continuously evaluate the credit risk entailed in our lending to ensure and maintain good credit quality and an a ­ dequate level of risk assumption. Over the last few years, new market entrants have started offering residential mortgages. In parallel, many existing providers, the major banks among others, have started to review and adjust “It has become increasingly clear that their offerings. Increased competition is very positive – it leads to more customers companies need to assume greater obtaining better terms and greater choice. For us, it clearly shows the responsibility for the big picture.” ­importance of continued investment in operations and in our offering to meet 80 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Statement from the Chairman the changes facing the bank and finance ­ overnance. It provides good support to g steering operations using our goversector. We live in an era where customers us on the Board of Directors in obtaining nance model toward our three target are placing ever-greater demands on ­necessary information, governing and areas: Responsibility and transparency; transparency, accessibility and high controlling operations and in taking necAn attractive workplace; and Sound quality in all parts of the customer experiessary decisions on important strategic finances. Together, these comprise the ence. Digitalisation and new technology issues. It encompasses day-to-day basis for our objectives at the same time are driving development. We are replacreporting, information disclosure and as they describe how we will contribute ing our entire technical IT infrastructure, training from various parts of operations to sustainable societal development. The developing the customer o ­ ffering and as well as reporting from functions such aim of everything we do is encapsulated experience as well as strengthening the as Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit. in our mission – to contribute to better organisation with new employees and To help with our work, we have estabhousing and household finances The skills. Through our clear focus on contriblished a number of committees tasked Board has adopted overall targets that uting to better housing and household with preparing issues in different areas can be followed up directly, and it follows finances, I am convinced that SBAB holds for decision by the Board. up and evaluates progress in the respecan attractive market position and has Over the year, the Board has tive target areas on an ongoing basis. excellent prerequisites to remain competiaddressed a number of issues of varying The Board and I share the ambition to tive over the long term. nature, including issues pertaining to the continue the implementation of sustainchanges and challenges entailed by digiability in all parts of SBAB’s operations. SBAB operates in an arena of trust talisation and the connected society in I am convinced that SBAB has excellent Strengthening trust in the bank and terms of cyber risks. Other issues perpreconditions to continue to deliver a finance sector is a considerable and tained to climate risk in lending, integracompetitive, profitable and attractive important challenge. The importance of tion and development of housing seroffering. trust cannot be overstated – it forms the vices, the brand, increased competition very foundation of banking operations. in the residential mortgage market, A heartfelt thank you Well-functioning corporate governance credit risks in lending and SBAB’s overall On behalf of the Board of Directors, with good regulatory compliance, risk capacity to counter money laundering I would like to take this opportunity to management and internal governance and other financial crime. thank the CEO, Executive Management and control are essential for us to reach and all of our skilled employees for a our vision and enjoy the confidence of Sustainability has long been a natural ­successful 2019. our stakeholders. Our work on the Board part of SBAB’s operations and business is based on SBAB’s sustainable goverWithin the framework of the 2030 nance model and our values, which in Agenda and the Sustainable Developmany ways describe our approach to a ment Goals (SDGs), the business commuJan Sinclair, well-functioning corporate governance nity, including SBAB, has a decisive role to Chairman of the Board with a focus on risk and regulatory complay. It has become increasingly clear that pliance. At SBAB, we have a corporate companies need to assume greater culture whereby every employee is responsibility for the big picture. The expected to take full responsibility. This state’s ownership policy expects statemeans that our employees are not just owned enterprises to serve as role modexpected to adhere to the applicable els in the area of s­ ustainable business regulations but are also, based on all and otherwise act in a manner that genaspects, expected to help ensure operaerates public confidence. This has tions are conducted responsibly in a inspired us to clarify our strategy and long-term sustainable manner. Good risk approach through, inter alia, integrating control and a high level of regulatory the SDGs into our g ­ overnance model. ­compliance enable the high speed of At SBAB, we are convinced that operations required to win the competition assuming greater responsibility leads to for market shares and customers’ trust. higher customer confidence and thereby SBAB has a thorough and well-­ to growth, long-term competitiveness developed structure for corporate and profitability. We are driving and S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 81 Corporate Governance report Corporate Governance Report SBAB is a Swedish public limited banking company that is wholly owned by the Swedish state. SBAB is domiciled in Solna. Owner governance of SBAB is exercised through general shareholder meetings, the Board of Directors and the CEO in accordance with the Companies Act, the Articles of Association, and the policies and instructions adopted by SBAB. Moreover, SBAB applies the state’s ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned enterprises (the “Ownership Policy”) which, inter alia, requires that SBAB apply the applicable parts of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared pursuant to the regulations covering corporate governance reports in the Code and the Annual Accounts Act. This Corporate Governance Report has nity to prepare ahead of time for the that if the Chairman of the Board resigns been subject to a statutory review by the AGM and have matters included in the from his or her office during the mandate company’s auditor. agenda for the AGM. In companies period, the Board is to appoint one of the entirely owned by the Swedish state, in Board members as the new Chairman The foundation of SBAB’s corporate accordance with the owner’s guidelines, until the end of the AGM, when a new governance the public shall be invited to attend the Chairman will be elected by the AGM. Well-functioning corporate governance, AGM. As a notice is sent to the Central For amendments to be made to the risk management and internal goverBureau of the Swedish Riksdag (parlia­Articles of Association, the notice of the nance are essential for SBAB to reach set ment), members of parliament also have extraordinary general meeting that will targets and gain the confidence of its the opportunity to attend. address amendments to the Articles of stakeholders. In addition to corporate Association is to be issued not earlier governance in the traditional sense, • Code rules 1.4 and 2 — the establishthan six weeks and not later than four which describes the system by which a ment of a nomination committee responweeks prior to the meeting. company is governed and controlled, sible for matters such as the appointment SBAB’s vision, mission, business idea and and remuneration of the Board of DirecA General meeting of shareholders values are important elements in SBAB’s tors and the auditor. The reason for the SBAB’s Annual General Meeting was governance model. As well as informadeviation is that nomination matters in held on 29 April 2019. The AGM was tion transparency, corporate culture, state-owned companies are handled by open and the members of parliament leadership and the long-term sustainable the government in the manner described and the general public were invited to conduct of operations. This, together in the Ownership Policy. attend. The owner was represented by with corporate governance, means that Gustaf Hygrell, the Swedish Ministry of we can maintain a high level of confi• Code rules 2.6, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 10.2 — Enterprise and Innovation. Most of dence in SBAB’s operations. Confidence information to be provided concerning the SBAB’s Board members, the CEO and forms the basis of all banking operations. independence of Board members in relaSBAB’s auditor also attended the AGM. tion to major shareholders. No such inforBo Magnusson, Chairman of the Board Application of the Code mation is provided since the primary of SBAB at the time, served as the ChairSince SBAB is wholly owned by the state, ­objective of the Code rules in question is to man of the AGM. The AGM resolved to SBAB applies the Code with the excep­protect minority shareholders in c­ ompanies elect the following Board members: Bo tion of those rules pertaining to the with dispersed ownership. Consequently, Magnusson (Chairman), Lars Börjesson, ­Nomination Committee and the rules there is no reason for such information Inga-Lill Carlberg, Daniel Kristiansson, covering the election of the Board and ­concerning independence to be disclosed Jane Lundgren-Ericsson, Karin Moberg, auditors. Moreover, SBAB does not apply in entirely state-owned companies. Jan Sinclair and Synnöve Trygg. Followthose rules that are specifically aimed at ing the AGM, Bo Magnusson and Karin companies with more than one owner. Articles of Association Moberg notified of their intent to step Based on the ownership structure and SBAB’s Articles of Association regulate down from the Board effective 13 May with observance of the Ownership Policy, matters such as the company’s business 2019 and 4 September 2019, respecthe following deviations from the Code objectives. The Articles of Association do tively. Jan Sinclair was appointed Chairrules have occurred: not include any stipulations regulating man of the Board at the Board meeting the appointment or dismissal of Board on 17 May 2019. After the end of the • Code rule 1.1 — publication of informembers, with the exception of stipulayear, at the Extraordinary General Meetmation regarding the shareholders’ right tions stating that the AGM is to appoint ing on 14 February 2020, Leif Pagrotsky to propose business for the Annual Genthe Chairman of the Board and deterand Johan Prom were elected as new eral Meeting (AGM). The purpose of this mine the minimum and maximum nummembers of the Board of Directors. rule is to give shareholders the opportuber of Board members. It is further stated 82 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Corporate Governance report A GENERAL MEETING The general meeting is SBAB’s highest governing K EXTERNAL AUDITOR body where the shareholder exercises its decisionmaking authority. The auditor examines the Annual Report, the consolidated financial statements and the annual accounts, as well as the Board’s and the B BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO’s administration of the company. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for SBAB’s organisation and management. C AUDIT AND D CREDIT COMMITTEE E RISK AND CAPITAL F REMUNERATION COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The Audit and Compliance The Credit Committee’s prinThe Risk and Capital CommitThe Remuneration CommitCommittee’s principal task is cipal task is to decide on loans tee’s principal task is to pretee’s main task is to prepare to examine SBAB’s goverand credit limits. pare issues within the risk and matters regarding the princinance, the internal controls capital area. ples for remuneration and and the financial information. other employment terms and conditions for senior executives. G CEO 1) J INTERNAL AUDIT The CEO is responsible for the ongoing management of the operations of The internal audit is the SBAB. Board’s audit function. H COMPLIANCE I RISK 1) Compliance ensures that operations Risk analyses and controls SBAB’s are conducted in accordance with overall risks. laws and regulations. Corporate Clients Sustainability, Data Customer Business Customer Accounting & Tenant-Owners’ Tech 1) Marketing & HR 1) Science 1) Experience 1) Specialists1) Service1) & Treasury 1) Associations 1) Communication 1) 1) Included in Executive Management. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 83 Corporate Governance report The local trade unions appointed Anders to ensure an adequate supply of compeChairman of the Board Heder and Margareta Naumburg as tence for the boards of directors of these The Chairman of the Board is elected by employee representatives on the Board companies. The Board nomination prothe AGM. If the Chairman of the Board of Directors, with Kristina Ljung and cess is coordinated by the Swedish Minisresigns during the mandate period, the David Larsson as alternates. try of Enterprise and Innovation. For each Board is to appoint one of the Board The AGM passed resolutions regardcompany, competence needs are analmembers as the new Chairman until the ing the discharge from liability for the ysed on the basis of the company’s busiend of the AGM, when a new Chairman Board of Directors and the CEO, the ness, circumstances and future chalwill be elected by the AGM. The Chairappropriation of profits and the adoption lenges, as well as the composition of the man leads the Board’s work, monitors to of the annual accounts for 2018. Board of Directors and the Board assessensure that the Board is performing its The meeting elected Deloitte AB, with ments that have been conducted. duties, represents the Board in relation Patrick Honeth as the auditor-in-charge, Recruitment requirements are then to the owner and maintains contact with as SBAB’s auditor until the close of the established and work commences. the owner. The Chairman is also respon2020 AGM. The meeting reviewed the Members are selected from a broad sible for initiating the annual evaluation guidelines for remuneration to senior recruitment base in order to draw on the of the Board’s and the CEO’s work. The executives adopted by the 2018 AGM, expertise of both women and men, as Chairman of the Board ensures that the see Note IC 5 for details of the guidewell as individuals with different backBoard receives adequate information lines, and adopted new guidelines for grounds and experience. and decision data for its work and the remuneration to senior executives. The training necessary for the Board to meeting also decided on the fees to be Diversity and eligibility policies ­function efficiently. paid to the members of the Board. No The Board has adopted a policy on diverfees will be paid to Board members who sity in the Board and an instruction for Board governance and activities are either employed by the Government eligibility assessments for Board memAt SBAB’s AGM, eight members were Offices of Sweden or are employee repbers, the CEO and senior executives. elected by the AGM to SBAB’s Board resentatives. The CEO and Chairman The diversity policy includes statements which at the end of the year, following reported on the operations of the bank to the effect that the composition of the the departure of two members of their and the work of the Board of Directors in Board should be such that a balance is own volition from the Board, comprised 2018. achieved with regard to background, six members elected by the AGM and areas of competence, experience and two members appointed by the employB The Board of Directors gender. The eligibility instruction states ees’ organisations, SACO and the FinanComposition and nomination procedure that the eligibility assessment of the cial Sector Union of Sweden. The CEO is In entirely state-owned companies, uniBoard, the CEO and the senior execunot a member of the Board. None of the form and shared principles are applied to tives should take into account the individboard members or the CEO hold shares achieve a structured nomination process ual’s skills, experience, reputation and or financial instruments issued by SBAB. for the appointment of board members in judgement. For information regarding lending to key state-owned companies. The objective is personnel, please refer to Note G 2. Work of the Board of Directors in 2019 In 2019, the Board of Directors held eight scheduled and two additional board meetings. JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE Decisions on the Annual Report, Sustainability Additional meeting to elect a Report and Pillar 3 Report for 2018, matters prior new Chairman and decide to SBAB’s AGM, and resolutions on SBAB’s intercommittee members. nal capital and liquidity adequacy assessment, project and activity follow-up, and discussions addressing customer communication. Performance in 2018 and adoption of the year-end Statutory board meeting, resolutions regarding Project and activity follow-up, goal report, quarterly accounts and reporting from congovernance documents and statutory matters, fulfilment, business development, trol functions and the auditor’s review of the Q4 Q1 2018 performance and adoption of the interim brand positioning and brand strataccounts, evaluation of the CEO’s work, resolution report, quarterly reporting from control functions egy, strategies for the business regarding the assumptions for the internal capital and the auditor’s review of the Q1 accounts, progareas, discussion of progress in IT and liquidity adequacy assessment processes and ress in IT strategy and review of business developstrategy and market forecasts. training in capital and risk as well as follow-up of ment and strategies as well as discussions pertainprogress in IT strategy. ing to the Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business area. 84 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Corporate Governance report The Board adopts business objectives the ­Chairman of the Board and the Board also follows up SBAB’s risks, comand strategies for SBAB’s operations. The Board committees. The work of the Board pliance, and reports on the effectiveness Board ensures that an efficient system is in complies with an annual plan that satisof internal control within SBAB by means place for the follow-up and control of fies, inter alia, the Board’s need for inforof reports provided by SBAB’s indepenSBAB’s operations. The Board is also mation. SBAB’s Board makes decisions dent Risk Control, Compliance and Intertasked with appointing, evaluating and, if on matters relating to SBAB’s strategic nal Audit units. The Board also receives the need arises, dismissing the CEO. The direction, for example by means of a reports from SBAB’s auditor regarding work of the Board complies with the forbusiness plan, and makes decisions the reporting of completed audits, and mal work plan adopted annually at the regarding larger investments, funding, financial reporting assessments and Board of Directors’ statutory Board meetcapitalisation (including capital and internal control. The CEO attends the ing immediately after the AGM. liquidity adequacy assessments), signifimeetings of the Board of Directors, and The formal work plan regulates cant organisational issues, policies and other SBAB officers may participate in a ­decision-making within SBAB, the certain guidelines. reporting role if necessary. arrangements for Board meetings and The Board addresses and determines the division of work among the Board, the company’s interim reports. The Risk and Audit and Board of Credit ­Capital Compliance Remuneration ATTENDANCE OF THE BOARD OF Board members Directors ­ ommittee C Committee Committee Committee DIRECTORS IN 2019 Jan Sinclair (Chairman of the Board/Board member) 10/10 23/23 8/8 2/5 The table presents the meeting attendance of the Board and its Lars Börjesson (Board member) 10/10 22/23 2/5 committees in 2019. Inga-Lill Inga-Lill Carlberg (Board member) 8/10 2/5 ­Carlberg (Board member), Synnöve Trygg (Board member) and Anders Daniel Kristiansson (Board member) 10/10 3/5 5/5 Heder (Employee representative) Jane Lundgren-Ericsson (Board member) 9/10 23/23 8/8 3/5 joined the Board of Directors during the year and Bo Magnusson Synnöve Trygg (Board member) 8/10 5/8 2/5 (­Chairman), Carl-Henrik Borg Bo Magnusson, (Chairman of the Board) 3/10 2/5 3/5 (Board member), Eva Gidlöf (Board member), Karin Moberg (Board Carl-Henrik Borg (Board Member) 2/10 member) and Kristina Ljung (Employee representative) stepped Eva Gidlöf (Board member) 2/10 3/8 down from the Board during the Karin Moberg (Board member) 7/10 3/5 year, which is why their attendance refers to part of the year. Anders Heder (Employee representative) 8/10 Margareta Naumburg (Employee representative) 10/10 Kristina Ljung (Employee representative) 2/10 JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Performance in the second Discussions addressing Performance in the third quarter and adoption of the quarter and adoption of the market risk. interim report. Quarterly reports from control functions interim report, quarterly and the auditor’s review of the Q3 accounts. Review of reports from control funcprogress in IT strategy, follow-up of sustainability efforts, tions and the auditor’s business planning, decision on recovery plans and training review of the second for outsourced operations. ­quarter accounts as well as d­ iscussions pertaining to collaboration agreements. Follow-up of business strategies, incl. progress Decision on the forecast, budget and stratein IT strategy, discussion of risk status, training in gies for 2020 as well as annual plans for the areas incl. AML, follow-up of Corporate Clients control functions. Decision on the adoption & Tenant-Owners’ Associations business area of the internal capital and liquidity adequacy and decision on committee members. The assessment processes. Follow-up and discus­meeting was held in Karlstad. sion of the progress in IT strategy. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 85 Corporate Governance report The Board’s committees The Board has established the following committees to prepare matters ahead of the Board’s decisions. C Audit and Compliance Committee D Credit Committee Jane Lundgren Ericsson (Chairman) 1) Daniel Kristiansson (member) Jane Lundgren Ericsson (Chairman) Jan Sinclair (member) Jan Sinclair (member) Synnöve Trygg (member) Lars Börjesson (member) The Audit and Compliance Committee comprises SBAB’s audit committee The principal task of the Credit Committee is to decide on loans and credit tasked with monitoring financial reporting. The Committee is also responsible limits in SBAB’s lending and funding operations. The Committee also has for evaluating external auditing work, informing the owner of the results of this the task of preparing matters involving changes in the credit policy and work and assisting in the drafting of proposals for auditors. The Committee is credit instructions for decision by the Board, the assessment of portfolio also to review and monitor the external auditor’s impartiality and indepenstrategies, the transparency of the loan portfolio, the evaluation of existing dence. Furthermore, the main task of the Committee is to examine the SBAB or proposed portfolio strategies, the evaluation of existing or new delegation Group’s governance, internal controls and financial information and to prerights and the Board’s annual review of regulatory frameworks, models for pare issues in these areas for decision by the Board. This is done at the granting credits and outcomes in terms of retail credit granting. The request of the owner and on the basis of the applicable regulations. The Com­Committee prepares all matters relating to credit risk and approves mittee receives and processes reports from SBAB’s external auditors, Internal new IRB models and significant changes to existing models. Audit and Compliance. The Committee is also tasked with monitoring the efficiency of risk management and of the work carried out by Compliance and The Credit Committee held 23 meetings during the year. Internal Audit. Annual plans and reports from Internal Audit and Compliance are also addressed by the Committee in preparation for decision by the Board of Directors. The Audit and Compliance Committee comprises four Board members. The Audit and Compliance Committee held five meetings during the year. 1) Karin Moberg was Chairman until 4 September 2019. E Risk and Capital Committee F Remuneration Committee Synnöve Trygg (Chairman) 1) Daniel Kristiansson (Chairman) 1) Jan Sinclair (member) Lars Börjesson (member) Jane Lundgren Ericsson (member) Inga-Lill Carlberg (member) The Risk and Capital Committee prepares matters concerning SBAB’s treaThe principal task of the Remuneration Committee is to prepare issues sury operations, matters related to risk and capital and the use of new finanregarding principles for remuneration and other employment terms and concial instruments. The Committee also prepares issues for resolution by the ditions for senior executives for resolution by the Board. The Committee also Board of Directors concerning objectives, strategies and control documents prepares matters pertaining to SBAB’s remuneration system ahead of Board within the areas of risk and capital. The Committee consists of at least three decisions. The Committee follows up remuneration structures and remuneramembers appointed by the Board. The Risk and Capital Committee is the tion levels within SBAB. statutory Risk Committee of the SBAB Group. The Remuneration Committee held five meetings during the year. The Risk and Capital Committee held eight meetings during the year. 1) Bo Magnusson was Chairman until 13 May 2019. 1) Jan Sinclair was Chairman until 17 May 2019. 86 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Corporate Governance report G CEO and Executive Management Remuneration of the Board of Directors I Risk The Board has formulated instructions for and senior executives The SBAB Group has a central Risk the CEO’s work. The CEO is responsible Information regarding the remuneration department with overall responsibility for for the ongoing management of the of the Board, the CEO and Executive developing and ensuring that risk-taking operations in accordance with guideManagement is presented in strategies are conducted in accordance lines, established policies and instrucNote IC 5. with the Board’s intention, and that politions issued by the Board. The CEO cies and processes facilitate relevant folreports to the Board. Executive ManageInternal control and governance low-up. Risk is responsible for the identifiment provides the CEO with support in Internal control is important for ensuring cation, quantification, analysis and exercising operational management of that SBAB’s operations are conducted in reporting of all risks. The CRO is responSBAB. The Executive Management comaccordance with prevailing regulations, sible for Risk. The CRO is directly suborprises the following functions: Accountas well as ensuring that SBAB identifies, dinate to the CEO and reports to the ing & Treasury; Risk; Business Specialists; measures and controls relevant risks and Board and CEO of SBAB. Risk is to Tech; Data Science; HR; Customer Serhas an efficient organisation and operaensure that risk awareness and accepvice; Customer Experience; Sustainability, tional management, and reliable finantance are sufficient to be able to manage Marketing and Communication; and cial reporting. The Board and the CEO risks on a daily basis. Risk also has a supCorporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ are ultimately responsible for ensuring portive role and works to ensure that the Associations. good internal control and governance. operations have the requisite proceThe Board and the CEO of SBAB are dures, systems and tools for daily manThe CEO’s councils and committees assisted in this work by several functions. agement of risks, thereby ensuring that The CEO has appointed a number of Key control functions in this regard are operations comply with the applicable councils and committees within SBAB to the Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit laws and regulations in risk control’s area support him in his work in the managefunctions, which are described in further of responsibility. ment of the operations. These are tasked detail below. Other functions, including with preparing issues for the CEO, either Accounting, Credit and Legal, support J Internal audit prior to his decisions or his recommendathe Board and the CEO with regard to SBAB’s Internal Audit unit constitutes an tions on matters to be determined by the good internal governance and control. internal independent audit function. Board. These established councils and All managers in each area of responsibilAccordingly, the main function of the committees are the Price Council, ALCO ity are responsible for the activities they Internal Audit is to examine and evaluate (Asset and Liability Committee) and the oversee being conducted with good governance and internal controls, to Credit Council. The Price Council preinternal governance and control. examine and evaluate that the compapares matters related to the pricing of ny’s organisation, control processes, IT H Compliance SBAB’s products, ALCO prepares issues systems, models and routines are approrelated to the Group’s financial operaSBAB has a central Compliance function. priate and efficient, and to review and tions, balance-sheet risks and capital The Compliance function’s area of regularly assess the reliability and quality issues, and the Credit Council prepares responsibility comprises rules on internal of the work conducted in other control and has a certain scope to make decigovernance and control, customer profunctions in SBAB. All reporting to the sions on matters connected to SBAB’s tection and market conduct. Compliance Board and its Audit and Compliance credit operations and limits for the finanis independent of the business operations Committee is conducted in accordance cial operations. and is directly subordinate to the CEO. with a reporting and meeting plan. Compliance provides advice and support Governance of sustainable business to the operations on compliance matters, Within SBAB, the Board is ultimately analyses compliance risks and monitors responsible for ensuring that proactive, regulatory compliance in respect of long-term efforts to achieve sustainable operations requiring licences. Reporting development are carried out within the occurs on an ongoing basis to the CEO company. The Board also adopts a stratand quarterly by means of a written egy, objectives and a policy for sustainreport to the Board and the CEO. The able business. Furthermore, the Board scope and focus of the work of Complimonitors and assesses SBAB’s sustainance is established in an annual plan ability efforts. adopted by the Board. Read more on page 172 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 87 Corporate Governance report K External auditor accountants or an authorised accounting CEO’s administration of the company. The General Meeting appoints the audifirm with an auditor-in-charge. As of In addition, the auditor reviews SBAB’s tor. SBAB’s Audit and Compliance Com2011, SBAB’s auditor is appointed annuhalf-year report and year-end reports mittee evaluates the contribution of the ally in accordance with the Companies and presents his findings to the Audit and auditor and assists the owner in preparAct and the Articles of Association. From Compliance C ­ ommittee at regular meeting motions for the auditor. Officials at the 2016 AGM, Deloitte AB has been ings of the Committee, when the interim the Government Offices of Sweden monappointed as auditor, with Patrick Honeth and year-end reports reviewed by the itor all stages of the procurement process as the auditor-in-charge. A more auditor are considered, and when the from tendering criteria to selection and detailed presentation of the auditor and internal control review is reported to the evaluation. At the AGM, the owner the fees and expenses paid to auditors is Board. The auditor also reviews SBAB’s appoints the auditor or the accounting provided in Note IC 6. The auditor examSustainability Report and the Communifirm that is commissioned to audit SBAB. ines the Annual Report, the consolidated cation on ­Progress (COP). Auditors must be authorised public financial statements and the accounting records, as well as the Board’s and the Internal Control of Financial Reporting At SBAB, the internal control of financial reporting, and is managed and ment and the Board. The Board’s Audit reporting is primarily aimed at ensuring reported using separate risk tools. and Compliance Committee supervises that an effective and reliable procedure SBAB has an NPAP in place for the the financial reporting as well as the for SBAB’s financial reporting is in place, implementation of new or significantly effectiveness of internal control. and that both internal and external altered products, services, markets, reporting is correct and accurate. Work ­processes and IT systems as well as Information and communication with the internal control of financial major operational and organisational The Economy and Finance unit ensures reporting comprises the following interchanges at SBAB. The aim of the prothat the instructions on accounting and nal control components. cess is to evaluate any potential risks financial reporting are updated, comrelated to the change and to draw municated and made available for the The control environment attention to any impact the change units that need them for their work. The The internal control of financial reportmay have on capital. instructions are also available on SBAB’s ing uses SBAB’s values, organisational intranet. structure, codes of conduct, policies, Control activities instructions and directions for SBAB’s Business-support processes that provide Follow-up operations as its starting point. data for the financial statements are The Board’s measures to follow up on charted and contain control activities in the internal control of financial reporting Risk assessment the form of descriptions of processes, include the Board’s regular follow-up of Each unit within SBAB identifies, evalureasonability assessments, reconciliaSBAB’s financial position and perforates, manages and assesses its own tions, attestations and performance mance, etc., but also include the risks. The analysis of risk levels in all analyses. An internal set of rules, includBoard’s review and follow-up on operations, including financial reporting accounting policies, planning and the auditor’s review reports. ing, is conducted on a regular basis and reporting procedures, ensures the reported to the Executive Management, application of control activities. the CEO and the Board. Each year, a SBAB’s financial position and perforrisk assessment is performed in the form mance, target attainment and analysis of a self-evaluation of all business-­ of operations is reported on a monthly support processes, including financial basis to both the Executive Manage88 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Proposed appropriation of profits Proposed appropriation of profits SBAB posted a net profit for the year after tax of SEK 3,802,368,314. According to SBAB’s balance sheet, SEK 11,471,843,519 is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting. Fair value reserve 237,256,074 Additional Tier 1 instruments 3,500,000,000 Retained earnings 3,932,219,131 Net profit for the year 3,802,368,314 Total 11,471,843,519 The Board proposes that the earnings be appropriated as follows: Carried forward to next year 11,471,843,519 Total 11,471,843,519 The Board of Directors has resolved to not propose a dividend for the financial year 2019. For more information, refer to Note A 5. The Board of Directors proposes that the funds at disposal of the General Meeting be carried forward. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 89 Board of Directors Board of Directors As per the publication date of this report Top row from left: Lars Börjesson, Anders Heder, Jane Lundgren-Ericsson, Daniel Kristiansson, Inga-Lill Carlberg Bottom row from left: Johan Prom, Jan Sinclair, Margareta Naumburg, Leif Pagrotsky, Synnöve Trygg LARS BÖRJESSON ANDERS HEDER JANE LUNDGRENDANIEL KRISTIANSSON INGA-LILL CARLBERG Member Member, employee ERICSSON Member Member Master of Engineering. ­representative Member Master of Business Master of Business AdministraBorn in 1964. Born in 1962. Appointed in Master of Law, LL.M (London). ­Administration and Economics. tion and Economics, Stockholm Elected in 2014. 2019 by the local club commitBorn in 1965. Elected in 2013. Born in 1974. School of Economics. Born in Board assignments: Tagg­ tee of the Financial Sector Board assignments: MiskaElected in 2016. 1962. Elected svampen AB, Dovana AB. Union of Sweden. tonic Musik Aktiebolag (depBoard assignments: Swedfund in 2019. Other assignments: CEO Board assignments: – uty), Visma Finance AB, AB International AB, stiftelsen Board assignments: Trill of KGH Customs Services. Other assignments: Works Sveriges Säkerställda Industrifonden. Impact AB, Stiftelsen för with controlling at SBAB, ­Obligationer (publ). Other assignments: Finansforskning (chairman). Previous experience: CEO of Stena Technoworld, Director Chairman of the local club Other assignments: Chief Under-secretary at the Other assignments: COO of Strategy and Business committee of the Financial Legal Counsel at Visma ­Government Offices of Trill Impact AB. Development Stena metall, Sector Union at SBAB. Finance AB of Sweden. Previous experience: Executive Previous experience: Several Senior partner of Accenture, Previous experience: Different Previous experience: Vice leading positions within including Managing Director positions within Götabanken, Director & Head of L­ ending at President, Investment Banking Svensk Exportkredit, CEO of ­Nordea, Board Member of of Accenture Management Wermlandsbanken/Gota and Citigroup. Tredje AP Fonden, Nordea Consulting Nordic. SBAB. SEK Securities and other senior positions at Svensk Investment Funds and Mistra Exportkredit AB. ­Sustainable Invest-ments. 90 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Board of Directors Deputies DAVID LARSSON Board Member, employee ­representative (deputy) Born in 1976. Appointed in 2018. Other assignments: Account ­manager Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations ­Business Area SBAB. KRISTINA LJUNG Board Member, employee ­representative (deputy) Born in 1966. Appointed in 2019. Other assignments: Account ­manager Retail SBAB, member of the local club committee of the Financial Sector Union of Sweden at SBAB. JOHAN PROM JAN SINCLAIR MARGARETA NAUMBURG LEIF PAGROTSKY SYNNÖVE TRYGG Member Chairman of the Board Board member, employee Member Member Masters degree in Business Master of Business Administrarepresentative Master of Science in Economics Bachelor of Business AdminisAdministration from Stockholm tion and Economics. Born in Master of Business Administrafrom the University of Gothentration and Economics School of Economics. Born in 1959. Elected in 2018. tion and Economics. Born in burg. Born in 1951. Elected in ­Stockholm University, 1972. Elected in 2020. 1964. Appointed in 2018 by 2020. Advanced Management Board assignments: Board the local club committee of ­Program Stockholm School Board assignments: Fredriks­ member STS Alpresor, JML Board assignments: Beckhovs Slott AB, Johan Prom AB SACO. mans Skola Aktiebolag (chairof Economics. Born in 1959. Sinclair AB and FCG – FinanElected in 2019. och Johan Prom konsultoch cial Compliance Group. Board assignments: – man), Beckmans Akademi investeringsaktiebolag. Chairman AB Victorhuset and Other assignments: CompliAktiebolag (chairman), Board assignments: PreciceOther assignments: Industrial AB Sveriges Säkerställda ance Officer SBAB, Chairman Husvärden L Larsson & Co AB Biometrics AB, Volvo Finans advisor, Executive in Residence ­Obligationer (publ). of the local club committee of (chairman), Vitartes Intea Bank AB, Valitor hf Stockholm School of Economics. the Confederation of ProfesHolding AB (chairman), SmarOther assignments: CEO of Other assignments: Industrial tilizer Scandinavia AB (chairPrevious experience: CEO advisor, own operations. sional Associations (SACO) at Synnöve Trygg Consulting AB SBAB. man) och Leif Pagrotsky AB. of Avanza, various leading Previous experience: CEO Previous experience: CEO executive positions at the ICA Previous experience: ManaPrevious experience: Various SEB Kort AB, Eurocard AB and SEB A.G, Group Treasurer as positions within parliament Group, management consulwell as other senior positions gerial and specialist roles in Diners Club Nordic AB. Board tant at McKinsey & Company internal audit, compliance, and the government, including Member Nordax Bank AB, within SEB. State Secretary for Financial and the Boston Consulting risk and finance at SBAB and Trygg Hansa AB and MasterGroup. Matteus Bank. External auditor Affairs at the Ministry of card Europe Board among at Price Waterhouse. Finance, Minister for Industry others. and Trade, as well as Minister for Culture and Education. Moreover, as Vice Chair of the Council of Riksbanken, Chairman of Business Sweden and Consul General of Sweden in New York. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 91 Executive Management Executive Management As per the publication date of this report From left: Fredrik Stenbeck, Robin Silfverhielm, Carina Eriksson, Klas Danielsson, Andras Valko, Malou Sjörin, Mikael Inglander, Sara Davidgård, Klas Ljungqvist. Kristina Frid is missing from the picture. FREDRIK STENBECK ROBIN SILFVERHIELM CARINA ERIKSSON KLAS DANIELSSON ANDRAS VALKO CRO Chief Experience Officer Head of HR CEO Head of Data Science Master of Business Administra(CXO) Master of Business AdministraBachelor of Social Sciences (CDSO) tion and Economics. Master of Engineering. Born tion and Economics. Business Administration Born PhD Computer Science, MSc Born in 1982. in 1973. Born in 1965. in 1963. Year of employment: Engineering, BSc Economics. Year of employment: 2020. Year of employment: 2019. Year of employment: 2015. 2014. Born in 1971. Year of employBoard assignments: – Board assignments: Board Board assignments: – Board assignments: Board ment: 2019. Previous experience: CRO member of Booli Search Previous experience: Scandimember AB Sveriges SäkerBoard assignments: – and leading positions in risk ­Technologies AB. navian HR Business Partner stallda Obligationer (publ), DE Capital Nordic AB and SpiderPrevious experience: Various management at Bambora, Previous experience: CDO Lead for Trygg Hansa/Codan, leadership roles at Ericsson in Hoist Finance and Pareto Skandia, Management Scandinavian HR Director for web Consulting AB. Chairman of the Board of Booli Search product management, busiSecurities. Several positions ­Consultant Accenture, Personal Lines, Trygg Hansa/ ness development, applied within the Öhman Group. ­Project Manager OMX. Codan, HR Director Microsoft Technologies AB. Deputy Member of the Board of the research, and software develSweden, COO for Deutsche opment, in the areas of big data Bank Nordic Equities. Swedish Bankers’ Association. analytics, data engineering, Other assignments: Chairman and data science. of the Nomination C­ ommittee for Stockholms Stadsmission. Previous experience: Founder and CEO of Nordnet AB (publ) and Nordnet Bank AB, Head of Trading at SBC Warburg AB, Chairman of SwedSec Licensiering AB, Board Member of Ikano Bank AB, East Capital AB, the Swedish Consumers’ Banking and Finance Bureau, Alternativa Aktiemarknaden AB, the Swedish Securities Dealers Association, and others. 92 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Executive Management MALOU SJÖRIN MIKAEL INGLANDER SARA DAVIDGÅRD KLAS LJUNGKVIST KRISTINA FRID Head of Sustainability, CFO and acting Head of Head of Business Specialists CIO Head of Customer Service Marketing & Communication ­Corporate Clients & Tenant-­ Master of Business AdministraMaster of Engineering. Degree of Bachelor of Arts, Master of Business AdministraOwners’ Associations tion and Economics. Born in Born in 1966. Year of Media and Communication tion and Economics. Master of Business Administra1974. Year of employment: ­employment: 2016. Studies. Born in 1976. Born in 1972. tion and Economics. 2017. Board assignments: – Year of employment: 2017. Year of employment: 2020. Born in 1963. Board assignments: – Board assignments: – Year of employment: 2014. Previous experience: CTO of Board assignments: – Previous experience: Head of Nordnet Bank AB, various Previous experience: Head of Previous experience: Senior Board assignments: Board Risk Swedish Banking at Swedmanagerial positions within Branch Region Nordea, ChairVice President Communication member of Booli Search bank, Board member Sparia, Abaris. man Chamber of Commerce Trygg Hansa/Codan, Senior ­Technologies AB. Segment Manager at SwedKarlstad Section. Various manVice President CommunicaPrevious experience: CEO of bank, various management agement positions and other tion, SJ AB, Management Lindorff Sverige AB, Executive positions within Swedbank as positions within Nordea. ­Consultant Cap Gemini Ernst Vice President and CFO of well as other positions within & Young. Swedbank AB, Regional Swedbank Robur. ­Manager and Executive Vice President of ForeningsSparbanken AB, Board member of ICA Banken, OK-Q8 Bank AB, Hansa­Bank Group AS, and ­others. Auditor PATRICK HONETH Deloitte AB Auditor-in-charge at SBAB since 2016. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 93 Income statement and statement of comprehensive income Income statement GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income IC 1 5,868 4,924 1,962 1,399 Interest expense IC 1 –2,395 –1,562 –1,322 –1,106 Net interest income 3,473 3,362 640 293 Dividends received/Group contributions – – 3,539 – Commission income IC 2 84 90 89 100 Commission expense IC 2 –98 –139 –36 –25 Net result of financial transactions IC 3 26 –65 11 –45 Other operating income IC 4 36 32 1,043 896 Total operating income 3,521 3,280 5,286 1,219 Personnel costs IC 5 –630 –543 –620 –533 Other expenses IC 6 –486 –474 –579 –525 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PPE IC 7 and intangible assets –71 –32 –17 –11 Total expenses before credit losses –1,187 –1,049 –1,216 –1,069 Profit before credit losses 2,334 2,231 4,070 150 Net credit losses IC 8 –26 11 –14 37 Impairment of financial assets –5 –1 –5 –1 Reversals of impairment of financial assets 5 0 5 0 Operating profit 2,308 2,241 4,056 186 Tax TX 1 –520 –515 –254 –63 Net profit for the year 1,788 1,726 3,802 123 Interest income on financial assets measured at amortised cost calculated using the effective-interest method amounted to SEK 5,881 million (5,191) for the Group and SEK 1,889 million (1,533) for the Parent Company. Statement of comprehensive income GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net profit for the year 1,788 1,726 3,802 123 Other comprehensive income Components that will be reclassified to profit or loss EQ 1 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI –56 –63 –56 –63 Changes related to cash-flow hedges, before tax 1,823 634 75 142 Tax attributable to components that will be reclassified to profit or loss –378 –120 –4 –15 Components that will not be reclassified to profit or loss EQ 1 Revaluation effects of defined-benefit pension plans, before tax –50 –39 – – Tax attributable to components that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 11 8 – – Other comprehensive income, net of tax 1,350 420 15 64 Total comprehensive income for the year 3,138 2,146 3,817 187 94 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Comments to the consolidated income statement Comments to the consolidated income statement Operating profit and key metrics Credit losses IC 8 Operating profit increased to SEK 2,308 milNet credit losses totalled SEK 26 million Parent Company lion (2,241). The return on equity amounted (recoveries: 11). The difference between Operating profit grew to SEK 4,056 milto 11.7% (12.1) and the C/I ratio was 33.7% the periods was partly attributable to a large lion (186), primarily due to the retroac(32.0). reversal in the comparative period of previtive dividend of SEK 3 billion and a ously impaired credit stage 3 loans and Group contribution of SEK 539 million Net interest income IC 1 partly due to the review of the macroecofrom the subsidiary SCBC. Operating Net interest income grew to SEK 3,473 milnomic projections applied in the impairment profit was also positively affected by lion (3,362), mainly due to higher lending model ahead of 2019. The revised projechigher net interest income and higher volumes, of which the majority pertained to tions entailed a slightly more negative outother operating income.Net interest residential mortgages, and lower guarantee look for the housing market and the review income rose to SEK 640 million (293) fees. Guarantee fees amounted to SEK 287 entailed a non-recurring effect at the start over the period. The increase was largely million (349) for 2019, of which SEK 244 milof 2019 of around SEK 10 million in attributable to rising customer and marlion (299) comprised the resolution fee and increased loss allowances. Moreover, loss ket interest rates as well as lower guaranSEK 43 million (49) the fee payable to the allowances increased around SEK 9 million tee fees. Net commission income fell to national deposit guarantee. due to a decline in risk classes for larger SEK 53 million (75) as a result of lower ­individual exposures. Aside from the above commission income from mediating Net commission income IC 2 effects, the loan portfolio has continued to insurance. The net result of financial The net commission expense was SEK 14 milbe marked by low credit risk. Confirmed transactions amounted to SEK 11 million lion (expense: 49). A non-recurring commiscredit losses amounted to SEK 14 million (expense: 45) as a result of the revaluasion expense to a former business partner for (11) during the year. tion of credit risk in derivatives. Other mediating mortgages was included in the operating income rose to SEK 1,043 milcomparative figure, in conjunction with windTaxes TX 1 lion (896), and mainly comprised fees ing up the partnership. Otherwise, the item Tax consists of income tax of 21.4% of net from SCBC for administrative services in was negatively affected by lower commission profit for the year with an addition for tax line with the applicable outsourcing income from insurance mediation. adjustments and any adjustments of tax for agreements. Expenses increased to SEK previous years. The tax expense amounted 1,216 million (1,069) mainly as a result of Net result of financial to SEK 520 million (515) for the year. increased personnel and IT expenses. transactions IC 3 Credit losses increased to SEK 14 million The net result of financial transactions Other comprehensive income EQ 1 (recoveries: 37), mainly as a result of the increased to SEK 26 million (expense: 65), Other comprehensive income increased to internal movement of credit impaired mainly due to differences in value changes SEK 1,350 million (420), due to the substanloans from SBAB to SCBC (due to the tranin hedging instruments and hedged items tial positive impact on the item of a downturn sition to IFRS 9) and recoveries of previous as well as the remeasurement of credit risk in long euro interest rates.1) impairments in the comparative period. in derivatives. Expenses IC 5 IC 6 AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer Expenses grew to SEK 1,187 million (1,049) (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond due to increased operational investments in 1) The Group’s financial position and development is reflected primarily in the income statement and balance ­Corporation — SCBC) areas including customer experience and sheet. Moreover, the applied accounting policies give SCBC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of customer service, digitisation and IT systems certain revaluation effects, among other effects, that are SBAB whose primary operations com– investments that will lead to higher effirecognised in other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income includes changes in prise of the issuance of covered bonds to ciency and lower expenses in the long term, cash-flow hedges that consist of unrealised value changes fund the lending of the SBAB Group. increased customer benefit and loyalty, confrom derivatives used for hedging cash flows in the Group’s funding in foreign currencies. Underlying funding is SCBC’s operating profit for 2019 tinued growth in customer numbers and users measured at amortised cost, where value changes are totalled SEK 1,713 million (1,979). Net as well as larger market shares. Efforts to not recognised while derivatives that hedge borrowing interest income totalled SEK 2,835 milreplace SBAB’s core bank platform are are marked to market. This means that changes in rates, primarily in euro, can lead to volatility during the term, lion (3,069) and net commission ­ongoing and require considerable time and even if the long-term result is zero. The line item is normally amounted to an expense of SEK 63 milresources. The project is expected to be affected positively by a decline in interest rates and lion (expense: 119). The net income completed in 2021. Modern, flexible system negatively by a rise in interest rates. Financial assets measured at FVTOCI consist of from financial transactions was SEK 8 support comprises a key component for unrealised value changes in securities (classified according million (expense: 43). SCBC’s total strengthening SBAB’s future competitiveto certain principles) in the liquidity reserve. The line item is primarily affected by changes in credit spreads in bond expenses amounted to SEK 1,055 million ness, and its ability to develop digital services holdings. (902) for 2019. The majority of the and enhance the digital customer interface. The item revaluation effects of defined-benefit pension expenses are attributable to costs for The number of FTEs increased from 602 to plans includes actuarial gains and losses where changes in the discount rate is the assumption that has the strongest operations outsourced to SBAB. Credit 695 over the year, with most new FTEs impact on the item. losses totalled SEK 12 million (loss: 26). recruited in the Tech, CX and customer SCBC’s 2019 Annual Report is available ­service departments. at www.sbab.se. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 95 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 ASSETS Cash and balances at central banks 5,750 0 5,750 0 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. A 1 15,886 20,904 15,886 20,904 Lending to credit institutions A 2 417 2,847 102,596 93,262 Lending to the public A 3 383,807 364,215 24,871 24,845 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges –181 99 – – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities A 4 55,731 50,945 55,731 50,945 Derivatives A 5 13,087 8,313 13,354 8,762 Shares and participations in Group companies A 6 – – 10,401 10,389 Intangible assets A 7 311 234 24 26 Property, plant and equipment A 8 139 16 39 15 Other assets A 9 56 73 556 47 Prepaid expenses and accrued income A 10 529 709 627 740 TOTAL ASSETS 475,532 448,355 229,835 209,935 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions L 1 10,528 6,607 10,527 6,607 Deposits from the public L 2 130,542 124,926 130,542 124,926 Debt securities issued, etc. L 3 303,597 290,795 56,823 56,021 Derivatives A 5 1,388 1,339 12,320 7,964 Other liabilities L 4 376 384 432 303 Accrued expenses and deferred income L 5 1,805 1,790 347 302 Deferred tax liabilities TX 2 579 194 62 62 Provisions L 6 188 138 13 7 Subordinated debt L 7 4,948 4,946 4,948 4,946 Total liabilities 453,951 431,119 216,014 201,138 Equity Share capital EQ 1 1,958 1,958 1,958 1,958 Statutory reserve – – 392 392 Reserves/Fair value reserve EQ 1 1,959 609 237 222 Additional Tier 1 instruments L 7 3,500 1,500 3,500 1,500 Retained earnings 12,376 11,443 3,932 4,602 Net profit for the year 1,788 1,726 3,802 123 Total equity 21,581 17,236 11,471 8,797 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 475,532 448,355 229,835 209,935 96 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Comments to the consolidated balance sheet Comments to the consolidated balance sheet ASSETS LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Parent Company Chargeable treasury bills A 1 Liabilities to credit institutions L 1 Lending to the public totalled SEK 24.9 Chargeable treasury bills decreased during Liabilities to credit institutions increased billion (24.8). Deposits from the public the year to SEK 15.9 billion (20.9), mainly as over the year to SEK 10.5 billion (6.6), mainly totalled SEK 130.5 billion (124.9). a result of the Riksbank’s changed method attributable to higher volumes for collateral for recognising surplus liquidity, whereupon (CSAs) received. the Cash and balances at central banks item AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer increased to SEK 5.8 billion (0). Other Deposits from the public L 2 (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond changes were within the scope of the normal Deposits from the public increased 4.5% in ­Corporation — SCBC) management of the liquidity reserve to 2019 to a total of SEK 130.5 billion (124.9). SCBC does not conduct any new lend­maintain the desired duration and credit Of total deposits at year end, SEK 92.0 biling itself but instead acquires loans from risk profile. lion (87.1) pertained to retail deposits and SBAB Bank, on an on-going basis or as SEK 38.6 billion (37.9) deposits from corponecessary. The aim of securing these Lending to credit institutions A 2 rate clients and tenant-owners’ associations. loans is to include them, in part or in full, Lending to credit institutions decreased to Read more on page 67 in the assets that comprise collateral for SEK 0.4 billion (2.8). The change was within holders of SCBC’s covered bonds. the scope of the normal short-term liquidity Debt securities issued, etc. L 3 SCBC’s lending portfolio comprises management. Issued debt securities outstanding increased loans for residential mortgages, with SEK 12.8 billion over the year to a total of lending to consumers the largest segLending to the public A 3 ment. At the end of the period, SCBC’s SEK 303.6 billion (290.8), of which SEK Lending to the public increased 5.4% during lending amounted to SEK 358.9 billion 246.8 billion (234.8) comprised covered the year to SEK 383.8 billion (364.2). New (339.4). Information regarding SCBC’s funding and SEK 56.8 billion (56.0) lending totalled SEK 75.5 billion (74.3). Of lending, the cover pool, is published ­unsecured funding. total lending at year end, SEK 291.6 billion monthly on the website www.sbab.se. (276.7) comprised residential mortgages, Read more on page 72 SCBC’s 2019 Annual Report is available SEK 2.3 billion (2.2) consumer loans, SEK at www.sbab.se. 38.4 billion (33.8) lending to property comEquity EQ 1 L 7 panies and SEK 51.5 billion (51.5) lending Equity increased during the year to SEK 21.6 to tenant-owners’ associations. billion (17.2), mainly due to the issue of an Additional Tier 1 Capital loan (AT1) and the Read more on page 67 change in other comprehensive income. Otherwise, the item was affected by diviBonds and other interest-bearing dends to the owner, dividends on additional securities A 4 Tier 1 instruments and net profit for the year. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities amounted to SEK 55.7 billion (50.9). This change was also within the scope of the ­normal management of the liquidity reserve. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 97 Statement of changes in equity Statement of changes in equity GROUP Retained earnings Reserves/Fair Additional Tier 1 and net profit SEK million Note Share capital value reserve instruments for the year1) Total equity Opening balance, 1 January 2019 1,958 609 1,500 13,169 17,236 Additional Tier 1 instruments – – 2,000 – 2,000 Additional Tier 1 instruments, dividend – – – –103 –103 Dividends paid – – – –690 –690 Other comprehensive income, net of tax EQ 1 – 1,350 – – 1,350 Net profit for the year – – – 1,788 1,788 Comprehensive income for the year – 1,350 – 1,788 3,138 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 1,958 1,959 3,500 14,164 21,581 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,958 188 1,500 12,164 15,810 Effect of changes in accounting policies IFRS 9 – 1 – 35 36 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,958 189 1,500 12,199 15,846 Additional Tier 1 instruments, dividend – – – –71 –71 Dividends paid – – – –684 –684 Other – – – –1 –1 Other comprehensive income, net of tax EQ 1 – 420 – – 420 Net profit for the year – – – 1,726 1,726 Comprehensive income for the year – 420 – 1,726 2,146 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 1,958 609 1,500 13,169 17,236 1) Retained earnings includes the Parent Company’s statutory reserve, which is not distributable. 98 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Statement of changes in equity cont. Statement of changes in equity PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Retained earnings Statutory Fair value Additional Tier 1 and net profit SEK million Note Share capital reserve reserve instruments for the year Total equity Opening balance, 1 January 2019 1,958 392 222 1,500 4,725 8,797 Additional Tier 1 instruments – – – 2,000 – 2,000 Additional Tier 1 instruments, dividend – – – – –103 –103 Dividends paid – – – – –690 –690 Other comprehensive income, net of tax EQ 1 – – 15 – – 15 Net profit for the year – – – – 3,802 3,802 Comprehensive income for the year – – 15 – 3,802 3,817 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 1,958 392 237 3,500 7,734 13,821 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,958 392 157 1,500 5,362 9,369 Effect of changes in accounting policies IFRS 9 – – 1 – –5 –4 Adjusted opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,958 392 158 1,500 5,357 9,365 Additional Tier 1 instruments, dividend – – – – –71 –71 Dividends paid – – – – –684 –684 Other – – – – 0 0 Other comprehensive income, net of tax EQ 1 – – 64 – – 64 Net profit for the year – – – – 123 123 Comprehensive income for the year 1,958 392 64 1,500 123 187 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 1,958 392 222 1,500 4,725 8,797 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 99 Cash-flow statement Cash-flow statement GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening cash and cash equivalents 2,847 1,867 93,262 94,302 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Interest received 6,032 5,021 2,074 1,427 Commission received 92 91 89 100 Interest paid –2,402 –1,475 –1,294 –1,170 Commission paid –101 –143 –38 –29 Outflows to suppliers and employees –1,116 –1,017 –1,199 –1,060 Taxes paid/refunded –566 –531 –79 –102 Change in lending to the public –19,618 –29,035 –40 –1,894 Change in chargeable treasury bills, etc. 5,075 1,978 5,075 1,978 Change in bonds and other interest-bearing securities and fund units –4,877 –1,273 –4,876 –1,273 Change in liabilities to credit institutions 3,921 933 3,920 1,887 Change in deposits from the public 5,616 13,031 5,616 13,031 Change in debt securities issued, etc. 12,401 16,358 961 –14,174 Change in other assets and liabilities –2,290 –2,147 616 976 Cash flow from operating activities 2,167 1,791 10,825 –303 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Sale of property plant and equipment 3 – 3 – Investments in PPE –39 –10 –38 –9 Investments in intangible assets –109 –81 –4 –5 Investments in subsidiaries – –36 –12 –39 Cash flow from investing activities –145 –127 –51 –53 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Dividends paid –690 –684 –690 –684 Dividends received – – 3,000 – Change in additional Tier 1 instruments 2,000 – 2,000 – Repayment of lease liabilities –12 – – – Cash flow from financing activities 1,298 –684 4,310 –684 Increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents 3,320 980 15,084 –1,040 Closing cash and cash equivalents 6,167 2,847 108,346 93,262 Comments to the cash-flow statement The cash-flow statement is reported in accordance with IAS 7, and cash and cash Group level. Subordinated receivables (receivables from Group companies) are equivalents are defined as cash and balances at central banks as well as lending to included in cash and cash equivalents for the Parent Company, and are recognised credit institutions, which does not correspond to the liquidity definition applied at in the balance sheet under Lending to credit institutions. 10 0 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Cash-flow statement Cont. Cash-flow statement CHANGE IN LIABILITIES ATTRIBUTABLE TO FINANCING ACTIVITIES GROUP Non-cash items Non-cash items Closing Closing Opening balance, Opening balance, balance, Cash 31 December balance, Cash 31 December SEK million 1 January 2019 flow Fair value Other 2019 1 January 2018 flow Fair value Other 2018 Subordinated debt 4,946 – –3 6 4,949 4,942 – –2 6 4,946 Additional Tier 1 instruments 1,500 2,000 – – 3,500 1,500 – – – 1,500 Total 6,446 2,000 –3 6 8,449 6,442 – –2 6 6,446 PARENT COMPANY Non-cash items Non-cash items Closing Closing Opening balance, Opening balance, balance, Cash 31 December balance, Cash 31 December SEK million 1 January 2019 flow Fair value Other 2019 1 January 2018 flow Fair value Other 2018 Subordinated debt 4,949 – –3 6 4,949 4,942 – –2 6 4,946 Additional Tier 1 instruments 1,500 2,000 – – 3,500 1,500 – – – 1,500 Total 6,446 2,000 –3 6 8,449 6,442 – –2 6 6,446 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 101 FINANCIAL NOTES Financial notes G General information and overriding accounting policies 103 L Liabilities 157 G:1 Accounting policies 103 L:1 Liabilities to credit institutions 157 G:2 Related party disclosures 109 L:2 Deposits from the public 157 G:3 Proposed appropriation of profits 110 L:3 Debt securities issued, etc. 157 G:4 Effect of changes in accounting policies 111 L:4 Other liabilities 157 G:5 Events after the balance sheet date 112 L:5 Accrued expenses and deferred income 157 L:6 Provisions 158 RC Risk management and capital adequacy 113 L:7 Subordinated debt and capital instruments 159 RC:1 Credit risk in lending operations 113 RC:2 Credit risk in treasury operations 123 EQ Equity 160 RC:3 Liquidity risk 125 EQ:1 Equity 160 RC:4 Market risk 129 RC:5 Operational risk 132 AC Collateral pledged and contingent liabilities 161 RC:6 Business risk 133 AC:1 Assets pledged for own liabilities 161 RC:7 Concentration risk 133 AC:2 Contingent liabilities 161 RC:8 Capital adequacy analysis 134 RC:9 Internally assessed capital requirement 144 FI Financial instruments 162 FI:1 Classification of financial instruments 162 IC Income and expenses 145 FI:2 Fair value disclosures 166 IC:1 Net interest income 145 FI:3 Offsetting disclosures 167 IC:2 Commission 145 IC:3 Net result of financial transactions 145 IC:4 Other operating income 145 IC:5 Personnel costs 145 IC:6 Other expenses 149 IC:7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PPE and 150 intangible assets IC:8 Net credit losses 150 IC:9 Operating segments 151 TX Tax 152 TX:1 Tax 152 TX:2 Deferred tax 152 A Assets 152 A:1 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 152 A:2 Lending to credit institutions 152 A:3 Lending to the public 153 A:4 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 153 A:5 Derivatives 154 A:6 Shares and participations in Group companies 155 A:7 Intangible assets 155 A:8 Property, plant and equipment 156 A:9 Other assets 156 A:10 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 156 102 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES G General information and overriding accounting policies pp. 103–112 G:1 Accounting policies SBAB Bank AB (publ), “SBAB,” and its subsidiaries mainly conduct lending to conable acquired assets and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities are valued at sumers, tenant-owners’ associations and companies in the Swedish residential mortfair value on the acquisition date. Any consideration transferred for corporate gage market. SBAB’s offering also includes savings products. SBAB is a Swedish acquisitions that exceeds the fair value of identifiable acquired net assets is recpublic limited banking company domiciled in Solna. The address of the Head Office ognised as goodwill. Goodwill is distributed over cash-generating units (CGUs) or is SBAB Bank AB (publ), Box 4209, SE-171 04 Solna, Sweden. groups of CGUs, which are expected to benefit from the acquisition through synerThe Annual Report for SBAB has been prepared in accordance with the Internagies. The CGUs to which goodwill is distributed correspond to the lowest level within tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. In addition to the Group where goodwill is followed up in the internal governance. these accounting standards, Finansinspektionen’s (the Swedish FSA) regulations Transaction costs, with the exception of transaction costs related to the issue of and general guidelines on annual accounts for credit institutions and securities comequity or debt instruments, that arise through the acquisition are recognised directly panies (FFFS 2008:25), the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and in profit/loss for the year. For acquisitions where a put option has been issued, the Securities Companies and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation anticipated-acquisition method is applied, which means that the put option for the RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups were taken into consideration. remaining shares is considered as acquired at the time of acquisition. Consequently, The Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the cost method, no minority holdings are recognised. The debt regarding the present value of the apart from the revaluation of derivatives, financial assets and liabilities measured at redemption price for a put option will thereby be included in the fair value of the fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), financial assets measured at fair value through total consideration. other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) and hedge-accounted items. On 23 March 2020, the Board of Directors approved the financial statements for publication and Financial instruments these await final adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2020. Recognition in and derecognition from the balance sheet Financial instruments are recognised when the company is involved with the instruIntroduction of new accounting standards ment’s contractual terms. Issued and acquired securities, including all derivatives, IFRS 16 Leases are recognised on the trade date, meaning the date on which the significant risks The new IFRS 16 standard has changed the lease classification criteria. IFRS 16 has and rights are transferred between the parties. Other financial instruments are been applied from 1 January 2019. The new standard has entailed that all leases ­recognised on the settlement date. (with the exception of short-term and smaller leases) are recognised as right-of-use A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual assets with corresponding liabilities in the lessee’s balance sheet. rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset expire and the Group has transThe lease payments are recognised in profit or loss as depreciation of the leased ferred essentially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. A financial asset and as an interest expense on the lease liability. Moreover, disclosure requireliability is derecognised from the balance sheet when it is extinguished, meaning ments apply. Prior to the regulation entering force, SBAB completed extensive analwhen the obligation specified in the contract is fulfilled, cancelled or has expired. ysis of all of the Group’s agreements. This work has been conducted in project form together with stakeholders from various units at SBAB. The project has brought in Offsetting external accounting specialists to help with quality assurance and interpretations of Financial assets and financial liabilities are to be offset and recognised at net IFRS 16. SBAB’s leases mainly pertain to lease agreements for premises, which were amounts only where the recognised amounts may legally be offset and the intention previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17. is to settle the items with a net amount or to simultaneously realise the asset and The leases have been measured pursuant to IFRS 16, where the lease duration ­settle the liability. and the discount rate form the most material parameters. SBAB uses the marginal interest rate on borrowing as a discount rate, and it applies for the entire duration of Recognition of income and expense the contract, including any indexing. Interest income and interest expense (including interest income from impaired Short-term contracts of less than 12 months and low-value contracts of less than receivables) are recognised using the effective-interest method. The calculation of USD 5,000 are exempted from this application. On transition on 1 January 2019, the effective interest rate includes all fees paid or received between the parties to SBAB recognised, in its consolidated accounts, a tangible asset with respect to lease the contract, including transaction costs. contracts identified pursuant to IFRS 16 of SEK 104 million according to the simpliSince transaction costs in the form of remuneration to business partners or issue fied approach, which means that the figures for last year have not been restated. expenses attributable to the acquisition of loans constitute part of the acquisition cost of the loan, these costs are recognised in the balance sheet and included in Amendments in IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 profit or loss using the effective-interest method via net interest income over the In January 2020, the EU adopted amendments in IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7. The expected tenor of the loan. amendments entail certain reliefs in hedge accounting in conjunction with the IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers is applied for various types of change in reference interest rates and SBAB has chosen early application of these services that are mainly recognised in profit or loss as Commission income. Revenue amendments in the 2019 Annual Report. This change is not expected to have any from lending is primarily recognised when the service is provided, in other words at a impact on the financial statements. specific date. Other commission income and Other operating income are mainly recognised when these services are rendered, in other words, in a straight line over Other changes time. Commission expenses are included in profit or loss continuously in accordance According to SBAB’s preliminary assessment, other forthcoming new or changed with the contractual terms. accounting standards that have been published but not yet applied will have a limIn the event of premature redemption of loans, the customer pays interest comited effect on the company’s or the Group’s accounting and financial reports. pensation intended to cover the cost that arises for SBAB. This compensation is recognised as income directly under the heading “Net result of financial transactions.” General accounting policies Other items under this heading are described in the “Classification” section. Consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the acquiClassification sition method and include the Parent Company SBAB and its subsidiaries. Entities All financial instruments covered by IFRS 9 are classified pursuant to this standard in qualify as subsidiaries if they are controlled by the Parent Company. A parent comthe following categories: pany is deemed to have control of a subsidiary when it not only controls the subsidi• Financial assets measured at amortised cost ary and is exposed to, or is entitled to, variable returns from the subsidiary but when • Financial assets measured at FVTOCI it can also affect the returns from the subsidiary by means of its influence. The com• Financial assets measured at FVTPL panies are consolidated as of the date when the Parent Company assumes control • Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL of the subsidiary, and the consolidation ends when the Parent Company no longer • Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost exercises controlling influence over the subsidiary. Intra-Group transactions and receivables and liabilities between Group companies are eliminated. The instruments in the respective categories are valued in the following reporting, The cost of an acquisition consists of the fair value of any assets provided by way and where applicable, together with the required adjustments under the hedge of remuneration and any arisen or assumed liabilities. Any unsettled consideration accounting rules. for a put option is valued at the present value of the redemption amount. IdentifiS B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 103 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost Repos Assets in this category are recognised at cost, defined as fair value plus transaction Repos are agreements where the parties have reached agreement on the sale and costs, on the acquisition date and thereafter at amortised cost after application of repurchase of a particular security at a pre-determined price. Securities that have the effective-interest method. been provided or received under these repo agreements are not derecognised from This category consists of assets that are held within the framework of a business or not recognised in the balance sheet, respectively. Payments received are recmodel where the objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual ognised in the balance sheet as liabilities to credit institutions and payments made cash flows solely comprised of capital and interest. The assets in this category are recognised as lending to credit institutions. The impact on profit or loss is attribencompass lending, interest-bearing securities and other assets that meet the utable to the difference between sale and repurchase prices and is recognised as above terms. interest income or interest expense, respectively. The assets are subject to ongoing impairment testing. Refer also to the “Credit losses and impairment of financial assets” section. Fair value measurement Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss under “Impairment of financial Fair value is defined as the price that would be received on the valuation date on the assets” for securities and under “Net credit losses” for other assets, while the effecsale of an asset or the price that would be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly tive interest rate is recognised as interest income. transaction between market participants. Realised gains or losses from the sale of assets are recognised directly in profit or Fair value measurement of financial instruments measured at fair value and loss under “Net result of financial transactions.” traded on an active market is based on quoted prices (Level 1). If the market for a financial instrument is not active, the fair value is established on Financial assets measured at FVTOCI the basis of generally accepted measurement methods (Level 2). As far as possible, Assets in this category are recognised on the acquisition date at fair value plus calculations made in conjunction with measurement are based on observable market transaction costs, and thereafter at fair value in the balance sheet, with unrealised data. The main tools used are models based on discounted cash flows. In individual changes in value recognised as a component of other comprehensive income and cases, the calculations may also be based on assumptions or estimates (Level 3). accumulated in a separate reserve (the fair-value reserve) in equity. This category consists of assets that are held within the framework of a business Equity instruments model where the objective is to hold or sell these assets in order to collect contracIssued debt securities with the financial nature of equity, as per the definitions in IAS tual cash flows solely comprised of capital and interest. The category consists of 32, are recognised as additional Tier 1 capital under equity. Interest payments on interest-bearing securities. these instruments are recognised as a deduction from equity at the time of payment. The assets are subject to ongoing impairment testing. Refer also to the “Credit losses and impairment of financial assets” section. Impairments are recognised in Derivatives and hedge accounting profit or loss under “Net result of financial transactions” and as a change in the fairDerivatives are used primarily to manage interest-rate and currency risk in the value reserve in equity via other comprehensive income. Group’s assets and liabilities, and are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. Changes in fair value are transferred from other comprehensive income to the For economic hedges where the risk of a significant fluctuation in profit or loss is net result of financial transactions in profit or loss when the asset has been realised the greatest and that meet the formal hedge accounting criteria, SBAB has chosen or an impairment is recognised. (Changes in value that are attributable to exchange to apply hedge accounting for the hedging of interest-rate and currency risk. There rate changes are recognised in profit or loss). are also other economic hedges for which hedge accounting is not applied. For hedge accounting, the carve-out version of IAS 39 is applied, as adopted by the EU. Financial assets measured at FVTPL On initial recognition, assets in this category are recognised at fair value, while Fair-value hedging related transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss. In the case of fair-value hedging, the derivative hedging instrument is measured at Changes in fair value and realised gains or losses for these assets are recognised fair value at the same time as the hedged asset or liability is measured with an addidirectly in profit or loss under the heading “Net expense from financial transactions,” tion for accumulated changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk associwhile the effective interest rate is recognised as interest income. ated with the hedged item. Changes in fair value are recognised directly in profit or The category encompasses interest-bearing securities that, on initial recogniloss under “Net result of financial transactions.” The effective interest rate of the tion, were identified as measured at FVTPL to eliminate inconsistencies in valuation hedge is recognised in net interest income. and recognition, the so-called fair value option. If hedging relationships are terminated, the cumulative gains or losses are Furthermore, this category includes assets that do not meet the definitions for accrued in profit or loss, after adjustment of the carrying amount of the hedged item. other valuation categories and, accordingly, are measured at FVTPL. (For example, The accrual extends over the remaining maturity of the hedged item. Both the assets classed as held for trading and assets with cash flows other than capital and accrual and the realised gain or loss arising from premature closure of a hedging interest on capital). At SBAB, these assets consist exclusively of derivatives. instrument are recognised in profit or loss under “Net result of financial transactions.” Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Macro hedges On initial recognition, liabilities in this category are recognised at fair value, while In this type of hedging, derivatives are used at an aggregated level to hedge interrelated transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss. est-rate risks. In the financial statements, derivatives designated as macro hedges The category is divided into financial liabilities held for trading and financial liaare treated in the same way as other fair-value hedging instruments. bilities that Executive Management has designated as such upon initial recognition. In fair-value hedging of portfolios of assets, the gain or loss attributable to the All of SBAB’s liabilities in this category consist of derivatives that are used to hedged risk is recognised under “Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in hedge financial risk and which have been defined as held for trading in the financial macro hedges” in the balance sheet. The hedged item is a portfolio of lending transreporting. actions based on the next contractual renewal date. The hedging instrument used is Changes in fair value and realised gains or losses for these liabilities are reca portfolio of interest-rate swaps grouped in accordance with renewal intervals ognised in profit or loss under “Net result of financial transactions,” while the effecbased on conditions in the fixed leg of the swap. tive interest rate is recognised as interest expense. Cash-flow hedges Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost In the case of cash-flow hedges, the hedging instrument (the derivative) is valued at Financial liabilities that are not classified as “Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL” fair value. The effective part of the total change in value is reported as a component are initially recognised at fair value with an addition for transaction costs and are in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate reserve (hedge subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective-interest method. reserve) in equity. The accumulated amount is reversed in the income statement in This category consists mainly of issued debt securities, retail deposits and liabilities periods where the hedged item affects the profit or loss. The ineffective part of the to credit institutions. Realised gains or losses from the repurchase of own liabilities derivative’s change in value is transferred to the income statement under “Net result affects profit or loss when incurred and are recognised under the heading “Net of financial transactions,” where the realised gain or loss arising at the end of the result of financial transactions,” while the effective interest rate is recognised as hedge relationship is recognised. The effective interest-rate of the derivative is interest expense. ­recognised in net interest income. Liabilities to the owners of as yet unsettled shares and warrants in subsidiaries, for which put options have been issued, are classified as other financial liabilities Credit losses and impairment of financial assets and recognised under other liabilities. The amounts recognised are based on the Expected credit losses during the year, together with deductions for guarantees amounts expected to be disbursed under the option agreements outstanding. The expected to be utilised or that have been utilised plus any recoveries, are recrevaluation of the liability is recognised against retained earnings. For ownership ognised as credit losses. The term “confirmed credit losses” refers to losses where details, refer to Note A 6. the amounts are definite or established with a high level of probability and have thus been derecognised from the balance sheet. 10 4 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Impairment — expected credit losses Off-balance-sheet ECLs Where in the balance sheet a provision is recognised depends on the classification For off-balance-sheet items, initial recognition is defined as the moment the bank of the exposure under IFRS 9 and the cash flow characteristics: enters into the irrevocable undertaking. The loss allowance is calculated in the same • For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the loss allowance is recognised manner as for financial assets in the balance sheet, but includes the application of a as a deductible item together with the asset. credit conversion factor (CCF). The CCF measures the proportion of the undertak• For financial assets measured at FVTOCI, the loss allowance is recognised in ing that is expected to be converted to the balance sheet. In common with other risk equity. parameters, the CCF is also used in the IRB approach for capital adequacy. Further• For exposures that are not recognised in the balance sheet (for example, loan more, appropriate adjustments have been made to adapt the estimate to the ECL. commitments and building credits), the loss allowance is recognised as a proviFor more information, please refer to Note RC 1. sion on the liability side of the balance sheet. Liquidity portfolio ECLs Expected credit losses for financial assets in the balance sheet Under IFRS 9, expected credit losses should also be recognised for financial assets in Under IFRS 9, following initial recognition, financial assets in lending operations are the liquidity portfolio. ECLs are recognised for instruments measured at amortised divided into three stages according to their relative credit risk: cost and for assets measured at FVTOCI. The holdings in the liquidity portfolio solely comprise liquid, interest-bearing securities with high ratings, and where all of the Change in credit risk securities are classified as investment grade. Since investment grade is applied as an approximation to allow use of the low-credit-risk exemption under IFRS 9, this Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 entails that all securities are allocated to credit stage 1 as long as their ratings qualTiming From initial On a significant On default ify as investment grade. SBAB conducts regular checks to ensure the securities are ­recognition increase in credit investment grade and has internal policies that require the liquidity portfolio to only risk following initial include high quality assets. An ECL that could arise within 12 months is therefore recognition calculated for the liquidity portfolio, and is performed for all positions at the balance-sheet date. Since SBAB uses external ratings, changes in ratings for the releLoss 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL allowance vant securities are captured when calculating credit risk on the reporting date. Interest Based on gross Based on gross Based on net Measuring significant increases in credit risk income ­carrying amount ­carrying amount ­carrying amount To measure any significant increase in credit risk, historical default data has been analysed in terms of the PD trend over time given the risk classes on initial recogniDepending on the credit stage, the loss allowance is determined by calculating the tion. Thereafter, the thresholds are determined through analysis of the percentual ECL for the next 12-month period or the remaining expected lifetime. Assets can deviations from expected PDs given the initial risk classes. The threshold level migrate between stages from one balance-sheet date to another. This is decided assessed as representing a significant increase in credit risk encompasses PD deviabased on changes in credit risk compared with initial recognition. Interest income tions that constitute the tenth percentile of a historic population extending from the from assets in stage 3 are based on the net carrying amount after deduction of the start of year 2000 and forward. A significant increase in credit risk is considered to loss allowance, while interest income for the other stages is based on the gross have taken place if the PD for a loan in a given month exceeds the threshold value. ­carrying amount. The loan then migrates to stage 2 and remains there for as long as its PD is above the threshold. The thresholds values are calibrated with a statistical test using a corCredit stage 1 relation coefficient, the Matthews correlation coefficient, where the PD levels are Loan receivables will, at a minimum, have a loss allowance that corresponds to based on the maximised identification of future credit losses for performing loan 12-month ECL. Three main parameters are taken into consideration when measurreceivables, while the identified proportion that does not lead to a loss is minimised. ing ECLs. Probability of default (PD), Loss given default (LGD) and exposure at Migration from stage 2 to stage 1 is controlled exclusively by the PD threshold default (EAD), where the product results in the expected credit loss (ECL). To calcutogether with the qualitative indicator for payments more than 30 days past due, as late the 12-month ECL, SBAB uses its portfolio models for internal risk classification prescribed in IFRS 9. No qualification period is applied for migrations back to stage (IRB) that are intended for capital adequacy, but where appropriate adjustments 1. This has not been deemed necessary since PD is largely based on the borrower’s have been made to ensure an accurate expected monetary value for the ECL that payment history, which intrinsically entails a certain time delay. reflects the prevailing economic conditions and forward-looking information. The adjustments include the removal of safety margins and calibration against long-term Forward-looking information estimates through an economic cycle as stipulated in the CRR (Regulation (EU) No. So as not to solely base the estimate of ECL on empirical information, forward-look575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on prudential requireing information is used to obtain objective and accurate expected monetary values. ments for credit institutions and investment firms). This way, estimates can reflect The forward-looking information comprises forecasts of macroeconomic factors that the actual risk that currently applies. Moreover, the effects of macroeconomic facare highly significant for housing market development and that strongly correlate tors are applied to estimates to capture variations of conceivable future scenarios. with default frequencies and credit losses in SBAB’s lending. The forward-looking The same procedure for adjusting the parameters from IRB is also applied in stages information extends 36 months forward and is aligned with the forecast period 2 and 3. For more information on IRB; please refer to Note RC 1. applied in the internal capital and liquidity adequacy assessment process (ICLAAP). Moreover, 36 months is considered to encompass the effective period of an ecoCredit stage 2 nomic downturn or upturn. After 36 months, an assumption is made that the econFor loan receivables where the credit risk has increased significantly since initial omy will swing back to the baseline as per the reporting date, which will thereafter ­recognition, the loss allowance will correspond with lifetime ECL. Assessments of apply for the remaining time until maturity for the loan receivables. The assumption whether a significant increase in credit risk has occurred is made on an individual has been assessed as reasonable since loan receivables have relatively short and a collective basis for homogeneous credit risk groups, known as risk classes. expected maturities – less than ten years for most products – and the occurrence of Determination of the above uses historical default data for the respective risk classes several consecutive major economic fluctuations over the remaining maturity is and forward-looking information in the form of forecasts for macroeconomic factors deemed unlikely. The repo rate and unemployment are both factors with clear corthat show a clear connection to default. SBAB assesses whether credit risk has relations to PD and default in the Swedish housing market. Changes in the repo rate increased significantly since initial recognition by measuring the deviations from an will indirectly affect borrowers’ interest expenses, while changes in employment will expected PD trend for the original risk class. In addition to measurement of the directly impact their capacity to pay. To measure the effect on PD, a linear regreschange in PD, an assumption of a significant increase in credit risk in payments sion has been used, where the changes in the two macroeconomic factors explain more than 30 days overdue is also applied. No further qualitative indicators exist for the changes in default frequency. For LGD, housing prices have been used as macthe assessment of a material increase in credit risk; instead, qualitative factors are ro-economic factors to explain the changes in loss given default rates. As losses on taken into account when estimating PD. secured lending are largely attributable to the LTV ratio and indirectly to housing prices, a perfect correlation with the LGD ratio is deemed to exist here. Therefore, Credit stage 3 a simple scaling of the LGD ratio is carried out to reflect the effect of this factor. The Credit impaired loan receivables should also be assigned a loss allowance that forward-looking information should be viewed as an adjustment to the two risk ­corresponds with lifetime ECL. The internal default definition is applied to determine dimensions, PD and LGD, which impact both the allocation of credit stages and the whether a loan receivable has suffered credit deterioration. SBAB deems a default level of the ECL. In the identification of the macroeconomic factors, separate corto have occurred if any of the following criteria are met: relations between these factors were analysed to secure reasonable scenarios. With regards to EAD, cash flows are projected by the amortisation schedule. An early • The borrower has entered into liquidation, officially suspended payments or applied for a composition redemption factor has also been applied to take into account the expected remaining duration of the credit. The same macro-economic factors and their effects are • The credit is overdue by more than 60 days applied consistently for the entire lending portfolio. Currently, four scenarios are • The credit has been restructured and the borrower been granted concessions modelled, in which positive and negative forecasts for the above macroeconomic • The credit is categorised as insolvent based on a separate expert assessment. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 105 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES factors are evaluated. These scenarios are deemed to be sufficient to capture the SCENARIO WEIGHTS IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION range of possible ECL outcomes based on prevailing economic conditions. The final ECLs are then weighted according to the likelihood that SBAB will experience credit Scenario Weights applied to losses of the scale envisaged in the respective scenarios. Empirical data, together the ECL scenarios 1 2 3 4 with forward-looking information that is analysed for most scenarios, ensures that an objective and probability-weighted ECL pursuant to IFRS 9 is obtained. Weight 50% 20% 15% 15% Process for decisions on forward-looking information Another source of uncertainty is the PD threshold level, which is assessed as repreThe Chief Risk Officer, supported by the Economic Secretariat and Credit risk senting a significant increase in credit risk. The threshold decided has direct conseexperts, submits proposals for the forward-looking information. The proposals are quences on the size of the ECL. The following table presents how the lending portfopresented to the Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO), which then takes decilio is allocated over the credit stages for various PD thresholds and how large the sions regarding the forecasts for macroeconomic factors and the weighting of the percentage change in ECL will be based on the current threshold, which is deterrespective scenarios. In the event of larger shocks to the housing or financial marmined to the tenth percentile. For more information; please refer to the Measuring kets, manual adjustment of ECLs may be necessary. As for the forward-looking significant increases in credit risk section. ­information, proposals are submitted to ALCO, which thereafter takes a decision. Adjustments can pertain to PD and LGD margins and are managed in the same manner as the forward-looking information. Where this pertains to geographical SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF PD THRESHOLDS areas or product types that are particularly affected by the shocks, manual allocaPercentile tion is carried out for the affected loan receivables. Allocation of EAD over credit stage and change in ECL 20 10 5 Time value of money Credit stage 1 89.0% 94.8% 97.9% Under IFRS 9, ECLs for floating rate loan receivables are discounted with the effective interest rate. All receivables in SBAB’s lending portfolio are deemed to have Credit stage 2 10.9% 5.2% 2.0% floating interest rates with different maturities. The nominal interest rate pursuant to Credit stage 3 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% the actual interest terms has been used as an approximation of the effective interest rate. Since no arrangement fees are charged and invoicing charges only arise to a ∑ ∆ ECL +16.6% – –15.8% limited extent, SBAB assesses this as a good approximation. Modification of financial assets Uncertainty in estimating ECL If the cash flows from a loan receivable are renegotiated or otherwise modified, The forward-looking information comprises the largest source of uncertainty. SBAB SBAB assesses whether the change is so significant that the modification will lead to simulates ECL in several scenarios that are positive and negative in nature. The folderecognition from the balance sheet or whether the change will result in a modifilowing table presents how changes in the respective macroeconomic factors impact cation gain or loss. The change is deemed material when the renegotiated terms the PD and LGD risk dimensions and finally ECL in nominal terms according to the entail that the discounted present value of cash flows differ by more than 10% from actual scenarios applied at the end of the reporting period. The variation in the the present value under the original loan agreement. The 10% threshold for materichange to ECL for the various scenarios demonstrates the sensitivity of the forality is decided based on a qualitative assessment of what is considered a reasonward-looking information. able level. Moreover, this level corresponds to the materiality threshold in terms of the modification of debt instruments. A significant modification that leads to derecognition, will lead to the loan receivable receiving a new initial recognition SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION and, accordingly, a new original risk class. Scenario Macroeconomic factors and changes in ECL 1 2 3 4 Input data in the ECL model The majority of the input data used in the ECL calculation with regard to PD and ∆ Repo rate +62 bp +12 bp +140 bp +315 bp LGD comes from SBAB’s base system that contains information about borrowers and their collateral. Since the lending operations focus on housing finance with a very ∆ Unemployment +15 bp +94 bp +184 bp +217 bp similar product offering, all loan receivables are processed by SBAB in the same ∆ PD +29% +22% +79% +145% ­system. In addition to the information in the base system, external data is also collected from credit rating agencies. Data from Statistics Sweden and the Riksbank ∆ House prices –6% –11% –30% –48% is used to prepare forecasts of macroeconomic factors. ∆ Tenant-owner appartment prices –9% –15% –38% –66% Changes in the ECL model At the start of 2019, new projections were decided for the macroeconomic factors ∆ Property prices +3% –5% –27% –51% that comprise forward-looking information. The new projections entailed a more ∆ LGD +11% +23% +129% +403% negative outlook for the housing market and resulted a non-recurring effect of around SEK 10 million in increased ECL levels. The change is detailed in the tables ∑ ∆ ECL +15 MSEK +17 MSEK +101 MSEK +372 MSEK for lending to the public, which can be found in RC 1. The forward-looking information is regularly reviewed and revised as needed. Except the changes to the forThe deltas for the repo rate and the unemployment rate show the absolute changes ward-looking information, no other parameter estimates have been adjusted in expressed in basis points, while the delta for housing prices shows the relative the ECL model during the year. change expressed as a percentage. PD and LGD both refer to the exposure-weighted mean and their deltas show the relative change expressed as a Other ­percentage. Functional currency The weighting that is then applied for the ECL scenarios is based on best estiFunctional currency is the currency used in the primary economic environments in mates by operations with the help of credit risk experts. The balanced ECL will differ, which the Group operates. The companies included in the Group are the Parent depending on the weighting selected. The following table presents the applicable Company and subsidiaries. The Parent Company’s functional currency and presenweights for each of the four scenarios as per the end of the reporting period. tation currency is SEK. The Group’s presentation currency is SEK. Foreign currency translation of receivables and liabilities Foreign currency transactions are recognised by applying the exchange rate on the transaction date, and foreign currency receivables and liabilities are translated using the closing-date rate. Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from settlements of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are recognised in profit or loss under “Net result of financial transactions.” 10 6 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Leases On the acquisition of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Existing leases relate to normal leases for SBAB’s operations and mainly pertain to liabilities are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. The portion of the office premises and office equipment, and were classified until 2018 as operating acquisition cost that exceeds the fair value of the net identifiable assets is recleases under IAS 17. Changes were made at Group level on the transition to IFRS ognised as goodwill. Goodwill is allocated to the CGUs and tested not less than 16. Current leases (with the exception of short-term and smaller leases) are reconce each year for impairment. ognised under PPE (right-of-use assets) with a corresponding liability (lease liability) in the balance sheet. Amortisation of intangible fixed assets The property leases pertain to premises and extend for a term of two to seven Amortisation is allocated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset. years. Variable rental fees, such as electricity, water and heating are excepted from The assets are assessed as having useful lives of four or five years. The amortisation lease assets. Cash flows pertaining to property leases are classified as financial period and amortisation method for intangible fixed assets are reviewed at each leases in accordance with IFRS 16. The lease payments are recognised in profit financial year-end. or loss as depreciation of the leased asset and as an interest expense on the lease liability. Impairment of non-financial assets A lease liability and a right-of-use asset arise on entering into a lease contract. The recoverable amount of an asset is measured when there is any indication that The lease liability is initially recognised at the present value of remaining lease payan asset may be impaired. Development work not yet available for use is tested annuments, discounted using the bank’s incremental borrowing rate. The lease payments ally for impairment irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment. An included in the measurement of the lease liability mainly comprise fixed payments asset is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The and variable payments that depend on an index. On subsequent measurement of impairment loss for each period is charged against net profit/loss for the period. the lease liability, the carrying amount is increased with the interest expense and Impairment of goodwill is recognised when a CGU (group of CGUs) carrying decreased by the lease payments made. Furthermore, the lease liability increases or amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment is recognised as an expense decreases when tested or in the case of lease modifications. in the profit for the year. When a need for impairment is identified for a CGU (group The right-of-use asset is initially recognised at cost, which corresponds to the iniof CGUs), the impairment amount is primarily allocated to goodwill. Thereafter, tial valuation of the lease liability and any prepaid lease payments. For subsequent proportional impairment is applied to the other assets in the CGU (group of CGUs). measurement, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost less accumulated depreciGoodwill impairment is never reversed. ation and any accumulated impairment losses; moreover it is also adjusted for any The impairment amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in remeasurement of the lease liability. use. When calculating the value in use, future cash flows are discounted using a disThe right-of-use asset is depreciated over the lease term. Right-of-use assets are counting factor that takes into account risk-free interest and the risks associated with included under the balance-sheet item Property, plant and equipment, and lease the asset in question. liabilities are included under the balance-sheet item Other liabilities. Short-term leases of less than 12 months, or leases of low-value assets, are recognised as costs Tax in a straight line over the lease term and, accordingly, are not included in lease liaTotal tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Current tax consists of tax that is to bilities or right-of-use assets. be paid or received for taxable earnings during the current year and adjustments of current tax for previous years. Accordingly, for items recognised in profit or loss, the Property, plant and equipment related tax effects are also recognised in profit or loss. Property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is The tax effects of items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in probable that future financial benefits will flow to the entity and the cost of the item equity are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. can be measured reliably. Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are measured according to the balance any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. sheet method on the basis of temporary differences that arise between the carrying The present value of current property leases are measured pursuant to IFRS 16, amount and the tax base of an asset or liability. Deferred tax assets are recognised where the lease cost, the lease duration and the discount rate form the most matefor unutilised tax losses to the extent that it is probable that the carry-forwards can rial parameters. SBAB uses the marginal interest rate on borrowing as a discount be used to offset future taxable profit. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with rate, and it applies for the entire duration of the contract, including any indexing. the tax rate applicable at the time of taxation. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Cash and cash equivalents The depreciable amount is calculated as the cost of the asset less its estimated Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and balances at central banks, and residual value at the end of its useful life. The depreciable amount is allocated on lending to credit institutions. a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, and the depreciation charge for each period is recognised in profit or loss. This means that computer Pensions hardware is depreciated over four years and other equipment over five years. The The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. For residual value and useful life of an asset are assessed annually. At the start of the the defined-contribution pension plans, fixed fees are paid to an independent unit, contract, the total present value of a property lease is depreciated over the period following which no additional obligations arise. Pension costs for defined-contribuof the contract (straight-line depreciation). tion plans are expensed on a continuous basis in pace with vesting by the individual employee. Intangible assets The Group’s net obligation with regard to defined-benefit plans is calculated Investments in acquired computer software or software developed by SBAB are separately for each plan by estimating the future benefit that employees have ­recognised at cost after accumulated amortisation and impairment losses have earned through their service in current and prior periods, with that benefit being been deducted. Costs for the maintenance of software are expensed as they arise. discounted to its present value. The present value of the defined-benefit obligation Development expenditure that is directly attributable to the development and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows applying the interest ­testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group is rate for mortgage bonds in SEK with maturities comparable to those of the pension ­recognised as an intangible asset when the following criteria are fulfilled: obligation in question. Changes or reductions in a defined-benefit plan are rec• It is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used. ognised on the earliest of the following dates: a) when the change or reduction in • The company intends to complete the software product and use it. the plan occurs or b) when the company reports related restructuring costs and sev• It can be demonstrated how the software will generate probable future financial erance benefits. The changes/reductions are recognised directly in profit for the benefits; and that adequate technical, financial and other resources for completyear. The defined-benefit pension obligation is calculated annually by independent ing the development and for using the software are available. actuaries using the “projected unit credit method.” • The expenditure attributable to the software product during its development The provision recognised in the balance sheet for defined-benefit pension plans can be reliably measured. represents the present value of the defined-benefit obligation at the close of the reporting period less the fair value of the plan assets. The provision includes special Other development expenditure that does not fulfil these criteria is expensed as it employer’s contributions. All of the components included in the period’s cost for a arises. Development expenditure that has previously been expensed may not be defined-benefit plan are recognised in operating profit. This includes the return on ­recognised as an asset in a later period. plan assets, calculated applying the same discount rate used to calculate the present Additional expenses for capitalised intangible assets are recognised as assets in value of the obligation. Revaluation effects consist of actuarial gains and losses, includthe balance sheet only in cases where they increase the future financial benefits of ing the difference between the actual return on plan assets and the total included in the specific asset to which they are attributable. All other costs are expensed as they operating profit. All revaluation effects are recognised under “Reserves” in equity. arise. Development expenditure is capitalised only in the consolidated financial statements. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 107 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Segment reporting Critical accounting estimates and judgements An operating segment is a part of a business for which independent financial informaCritical assumptions tion is available, that conducts business operations from which income can be generPreparing the annual accounts in compliance with statutory IFRS requires that Execated and expenses incurred and whose operating profits are regularly assessed by the utive Management use estimates and judgements based on historical experience company’s chief operating decision maker as a basis for decisions regarding the allocaand assumptions that are considered to be reasonable and fair. These estimates tion of resources to segments and an assessment of the segment’s profit or loss. At affect the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures, as SBAB, the CEO is the function that is responsible for allocating resources and assessing well as income and expenses presented in the Annual Report. Subsequently, the the profit or loss of the operating segment. actual outcome may differ to some extent from the estimates made. Parent Company accounting policies Measurement of loan receivables The Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB (publ), applies statutory IFRS, which means The transition to IFRS 9 entails basing the valuation of all loan receivables on the that this Annual Report has been prepared in compliance with IFRS subject to the ECL. The ECL must either relate to a 12-month period or the remaining maturity of additions and exceptions that ensue from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s the receivable if a significant increase in credit risk has occurred. When estimating recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities, the Annual Accounts Act for credit losses, previously observable data is used together with assumptions pertainCredit Institutions and Securities Companies and the Swedish FSA’s regulations and ing to macroeconomic trends. As with all estimates of future outcomes, ECL assessgeneral guidelines on annual accounts for credit institutions and securities compament is uncertain, not least in terms of loan receivables that show a significant nies (FFFS 2008:25). increase in credit risk, which may lead to asset adjustments. Moreover, an individual expert assessment for credit impaired loan receivables is carried out where the risk Differences compared with the Group of loss is imminent, which in itself gives rise to considerable uncertainty. Transfers of The main differences between the accounting policies of the Group and those of the loan receivables within the Group are conducted at fair value. Parent Company are shown below: For more information, see also the “Credit losses and impairment of financial assets” section. Presentation of the income statement and balance sheet The Parent Company complies with the presentation standards for income stateFinancial instruments measured at fair value ments and balance sheets stipulated in the Annual Accounts Act for Credit InstituThe valuation is made based on observable market data, in part through the direct tions and Securities Companies, which entail a different presentation of equity. application of market prices, and in part through generally accepted measurement The Parent Company’s statutory reserve is recognised in the Group as retained methods. Critical estimates and judgements in conjunction with fair value measureearnings, while the Parent Company’s Fair value reserve is included in the Group’s ment are made in the choice of which valuation technique and market data to use. Reserves. In both cases, judgements are made with regard to how the valuation techniques and market data used comprise a good estimate of the fair value. Intangible assets Expenses attributable to proprietary software is recognised in the Parent Company Recognition of defined-benefit pensions as a cost in profit or loss. Measurement of the Group’s defined-benefit pension obligations is based on a number of actuarial and financial assumptions that have a material impact on carryLeases ing amounts. Existing leases relate to normal leases for SBAB’s operations and mainly pertain to SBAB uses the yield on mortgage bonds for discounting pension obligations, office premises and office equipment, and were classified in 2018 as operating since a functioning market for mortgage bonds exists in Sweden. The assumptions leases under IAS 17. On the transition to IFRS 16, SBAB has chosen to apply IFRS 16 upon which the measurement is based, as well as a sensitivity analysis, are prein the Group as there is no requirement to apply IFRS 16 to legal entities according sented in Note L 6. to RFR 2. Recognition of deferred tax assets Pensions The recognition of deferred tax assets pertaining to deductible temporary differThe Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and regulations issued by the Swedish ences or loss carry-forwards is based on management’s assessment of the future FSA contain rules requiring a different method of recognising defined-benefit likelihood of the company generating taxable profits corresponding to the basis for ­pension plans compared with that stipulated in IAS 19. Application of the Swedish deferred tax assets. Pension Obligations Vesting Act is a prerequisite for tax deductibility of the pension payments. In view of this, RFR 2 states that the regulations of IAS 19 in terms of Impairment testing of goodwill defined-benefit pension plans need not be applied by the legal entity. The value of recognised goodwill is tested at least once a year with regard to a potential need for impairment. This testing requires an assessment of the value in Measurement in relation to the assumption of receivables use of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill value is attributable. FurtherSBAB is the initial lender for all residential mortgages provided by the SBAB Group. more, an assumption regarding expected future cash flows is required along with Loan receivables, which meet the regulatory requirements for inclusion in the cover the establishment of a relevant discount rate for calculating the present cash flow pool that provides security for the covered bonds issued by SCBC, are transferred value. The assessments conducted as of 31 December 2019 are described in on a daily basis from the Parent Company to the subsidiary, SCBC. The transfers are Note A 7. conducted at fair value. Subsidiaries Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company in accordance with the cost method. Dividend Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised in profit or loss. Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognised in cases where formal decisions have been taken in the subsidiary or where the Parent Company otherwise has full control over the decision-making process before it publishes its financial statements. Dividends paid are recognised as a reduction of unrestricted equity following the passing of a resolution on dividends at the Annual General Meeting. Group contributions Group contributions received from subsidiaries are recognised in profit or loss, while Group contributions paid to subsidiaries by the Parent Company are recognised as increased participations in Group companies. 10 8 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES G:2 Related party disclosures SBAB Bank AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited company that is wholly owned by Group companies the Swedish state. AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation — SCBC) and Booli Search Technologies AB are to be regarded as subsidiaries and recognised in accordance with the acquisition method, which entails the elimination of internal transactions at Group level. Transactions with related parties have taken place at market terms. SCBC 2019 2018 Assets/ Interest income/ Assets/ Interest income/ SEK million Liabilities Interest expense Liabilities Interest expense Lending to credit institutions 102,180 1,235 90,414 976 Derivatives 472 142 595 115 Group contributions/dividends received 3,539 – – – Other assets 200 – 138 – Total 106,391 1,377 91,147 1,091 Derivatives 10,933 –1,098 6,625 –1,476 Total 10,933 –1,098 6,625 –1,476 Of the Parent Company’s other commission income, SEK 21 million (23) pertained d ­ ividend and the Group contribution had an impact of SEK 3,424 million on earnto the possibility for SCBC to utilise a liquidity facility at the Parent Company, refer ings for the Parent Company after tax. to Note IC 4. The Parent Company also conducted administrative services on behalf Booli received a Group contribution of SEK 25 million (–) from SCBC, which was of SCBC during the year for SEK 1,043 million (895), refer to Note IC 4. The Parent recognised as an appropriation in Booli and against equity in SCBC. The Group Company also received a retroactive dividend of SEK 3 billion and a Group contribution had an impact of SEK 20 million on Booli’s earnings after tax. During ­contribution of SEK 539 million (–) from SCBC, which were recognised as financial the year, Booli invoiced SBAB for marketing expenses of SEK 2 million (0.4) and income in the Parent Company and against equity in SCBC. The retroactive SBAB invoiced Booli SEK 1 million (0.5) for administrative services. LOANS TO KEY PERSONNEL GROUP 2019 2018 SEK million Lending Interest income Lending Interest income CEO – – – – Board of Directors 6 0 6 0 Other key senior executives 14 0 8 0 Total 20 0 14 0 The CEO and the Board of Directors refer to the Parent Company. Wherever relep ­ ersonnel. The ceiling for total capital debt on preferential terms is SEK 2,000,000 vant, the managing directors and boards of other Group companies are included per household on the condition that the loan is within 85% of the property’s LTV. On under “Other key senior executives.” preferential loans of up to SEK 2,000,000, a 2 percentage point discount is given Lending to Board Members of SBAB Bank AB (publ) or to employees holding key against SBAB’s current list rate. The preferential loan is taxable. The interest rate positions in the company may not occur on terms that are not available to other received after the discount must not be less than 0.25%. DEPOSITS FROM KEY PERSONNEL GROUP 2019 2018 SEK million Deposits Interest expense Deposits Interest expense CEO and other key senior executives 7 0 5 0 Board of Directors 2 0 1 0 Total 9 0 6 0 The CEO and the Board of Directors refer to the Parent Company. Wherever ­relevant, the managing directors and boards of other Group companies are included under “Other key senior executives.” Deposits from key personnel are made on the same terms and conditions as other deposits in the company. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 10 9 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES G:3 Proposed appropriation of profits SBAB posted a net profit for the year after tax of SEK 3,802,368,314. According to SBAB’s balance sheet, SEK 11,471,843,519 is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting. Fair value reserve 237,256,074 Additional Tier 1 instruments 3,500,000,000 Retained earnings 3,932,219,131 Net profit for the year 3,802,368,314 Total 11,471,843,519 The Board proposes that the earnings be appropriated as follows: Carried forward to next year 11,471,843,519 Total 11,471,843,519 The Board of Directors has resolved to not propose a dividend for the financial year 2019. For more information, refer to Note A 5. The Board of Directors proposes that the funds at disposal of the General Meeting be carried forward. 110 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES G:4 Effect of changes in accounting policies IMPACTS OF INITIAL APPLICATION OF IFRS 16 IN THE BALANCE SHEET AS OF 1 JANUARY 2019 GROUP Previous accounting policies, Impact of SEK million IAS 17 IFRS 16 IFRS 16 ASSETS Cash and balances at central banks 0 – 0 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 20,904 – 20,904 Lending to credit institutions 2,847 – 2,847 Lending to the public 364,215 – 364,215 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges 99 – 99 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 50,945 – 50,945 Derivatives 8,313 – 8,313 Intangible assets 234 – 234 Property, plant and equipment 16 104 120 Other assets 73 – 73 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 709 –7 702 TOTAL ASSETS 448,355 97 448,452 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 6,607 – 6,607 Deposits from the public 124,926 – 124,926 Debt securities issued, etc. 290,795 – 290,795 Derivatives 1,339 – 1,339 Other liabilities 384 97 481 Accrued expenses and deferred income 1,790 – 1,790 Deferred tax liabilities 194 – 194 Provisions 138 – 138 Subordinated debt 4,946 – 4,946 Total liabilities 431,119 97 431,216 Equity Share capital 1,958 – 1,958 Reserves/Fair value reserve 609 – 609 Additional Tier 1 instruments 1,500 – 1,500 Retained earnings 11,443 – 11,443 Net profit for the year 1,726 – 1,726 Total equity 17,236 – 17,236 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 448,355 97 448,452 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 111 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES RECONCILIATION OF DISCLOSURES FOR OPERATING LEASES UNDER IAS 17 AND RECOGNISED LEASE LIABILITIES UNDER IFRS 16 GROUP SEK million Operating lease commitments disclosed as at 31 December 2018 330 Effect of adjustment of variable fees –47 Effect of future property leases where SBAB does not have security of tenure –183 Discount effect –3 Total lease liabilities at 1 January 2019 97 Initial application of IFRS 16 been applied to contracts defined as leases under IAS 17. Moreover, pursuant to the The bank has applied the modified retrospective approach for the implementation practical expedient in IFRS 16, the bank has chosen not to include leases with a of IFRS 16. In accordance with IFRS 16, the bank has applied the practical expediremaining contractual term of less than 12 months when calculating the lease ent which entails that reassessment of whether existing contracts are, or contain, ­liability on transition. a lease at the date of initial application is not necessary. Accordingly, IFRS 16 has A:5 Events after the balance sheet date Changes in Executive Management Lowering of the countercyclical capital buffer requirement During the fourth quarter, Malou Sjörin was appointed as Head of Sustainability, On 16 March 2020, Finansinspektionen (the Swedish FSA) decided to lower the Marketing and Communication and a member of Executive Management. She countercyclical capital buffer requirement for banks from 2.5% to 0%. This was a took up her role on 7 January. After the end of the period, on 1 January (as previpre-emptive move by the Swedish FSA to safeguard a well-functioning credit sysously notified), Fredrik Stenbeck took up his role as Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and tem that facilitates for businesses and households to maintain production, conas a member of Executive Management. sumption and investment. Through lowering the countercyclical buffer requirement, capital requirements for Swedish banks will be decreased, thereby creating Board changes scope for banks to maintain or increase lending. At the Extraordinary General Meeting on 14 February, Leif Pagrotsky and Johan Prom were elected as new members of SBAB’s Board of Directors. SBAB's Board of Directors does not propose a dividend for 2019 In its Year-end Report 2019, published on February 14, 2020, SBAB communiImpact of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) on the SBAB Group cated that the Board of Directors proposes a dividend for 2019 of 40% of net The spread of the Coronavirus is having an increasingly large impact on the world’s profit, corresponding to SEK 715 million. and Sweden’s economies. Considerable uncertainty abounds as to where this will At an Extraordinary Board Meeting held on March 17, 2020, the Board of Direclead and as to how extensive the economic impact will be. tors resolved to not propose a dividend for the financial year 2019. Latter developments have entailed substantial movements in the financial marThe ongoing development regarding the Corona virus has so far had a negative kets in the form of heavily falling interest rates, rising credit spreads and volatile impact on the economic development. SBAB intends to continue to take responsibility and falling stock markets. This has affected the financial environment of SBAB and for a well-functioning housing credit market in Sweden. To achieve this and to others in the financial sector. ensure continued growth in credits provided to its customers, SBAB is strengthening The Riksbank, the ECB and central banks around the world have announced its own funds by retaining the entirety of the 2019 earnings. support measures to maintain the functionality of the markets. SBAB’s capital and liquidity positions are assessed as strong. SBAB is monitoring ongoing developments and implementing measures in accordance with the applicable recommendations of the Public Health Agency of Sweden. 112 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES RC Risk management and capital adequacy pp. 113–144 RC:1 Credit risk in lending operations Credit risk in lending operations is defined as the risk that the counterparty is unable The 85% level only applies if collateral can be obtained with a primary lien and the to fulfil its payment obligations. Credit risk is measured, in part, based on the borrow­borrower is included in a lower risk class. The lower risk classes for retail customers er’s repayment capacity and, in part, through value changes in pledged collateral (Retail – R) consist of the levels R1–R4, while the lower risk classes for Corporate relative to the receivable. Credit risk also arises in treasury operations (Note RC 2). ­customers, (Corporate – C) consist of the levels C0–C3, and manually adjusted The first step in managing credit risk in lending operations is through a credit-­ from C3 to C43). In other cases, a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of 75% generally applies. granting process that analyses the ability of borrowers to meet their interest payments In addition to collateral in the form of mortgage deeds for real property or and make capital repayments. New loans are only granted to counterparties who tenant-owners’ rights, it is possible to grant loans against, inter alia, collateral in the are judged able to pay interest and make capital repayments when interest rates form of a government guarantee, municipal guarantee, securities, bank guarantees comfortably exceed the rate prevailing when the loan decision is taken. Moreover, and deposits in a Swedish bank. A very limited part of total lending is made to the credit risk is restricted by credit limits adopted for various customers or customer households without any collateral being obtained. groups. SBAB applies a debt ratio ceiling1) for new retail loans of 550% with the aim On the corporate side, building credits are normally secured through notes of of keeping down customer debt levels. The internal loan regulations are supplelien and guarantor commitments. SBAB also normally requires a set percentage of mented with a quantitative model for the measurement of credit risk when granting sales to end customers before any disbursement is made. Disbursements continue in credit. The model assesses the probability of default (PD) and ranks borrowers line with the progress of production. according to credit risk. Credit is only granted to borrowers representing a low SBAB does not hold any collateral that has been taken over to protect a receivable. credit risk. In conjunction with the measurement of credit risk when lending to Lending to the public accounts for 81% (79) of SBAB’s overall assets. ­companies and tenant-owners’ association, in addition to quantitative assessments, The financial effect of collateral received is illustrated in the diagram below, ­systematic qualitative assessments are conducted through responses to a number of which shows loans in relation to the market value of underlying collateral. As the predetermined questions. As a result, the estimated PD will be a balanced mix of the majority of total lending has an LTV ratio under 70%, the portfolio is deemed to be two methods. This enables a more tailored credit risk assessment, since different well-covered and its credit quality as very healthy. companies and tenant-owners’ associations can differ significantly. 1) Gross income before tax in relation to loan. In stage two, credit risk is managed using an internal ratings-based approach (IRB). The IRB approach is used for capital adequacy as well as for the control and 2) The CRR refers to Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the follow-up of the credit risk for new and existing customers in the loan portfolios. Council on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. SBAB applies the IRB approach for retail loans and lending to tenant-owners’ asso3) “Retail loans” refers to all lending to the public pertaining to houses, holiday homes and ciations. The foundation IRB approach (FIRB) is applied for loans to corporates as tenant-owners’ rights, as well as unsecured loans to consumers and loans to tenant-owners’ well as to larger tenant-owners’ associations with a turnover in excess of EUR 50 milassociations with a turnover of less than EUR 50 million. “Loans to corporates” refers to i) loans to other legal entities, and ii) other lending to consumers. lion. The standardised approach is used for measuring credit risk from a capital ­adequacy perspective for unsecured loans. The IRB approach has been used since 2007 for assessing credit risk where a LOAN AMOUNTS BROKEN DOWN BY LTV INTERVAL mortgage deed or a tenant-owners’ right is used as collateral. In 2015, SBAB also received permission to use the IRB approach for excess exposures that are not fully GROUP covered by mortgage deeds, property financing using other collateral than directly pledged mortgage deeds and construction loans. The Swedish FSA has reviewed 2019 the bank’s IRB system and found it reliable. The developed models are validated Corporate annually and calibrated as the need arises. Validations conducted in 2018 did not Clients & result in any changes to the models. Tenant-­ Loans withResidential Owners’ out formal The models in the IRB framework assess the following parameters: SEK million mortgages Associations collateral Total • Probability of default by the counterparty — PD (Probability of Default) • Share of loss in the event of default — LGD (Loss Given Default) Lending to the public • The part of the off-balance sheet exposure that is expected to be converted LTV <50% 80,978 40,599 – 121,577 to the balance sheet — Credit conversion factor (CCF) LTV 50–69% 104,551 27,744 – 132,295 • The expected exposure in the event of default — EAD (Exposure at Default) • The expected loss — EL, where EL is the product of PD multiplied by LGD and EAD. LTV >69% 106,200 21,572 – 127,772 Borrowers are classified according to credit risk based on these parameters, and Unsecured – – 2,295 2,295 expected and unexpected losses can be estimated. For the purpose of assessing the Total 291,729 89,915 2,295 383,939 repayment capacity, the borrower is assigned one of eight risk classes for retail and corporate exposures, of which the eighth class comprises customers in default. Off-balance-sheet items 1) 43,628 5,034 48,662 Trends for exposures in high-risk classes are monitored thoroughly and managed actively, when necessary, by credit monitoring personnel in the credit division. GROUP In the financial statements, the ECL according to IRB models differs from the ECL provision. The calculation of EL according to Basel Pillar 1 is governed by the Regu2018 lation on Prudential Requirements for Credit Institutions and Investment Firms Corporate (CRR)2). Under this regulation, credit risk is to be based on historic data, over a lonClients ger time horizon and include economic downturn periods. As of 2018, the treatment & TenantLoans withof the ECL in the financial reporting is regulated by IFRS 9. Under IFRS 9, the ECL Residential Owners’ out formal must correspond with expected values, and unlike EL based on long-term credit SEK million mortgages Associations collateral Total losses, it must objectively forecast the negative impact on future cash flows. For information pertaining to the impairment of financial assets, refer to Note G 1. Lending to the public Total EL for loans calculated according to IRB models amounted to SEK 159 milLTV <50% 74,643 42,253 – 116,896 lion (205). The loss allowance under IFRS 9 for corresponding loans totalled SEK 112 million (176). For capital adequacy purposes, non-performing loans are sepaLTV 50–69% 97,442 29,118 – 126,560 rated from non-performing loans and other loans. Any positive difference, where the LTV >69% 104,754 13,930 – 118,684 EL exceeds provisions, reduces CET1 capital while negative differences are added to Tier 2 capital. Unsecured – – 2,206 2,206 Total 276,839 85,301 2,206 364,346 Collateral in the lending operations For loans granted by SBAB, adequate collateral must normally be provided. AdeOff-balance-sheet items 1) 33,159 4,376 37,535 quate collateral primarily refers to mortgage deeds for real property or shares in 1) Off-balance-sheet items include loan commitments and building credits. tenant-owners’ associations within a maximum of 75–85% of the market value. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 113 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BROKEN DOWN BY RISK CLASS As per 31 December 2019, SBAB’s lending to the public amounted to SEK 384 bil(Swedish municipalities). Transaction costs of SEK 16 million (25), which were lion (364). Every customer is allocated to a risk class. Borrowers in default are alloattributable to loans brokered by business partners, are distributed in the table on cated to the corporate and tenant-owners’ association risk class C8 or the retail risk a pro rata basis. class R8. The risk class C0 consists of loans to counterparties with a 0% risk weight GROUP 2019 TOTAL Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision R0/C0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 R1/C1 180,733 –2 0 0 0 0 180,733 –2 R2/C2 108,453 –4 395 0 0 0 108,848 –4 R3/C3 47,393 –4 2,085 –1 0 0 49,478 –5 R4/C4 21,505 –10 7,174 –6 0 0 28,679 –16 R5/C5 3,973 –6 8,204 –20 0 0 12,177 –26 R6/C6 238 –2 1,915 –13 0 0 2,153 –15 R7/C7 21 –1 1,568 –34 0 0 1,589 –35 R8/C8 0 0 0 0 281 –29 281 –29 Total 362,317 –29 21,341 –74 281 –29 383,939 –132 Guarantees 1) – 2 – 4 – 0 – 6 Total 362,317 –27 21,341 –70 281 –29 383,939 –132 GROUP 2018 TOTAL Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision R0/C0 2 0 – – – – 2 0 R1/C1 160,402 –2 2,183 0 – – 162,585 –2 R2/C2 105,698 –3 404 0 – – 106,102 –3 R3/C3 48,416 –4 1,637 –1 – – 50,053 –5 R4/C4 22,243 –9 7,089 –6 – – 29,332 –15 R5/C5 4,315 –6 7,865 –18 – – 12,180 –24 R6/C6 292 –2 2,101 –13 – – 2,393 –15 R7/C7 22 0 1,410 –35 0 0 1,432 –35 R8/C8 – – – – 267 –32 267 –32 Total 341,390 –26 22,689 –73 267 –32 364,346 –131 Guarantees 1) – 5 – 8 – 1 – 14 Total 341,390 –21 22,689 –65 267 –31 364,346 –117 1) Guarantees are included in the balance-sheet item “Prepaid expenses and accrued income.” 114 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES GROUP 2019 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision R1 116,638 –2 0 0 0 0 116,638 –2 R2 87,892 –3 87 0 0 0 87,979 –3 R3 42,595 –4 1,018 0 0 0 43,613 –4 R4 21,145 –9 6,985 –5 0 0 28,130 –14 R5 3,899 –6 7,949 –19 0 0 11,848 –25 R6 215 –1 1,887 –12 0 0 2,102 –13 R7 21 0 1,145 –28 0 0 1,166 –28 R8 0 0 0 0 252 –17 252 –17 Total 272,405 –25 19,071 –64 252 –17 291,728 –106 Guarantees 1) – 1 – 4 – 0 – 5 Total 272,405 –24 19,071 –60 252 –17 291,728 –101 GROUP 2018 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision R1 103,334 –1 – – – – 103,334 –1 R2 84,242 –2 93 0 – – 84,335 –2 R3 43,852 –3 1,017 0 – – 44,869 –3 R4 21,711 –9 6,742 –5 – – 28,453 –14 R5 4,183 –5 7,731 –17 – – 11,914 –22 R6 258 –1 2,052 –12 – – 2,310 –13 R7 22 0 1,365 –31 1 0 1,388 –31 R8 – – – – 236 –19 236 –19 Total 257,602 –21 19,000 –65 237 –19 276,839 –105 Guarantees 1) – 2 – 8 – 1 – 11 Total 257,602 –19 19,000 –57 237 –18 276,839 –94 1) Guarantees are included in the balance-sheet item “Prepaid expenses and accrued income.” S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 115 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES GROUP 2019 CORPORATE CLIENTS & TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision C0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 C1 63,630 –1 0 0 0 0 63,630 –1 C2 19,942 –1 305 0 0 0 20,247 –1 C3 4,136 0 1,051 0 0 0 5,187 0 C4 124 0 125 0 0 0 249 0 C5 9 0 159 0 0 0 168 0 C6 18 –1 0 0 0 0 18 –1 C7 0 0 397 –5 0 0 397 –5 C8 0 0 0 0 18 –9 18 –9 Total 87,860 –3 2,037 –5 18 –9 89,915 –17 Guarantees 1) – 1 – 0 – 0 – 1 Total 87,860 –2 2,037 –5 18 –9 89,915 –16 GROUP 2018 CORPORATE CLIENTS & TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision C0 2 0 – – – – 2 0 C1 56,779 –1 2,183 –1 – – 58,962 –2 C2 20,962 –1 311 0 – – 21,273 –1 C3 3,778 0 614 0 – – 4,392 –1 C4 258 0 297 0 – – 555 0 C5 43 –1 23 0 – – 66 –1 C6 20 –1 1 0 – – 21 –1 C7 – – 11 0 – – 11 0 C8 – – – – 19 –9 19 –9 Total 81,842 –4 3,440 –1 19 –9 85,301 –14 Guarantees 1) – 2 – 0 – – – 2 Total 81,842 –2 3,440 –1 19 –9 85,301 –12 1) Guarantees are included in the balance-sheet item “Prepaid expenses and accrued income.” 116 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES GROUP 2019 CONSUMER LOANS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision R1 464 0 0 0 0 0 464 0 R2 619 0 3 0 0 0 622 0 R3 662 0 19 0 0 0 681 0 R4 237 0 64 0 0 0 301 0 R5 65 0 95 –1 0 0 160 –1 R6 5 –1 28 –1 0 0 33 –2 R7 0 0 24 –2 0 0 24 –2 R8 0 0 0 0 10 –4 10 –4 Total 2,052 –1 233 –4 10 –4 2,295 –9 Guarantees 1) – – – – – – – – Total 2,052 –1 233 –4 10 –4 2,295 –9 GROUP 2018 CONSUMER LOANS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision R1 289 0 – – – – 289 0 R2 494 0 1 0 – – 495 0 R3 786 0 5 0 – – 791 0 R4 274 0 50 0 – – 324 0 R5 89 –1 111 –1 – – 200 –2 R6 14 0 48 –1 – – 62 –1 R7 0 0 34 –4 – – 34 –4 R8 – – – – 11 –5 11 –5 Total 1,946 –1 249 –6 11 –5 2,206 –12 Guarantees 1) – – – – – – – – Total 1,946 –1 249 –6 11 –5 2,206 –12 1) Guarantees are included in the balance-sheet item “Prepaid expenses and accrued income.” LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BY SEGMENT — LOANS WITH UNPAID AMOUNTS MORE THAN FIVE DAYS PAST DUE The table describes loans with a past-due principal. All amounts are distributed by At year-end 2019, 99.9% (99.9) of lending had no past-due unpaid amounts and segment. Loans with past-due amounts in several time intervals are shown in full in was not assessed as doubtful. the oldest time interval. GROUP 2019 2018 Corporate Corporate ­Clients & ­Clients & Residential Tenant-Owners’ Consumer Residential Tenant-Owners’ Consumer SEK million mortgages Associations loans Total mortgages Associations loans Total Past due 5–30 days 1) 16 0 0 16 15 23 0 38 Past-due 31–60 days 55 – 3 58 59 – 2 61 Past-due 61–90 days 24 – 1 25 19 – 1 20 Past-due 91–180 days 22 – 2 24 23 – 2 25 Past due >180 days 59 – 4 63 53 – 5 58 Total 176 0 10 186 169 23 10 202 1) For the first time interval, amounts past-due by five days or less are not taken into consideration to ensure that the analysis is not distorted by payments delayed because the payment date is a holiday. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 117 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES LENDING TO THE PUBLIC • Repayment and redemption – Loans that have been derecognised from the The following table presents changes in gross lending and the provisions during ­balance sheet during the period and which have not been written off, for the period for the respective segment. A brief description of the reported items: ­example, confirmed credit losses. • Moved to credit stage – Movements between credit stages show opening • Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses – Confirmed credit losses during the ­balances for the period for migrated loans. reporting period. • Remeasurement of provision – Net changes of provisions for each credit stage. • Other – Residual items. This includes changes due to movements between credit stages. • New lending, net – New loans that have arisen in the reporting period. A new loan that becomes credit impaired during the reporting period will consequently be recognised under credit stage 3. GROUP 2019 TOTAL Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision Opening balance 341,390 –26 22,689 –73 267 –32 364,346 –131 Moved to credit stage 1 14,809 –29 –14,804 28 –5 1 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –9,764 2 9,821 –6 –57 4 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 –62 0 –130 4 192 –4 0 0 Remeasurement of provision 4,045 33 125 –21 –4 –3 4,166 9 New lending, net1) 60,009 –10 7,194 –13 6 –1 67,209 –24 Purchases – – – – – – – – Sales – – – – – – – – Repayment and redemption –48,103 5 –3,551 12 –108 2 –51,762 19 Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses 0 0 –3 0 –10 5 –13 5 Change in risk parameters during the period2) – –4 – –5 – –1 – –10 Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Other –7 0 0 0 0 0 –7 0 Closing balance 362,317 –29 21,341 –74 281 –29 383,939 –132 GROUP 2018 TOTAL Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision Opening balance 313,407 –27 21,466 –67 447 –58 335,520 –151 Moved to credit stage 1 14,196 –59 –14,012 30 –184 29 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –11,010 2 11,083 –5 –73 3 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 –42 0 –130 2 172 –2 0 0 Remeasurement of provision –217 61 280 –24 –9 –9 54 28 New lending, net1) 58,560 –9 7,114 –16 7 –1 65,681 –26 Purchases – – – – – – – – Sales – – – – – – – – Repayment and redemption –33,476 6 –3,108 7 –84 2 –36,668 14 Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses – – –1 0 –9 4 –10 4 Change in risk parameters during the period – – – – – – – – Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Other –28 – –3 – – – –31 – Closing balance 341,390 –26 22,689 –73 267 –32 364,346 –131 1) Net amount is the loan’s total amount less any internal transfers from other loans. 2) The change in risk parameters during the period also includes changes in forward-looking information. 118 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES GROUP 2019 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision Opening balance 257,602 –21 19,000 –65 237 –19 276,839 –105 Moved to credit stage 1 11,419 –26 –11,414 25 –5 1 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –8,619 2 8,674 –6 –55 4 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 –59 0 –123 3 182 –3 0 0 Remeasurement of provision –3,772 30 –219 –14 –2 –2 –3,993 14 New lending, net1) 46,105 –9 6,321 –13 6 –1 52,432 –23 Purchases – – – – – – – – Sales – – – – – – – – Repayment and redemption –30,264 4 –3,165 12 –108 3 –33,537 19 Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses 0 0 –3 0 –2 1 –5 1 Change in risk parameters during the period2) – –5 – –6 – –1 – –12 Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Other –7 0 0 0 0 0 –7 0 Closing balance 272,405 –25 19,071 –64 253 –17 291,729 –106 GROUP 2018 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision Opening balance 228,085 –20 19,906 –61 278 –22 248,270 –103 Moved to credit stage 1 12,764 –34 –12,719 27 –45 7 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –8,669 2 8,741 –4 –72 2 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 –38 0 –122 2 160 –2 0 0 Remeasurement of provision –3,273 36 –213 –22 –6 –8 –3,492 6 New lending, net1) 48,720 –8 6,307 –14 6 0 55,033 –22 Purchases – – – – – – – – Sales – – – – – – – – Repayment and redemption –19,959 3 –2,897 7 –81 3 –22,938 13 Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses – – – – –3 1 –3 1 Change in risk parameters during the period – – – – – – – – Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Other –28 – –3 – – – –31 – Closing balance 257,602 –21 19,000 –65 237 –19 276,839 –105 1) Net amount is the loan’s total amount less any internal transfers from other loans. 2) The change in risk parameters during the period also includes changes in forward-looking information. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 119 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES GROUP 2019 CORPORATE CLIENTS & TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision Opening balance 81,842 –4 3,440 –1 19 –9 85,301 –14 Moved to credit stage 1 3,241 –1 –3,241 1 0 0 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –1,049 0 1,049 0 0 0 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Remeasurement of provision 8,146 2 379 –6 –1 0 8,524 –4 New lending, net1) 13,121 –1 755 0 0 0 13,876 –1 Purchases – – – – – – – – Sales – – – – – – – – Repayment and redemption –17,441 1 –345 0 0 0 –17,786 1 Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses – – – – – – – – Change in risk parameters during the period2) – 0 – 1 – – – 1 Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Other – – – – – – – – Closing balance 87,860 –3 2,037 –5 18 –9 89,915 –17 GROUP 2018 CORPORATE CLIENTS & TENANT-OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision Opening balance 83,558 –5 1,314 0 158 –31 85,030 –36 Moved to credit stage 1 1,292 –21 –1,154 0 –138 21 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –2,228 0 2,228 0 – – 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 – – – – – – – – Remeasurement of provision 3,348 21 531 –1 –1 1 3,878 21 New lending, net1) 9,060 0 695 0 – – 9,755 0 Purchases – – – – – – – – Sales – – – – – – – – Repayment and redemption –13,188 1 –174 0 – – –13,362 1 Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses – – – – – – – – Change in risk parameters during the period – – – – – – – – Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Other – – – – – – – – Closing balance 81,842 –4 3,440 –1 19 –9 85,301 –14 1) Net amount is the loan’s total amount less any internal transfers from other loans. 2) The change in risk parameters during the period also includes changes in forward-looking information. 120 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES GROUP 2019 CONSUMER LOANS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision Opening balance 1,946 –1 249 –6 11 –5 2,206 –12 Moved to credit stage 1 149 –2 –149 2 0 0 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –96 0 98 0 –2 0 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 –3 0 –7 1 10 –1 0 0 Remeasurement of provision –329 2 –35 –2 –1 –1 –365 –1 New lending, net1) 783 0 118 0 0 0 901 0 Purchases – – – – – – – – Sales – – – – – – – – Repayment and redemption –398 0 –41 0 0 –1 –439 –1 Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses 0 0 0 0 –8 4 –8 4 Change in risk parameters during the period2) – 0 – 1 – 0 – 1 Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Closing balance 2,052 –1 233 –4 10 –4 2,295 –9 GROUP 2018 CONSUMER LOANS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Gross Gross Gross Gross SEK million lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision lending Provision Opening balance 1,764 –2 246 –6 11 –5 2,021 –13 Moved to credit stage 1 140 –3 –139 2 –1 1 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –113 0 114 –1 –1 1 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 –3 0 –8 1 11 –1 0 0 Remeasurement of provision –293 4 –38 –1 –1 –2 –332 1 New lending, net1) 780 –1 111 –1 1 –1 892 –3 Purchases – – – – – – – – Sales – – – – – – – – Repayment and redemption –329 1 –36 0 –2 –1 –367 0 Write-offs due to confirmed credit losses 0 0 –1 0 –7 3 –8 3 Change in risk parameters during the period – – – – – – – – Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Other – – – – – – – – Closing balance 1,946 –1 249 –6 11 –5 2,206 –12 1) Net amount is the loan’s total amount less any internal transfers from other loans. 2) The change in risk parameters during the period also includes changes in forward-looking information. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 121 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES GROUP 2019 LOAN COMMITMENTS AND PROVISIONS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Loan comLoan comLoan comLoan comSEK million mitments Provision mitments Provision mitments Provision mitments Provision Opening balance 37,482 7 53 0 0 0 37,535 7 Moved to credit stage 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 –52 0 52 0 0 0 0 0 Moved to credit stage 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Remeasurement of provision –1,119 –2 337 8 0 0 –782 6 New lending, net 47,336 3 0 1 0 0 47,336 4 Write-offs, redemption, etc. –35,374 –5 –53 0 0 0 –35,427 –5 Change in risk parameters during the period1) – 1 – 0 – – – 1 Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Closing balance 48,273 4 389 9 0 0 48,662 13 GROUP 2018 LOAN COMMITMENTS AND PROVISIONS Credit stage 1 Credit stage 2 Credit stage 3 Total Loan comLoan comLoan comLoan comSEK million mitments Provision mitments Provision mitments Provision mitments Provision Opening balance 42,677 4 1,080 3 0 0 43,758 7 Moved to credit stage 1 66 0 –66 0 – – 0 0 Moved to credit stage 2 – – – – – – – – Moved to credit stage 3 – – – – – – – – Remeasurement of provision –2,078 1 – – – – –2,078 0 New lending, net 36,378 5 53 0 – – 36,431 5 Write-offs, redemption, etc. –39,561 –3 –1,014 –3 0 0 –40,576 –5 Change in risk parameters during the period1) – – – – – – – – Change in model/method – – – – – – – – Closing balance 37,482 7 53 0 0 0 37,535 7 1) The change in risk parameters during the period also includes changes in forward-looking information. Modified assets, loans with renegotiated terms and conditions In exceptional cases, loans may be renegotiated outside of the loan agreement due to a deterioration of the borrower’s financial position or because the borrower has encountered other financial problems. Such receivables are monitored carefully and are known as modified assets. MODIFIED ASSETS, LOANS WITH RENEGOTIATED TERMS AND CONDITIONS, MODIFIED ASSETS IN CREDIT STAGES 2 AND 3 (THAT HAVE NOT LED TO DERECOGNITION) GROUP 2019 Residential ­ Corporate Clients & TenantConsumer SEK million mortgages Owners’ Associations loans Total Amortised cost prior to modification 294 13 62 369 Modification gain/loss, net 0 0 0 0 Amortised cost after modification 294 13 62 369 Of which, carrying amount prior to provision for assets migrated from credit stage 2 or 3 to credit stage 1. 132 7 0 139 GROUP 2018 Residential ­ Corporate Clients & TenantConsumer SEK million mortgages Owners’ Associations loans Total Amortised cost prior to modification 732 – 0 732 Modification gain/loss, net 0 – 0 0 Amortised cost after modification 732 – 0 732 Of which, carrying amount prior to provision for assets migrated from credit stage 2 or 3 to credit stage 1. 331 – 0 331 122 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES RC:2 Credit risk in treasury operations Credit risk in treasury operations arises when the counterparty is unable to fulfil its value of financial derivatives, repos and investments. For derivatives and repos, payment obligations. Credit risk arises, in part, in the form of counterparty credit the effect of collateral pledged or received under CSAs or GMRAs is included in the risk for the derivative and repo contracts entered into by SBAB to manage financial total limit. Moreover, for derivatives, an add-on amount is also calculated for future risks and, in part, as a result of investments in the liquidity portfolio and of surplus risk-related changes. The limit is coordinated with the credit limit for counterparties liquidity. who also are loan customers. Counterparty limits may be established for a period of The SBAB Group’s counterparties are banks and credit institutions, and the not longer than one year, after which a new assessment must be conducted. The underlying exposure in the table includes investments, derivatives and repos. The decisions of the Credit Committee are reported to the Board at the following Board limits are set by the Board’s Credit Committee within the confines of the framework meeting. All of SBAB’s counterparties have a rating from either Moody’s or Stanadopted by the Board of Directors. The utilised limit is calculated as the market dard & Poor’s. LIMIT UTILISATION PER RATING CATEGORY CONSOLIDATED SITUATION PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK million Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit AAA – – – – – – – – AAto AA+ 12,100 4,260 11,600 3,920 12,100 4,033 11,600 3,777 Ato A+ 12,300 4,573 12,050 4,411 12,300 4,526 12,050 4,361 Lower than A3,800 192 3,900 213 3,800 192 3,900 213 Unrated – – – – – – – – Total 28,200 9,025 27,550 8,544 28,200 8,751 27,550 8,351 The “Limit utilisation” table shows the limits and the utilised limits, respectively, for SBAB’s derivative counterparties. The limits for each derivative counterparty are proposed by SBAB’s Treasury and adopted by the Board’s Credit Committee within the confines of the framework adopted by the Board of Directors. The values in the table are an aggregate of individual derivative counterparty’s total exposure and the limits for the respective rating category. DISTRIBUTION OF CHARGEABLE TREASURY BILLS, ETC., BONDS AND OTHER INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES BY RATING CATEGORY The table below shows an analysis of lending to credit institutions, chargeable treasury bills, bonds and other interest-bearing securities distributed in accordance with the lowest rating as of 31 December 2019, based on Standard & Poor’s rating or equivalent. CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2019 Government Sovereigns, supraNon-governmental Covered guaranteed nationals and agenpublic sector SEK million bonds securities cies entities Total AAA 36,061 17,461 1,900 12,050 67,472 AAto AA+ 454 932 – 2,758 4,144 Ato A+ – – – – – Lower than A– – – – – Total 36,515 18,393 1,900 14,808 71,616 Provisions for expected credit losses –1 0 0 0 –1 Total after provisions 36,514 18,393 1,900 14,808 71,615 CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2018 Government Sovereigns, supraNon-governmental Covered guaranteed nationals and agenpublic sector SEK million bonds securities cies entities Total AAA 35,278 23,873 2,431 9,782 71,364 AAto AA+ 382 1,147 – 1,471 3,000 Ato A+ – – – – – Lower than A– – – – – Total 35,660 25,020 2,431 11,253 74,364 Provisions for expected credit losses –1 0 0 0 –1 Total after provisions 35,659 25,020 2,431 11,253 74,363 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 123 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF CHARGEABLE TREASURY BILLS, BONDS AND OTHER INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2019 SEK million Sweden Other EU Other Total Covered bonds 25,253 8,582 2,680 36,515 Government guaranteed securities 14,627 3,662 104 18,393 Sovereigns, supranationals and agencies – 1,900 – 1,900 Non-governmental public sector entities 11,690 3,118 – 14,808 Total as per 31 December 2019 51,570 17,262 2,784 71,616 Total as per 31 December 2018 56,465 15,083 2,816 74,364 Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk is monitored on a daily basis for all counterparties. When Counterparty credit risk is the risk that SBAB’s financial counterparties cannot meet entered into, CSAs are reconciled on a daily or weekly basis. Derivative transactions their commitments pursuant to the completed derivatives and repo contracts, and entered into with external counterparties are mostly entered into by the Parent such risk consists primarily of exposures to well-reputed and established banks. This Company, where the CSAs are reconciled with all counterparties on a daily basis. exposure is predominantly covered by collateral agreements, where the counterWhen CSAs are in place, collateral is pledged to reduce net exposures. Wherever party posts collateral to reduce net exposure. In accordance with SBAB’s credit applicable, the posted and received collateral takes the form of cash with a transfer instruction, the credit-risk limits are established by SBAB’s Credit Committee for all of title, which entitles the party that receives the collateral to use the collateral in its counterparties in treasury operations. operations. The effects of posted and received collateral are shown in greater detail To limit the potential counterparty risk associated with derivative transactions in Note FI 3. involving non-standardised derivatives that are not cleared by qualified central SBAB participates in the calculation of the STIBOR (Stockholm Interbank counterparties approved by the competent authority (in accordance with RegulaOffered Rate) reference rate for the Swedish market. STIBOR is a reference rate tion (EU) No 648/2012), a framework agreement is to be entered into with the that shows an average of the interest rates at which a number of the banks active in counterparty. In most cases, the framework agreement, an ISDA Master Agreement the Swedish money market are prepared to lend to each other without collateral or similar agreements with terms for final settlement, have been supplemented with under different maturities. an associated collateral agreement, known as a Credit Support Annex (CSA). A In 2016, it became mandatory under the European Markets Infrastructure ReguCSA must always be established for counterparties entering into derivative conlation (EMIR) for SBAB to clear interest-rate derivatives via central counterparties, tracts with SBAB and SCBC. The framework agreements entitle the parties to offset known as clearing houses. The aim is for clearing houses to act as counterparties for receivables against debt in the event of a payment default. buyers and sellers, and to participate in ensuring payment obligations are discharged. MAXIMUM CREDIT-RISK EXPOSURE IN TREASURY OPERATIONS CONSOLIDATED SITUATION Without taking into account collateral received Taking into account collateral received or other credit enhancements or other credit enhancements SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lending to credit institutions 417 2,847 417 2,847 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 15,886 20,904 15,886 20,904 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 55,731 50,945 55,731 50,945 Derivatives 13,087 8,313 5,268 1,707 Total 85,121 83,009 77,302 76,403 COLLATERAL POSTED AND RECEIVED UNDER COLLATERAL AGREEMENTS, BY COMPANY CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2019 2018 SEK million Collateral pledged Collateral received Collateral pledged Collateral received SBAB 310 7,818 268 6,607 SCBC 0 0 0 0 124 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES LENDING TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS, CHARGEABLE TREASURY BILLS, BONDS AND OTHER INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2019 Financial assets measured Financial assets measured Financial assets measured at amortised cost at FVTOCI at FVTPL Credit stage 1 Credit stage 1 Total Securities, Securities, SEK million gross Provision Securities, gross Securities, gross gross Provision Opening balance 26,021 –1 41,438 7,238 74,697 –1 Change in cash balances 5,775 – 0 – 5,775 – Purchases 877,039 0 14,725 – 891,764 0 Sales –343 0 –1,996 – –2,339 0 Maturity –870,687 0 –17,557 –3,816 –892,060 0 Write-offs, redemption, etc. – – – – – – Change in risk parameters during the period – – – – – – Change in model/method – – – – – – Currency revaluation 63 – 20 –462 –379 – Other 1) 78 0 309 –61 326 0 Closing balance 37,946 –1 36,939 2,899 77,784 –1 CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2018 Financial assets measured Financial assets measured Financial assets measured at amortised cost at FVTOCI at FVTPL Credit stage 1 Credit stage 1 Total Securities, Securities, SEK million gross Provision Securities, gross Securities, gross gross Provision Opening balance 20,091 0 41,681 12,811 74,583 0 Change in cash balances –34 – 0 – –34 – Purchases 822,686 –1 30,940 – 853,626 –1 Sales –1,146 0 –2,540 – –3,686 0 Maturity –815,707 0 –28,565 –5,004 –849,276 0 Write-offs, redemption, etc. – – – – – – Change in risk parameters during the period – – – – – – Change in model/method – – – – – – Currency revaluation 20 – 298 –424 –106 – Other 1) 111 0 –376 –145 –410 0 Closing balance 26,021 –1 41,438 7,238 74,697 –1 1) Unrealised changes in fair value in addition to the exchange rate revaluation. RC:3 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the company will not be able to meet its payLiquidity reserve ment obligations on the date of maturity without the related cost increasing signifiSBAB has a liquidity portfolio in place to ensure liquidity in times when normal marcantly. The SBAB Group has long identified the importance of well-functioning and ket funding does not function adequately or in the case of outflows of deposits. The proactive liquidity risk management. SBAB’s liquidity risk management is described portfolio acts as a buffer, as the securities in the portfolio can be sold to free up below. liquidity, either through repos or through the sales of parts of the portfolio. The liquidity portfolio also comprises a business advantage in normal market conditions in the Broad and diversified funding form of bridge financing for maturing debt and with ensuring intraday liquidity. Because the SBAB Group has maintained an active presence in the international The portfolio holdings are long-term and mainly comprise liquid, interest-bearing capital market since 1989, its brand is well established. The SBAB Group has access securities with high ratings, where 100% of the portfolio’s holdings can be used as to the covered bond market, both in Sweden and internationally, through SCBC. In collateral for repos with the Riksbank or the European Central Bank (ECB). The size addition to issuing bonds, SBAB is funded by retail deposits. of SBAB’s holdings of individual securities as a percentage of the total volume outstanding is also limited with the aim of reducing concentration risk. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 125 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES The liquidity reserve is defined as the reserve value of the securities in the liquidity Excluding pledged collateral, SBAB’s liquidity reserve amounted to SEK 74.5 billion portfolio and other liquid short-term investments. When calculating the reserve at 31 December 2019 (the reserve value at the Riksbank or the ECB). The market value of the securities included in the liquidity reserve, the SBAB Group applies the value amounted to SEK 77.6 billion with an average maturity of 2.16 years (2.07). haircuts issued in accordance with the Riksbank’s Guidelines for Collateral ManageMoreover, unutilised issuance capacity for covered bonds comprises an additional ment in the regulatory framework for RIX and monetary policy instruments. reserve that is not included in the calculation of the above liquidity metrics. LIQUIDITY RESERVE CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Distribution by currency Distribution by currency SEK billion Total SEK EUR USD Other Total SEK EUR USD Other Level 1 Assets 73.8 56.6 11.4 5.8 – 70.3 54.5 11.7 4.1 – Cash and balances at central banks1) 7 7 – – – 3.7 3.7 – – – Securities issued or guaranteed by governments, central banks, multinational development banks and Level 1 international organisations 19.6 13 4.1 2.5 – 25.0 16.8 5.8 2.4 – Securities issued by municipalities or PSEs 15 7.6 4.2 3.2 – 10.8 7.1 2.6 1.1 – Covered bonds with extremely high quality 32.2 29 3.1 0.1 – 30.8 26.9 3.3 0.6 – Other assets – – – – – – – – – – Level 2 Assets 3.8 3.3 0.5 – – 4.0 3.4 0.6 – – Level 2A assets 3.8 3.3 0.5 – – 4.0 3.4 0.6 – – Securities issued or guaranteed by governments, central banks, municipalities and PSEs – – – – – – – – – – Covered bonds with high quality 3.8 3.3 0.5 – – 4.0 3.4 0.6 – – Corporate bonds (minimum AArating) – – – – – – – – – – Level 2 Other assets – – – – – – – – – – Level 2B assets – – – – – – – – – – Asset-backed securities (ABS) – – – – – – – – – – Covered bonds with high quality – – – – – – – – – – Corporate bonds (A+ to BBB rating) – – – – – – – – – – Equities – – – – – – – – – – Other assets 1) – – – – – – – – – – Liquidity reserve 77.6 59.9 11.9 5.8 – 74.3 57.9 12.3 4.1 – 1) Includes facilities at central banks. Continuous monitoring of liquidity risk reserve covers the maximum outflow and it has been limited to a minimum of 180 Proactive and continuous liquidity planning in the relevant currencies, active debt days at the consolidated currency level at any given time. management and the scope, content and management of the liquidity reserve are At 31 December 2019, the survival horizon was 290 days (400) at the consolikey factors in SBAB’s liquidity risk management. By viewing funding activities as a dated level, and 315 days (272) for SEK, 248 days (615) for EUR and 766 days natural part of both operational work and the strategic planning of liquidity risk, con(138) for USD. In 2019, the survival horizon was never less than 290 days (274) centrations of excessively large funding maturities are avoided. Another important at the consolidated level. part of the ongoing liquidity risk management is the continuous monitoring and testIn addition to the above metrics, limits are applied to short-term liquidity risk ing of the practical liquidity value of the liquidity reserve in the secondary market. through further internal metrics, for which limits apply. Liquidity risk measurements – short-term liquidity risk Liquidity risk measurements – structural liquidity risk At SBAB, the risk of being exposed to insufficient liquidity in the short term is known Structural liquidity risk is a measure of the differences in maturity structures between as short-term liquidity risk. SBAB regularly monitors a number of metrics for shortassets and liabilities in terms of loan-to-maturity, which risks leading to a lack of term liquidity risk. One of these is the liquidity coverage ratio as defined in the Euroliquidity in the longer term. SBAB aims to have a diversified funding. The SBAB pean Commission delegated regulation (EU) 2015/61. The liquidity coverage ratio Group has adopted a conservative approach to the management of funding. A is a metric of the degree to which the liquidity reserve covers a 30-day net cash outlarger share of future maturities is being pre-financed and the share of total funding flow in a stressed scenario. Under the regulations, the metric must amount to not attributable to short-term funding is being maintained at a low level. SBAB works less than 100% for all currencies on a consolidated basis. At 31 December 2019, actively to ensure an even distribution of maturities, while at the same time extendthe metric was 271% (283) at the consolidated level, and 946% (6,795) and 151% ing the maturity of the liabilities. Monitoring of upcoming maturities, repurchases, (319), respectively, in EUR and USD. In 2019, the LCR never fell below 247% (224) replacements and pre-financing constitute key elements of the practical manageat the consolidated level. ment aimed at reducing the risk. In addition to regulatory-controlled liquidity risk measurements, SBAB has a numSBAB limits its dependence on market funding by applying a limit on the ratio ber of internal metrics. These include the measurement and stress testing of the between retail deposits and lending to the public. At 31 December 2019, the ratio liquidity risk by totalling the maximum conceivable need for liquidity for each comwas 33.9% (34) compared with a limit of 28%. ing day. This liquidity risk metric is referred to as the survival horizon. The calculaMoreover, access to funding from covered bonds is secured by monitoring that tions are based on a crisis scenario in which all loans are assumed to be extended on the overcollateralisation in the cover pool at each point in time, including in stressed maturity, meaning that no liquidity is added through loan redemption, and where no circumstances, exceeds Moody’s requirements for Aaa ratings. funding is available. Retail deposits are treated with a conservative assumption, SBAB also measures its structural liquidity risk through a metric for maturity whereby withdrawals from the portfolio are distributed over time on the basis of matching that measures the relationship between the maturities of assets and liabili­historical changes. Accordingly, the maximum need for liquidity can be identified for ties from a liquidity perspective at various points in the future. This can be viewed as every given future period, and the necessary liquidity reserve can be established. SBAB’s internal version of the net stable funding ratio (NSFR), in which the maturity, The survival horizon corresponds to the number of days for which the liquidity in terms of liquidity, on deposits and lending is estimated by means of SBAB’s own 126 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES statistical models, which are based on historical data of the behaviour of SBAB’s MATURITIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES customers. The metric is subject to a one-year floor limit of not less than 90% at a (amounts refer to contractual, undiscounted cash flows) consolidated level, 60% for USD and currencies for which the liability exceeds 5% of The maturity of the amortisation for amortised receivables and liabilities has been total liabilities. At 31 December 2019, maturity matching was 138% (143) at the calculated as the period up to the date of maturity of the respective amortisation. consolidated level, 144% (143) in SEK, 97% (139) in EUR and 109% (89) in USD. Foreign currency cash flows have been converted using the closing rate at 31 The NSFR according to SBAB’s interpretation of Regulation (EU) 2019/876 of December 2019. Future interest-rate cash flows with floating interest rates are estithe European Parliament and of the Council was 134% (135). mated until the next fixing date using forward interest rates based on the actual The tables “Maturities of hedged cash flows in cash-flow hedges” and “Maturities interest base, usually the three-month STIBOR. The Parent Company, SBAB, is the of financial assets and liabilities” show the status of SBAB’s future cash flows at 31 creditor for the subsidiary SCBC’s subordinated debt. If the maturity is not speciDecember 2019 and 31 December 2018, respectively, from both a short-term and fied, current debt is recognised as having no maturity and without estimated long-term perspective. ­interest-rate cash flows. The item “Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments” for the Group, which totals SEK 48,662 million (37,536), amounted to SEK 14,722 million (14,042) after application of the internal model for calculating the CCF. The ­reduction has not been included in the table. CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2019 20181) No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 SEK million ­maturity months months months years > 5 years Total ­maturity months months months years > 5 years Total Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 5,750 – – – – – 5,750 – 2,515 – – – – 2515 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. – 7,855 119 2,347 5,653 – 15,974 – 13,968 2,078 685 4,036 417 21,184 Lending to credit institutions 104 311 – – – – 415 80 255 – – – – 335 Lending to the public – 2,070 1,794 5,564 35,262 338,985 383,675 – 1,492 1,533 2,780 34,966 323,386 364,157 Bonds and other interestbearing securities – 1,170 5,363 4,294 44,192 1,585 56,604 – 1,315 3,995 3,379 40,898 2,266 51,853 of which classified as loans and accounts receivable – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Derivatives – 228 480 970 7,188 2,014 10,880 – 340 709 418 5,074 501 7,042 Other assets 535 – – – – – 535 725 – – – – – 725 Total 6,389 11,634 7,756 13,175 92,295 342,584 473,833 805 19,885 8,315 7,262 84,974 326,570 447,811 Financial liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions – 10,528 – – – – 10,528 – 6,607 – – – – 6,607 Deposits from the public 126,858 1,343 590 1,468 283 – 130,542 123,310 309 273 861 174 – 124,927 Debt securities issued, etc. – 5,977 16,486 19,220 196,919 75,377 313,979 – 4,456 6,180 30,573 189,075 72,010 302,294 Derivatives – 137 110 208 1,111 786 2,352 – 164 243 267 1,231 626 2,531 Other liabilities 2,188 – – – – – 2,188 2,168 – – – – – 2,168 Subordinated debt – 1,568 1,080 2,533 3,463 415 9,059 – 41 69 73 6,666 – 6,849 Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments – 32,432 10,809 564 4,857 – 48,662 – 22,637 10,537 20 4,342 – 37,536 Total 129,046 51,985 29,075 23,993 206,633 76,578 517,310 125,478 34,214 17,302 31,794 201,488 72,636 482,912 1) On reviewing previously reported amounts, SBAB identified a need to implement corrections of errors in the above table’s comparative figures for 2018. The underlying reasons for the changes were mainly due to intra-Group amounts and netting undertakings for derivatives. MATURITIES OF HEDGED CASH FLOWS IN CASH-FLOW HEDGES CONSOLIDATED SITUATION SEK million No maturity < 3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months 1–5 years > 5 years Total Interest-rate-hedged – 182 248 179 1,700 1,286 3,595 Currency-hedged – – – –7,843 –63,859 –37,208 –108,910 Net, 31 Dec 2019 – 182 248 –7,664 –62,159 –35,922 –105,315 Net, 31 Dec 2018 – 177 –1,311 176 –57,920 –39,056 –97,934 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 127 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES MATURITIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (amounts refer to contractual, undiscounted cash flows) PARENT COMPANY 2019 20181) No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 SEK million maturity months months months years > 5 years Total maturity months months months years > 5 years Total Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 5,750 – – – – – 5,750 – 2,515 – – – – 2,515 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. – 7,855 119 2,347 5,653 – 15,974 – 13,968 2,078 685 4,036 417 21,184 Lending to credit institutions 96,597 322 18 28 6,208 – 103,173 90,745 255 – – – – 91,000 Lending to the public – 448 196 382 6,059 17,780 24,865 – 134 133 394 5,127 19,093 24,881 Bonds and other interestbearing securities – 1,170 5,363 4,294 44,192 1,585 56,060 – 1,315 3,995 3,379 40,898 2,266 51,853 of which classified as loans and accounts receivable – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Derivatives – 285 508 1,001 7,674 2,558 12,026 – 374 739 476 5,764 1,175 8,528 Other assets 1,127 – – – – – 1,127 740 – – – – – 740 Total 103,474 10,080 6,204 8,052 69,786 21,923 219,519 91,485 18,561 6,945 4,934 55,825 22,951 200,701 Financial liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions – 10,527 – – – – 10,527 – 6,607 – – – – 6,607 Deposits from the public 126,858 1,343 590 1,468 283 – 130,542 123,310 309 273 861 174 – 124,927 Debt securities issued, etc. – 1,611 2,452 9,285 43,562 1,055 57,965 – 3,560 4,538 5,913 43,009 – 57,020 Derivatives – 378 535 1,017 6,790 2,632 11,352 – 492 717 500 5109 1,175 7,993 Other liabilities 778 – – – – – 778 605 – – – – – 605 Subordinated debt – 1,568 1,080 2,533 3,463 415 9,059 – 41 69 73 6,666 – 6,849 Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments – 32,432 10,809 564 4,857 – 48,662 – 22,637 10,537 20 4,342 – 37,536 Total 127,636 47,859 15,466 14,867 58,955 4,102 268,885 123,915 33,646 16,134 7,367 59,300 1,175 241,537 1) On reviewing previously reported amounts, SBAB identified a need to implement corrections of errors in the above table’s comparative figures for 2018. The underlying reasons for the changes were mainly due to intra-Group amounts and netting undertakings for derivatives. MATURITIES OF HEDGED CASH FLOWS IN CASH-FLOW HEDGES PARENT COMPANY SEK million No maturity < 3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months 1–5 years > 5 years Total Interest-rate-hedged – – 66 18 185 8 277 Currency-hedged – – – – –16,953 –1,046 –17,999 Net, 31 Dec 2019 – – 66 18 –16,768 –1,038 –17,722 Net, 31 Dec 2018 – 2 –1,469 14 –16,339 – –17,792 Stress tests SBAB performs regular stress tests of liquidity risk aimed at internal requirements for • Rating-related stress, with gradually lower ratings for SBAB and SCBC analytical and contingency management of liquidity risk. The stress tests have been • Falling property market prices – various levels of falling prices, which increase designed in line with the Swedish FSA’s regulations on liquidity management, which LTV ratios, thus lowering the share of funding that can be conducted via covered impose general requirements on stress tests (FFFS 2010:7). The models analyse bonds SBAB’s capacity to meet the need for cash and cash equivalents in various market • Stress of liquidity in the liquidity reserve scenarios and to assess the effect of protracted stress on SBAB’s ability to finance its • Sizeable fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, leading to larger operations. The scenarios are designed on the basis of SBAB’s specific risk profile amounts having to be secured through CSAs, which could thus impair liquidity. and cover both company-specific and market-related scenarios that may render the financing of the operations difficult. The scenarios are divided into different stages The stress tests are under continuous development and the assumptions on which that illustrate increasing levels of stress intensity to reflect how a crisis can continuthe various scenarios are based are assessed regularly. The stress tests are conously deteriorate. The scenarios simulated by the stress tests include: ducted and reported quarterly, with results assessed against SBAB’s established risk • The 2008/2009 financial crisis – stress in the funding operations, with funding appetite and used to adapt strategies and guidelines. programmes closing at various stages 128 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Developments in liquidity risk regulation applies for EUR and SEK at present, since SBAB does not have any other significant The area of liquidity risk is subject to constant regulatory development. The followcurrencies. However, the introduction has no practical significance since the bank’s ing regulatory changes are on the agenda for the immediate future: LCRs in EUR and SEK are already at levels with very healthy margins to the new requirement. New version of the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) In May 2019, an amendment was made to Regulation (EU) 2019/876 of the EuroHarmonised rules for covered bonds pean Parliament and of the Council (“CRR II”). The largest amendment pertaining In November 2019, Directive (EU) 2019/2162 of the European Parliament and of to liquidity risk is the introduction of a mandatory requirement in terms of a 100% the Council on the issue of covered bonds was published. The Directive introduces stable net funding ratio (NSFR) that enters force in June 2021. Since 2014, SBAB harmonised rules for covered bonds within the EU. One of the most tangible has regularly calculated NSFR based on the Basel Committee’s standard, despite changes introduced by the rules being the requirement for issuers to hold sufficient the lack of any statutory quantitative requirement. Following the announcement of highly liquid assets in the cover pool to cover net liquidity outflows from covered CRR II, SBAB revised the method for calculating the NSFR in autumn 2019 to align it bonds for a period of 180 days. This requirement entails an overlapping of the existwith the coming regulatory requirements in CRR II. The changed method entailed a ing liquidity reserve requirement in the LCR regulations. positive impact on SBAB’s NSFR.  Efforts are ongoing at EU level to change the LCR regulation to avoid institutions having to hold double liquidity reserves. Different proposals have been discussed at Other regulatory changes the Swedish Bankers’ Association, where SBAB is represented. To date, no official Pillar 2 liquidity risk requirements regulatory proposal has been put forward, so discussions are at a very early stage. In In July 2019, the Swedish FSA decided to introduce additional liquidity requireother words, there is still uncertainty regarding what changes will be implemented. ments within the Pillar 2 framework for supervision category 1 and 2 banks (which The new covered bonds directive must be transposed into Swedish law no later than include SBAB). One requirement means that the bank must meet a liquidity cover8 July 2021 and enter force not more than one year later. SBAB continues to moniage ratio of 75% in SEK and other currencies, assuming that liabilities in these curtor developments in the area. rencies correspond to not less than 5% of total liabilities (significant currencies). The earlier requirement of 100% for EUR and USD applies in addition to the above. The Changed LCR regulatory framework reason being the EU regulation, which sets minimum LCR requirements at consoliIn October 2018, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2018/1620 was pubdated currency level rather than for individual significant currencies. However, the lished, amending Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/61 with regard to the liquidity Swedish FSA is of the opinion that the assessments on which the previous national coverage requirement. The changes will be applied from 30 April 2020 and will LCR requirements for EUR and USD were based remain valid, which it deems motiimpact the calculation of inflows and outflows linked to repos and collateral swaps. vates the new requirement. The second requirement, which was presented in July, In addition, deposits reporting will become more granular, while other reporting means that the bank’s liquidity reserve that is used for the calculation of the LCR items will disappear and some other clarifications will be introduced. These changes may not comprise more than 50% of the covered bonds, where the cover pool is have limited impact on SBAB’s LCR but will entail some development and work with linked to the Swedish housing market. adjusting models and reporting routines. The procedure for establishing the requirement follows the process for capital requirements in Pillar 2 and applies from 2019. For SBAB, the requirement only RC:4 Market risk Market risk is the risk of loss or reduced future income due to market fluctuations. Supplementary risk metrics SBAB is characterised by low risk taking, with the Board determining the overall risk In addition to the overall VaR limits determined by the Board, the CEO has set a appetite and setting the limit for the risk metric Value at Risk (VaR). In addition to number of supplementary risk metrics for different kinds of risks to which SBAB is VaR, a number of supplementary risk-based metrics set by the CEO of SBAB are also exposed. For interest-rate risk, there are limits for parallel shifts, where the effect on subject to limitation. Through daily reports, Risk Control checks compliance with the present value of a one percentage point shift in the yield curve is measured, and current risk levels and limits. Market risk is followed up on the Group level as well as curve risk where the effect on the present value is measured in different scenarios, in broken down to lower levels. which the short end of the yield curve is adjusted down (up) and the long end is The general principle governing SBAB’s exposure to market risk is that the level of adjusted up (down). To limit interest-rate risk in the banking book, limits are set for risk taking should be low. As a general principle, interest-rate risk is to be mitigated duration of equity. Currency risk is controlled by measuring the effect on present through direct funding or the use of derivatives. SBAB’s interest-rate structure as of value when currency exchange rates change compared to SEK, and in the liquidity 31 December 2019 is shown in the table “Fixed-interest periods for financial assets portfolio by controlling the matching of the principal in each currency. There are and liabilities.” Funding in international currencies are hedged through currency also limits for basis risk, credit-spread risk and income volatility from basis spreads. swaps or invested in matching currencies to mitigate currency risk. As per 31 Income volatility from basis spreads arises because the derivatives used to hedge December 2019, total assets and liabilities in foreign currency amounted to a net funding is recognised at fair value while the underlying funding is reported as book liability of SEK 111.1 billion (liability: 106.4) in nominal terms. The risk outstanding value, in accordance with the accounting standards applied by SBAB. This causes was reduced using derivatives where the nominal amount was equivalent to SEK effects to arise in operating profit that do not correspond to the actual risk to which 113.6 billion (107.7). The total effect per currency is reported in the table “Nominal SBAB’s portfolio is exposed. Income volatility has declined year-on-year. SBAB has amounts for assets, liabilities and derivatives in foreign currency.” applied hedge accounting through cash-flow hedges since 2014, which means that income volatility is only calculated for swap contracts already in place that are not Value at Risk subject to cash-flow hedges. Income volatility is expected to continue to decline in VaR is a comprehensive portfolio measurement expressing the potential loss that pace with the expiration of the swap contracts included in the hedge accounting. could occur given a certain level of probability and holding period. SBAB’s model is In addition to the above-mentioned supplementary risk metrics, sensitivity analya historical model and applies percentiles in historical market data from the past two sis is performed with stressed interest rates, currency rates and credit spreads years. Since the model is based on historical data there is a degree of inherent inertogether with its effect on the company’s CET1 capital requirement. tia and the model could underestimate the risk in a rapidly changing market. Due to the above and that the model is based on several assumptions, the model is valiInterest-rate risk in other operations dated daily using back testing analysis, in other words a check of VaR against actual Interest-rate risk in other operations is measured and reported to the Swedish FSA in outcomes. accordance with FFFS 2007:4. As per 31 December 2019, the effect on the present Limits for the day-to-day follow up of VaR are set at two levels: SBAB’s total marvalue was negative SEK 80.1 million (negative: 992.6) for a 2 percentage-point ket risk, and all market risks that Treasury is responsible for managing. The limit for parallel upward shift and a positive SEK 77.4 million (1,017.6) for a 2 percentSBAB’s total market risk is based on the VaR metric included in the model for ecoage-point parallel downward shift. As own funds amounted to SEK 24.3 billion nomic capital and applies a probability level of 99% and a holding period of one (20.7) at 31 December 2019, the effect of the stress tests amounted to negative year, while the other metric applies a probability level of 99% and a holding period 0.33% (negative: 4.79) and 0.32% (4.91) of own funds, respectively. of one day. The net interest income effect is measured to capture the impact of changes in As per 31 December 2019, SBAB’s total market risk exposure was SEK 255 milinterest rates on profit or loss. The metric reflects the differences in volume and lion, compared with the limit of SEK 1,450 million. Exposure to market risks managed fixed-interest periods between assets, liabilities and derivatives in other operations. by Treasury was SEK 16 million and the limit was SEK 70 million. The net interest income effect is based on an instantaneous parallel shift of one percentage point up and down over a 12-month time horizon. At the end of the year, the net interest income effect was negative SEK 187 million (negative: 67). S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 129 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES NOMINAL AMOUNTS FOR ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND DERIVATIVES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY CONSOLIDATED SITUATION PARENT COMPANY SEK million Assets and liabilities Derivatives Assets and liabilities Derivatives AUD 0 – 0 – CHF 0 – 0 – DKK 0 – 0 – EUR –112,584 112,584 –23,502 23,503 GBP –2,460 2,461 0 – JPY 0 – 0 – NOK –531 531 0 – USD 4,456 –1,972 4,456 –1,972 Total –111,119 113,604 –19,046 21,531 FIXED-INTEREST PERIODS FOR FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2019 2018 Without Without interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 SEK million period months months months years > 5 years Total period months months months years > 5 years Total ASSETS Cash and balances held at central banks – 5,750 – – – – 5,750 – 0 – – – – 0 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. – 7,822 106 2,311 5,647 – 15,886 – 13,808 2,054 652 3,936 454 20,904 Lending to credit institutions – 415 – – – – 415 – 2,847 – – – – 2,847 Lending to the public – 273,236 11,358 15,877 79,836 3,500 383,807 – 265,864 12,751 29,704 53,133 2,763 364,215 Change in fair value of interest-rate-hedged loan receivables – –1 –19 18 –191 12 –181 – 0 –1 –2 85 17 99 Bonds and other interestbearing securities – 6,984 4,880 2,847 39,468 1,552 55,731 – 6,895 3,195 2,079 36,608 2,168 50,945 Derivatives – 3,827 77 220 2,359 6,604 13,087 – –1,512 6 76 2,894 6,849 8,313 Other assets 587 – – – – – 587 781 – – – – – 781 Total 587 298,033 16,402 21,273 127,119 11,668 475,082 781 287,902 18,005 32,509 96,656 12,251 448,104 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 10,528 – – – – 10,528 – 6,607 – – – – 6,607 Deposits from the public 126,858 1,343 590 1,468 283 – 130,542 123,310 308 273 861 174 – 124,926 Debt securities issued, etc. – 26,588 16,662 16,906 169,295 74,146 303,597 – 29,788 8,086 19,610 164,643 68,668 290,795 Derivatives – 1,233 19 26 801 –691 1,388 – –212 30 236 722 563 1,339 Other liabilities 2,188 – – – – – 2,188 2,174 – – – – – 2,174 Subordinated debt 3,500 4,349 – 599 – – 8,448 – 3,947 – – 999 – 4,946 Total 132,546 44,041 17,271 18,999 170,379 73,455 456,691 125,484 40,438 8,389 20,707 166,538 69,231 430,787 Difference assets and liabilities –131,959 253,992 –869 2,274 –43,260 –61,787 18,391 –124,703 247,464 9,616 11,802 –69,882 –56,980 17,317 130 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Without Without interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 SEK million period months months months years > 5 years Total period months months months years > 5 years Total ASSETS Cash and balances held at central banks – 5,750 – – – – 5,750 – 0 – – – – 0 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. – 7,822 106 2,311 5,647 – 15,886 – 13,808 2,054 652 3,936 454 20,904 Lending to credit institutions – 102,596 – – – – 102,596 – 93,262 – – – – 93,262 Lending to the public – 21,317 323 426 2,604 201 24,871 – 20,453 615 759 2,795 223 24,845 Change in fair value of interest-rate-hedged loan receivables – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Bonds and other interestbearing securities – 6,984 4,880 2,847 39,468 1,552 55,731 – 6,895 3,195 2,079 36,608 2,168 50,945 Derivatives – 4,947 80 229 1,833 6,265 13,354 – –411 6 95 2,497 6,575 8,762 Other assets 1,184 – – – – – 1,184 788 – – – – – 788 Total 1,184 149,416 5,389 5,813 49,552 8,018 219,372 788 134,007 5,870 3,585 45,836 9,420 199,506 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 10,527 – – – – 10,527 – 6,607 – – – – 6,607 Deposits from the public 126,858 1,343 590 1,468 283 – 130,542 123,310 308 273 861 174 – 124,926 Debt securities issued, etc. – 16,648 4,204 9,071 25,855 1,045 56,823 – 19,640 2,884 800 32,697 – 56,021 Derivatives – 4,723 88 51 2,228 5,230 12,320 – –1426 38 328 2,315 6,709 7,964 Other liabilities 778 – – – – – 778 607 – – – – – 607 Subordinated debt 3,500 4,349 – 599 – – 8,448 – 3,947 – – 999 – 4,946 Total 131,136 37,590 4,882 11,189 28,366 6,275 219,438 123,917 29,076 3,195 1,989 36,185 6,709 201,071 Difference assets and liabilities –129,952 111,826 507 –5,376 21,186 1,743 –66 –123,129 104,931 2,675 1,596 9,651 2,711 –1,565 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 131 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES RC:5 Operational risk Operational risk means the risk of losses due to inappropriate or unsuccessful proSBAB has a dedicated security team comprised of specialists tasked with attaining cesses, human error, faulty systems or external events, including legal risks. and maintaining a high level of cyber security for the bank. This is achieved through proactive efforts to ensure strong, digital perimeter protection and a high level of Risk management security within this protective shield. The team endeavours to increase risk and The process for managing operational risk is based on the continuous identification, security awareness throughout SBAB with the aim of achieving the right level of analysis and assessment of risks as well as their management and follow-up. An analsecurity for our customers, systems and personnel. ysis of risk levels is reported to the Board, the CEO and the Executive Management. The Risk department has overall responsibility for the methods and procedures Technical liability used in the management of operational risk. The work with managing operational Market advances in technology have been rapid in recent years, which has led to risk is conducted based on SBAB’s risk appetite and the significant processes for the parts of SBAB’s infrastructure becoming obsolete and outdated. An extensive projbusiness. This entails constant efforts to develop employees’ risk awareness and the ect to replace the system platform began in 2017 and has continued at full intensity bank’s risk culture, to improve processes and procedures as well as to provide tools and with high priority since then. The project is planned to extend throughout 2020 to efficiently and proactively manage day-to-day operational risk. until Q1 2021. SBAB has identified risks indicating that despite the above, the As part of strengthening SBAB’s risk culture, in 2016 the bank implemented risk change is not proceeding fast enough, that there are too many development-reand compliance coordinators (RCCs) in the first line. The RCCs support the busilated disturbances in daily operations and that the lifecycle management of other ness managers with a focus on risk management, process mapping, internal consystem support is lagging behind. trols, incident management and regulatory compliance. Clearly defined objectives and priorities are in place for SBAB’s IT strategy to ensure that the identified risks are managed effectively. The Executive Management Self-evaluation and the Board closely monitor the development and outcome related to time plans The self-evaluation process encompasses the identification and evaluation of operaand expenses. The shorter target and lead times entailed by the agile working tional risks in all significant processes. Self-evaluation is carried out using a shared method as well as shorter intervals between production increase flexibility and method and documented in the shared system support. The result of the self-evaluaenable a more efficient working practices. tion is reported annually to the Board, the CEO and the Executive Management. Competence Incident management SBAB aims to be an attractive workplace with dedicated and motivated employees SBAB has procedures and system support intended to facilitate the reporting and who, on their own initiative, generate ideas, collaborate and identify solutions. Like follow-up of incidents. The Risk department supports the operations with the analysis many other companies, SBAB faces the risk of not succeeding in attracting and of reported incidents to ensure that root causes are identified and suitable measures retaining the right skills. are implemented. Even incidents that have not caused direct damage or financial SBAB uses a clearly defined and transparent HR strategy together with ambitious loss are reported, to promote proactive risk management. goals in this area to actively develop the value-driven work approach and to ensure inclusive leadership that can generate driven employees. Management of material changes SBAB’s process for the management of material changes is applied for new or sigRegulatory risk nificantly altered products, services, markets, processes and IT systems as well as in Regulatory risk is increasingly becoming a significant risk. New external regulations the event of major operational and organisational changes at SBAB. The aim of the impacting SBAB will be implemented and training will be conducted to secure a process is to evaluate any potential risks related to the change and to draw attention high level of competence and thus high regulatory compliance in all parts of SBAB. to any impact the change may have on capital. During 2019, the main focus was on the implementation of routines for data erasure (to ensure storage limitation) relating to the General Data Protection RegulaContinuity management tion (GDPR). Privacy Office, a function within SBAB, is responsible for leading coorSBAB works in a pre-emptive manner to prevent events that may affect the compadinating activities related to personal data management and various training activiny’s ability to operate. A contingency organisation has been established that is ties in different parts of the SBAB. responsible for crisis and catastrophe management, and communication in case of Operations continue to focus highly on compliance with anti-money laundering serious incidents, crises or disasters. This organisation is tested regularly in collaboand terrorist financing regulations. SBAB has an Anti Financial Crime unit which, ration with external crisis management experts. inter alia, monitors regulatory developments in the area and supports operations in this regard. Significant operational risks SBAB has identified a number of risks that, were they to occur, are assessed as Capital requirements for operational risks potentially having a larger impact on SBAB’s operations than other risks. The develSBAB uses the standardised approach to calculate capital requirements for operaopment of these risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Executive Management tional risk within the Pillar 1 framework. The capital requirements for operational risk and the Board, and is taken into consideration within the framework of SBAB’s busiare presented in the Risk Exposure Amounts and Capital requirements table ness planning. The significant operational risks are detailed below. (Note RC 8). Cyber risk The cyber threat to the Swedish financial sector is extensive and persistent. Breaches that can crash important systems together with any accompanying blackmail attempts or leaks of sensitive data can lead to SBAB’s undertakings as a bank not being possible to fulfil. 132 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES RC:6 Business risk SBAB differentiates its business risk between strategic risk and the risk of weaker Risks related to strategy and earnings are evaluated on an ongoing basis over the earnings. Strategic risk is defined as the risk of a loss arising due to unfavourable year within the first line’s strategy work. Strategically important decisions are manbusiness decisions, erroneous implementation of strategic decisions or a lack of senaged within the framework for managing material changes. Furthermore, the Board sitivity to changes in the industry, the political environment or legal circumstances. receives an annual evaluation of the material risks that clearly addresses strategic The risk of weaker earnings encompasses the risk of, for example, reduced margins, business risk and the bank’s overall earnings. Business risk is included in the calculawhich in turn may arise due to more expensive financing or more intense competition. tion of the Pillar 2 capital requirement as part of SBAB’s stress tests, and where the New business is usually relatively similar to the business SBAB already has. effects of a scenario corresponding to a normal economic downturn are evaluated. Changes in the form of new products or new markets may only constitute a small For business risk within Pillar 2, refer to the Capital adequacy and risk management part of SBAB’s activities and must be implemented at such a pace that SBAB does 2019 report. not substantially jeopardise its earnings level and with great probability avoids pressure on its own funds. RC:7 Concentration risk Concentration risk arises when exposures are concentrated to certain counterparconditions in Sweden, this entails a concentration of lending to the Stockholm area. ties, regions or types of businesses/industries. Through a direction decision as part SBAB measures and actively follows the geographical concentration risk in terms of of the business planning, SBAB’s Board has established the concentration of risk volume and profile. At 31 December 2019, lending for housing in the Stockholm based on the actual conditions for SBAB. The Board’s risk appetite sets the framearea amounted to 46% of total assets. SBAB’s main counterparties (name concenwork for concentration risk, which is calculated based on the size of the exposures, trations) are largely driven by SBAB’s largest customer groups, which are also manindustry and geographical concentration. SBAB is primarily considered to be aged through the regulations governing large exposures. At 31 December 2019, exposed to credit-risk related concentration risk in its lending operations. At 31 the ten largest customer groups accounted for 5,36% of total assets. The capital December 2019, lending with collateral in single-family dwellings and tenant-ownrequirement for concentration risk is quantified with the economic capital for ers’ rights amounted to 70% of total assets. SBAB’s lending operations are concencredit risk. Upon calculation at 31 December 2019, the internally calculated trated to Sweden and primarily to major metropolitan areas. SBAB’s business model ­capital requirement for concentration risk was SEK 951 million (968), of which has proven attractive to customers in the major cities. Moreover, SBAB has SEK 881 ­million (898) pertained to credit risk in lending operations and increased its market shares and this is driving increased concentration toward those SEK 70 ­million (70) to credit risk in funding operations. areas with the largest housing stock and highest housing turnover rates. Given the For concentration risk in liquidity, please refer to Note RC 3. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 133 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES RC:8 Capital adequacy analysis Regulatory framework New common regulations on supervisory requirements for credit institutions have percentage points higher than the capital requirement communicated by the been adopted by the EU. The purpose of the rules is in part to make institutions more ­Swedish FSA. The bank is also tasked with meeting any other regulatory capital resilient to new crises, and in part to raise confidence in the institutions’ ability to requirements. By means of a strong capital position and good risk management, manage new crises. The regulations include capital requirements, requirements on SBAB meets the supervisory rules adopted by the EU. capital quality, a non-risk-based metric (leverage ratio) and quantitative liquidity SBAB primarily recognises credit risk in accordance with the internal ratrequirements. On 20 May 2019, changes in Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 of the ings-based (IRB) approach, and other risk types in accordance with the stanEuropean Parliament and of the Council were published as a result of work on dardised approach. ­further important reforms being completed. The background to these changes was The SBAB Group has no securitised loans of its own and has not contributed to that the need for further risk mitigation measures to strengthen the resilience of the any other institution’s securitisation. ­European banking system had been identified. Note RC 9 contains a summary of the method used to assess the internal capital From 31 December 2018, a national risk-weight floor of 25% for residential requirement. mortgages to Swedish households within Pillar 1 is included following a decision by the Swedish FSA. The decision applies for two years. Under Article 458 of the CRR, Own funds the measure can then be extended for one year at a time. The change means the SBAB’s own funds comprise equity as well as additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital requirement is set as a requirement in Pillar 1. The credit institutions encomcapital consisting of subordinated loans. SBAB’s own funds amounted to SEK 24,282 passed by the measure are those authorised to use the IRB approach and which million (20,713) as per 31 December 2019. have exposures to Swedish residential mortgages. The branches of foreign credit Over the year, the CET1 capital was affected by the fact that net profit/loss for institutions in Sweden that are exposed to Swedish residential mortgages and which the period was added. The surplus has been verified by the company’s auditors, in apply the IRB approach for these may also be affected. accordance with Article 26, item 2, of the CRR. In September 2019, CET1 capital Banks that are considered systemic will be subject to additional capital requireincreased from SEK 3,000 million to SEK 5,000 million as a result of two issues of ments. SBAB is not subject to these requirements. AT1 instruments. New rules for the classification of leases, IFRS 16, were introduced on 1 January According to Article 35 of the CRR, the institution shall, except in the case of the 2019. These rules entail recognition of the right-of-use in a lease as a material items referred to in Article 33, not make adjustments to remove from own funds asset. For the consolidated situation, the calculated opening balance for this asset is unrealised gains or losses on assets or liabilities recognised at fair value. According around SEK 88 million and is given a risk-weight of 100%. The amount totalled to this Article, SEK 1,959 million (609) has been added to CET1 capital. SEK 86 million at 31 December 2019. According to Article 33, item 1, of the CRR, part of the fair-value reserves The Swedish FSA decided in 2018 to raise the countercyclical buffer for Swedish related to gains or losses on cash-flow hedges of financial instruments that are not exposures from 2.0% to 2.5% from September 2019, refer to the Risk exposure measured at fair value, including projected cash flows, is not to be included in own amounts and capital requirements table for the outcomes. The countercyclical funds. The CET1 capital has been adjusted for SEK –1,921 million (negative: 488) ­buffer for Norwegian exposures was raised to 2.5% at 31 December 2019 and for in cash-flow hedges. Danish exposures to 1.0% from 30 September 2019. Changes in fair value that depend on the institution’s own credit standing and The Swedish National Debt Office has set an individual minimum requirement for that are related to derivatives had a negative impact of SEK 19 million (negative: own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) for SBAB as a complement to the capital 65) on the CET1 capital, in accordance with Article 33, item 1b. requirements. The MREL metric measures the relationship between eligible liabiliWith reference to Articles 34 and 105 of the CRR, SEK 55 million (59) has been ties and total liabilities and own funds. The aim of eligible liabilities is to ensure that deducted due to the requirements for prudent valuation. the company can be recapitalised in the event of default. The MREL set by the A deduction of SEK 188 million (126) for intangible assets and a deduction of Swedish National Debt Office for SBAB for 2020 amounts to 5.35%. SBAB follows SEK 64 million (50) for net provisions were made in accordance with Article 36. up outcomes on a monthly basis and met the requirement with a healthy margin. ­Positive net provisions amounted to SEK 5 million (3) in accordance with Article 62. SBAB’s capital The consolidated situation SBAB is well capitalised, and to retain a strong capital position, SBAB’s Board of The table below lists the companies that are included in the consolidated situation Directors adopted a new capital policy. According to these new targets, under normal within the SBAB Group. There are no on-going or unforeseen material obstacles or conditions, SBAB’s CET1 capital ratio should be at least 0.6 percentage points legal barriers to a rapid transfer of funds from own funds other than what is stipuhigher than the CET1 capital requirement communicated by the Swedish FSA. In lated in the terms and conditions governing subordinated loans (see Note L 7). addition, under normal conditions, SBAB’s total capital ratio should be at least 0.6 COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATED SITUATION Corporate Consolidation Consolidation Registration Ownership method used method used Company Company ­Number share in the accounts for capital adequacy description SBAB Bank AB (publ) 556253-7513 Parent Company – – Institution AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation — SCBC) 556645-9755 100% Fully consolidated Acquisition method Institution COMPANIES NOT INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATED SITUATION Corporate Consolidation Consolidation Registration Ownership method used method used Company Company ­Number share in the accounts for capital adequacy description Booli Search Technologies AB 556733-0567 100% Fully consolidated Not consolidated IT company Subordinated loans Subordinated loans are subordinate to the Parent Company’s other liabilities, and Subordinated debt may be included in the calculation of Tier 1 capital if certain subordinated loans that are included in Tier 1 capital are subordinate to other subconditions are present according to the transitional regulations of the CRR and if ordinated loans. Please refer to the link under “Capital adequacy and risk managethe Swedish FSA has given its consent. SBAB received such consent for six subordiment” at www.sbab.se. for a specification of own funds and the complete terms and nated loans with a nominal value of SEK 5,000 million. These have been included in conditions for subordinated loans in accordance with Commission Implementing own funds as Tier 1 capital. Tier 2 capital amounted to SEK 3,447 million. No new Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. The complete terms and conditions for each subordinated loans have been taken that are recognised as Tier 2 capital. ­subordinated loan are specified in the same place. For further information on ­subordinated loans, also refer to Note L 7. 134 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES CAPITAL ADEQUACY 1) CONSOLIDATED SITUATION PARENT COMPANY SCBC SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 CET1 capital 15,830 14,263 9,530 6,398 16,168 15,250 Tier 1 capital 20,830 17,263 14,530 9,398 16,168 15,250 Total capital 24,282 20,713 17,977 12,845 16,173 15,253 Risk exposure amount 120,571 114,141 37,573 36,404 94,966 89,188 CET1 capital ratio, % 13.1 12.5 25.4 17.6 17.0 17.1 Excess 2) of CET1 capital 10,404 9,127 7,839 4,760 11,894 11,237 Tier 1 capital ratio, % 17.3 15.1 38.7 25.8 17.0 17.1 Excess2) of Tier 1 capital 13,596 10,415 12,276 7,214 10,470 9,899 Total capital ratio, % 20.1 18.1 47.8 35.3 17.0 17.1 Excess 2) of total capital 14,636 11,582 14,971 9,933 8,575 8,118 1) The risk exposure amount, the excess and capital ratios have been impacted by the risk-weight floor for residential mortgages. 2) Excess capital has been calculated based on minimum requirements (without buffer requirements) S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 135 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES OWN FUNDS CONSOLIDATED SITUATION SEK million 2019 2018 CET1 capital instruments: Instruments and reserves Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 1,958 1,958 Retained earnings 12,360 11,443 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses under the applicable accounting standards) 1,959 609 Additional Tier 1 instruments 3,500 1,500 Independently verified net profit for the year net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 1) 1,800 1,041 CET1 capital before regulatory adjustments 21,577 16,551 CET1 capital: Regulatory adjustments Additional value adjustments (negative amount) –55 –59 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative amount) –188 –126 Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash-flow hedges –1,921 –488 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts –64 –50 Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing –19 –65 Additional Tier 1 instruments in equity –3,500 –1,500 Total regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital – 5,747 –2,288 CET1 capital 15,830 14,263 Additional Tier 1 capital: Instruments Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 5,000 3,000 of which, classified as equity under applicable accounting standards 3,500 1,500 of which, classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards 1,500 1,500 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484(4) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase out from Additional Tier 1 capital – – Additional Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 5,000 3,000 Additional Tier 1 capital: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments to Additional Tier 1 capital – – Additional Tier 1 capital 5,000 3,000 Tier 1 capital (Tier 1 capital=CET1 + Additional Tier 1 capital) 20,830 17,263 Tier 2 capital: Instruments and provisions Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 3,447 3,447 Credit risk adjustments 5 3 Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments 3,452 3,450 Tier 2 capital: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments to Tier 2 capital – – Tier 2 capital 3,452 3,450 Total capital (Total capital=Tier 1 capital + Tier 2 capital) 24,282 20,713 Total risk exposure amount 120,571 114,141 1) The results have been verified by Deloitte AB pursuant to Article 26, Point 2a of the Capital Requirements Regulation. 136 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Cont. Own funds CONSOLIDATED SITUATION SEK million 2019 2018 Capital ratio and buffers CET1 capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 13.1 12.5 Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 17.3 15.1 Total capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 20.1 18.1 Institution-specific buffer requirements (CET1 capital requirement in accordance with Article 92(1)(a) plus the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer requirements, plus the systemic risk buffer, plus the systemically important institution buffers [G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer]) expressed as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount, % 9.5 9.0 of which, CET1 capital, minimum requirement, % 4.5 4.5 of which, capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.5 of which, countercyclical buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.0 of which, systemic risk buffer requirement, % – – of which, G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer, % – – CET1 capital available to meet buffers (as a share of risk-weighted exposure amounts, %) 8.6 8.0 Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2022) Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements – – Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) – – Current cap on T2 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements – – S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 137 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES At the start of 2019, SBAB’s Board decided to apply Article 3 of the Regulation (EU) which has resulted in PD declining in line with the favourable economic climate. As No. 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (CRR) for corporate a result, the bank has introduced a REA surcharge of SEK 792 million under Pillar 1 exposures to small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim is to compensate for the since 31 March 2019. current pro-cyclical effect that exists in the bank’s internal models for credit risk, RISK EXPOSURE AMOUNTS AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2019 2018 Risk exposure Capital Risk exposure Capital SEK million amount requirement amount requirement Credit risk recognised in accordance with IRB approach Exposures to corporates 13,415 1,073 12,128 970 Retail exposures 12,021 962 12,096 968 of which, exposures to SMEs 834 67 829 67 of which, retail exposures secured by immovable property 11,187 895 11,267 901 Total exposures recognised with the IRB approach 25,436 2,035 24,224 1,938 Credit risk recognised with the standardised approach Exposures to governments and central banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities or agencies 0 0 0 0 Exposures to multilateral development banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to institutions 1) 4,079 326 3,777 302 of which, derivatives according to CRR, Appendix 2 4,057 324 3,776 302 of which, repos 21 2 0 0 of which, other 1 0 1 0 Retail exposures 2,253 180 2,236 179 Exposures in default 7 1 10 1 Exposures in the form of covered bonds 3,674 294 3,593 287 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term credit rating 21 2 16 1 Equity exposures 1,266 101 1,116 89 Other items 218 18 227 18 Total exposures recognised with standardised approach 11,518 922 10,975 877 Market risk 462 37 999 80 of which, position risk – – – – of which, currency risk 462 37 999 80 Operational risk 4,854 388 4,339 347 of which, standardised approach 4,854 388 4,339 347 Credit valuation adjustment risk 2,396 192 2,885 231 Additional requirements under Article 458 of the CRR 75,113 6,009 70,719 5,658 Additional requirements under Article 3 of the CRR 792 63 – – Total risk exposure amount and minimum capital requirements 120,571 9,646 114,141 9,131 Capital requirements for capital conservation buffer 3,014 2,854 Capital requirements for countercyclical buffer 3,003 2,266 Total capital requirements 15,663 14,251 1) The risk exposure amount for counterparty risk according to the CRR, Article 92(3)(f), amounts to SEK 4,078 million (3,776). 138 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES AVERAGE RISK WEIGHT FOR CREDIT RISK RECOGNISED USING THE IRB APPROACH CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 2019 2018 Exposure Exposure before Risk Capital Average before Risk Capital Average credit Exposure ­exposure requirerisk credit Exposure ­exposure requirerisk SEK million risk hedge after CCF amount ment weight, % risk hedge after CCF amount ment weight, % Credit risk in lending portfolio recognised under the IRB approach Exposures to corporates 48,520 46,589 13,415 1,073 28.8 44,096 42,430 12,128 970 28.6 Retail exposures 380,344 348,534 12,021 962 3.4 354,124 331,258 12,096 968 3.7 of which, single-family dwellings and holiday homes 162,169 149,992 4,859 389 3.2 153,020 143,573 4,978 398 3.5 of which, tenant-owners’ rights 170,564 151,511 6,328 506 4.2 154,523 141,829 6,289 503 4.4 of which, tenant-owners’ associations 47,611 47,031 834 67 1.8 46,580 45,856 829 67 1.8 Total credit risk under the IRB approach 428,864 395,123 25,436 2,035 6.4 398,220 373,688 24,224 1,938 6.5 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 139 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES OWN FUNDS PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 CET1 capital instruments: Instruments and reserves Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 1,958 1,958 Retained earnings 4,324 4,993 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses under the applicable accounting standards) 237 222 Additional Tier 1 instruments 3,500 1,500 Independently verified net profit for the year net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 1) 3,263 –567 CET1 capital before regulatory adjustments 13,282 8,106 CET1 capital: Regulatory adjustments Additional value adjustments (negative amount) –76 – 76 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative amount) –24 – 25 Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash-flow hedges –91 – 31 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts –42 – 11 Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing –19 – 65 Additional Tier 1 instruments in equity –3,500 – 1,500 Total regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital –3,752 –1,708 CET1 capital 9,530 6,398 Additional Tier 1 capital: Instruments Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 5,000 3,000 of which, classified as equity under applicable accounting standards 3,500 1,500 of which, classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards 1,500 1,500 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484(4) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase out from Additional Tier 1 capital – – Additional Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 5,000 3,000 Additional Tier 1 capital: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments to Additional Tier 1 capital – – Additional Tier 1 capital 5,000 3,000 Tier 1 capital (Tier 1 capital=CET1 + Additional Tier 1 capital) 14,530 9,398 Tier 2 capital: Instruments and provisions Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 3,447 3,447 Credit risk adjustments – – Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments 3,447 3,447 Tier 2 capital: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments to Tier 2 capital – – Tier 2 capital 3,447 3,447 Total capital (Total capital=Tier 1 capital + Tier 2 capital) 17,977 12,845 Total risk exposure amount 37,573 36,404 140 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Cont. Own funds PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 Capital ratio and buffers CET1 capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 25.4 17.6 Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 38.7 25.8 Total capital (as a percentage of total risk-weighted exposure amount), % 47.8 35.3 Institution-specific buffer requirements (CET1 capital requirement in accordance with Article 92(1)(a) plus the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer requirements, plus the systemic risk buffer, plus the systemically important institution buffers [G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer]) expressed as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount, % 9.5 9.0 of which, CET1 capital, minimum requirement, % 4.5 4.5 of which, capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.5 of which, countercyclical buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.0 of which, systemic risk buffer requirement, % – – of which, G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer, % – – CET1 capital available to meet buffers (as a share of risk-weighted exposure amounts, %) 20.9 13.1 Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2022) Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements – – Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) – – Current cap on T2 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements – – 1) Net profit for the year was in part affected by an extra dividend of SEK 3,000 million from SCBC to SBAB pursuant to the resolution by the EGM as well as a reduction for Group contributions received of SEK 539 million, which will be settled in cash after the 2020 AGM. The results have been verified by Deloitte AB pursuant to Article 26, Point 2a of the Capital Requirements Regulation. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 141 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES RISK EXPOSURE AMOUNTS AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Risk exposure Capital Risk exposure Capital SEK million amount requirement amount requirement Credit risk recognised in accordance with IRB approach Exposures to corporates 7,475 598 7,087 567 Retail exposures 747 60 743 59 of which, exposures to SMEs 70 6 59 5 of which, retail exposures secured by immovable property 677 54 684 54 Total exposures recognised with the IRB approach 8,222 658 7,830 626 Credit risk recognised with the standardised approach Exposures to governments and central banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities or agencies 0 0 0 0 Exposures to multilateral development banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to institutions 1) 4,034 323 3,751 300 of which, derivatives according to CRR, Appendix 2 3,993 319 3,723 298 of which, repos – – – – of which, other 41 3 28 2 Retail exposures 2,253 180 2,236 179 Exposures in default 6 0 10 1 Exposures in the form of covered bonds 3,674 294 3,593 287 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term credit rating 21 2 16 1 Equity exposures 11,566 929 11,416 913 Other items 107 9 83 7 Total exposures recognised with standardised approach 21,661 1,733 21,105 1,688 Market risk 94 8 248 20 of which, position risk – – – – of which, currency risk 94 94 248 20 Operational risk 1,813 145 1,412 113 of which, standardised approach 1,813 145 1,412 113 Credit valuation adjustment risk 2,230 178 2,765 221 Additional requirements under Article 458 of the CRR 3,377 270 3,044 244 Additional requirements under Article 3 of the CRR 176 14 – – Total risk exposure amount and minimum capital requirements 37,573 3,006 36,404 2,912 Capital requirements for capital conservation buffer 939 910 Capital requirements for countercyclical buffer 935 722 Total capital requirements 4,880 4,544 1) The risk-weighted amount for counterparty risk according to the CRR, Article 92(3)(f), amounts to SEK 3,993 million (3,723). 142 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES AVERAGE RISK WEIGHT FOR CREDIT RISK RECOGNISED USING THE IRB APPROACH PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Exposure Exposure before Exposure Risk Capital Average before Risk Capital Average credit risk after ­exposure requirerisk credit risk Exposure ­exposure requirerisk SEK million hedge CCF amount ment weight, % hedge after CCF amount ment weight, % Credit risk in lending portfolio recognised under the IRB approach Exposures to corporates 21,955 20,103 7,475 598 37.2 21,332 19,765 7,087 567 35.9 Retail exposures 47,764 16,494 747 60 4.5 37,317 15,147 743 59 4.9 of which, single-family dwellings and holiday homes 17,644 5,470 247 20 4.5 14,659 5,214 253 20 4.9 of which, tenant-owners’ rights 27,366 8,312 430 34 5.2 20,248 7,554 430 34 5.7 of which, tenant-owners’ associations 2,754 2,712 70 6 2.6 2,410 2,379 59 5 2.5 Total credit risk under the IRB approach 69,719 36,597 8,222 658 22.5 58,649 34,912 7,830 626 22.4 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 143 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES RC:9 Internally assessed capital requirement Within the framework of Pillar 2, the Basel regulations impose the requirement that However, if the economic capital for risks included in Pillar 1 is less than the capital banks’ management and assessment of risks must be satisfactory to ensure that the requirements under Pillar 1 for a given type of risk, the capital requirements under banks can fulfil their obligations. To meet this requirement, the banks must have Pillar 1 are applied. The internally assessed capital requirement for the Group methods that enable them to continuously evaluate and uphold capital in an amounted to SEK 16,970 million (SEK 16,052 million at 31 December 2018). The amount, type and distribution sufficient to cover the risks to which they are or would internal capital requirement is assessed with the help of SBAB’s internal models for be exposed. This is known as the company’s internal capital adequacy assessment economic capital and is not fully compatible with the capital requirements published process, which is part of SBAB’s internal capital and liquidity adequacy assessment by the Swedish FSA. According to the Swedish FSA’s report “Own funds requireprocess (ICLAAP). At present, liquidity risk does not give rise to any actual capital ments for Swedish banks Q4 2019”, SBAB’s total capital requirement amounted to requirement for SBAB. Refer to Note RC 3 for more information about liquidity risk. SEK 17,912 million. The ICAAP aims to identify, evaluate and manage the risks to which SBAB is Finally, consideration is given to the risk associated with deteriorating macroecoexposed and ensure that the consolidated situation has sufficient own funds for its nomic conditions, which is illustrated in conjunction with stress tests. Taken together, selected risk profile. The ICAAP is revised annually to identify changes in the operatthe above comprise the capital that, in accordance with Basel 3, is required to meet ing environment and changed regulations and supervisory practices that continuall risks in the operations. Additional information on the internal capital requirement ously affect the bank’s performance. The amount of own funds required to manage can be found in the document “Capital Adequacy and Risk Management 2019,” the combined risk in the operations is based primarily on the calculation of SBAB’s which is published on www.sbab.se. For the Parent Company, the internally assessed economic capital. Economic capital is defined as the amount of capital needed to capital requirement amounted to SEK 6,286 million (5,899). ensure solvency over a one-year period. CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Internally assessed capital requirement Internally assessed capital requirement Incl. risk-weight floor, Incl. Incl. risk-weight floor, Incl. SEK million SEK million risk-weight floor, % SEK million risk-weight floor, % Credit risk & CVA risk 3,149 2.6 3,046 2.6 Market risk 37 0.0 80 0.1 Operational risk 388 0.3 347 0.3 Pillar 1 Risk-weight floor1) 6,009 5.0 5,658 5.0 Surcharge, corporate exposures 2) 63 0.1 – – Total Pillar 1 9,646 8.0 9,131 8.0 Credit risk – – – – Market risk 280 0.2 781 0.7 Operational risk – – – – Pillar 2 Concentration risk 951 0.8 968 0.8 Sovereign risk 65 0.1 52 0.1 Pension risk 11 0.0 – – Total Pillar 2 1,307 1.1 1,801 1.6 Capital conservation buffer 3,014 2.5 2,854 2.5 Capital planning buffer – – – – Buffers Countercyclical buffer 3,003 2.5 2,266 2.0 Total Buffers 6,017 5.0 5,120 4.5 Total 16,970 14.1 16,052 14.1 Total own funds 24,282 – 20,713 – 1) Pillar 1 risk-weight floor under Article 458 of the CRR. 2) Surcharge after decision by the Board pursuant to Article 3 of the CRR. 144 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES IC Income and expenses pp. 145–151 IC:1 Net interest income IC:3 Net result of financial transactions GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income Gains/losses on interestbearing financial instruments Lending to credit institutions 38 –12 1,274 981 Interest-bearing securities –49 –134 –49 –134 Lending to the public 1) 5,758 5,192 531 496 Change in value of hedged items Interest-bearing securities 440 373 440 373 in hedge accounting –590 53 249 235 Derivatives –368 –629 –283 –451 R  ealised gain/loss from financial liabilities –132 –162 –3 –15 Total interest income 5,868 4,924 1,962 1,399 Derivatives in hedge accounting 615 –39 –188 –231 of which, interest income from financial assets that is not Other derivatives 111 165 1 95 measured at FVTPL 6,177 5,450 2,185 1,747 Loan receivables 70 62 1 15 Interest expense Currency translation effects 1 –10 0 –10 Liabilities to credit institutions –1 33 –1 20 Total 26 –65 11 –45 Deposits from the public –648 –621 –648 –621 SBAB uses derivatives to manage interest-rate and currency risk in the Group’s Debt securities issued –2,543 –2,477 –557 –591 assets and liabilities. Derivatives are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. Subordinated debt –116 –102 –117 –102 SBAB’s policies for risk management and hedge accounting entail variations in results as a consequence of changed market interest rates, which can arise between Derivatives 1,202 1,954 113 344 periods for individual items in the above presentation. These are generally offset by Other2) –45 –50 –43 –50 variations in the results in other items. Variations in results that are not neutralised through risk management and hedge accounting are commented in the administraResolution fee –244 –299 –69 –106 tion report. Total interest expense –2,395 –1,562 –1,322 –1,106 of which, interest expense from IC:4 Other operating income financial liabilities that is not measured at FVTPL –3,597 –3,517 –1,436 –1,387 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Net interest income 3,473 3,362 640 293 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 1) Includes interest income from doubtful receivables of SEK 2 million (3). 2) The item other includes interest expense for lease liabilities pertaining to property leases Administrative services on of SEK 1 million (–). behalf of subsidiary – – 1,043 895 Other operating income1) 36 32 0 1 IC:2 Commission Total 36 32 1,043 896 1) Other operating income primarily includes revenue from Booli. GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 IC:5 Personnel costs Commission income Commission on lending1) 39 38 23 25 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Other commissions2) 45 52 66 75 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total 84 90 89 100 Salaries and other remuneration –382 –328 –372 –319 Pension costs –64 –53 –68 –57 Commission expense Social security expenses –138 –119 –136 –116 Commission on securities –68 –56 –28 –22 Other personnel costs –46 –43 –44 –42 Other commissions –30 –83 –8 –3 Total –630 –543 –620 –534 Total –98 –139 –36 –25 Net commission –14 –49 53 75 1)Commission on lending is primarily recognised when the service is provided, in other words at a specific date. 2) Other commissions are mainly recognised when these services are rendered, in other words, in a straight line over time. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 14 5 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATION GENDER DISTRIBUTION AMONG SENIOR EXECUTIVES GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 CEO –6 –5 –6 –5 Board of Directors Senior executives who report Women 6 7 4 5 directly to the CEO –20 –20 –20 –20 Men 13 12 4 5 Other employees –356 –303 –346 –294 Total 19 19 8 10 Total salaries and other remuneration –382 –328 –372 –319 Executive Management Women 3 5 3 5 Salaries and other remuneration for employees of the subsidiary Booli Search ­Technologies AB are included in the Group’s expenses in the Other employees item. Men 6 4 5 4 Board Members who are employed by the Parent Company receive remuneration Total 9 9 8 9 and pension benefits as a result of their employment. No additional remuneration or pension benefits are paid for Board assignments. No remuneration was paid to the CEO of the subsidiary Swedish Covered Bond Corporation (SCBC). The number of The Group includes the Board Members of the subsidiaries: Swedish Covered Bond senior executives who reported directly to the CEO as per the end of the year was 9 (8). Corporation (SCBC) and Booli Search Technologies AB. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES FORM OF EMPLOYMENT GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Women 342 305 329 293 Total number of employees at year end 695 602 658 574 Men 314 272 293 256 of whom, women, % 52.3 52.0 53.1 52.0 Average number of employees 656 577 622 549 of whom, managers, % 11.9 12.5 12.0 12.0 of managers, women, % 43.2 44.0 42.9 44.0 SICKNESS ABSENCE, % of whom, temporary GROUP PARENT COMPANY employees, % 5.0 0.8 5.0 1.0 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 of whom, part-time employees, % 0.3 0.9 0.3 0.9 Total sickness absence 3.1 4.9 3.1 3.5 Women 1.9 3.3 2.0 2.4 PERSONNEL TURNOVER Men 1.2 1.7 1.1 1.2 GROUP PARENT COMPANY 29 or younger 2.6 4.4 2.6 3.1 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 30–49 3.2 4.9 3.3 3.6 50 or older 3.3 3.8 3.3 3.8 Number of permanent employees who terminated Proportion of long-term sickness employment during the year 78 62 76 61 absence compared to total sickness (absence that exceeded of whom, women, % 53.0 48.4 53.0 49.2 60 days) 25.1 26.9 25.5 37.3 of whom, 29 or younger, % 19.2 32.3 18.4 32.8 of whom, 30–49, % 62.8 59.7 63.2 60.7 of whom, 50 or older, % 18.0 6.5 18.4 6.6 Salary, remuneration and pension costs for the CEO No company car or non-cash benefits were provided to the CEO. The company pays for a defined-contribution pension insurance plan corresponding to 30% of the CEO’s pensionable salary, although not longer than until age 65. Salaries and other remuneration Fringe benefits (subsidised interest rate, company car and sickness benefit) to senior executives who report directly to the CEO amounted to SEK 0.1 million (0.1). Refer to the following table for details of the salary and other remuneration paid to senior executives. 14 6 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATION AND PENSIONS TO THE CEO AND OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES WHO REPORT DIRECTLY TO THE CEO1) PARENT COMPANY 2019 Salary and other Pension SEK million Period1) remuneration cost Severance pay Klas Danielsson, CEO 1 January–31 December 2019 5.5 1.6 – Sara Davidgård, Head of Business Specialists and acting Head of Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations 1 January–31 December 2019 2.2 0.6 – Mikael Inglander, CFO and acting Head of Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations 1 January–31 December 2019 2.9 0.7 – Peter Svensén, CRO 1 January–27 October 2019 1.8 0.5 – Carina Eriksson, Head of HR 1 January–31 December 2019 1.9 0.6 – Klas Ljungkvist, CIO and acting CDSO 1 January–31 December 2019 2.4 0.72) – Malin Pellborn, Head of Sustainability, Marketing & Communication 1 January–18 September 2019 1.5 0.62) 3.4 Andras Valko, CDSO 14 January–31 December 2019 1.5 0.4 – Kristina Frid, Head of Customer Service 1 January–31 December 2019 1.8 0.5 – Robin Silfverhielm, CXO and acting Head of Sustainability, Marketing & Communication 14 January–31 December 2019 1.9 0.6 – Sofia Blomgren, Chief Compliance Officer 1 January–31 December 2019 1.2 0.3 – Sari Zander, Head of Internal Audit 16 May–31 December 2019 1.0 0.2 – Total remuneration to members of Group management 1 January–31 December 2019 25.6 7.3 3.4 1) In those periods during the year without a permanent Head of Internal Audit and a CRO, SBAB has engaged consultants as an interim solution. 2) Of the pension cost for Klas Ljungkvist, SEK 0.1 million pertains to 2018, and of the pension cost for Malin Pellborn, SEK 0.2 million pertains to 2018 and part of 2017. These were included in expenses in 2019. PARENT COMPANY 2018 Salary and other Pension SEK million Period remuneration cost Severance pay Klas Danielsson, CEO 1 January–31 December 2018 5.1 1.5 – Sara Davidgård, Head of Business Specialists and acting Head of Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations 1 January–31 December 2018 2.1 0.4 – Mikael Inglander, CFO 1 January–31 December 2018 2.8 0.7 – Peter Svensén, CRO 1 January–31 December 2018 2.1 0.6 – Carina Eriksson, Head of HR 1 January–31 December 2018 1.9 0.6 – Klas Ljungkvist, CIO and acting CDSO 1 January–31 December 2018 2.3 0.4 – Malin Pellborn, Head of Sustainability, Marketing & Communication 1 January–31 December 2018 1.9 0.4 – Kristina Frid, Head of Customer Service 1 May–31 December 2018 1.1 0.2 – Tim Pettersson, Head of Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations 1 January–18 November 2018 1.5 0.4 – Daniel Ljungel, Head of Partnerships & Business Development 1 January–30 April 2018 0.5 0.2 – Charlotta Selin, acting CXO 1 May–31 December 2018 1.0 0.2 – Ulrika Wilbourn, acting COO 1 January–30 April 2018 0.5 0.1 – Sofia Blomgren, Chief Compliance Officer 9 April–31 December 2018 0.9 0.2 – Irene Axelsson, Chief Compliance Officer 1 January–8 April 2018 0.3 0.1 – Michael Sparreskog, Head of Internal Audit 1 January–31 December 2018 1.4 0.3 – Total remuneration to members of Group management 1 January–31 December 2018 25.4 6.3 – Each year, the Board decides on SBAB’s remuneration policy and the identification policy are published on www.sbab.se. The composition and mandates of the of employees with risk profiles, in accordance with the Swedish FSA’s regulations ­Remuneration Committee are described on page 86. regarding remuneration structures in credit institutions, investment firms and fund Identifying employees with a risk profile is based on the EBA’s technical management companies licensed to conduct discretionary portfolio management ­standards. Salaries and other remuneration to employees whose duties materially (FFFS 2011:1). Risk analyses for SBAB’s remuneration system and remuneration impact SBAB’s risk profile, 61 employees (58), excluding senior executives who report directly to the CEO, amounted to SEK 44.4 million (43.1). S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 147 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD PARENT COMPANY 2019 Risk and Audit and Board of Credit Capital ­Compliance Remuneration SEK thousand Period Directors Committee Committee ­Committee committee Bo Magnusson, Chairman of the Board1) 1 January–17 May 2019 176 – – 15 11 Jan Sinclair, Board Member 1 January–16 May 2019 83 15 14 – – Jan Sinclair, Chairman 2) 17 May–31 December 2019 296 23 22 13 – Carl-Henrik Borg, Board Member 1 January–30 April 2019 73 – – – – Eva Gidlöf, Board Member 1 January–30 April 2019 73 – 11 – – Jane Lundgren-Ericsson, Board member 3) 1 January–31 December 2019 226 44 34 30 – Karin Moberg, Board Member 1 January–4 September 2019 152 – – 36 – Lars Börjesson, Board Member 1 January–31 December 2019 226 34 – – 16 Inga-Lill Carlberg, Board Member 29 April–31 December 2019 155 – – – 17 Synnöve Trygg, Board Member 29 April–31 December 2019 155 – 26 13 – Daniel Kristiansson, Board Member 4) 1 January–31 December 2019 – – – – – Kristina Ljung, Employee Representative 4) 1 January–5 May 2019 – – – – – Anders Heder, Employee representative 4) 6 May–31 December 2019 – – – – – Margareta Naumberg, Employee Representative 4) 1 January–31 December 2019 – – – – – Total Fees & Remuneration 2019 1,615 116 107 107 44 PARENT COMPANY 2018 Risk and Audit and Board of Credit Capital ­Compliance Remuneration SEK thousand Period Directors Committee C ­ ommittee ­Committee committee Bo Magnusson, Chairman of the Board 1 January–31 December 2018 458 – 4 40 30 Carl-Henrik Borg, Board Member 1 January–31 December 2018 218 – – – – Eva Gidlöf, Board Member 1 January–31 December 2018 218 – 32 – – Jane Lundgren-Ericsson, Board Member 1 January–31 December 2018 218 36 32 – – Jan Sinclair, Board Member 15 February–31 December 2018 191 31 32 – – Karin Moberg, Board Member 1 January–31 December 2018 218 – – 50 – Lars Börjesson, Board Member 1 January–31 December 2018 218 32 – – – Daniel Kristiansson, Board Member 1 January–31 December 2018 – – – – – Kristina Ljung, Employee Representative 1 January–31 December 2018 – – – – – Johan Eriksson, Employee Representative 1 January–21 March 2018 – – – – – Margareta Naumberg, Employee Representative 1 January–31 December 2018 – – – – – Total Fees & Remuneration 2018 1,739 99 100 90 30 1) Bo Magnusson also received Board fees from SCBC of SEK 68 thousand (180). 2) Jan Sinclair also received Board fees from SCBC of SEK 112 thousand (0). 3) Jane Lundgren-Ericsson also received Board fees from SCBC of SEK 130 thousand (130). 4) No Board fees are payable to Board members employed at the Government Offices of Sweden or who are employee representatives. No Board fees are payable to the Board members of SBAB’s subsidiary Booli. 14 8 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Pensions Employees recruited to SBAB from 1 February 2013 are covered by the new collective IC:6 Other expenses pension plan BTP1, which is a defined-contribution plan. The plan encompasses disability and survivors’ pensions, as well as provisions for retirement pensions. In BTP1, GROUP PARENT COMPANY employees have a high degree of self-determination in how premiums are invested. Employees recruited to SBAB before 1 February 2013 are covered by the BTP2 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 collective pension plan, which is a defined-benefit plan. BTP2 entails that the IT expenses –266 –245 –353 –309 employee is guaranteed a lifelong pension corresponding to a specified percentage of the employee’s final salary and mainly comprises retirement pension, disability Rent 1) –13 –33 –36 –30 pension, survivors’ pension, supplementary pension (BTPK) and, where applicable, Other costs for premises –7 –7 –7 –7 family pension. The levels of remuneration vary for salaries within different income base amounts. For salaries over 30 income base amounts, no pension is payable Other administrative expenses –105 –98 –100 –95 under BTP2. Employees who earn more than ten income base amounts are provided the possibility of selecting an alternative investment for part of the premium. Marketing –66 –67 –65 –65 BTP2 is a collective defined-benefit employer plan secured through insurance Other operating expenses –29 –24 –18 –19 with the insurance company SPP and comprise several employers. SPP is responsible for investing the pension capital of the BTP2 plan. The aim of the investment stratTotal –486 –474 –579 –525 egy is to obtain a high and consistent return while ensuring the investors’ guaran1) The new standard IFRS 16 has been applied from 1 January 2019. teed increase in value. SBAB’s costs for its defined-benefit pensions amounted to SEK 22.7 million Development expenditure amounted to SEK 263 million (185), of which SEK 104 (22.1), excluding payroll tax. SBAB’s costs for its defined-contribution pensions million (75) pertained to internally produced intangible Group assets. Most of the amounted to SEK 35.4 million (28.4), excluding payroll tax. In 2020, pension contridevelopment work is pursued in project form and includes the budgets of entire projbutions for defined-benefit plans are expected to total SEK 24.7 million. Further ects, including such expenses as planning, analysis, specification of requirements, information is provided in Note L 6. programming, implementation and quality testing, etc. Guidelines adopted by the AGM for remuneration and other employment terms and conditions for senior executives The AGM’s principles for remuneration and other employment terms and conditions FEES AND EXPENSES TO THE ELECTED AUDITORS for senior executives, which were adopted by the 2019 AGM, state that remuneration and terms and conditions are to be reasonable and well-considered. With GROUP PARENT COMPANY regard to remuneration and other terms and conditions of employment, SBAB will SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 continue to apply the principles set out in “The state’s ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned enterprises 2017.” Audit assignment –3.4 –3.0 –2.0 –2.3 This remuneration should be competitive, with a set ceiling and appropriate for its purpose, as well as contributing to high ethical standards and a good corporate Audit activities other than audit culture. Remuneration should not correspond to a leading salary level in relation to assignment –1.9 –2.0 –1.3 –1.0 comparable companies but be characterised by moderation. This is also to provide Total –5.3 –5.0 –3.3 –3.3 guidance for the total amount of remuneration to other employees. Variable salary is not paid to senior executives. These guidelines were not amended in 2019. The AGM on 29 April 2019 appointed Deloitte as SBAB’s auditors. The audit assignOther terms and conditions for the CEO and senior executives ment includes examination of the annual report, the accounting records and the As regards pension conditions, notice periods and severance pay for senior execuadministration by the Board and CEO. The audit assignment also includes other tives, SBAB observes the principles stated in “The state’s ownership policy and assistance resulting from such examination. guidelines for state-owned enterprises 2017.” Audit tasks in addition to the audit assignment pertain to the examination of The company pays for a defined-contribution pension insurance corresponding interim reports/year-end report and such other duties that may only be performed to 30% of the CEO’s pensionable salary, although not longer than until age 65. by the signing-off auditor, such as the preparation of various types of certificates. For other managers who report directly to the CEO, the company pays a defined–contribution pension premium corresponding to 30% of pensionable salary. There are no other pension agreements that deviate from the general rules of collective agreements in the banking area. Agreements on severance pay The CEO and SBAB are subject to a mutual notice period of six months. If the company gives notice, the company must, in addition to salary and pension during the notice period, pay severance pay corresponding to 18 months’ salary. Deductions will be made from the remuneration should new employment or income from another activity be received during the two-year period. For other members of Executive Management, agreements have been concluded regarding severance pay in case of termination by the company. In addition to salary and pension during the notice period, the company will pay severance pay corresponding to 12 months’ salary. Deductions will be made from the remuneration should new employment or income from another activity be received during the 12-month period. Loans to senior executives Loans to senior executives are presented in Note G 2. Incentive programme SBAB has no incentive programme. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 149 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES IC:7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PPE and intangible assets GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Property, plant and equipment Depreciation, computer hardware –5 –4 –5 –4 Depreciation, leases –28 – – – Depreciation, other equipment –7 –2 –7 –2 Disposals/divestments 1 0 1 0 Intangible assets Amortisation, acquired software –6 –5 –6 –5 Amortisation, internally developed part of software –25 –20 – – Amortisation of trademarks –1 –1 – – Impairment, internally developed part of software – – – – Total –71 –32 –17 –11 IC:8 Net credit losses GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lending to the public Confirmed credit losses –14 –11 –13 –10 Recoveries of previously confirmed credit losses 3 2 3 3 Change in provision for the year — credit stage 1 –3 1 0 0 Change in provision for the year — credit stage 2 –1 –5 –2 0 Change in provision for the year — credit stage 3 3 25 4 44 Guarantees 1) –8 –1 0 0 Total –20 11 –8 37 Loan commitments 2) Change in provision for the year — credit stage 1 3 –2 3 –2 Change in provision for the year — credit stage 2 –9 2 –9 2 Change in provision for the year — credit stage 3 0 0 0 0 Total –6 0 –6 0 Total –26 11 –14 37 1) The item includes guarantees for loan commitments. 2) Credit provisions for loan commitments are included in the “Provisions” item in the balance sheet. 15 0 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES IC:9 Operating segments Operating segments are reported in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, includes loans for single-family homes, holiday homes and tenant-owned apartwhich means that the segment information is presented in a manner that correments, as well as all retail deposits. Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associasponds to that applied internally for monitoring and control purposes. The Group tions mainly include lending to multifamily dwellings as well as commercial properhas identified the CEO as the chief operating decision maker and the internal ties. The item Net result of financial transactions measured at fair value, which reporting used by the CEO to monitor and make decisions regarding the allocation derives from treasury operations, has not been distributed and is included in Other. of resources as the basis for the information to be presented.The Retail Market The expenses are allocated to the business areas using distribution quotas. INCOME STATEMENT BY SEGMENT GROUP 2019 2018 Reconciliation against Reconciliation against Follow-up of the statutory income Follow-up of the statutory income operations statement operations statement Corporate Corporate ­Clients & Adminis ­Clients & Adminis Tenant-­ trative Tenant-­ trative Owners’ consulIFRS 16 Statutory Owners’ consulIFRS 16 Statutory SEK million Retail A­ ssociations Other Total tants Leases profit ­ ssociations Other Retail A Total tants Leases profit Net interest income 2,677 796 – 3,473 – – 3,473 2,594 768 – 3,362 – – 3,362 Commission income 56 28 – 84 – – 84 64 26 – 90 – – 90 Commission expense –78 –20 – –98 – – –98 –122 –17 – –139 – – –139 Net result of financial transactions 0 23 3 26 – – 26 0 23 –88 –65 – – –65 Other operating income 36 0 0 36 – – 36 32 0 0 32 – – 32 Total operating income 2,691 827 3 3,521 – – 3,521 2,568 800 –88 3,280 – – 3,280 Salaries and remuneration –308 –74 – –382 – – –382 –261 –68 – –329 – – –329 Other personnel costs –213 –56 0 –269 21 – –248 –185 –51 – –236 22 – –214 Other expenses –403 –88 –1 –492 –21 27 –485 –373 –76 –3 –452 –22 – –474 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PPE and intangible assets –33 –6 –5 –44 – –27 –71 –28 –4 – –32 – – –32 Net credit losses –16 –10 – –26 – – –26 –10 21 – 11 – – 11 Impairment of financial assets, net 0 0 – 0 – – 0 –1 – – –1 – – –1 Operating profit/loss 1,718 593 –3 2,308 0 0 2,308 1,710 622 –91 2,241 0 – 2,241 Tax –388 –133 1 –520 – – –520 –393 –143 21 –515 – – –515 Profit/loss after standardised tax 1,330 460 –2 1,788 0 0 1,788 1,317 479 –70 1,726 0 – 1,726 Return on equity, % 11.8 11.6 11.7 11.7 12.6 11.7 12.1 12.1 In relation to the statutory income statement, an expense of SEK 21 million The return on equity is calculated as earnings after tax in relation to average equity, (expense: 22) was transferred between the rows “Other personnel costs” and after adjustment for additional Tier 1 instruments and value changes in financial “Other expenses.” The cost refers to administrative consultants, which pertain to assets recognised in equity. “Other personnel costs” in the internal monitoring. The Group has no single customer that accounts for more than 10% of its total income. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 151 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES TX Tax p. 152 TX:1 Tax TX:2 Deferred tax GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax –502 –517 –258 –73 Deferred tax assets (+)/tax liabilities (-) for temporary Deferred tax on changes in differences in: temporary differences –18 2 4 10 Stock of financial instruments –55 –64 –40 –55 Total –520 –515 –254 –63 Hedging instruments –523 –133 –25 –9 The effective tax rate differs Intangible assets –45 –28 – – from the nominal tax rate in Sweden as below Pension provision 37 28 – – Loss carry-forwards 0 1 – – Profit before tax 2,308 2,241 4,056 187 Other 7 2 3 2 Nominal tax rate in Sweden 21.4% (22.0) –494 –493 –868 –41 Total –579 –194 –62 –62 Recalculation of deferred tax regarding changed tax rate – 2 – 0 Change in deferred tax Tax-free dividends from Deferred tax in the income subsidiaries – – 642 – statement –18 2 4 10 Tax pertaining to non-taxable Deferred tax attributable to items income and non-deductible costs –26 –24 –26 –22 recognised directly against other comprehensive income –367 –113 –4 –16 Tax for prior years and other – – –2 – Total –385 –111 0 –6 Total tax 520 –515 –254 –63 Deferred tax distributed by expected maturity date, carrying Effective tax rate, % 22.5 23.0 6.3% 33.8 amount More than 1 year –579 –194 –62 –62 Total –579 –194 –62 –62 Temporary differences are expected to be reported in taxation within the coming year, where the decided tax rate is 21.4% A Assets pp. 152–156 A:1 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. Of the Parent Company’s lending to credit institutions, SEK 102,180 million (90,414) relates to receivables from the wholly owned subsidiary, AB Sveriges GROUP PARENT COMPANY Säkerställda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation — SCBC). SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 These receivables are subordinated, which means that payment is received only after other creditors of the subsidiary have been paid. Swedish state 14,627 19,430 14,627 19,430 Of the total receivables, SEK 6,000 million comprises an internal Group debt instrument (senior non-preferred notes) that was acquired by the Parent Company Foreign states 1,259 1,474 1,259 1,474 SBAB Bank AB (publ) in December 2019 from the subsidiary SCBC for the purpose Total 15,886 20,904 15,886 20,904 of meeting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) announced by the Swedish National Debt Office in SCBC. Interest-bearing securities that SBAB purchases with an obligation to sell at a predetermined price are not recognised in the balance sheet, while the purchase A:2 Lending to credit institutions price paid is recognised in the balance sheet under Lending to credit institutions. The securities are regarded as collateral received and can be pledged or sold by SBAB. In the event that the counterparty is unable to meet its repurchase obligation, GROUP PARENT COMPANY SBAB is entitled to keep the security. The fair value of collateral received in the Group was SEK 1 million (–), of which no collateral was pledged or sold. SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lending in SEK 92 3,037 102,270 93,451 Lending in foreign currency 325 –190 326 –189 Total 417 2,847 102,596 93,262 of which, repos 0 – – – 152 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES A:3 Lending to the public Bonds and other A:4 interest-bearing securities GROUP PARENT COMPANY DISTRIBUTION OF HOLDINGS BY ISSUER, ETC. SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Opening balance 364,215 335,168 24,845 22,914 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 New lending for the year 75,514 74,264 75,514 74,264 Transferred to/from Group Listed securities companies – – –60,702 –58,992 Issued by public bodies Amortisation, redemption –55,907 –45,227 –14,776 –13,376 Sovereigns, supranationals Confirmed losses –14 –11 –13 –10 and agencies 1,900 2,431 1,900 2,431 Change in provision for expected Other public issuers 14,808 11,253 14,808 11,253 credit losses1) –1 21 2 45 Issued by other borrowers Closing balance 383,807 364,215 24,871 24,845 Swedish mortgage institutions 32,629 31,339 32,629 31,339 1) For more information, please refer to Note IC 8. Other foreign issuers 3,887 4,321 3,887 4,321 DISTRIBUTION OF LENDING, INCLUDING PROVISIONS Other foreign issuers (with government guarantee) 2,507 1,601 2,507 1,601 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Total listed securities 55,731 50,945 55,731 50,945 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lending, Residential mortgages 291,622 276,734 4,003 4,191 Lending, Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations 89,898 82,287 18,581 18,460 Lending, Consumer loans 2,287 2,194 2,287 2,194 Total 383,807 364,215 24,871 24,845 LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BY CREDIT STAGE — COMPARED WITH OPENING BALANCE GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Credit stage 1 Gross lending 362,317 341,390 23,059 21,556 Provision –29 –26 –2 –2 Total 362,288 341,364 23,057 21,554 Credit stage 2 Gross lending 21,341 22,689 1,801 3,264 Provision –74 –73 –10 –9 Total 21,267 22,616 1,791 3,255 Credit stage 3 Gross lending 281 267 30 47 Provision –29 –32 –7 –11 Total 251 235 23 36 Total gross lending 383,939 364,346 24,890 24,867 Total provisions –132 –131 –19 –22 Total 383,807 364,215 24,871 24,845 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 153 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES A:5 Derivatives GROUP PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured at fair at fair Nominal at fair at fair Nominal at fair at fair Nominal at fair at fair Nominal SEK million value value value value value value value value value value value value Derivatives in fair-value hedging Interest-rate-related 2,622 792 285,575 1,816 574 228,361 309 492 73,950 424 313 66,364 Currency-related 11 – 547 11 – 547 – – – – – – Total 2,633 792 286,122 1,827 574 228,908 309 492 73,950 424 313 66,364 Derivatives in cash-flow hedges Interest-rate-related 2,925 – 104,318 990 8 96,941 183 0 16,210 75 8 15,858 Currency-related 7,157 227 101,300 5,340 345 96,267 1,216 64 16,763 1,017 22 17,068 Total 10,082 227 205,618 6,330 353 193,208 1,399 64 32,973 1,092 30 32,926 Other derivatives Interest-rate-related 243 363 23,915 84 276 11,711 5,422 5,578 638,471 2,534 2,775 497,286 Currency-related 129 6 8,257 72 136 7,572 6,224 6,186 177,684 4,712 4,846 166,321 Total 372 369 32,172 156 412 19,283 11,646 11,764 816,155 7,246 7,621 663,607 Currency interest-rate swaps are classified as currency-related. DERIVATIVES ALLOCATED BY REMAINING MATURITY, CARRYING AMOUNTS GROUP PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal SEK million Fair value value Fair value value Fair value value Fair value value Maximum 3 months –4 16,591 –1 26,424 –1 16,591 –34 40,724 3–12 months 1,042 72,094 74 39,390 133 71,999 11 69,365 1–5 years 6,277 322,044 4,766 261,763 997 321,497 884 433,290 Longer than five years 4,384 113,183 2,135 113,822 –95 112,182 –63 219,518 Total 11,699 523,912 6,974 441,399 1,034 522,269 798 762,897 15 4 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES A:6 Shares and participations in Group companies PARENT COMPANY 2019 Corporate Shareholder’s ­Registration ­contributions Number of Share of Carrying SEK million ­Number Cost paid shares equity, % amount Swedish credit institutions AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ), Solna 556645-9755 10,300 – 500,000 100 10,300 Other companies Booli SearchTechnologies AB, Stockholm 556733-0567 89 12 329,540 100 101 2018 Corporate Shareholder’s Registration contributions Number of Share of Carrying SEK million Number Cost paid shares equity, % amount Swedish credit institutions AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ), Solna 556645-9755 10,300 – 500,000 100 10,300 Other companies Booli SearchTechnologies AB, Stockholm 556733-0567 86 3 329,540 100 89 On 14 January 2016, SBAB acquired 70.92% of the shares in Booli Search Technologies AB. On 29 November 2018, SBAB acquired the remaining shares outstanding in Booli, and now owns 100%. For more information, please refer to Note G 1, “­Consolidated financial statements”. A:7 Intangible assets GROUP 2019 2018 SEK million Goodwill Trademarks Software Total Goodwill Trademarks Software Total Opening balance, cost 75 3 255 333 75 3 174 252 Acquisitions during the year – – 109 109 – – 81 81 Divestments and disposals during the year – – – – – – – – Closing balance, cost 75 3 364 442 75 3 255 333 Opening balance, amortisation – –2 –94 –96 – –1 –69 –70 Amortisation for the year according to plan – –1 –31 –32 – –1 –25 –26 Divestments and disposals during the year – – – – – – – – Closing balance, accumulated amortisation – –3 –125 –128 – –2 –94 –96 Opening balance, impairment – – –3 –3 – – –3 –3 Impairment for the year – – – – – – – – Divestments and disposals during the year – – – – – – – – Closing balance, accumulated impairment – – –3 –3 – – –3 –3 Net carrying amount 75 0 236 311 75 1 158 234 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 155 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 SEK million Goodwill Trademarks Software Total Goodwill Trademarks Software Total Opening balance, cost – – 58 58 – – 53 53 Acquisitions during the year – – 4 4 – – 5 5 Divestments and disposals during the year – – – – – – – – Closing balance, cost – – 62 62 – – 58 58 Opening balance, amortisation – – –32 –32 – – –27 –27 Amortisation for the year according to plan – – –6 –6 – – –5 –5 Divestments and disposals during the year – – – – – – – – Closing balance, accumulated amortisation – – –38 –38 – – –32 –32 Net carrying amount – – 24 24 – – 26 26 Goodwill, trademarks and software from the acquisition of the subsidiary Booli of 12% (12) after tax, corresponding to a rate of 14% (14) before tax. The first five Search Technologies AB. Other software pertains to internally produced intangible years for estimated future cash flows are based on forecasts of increased volumes assets, which are reported in the consolidated financial statements. Intangible and cost savings. Thereafter, the assumption is zero growth or cost savings. In the assets are subject to impairment testing on an annual basis. When impairment testyear’s impairment testing, there was a comfortable margin between the value in use ing, the value in use is calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows with a and the carrying amount for goodwill. The most significant variables for the calculadiscounting factor that takes into account risk-free interest and the risks associated tion comprised the assumption of increased future lending volumes as well as the with the specific asset. discount rate. No reasonable change in these assumptions would impact the carryThe year’s impairment testing of goodwill is based on expected future synergies ing amount for goodwill. in the form of increased lending volumes and cost savings as well as a discount rate A:8 Property, plant and equipment GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Equipment Leases Total Equipment Total Equipment Total Equipment Total Opening balance, cost 57 104 161 47 47 56 56 47 47 Acquisitions during the year 39 22 61 10 10 38 38 9 9 Divestments during the year –4 – –4 0 0 –4 –4 0 0 Disposals during the year – – – – 0 – – – – Closing balance, cost 92 126 218 57 57 90 90 56 56 Opening balance, depreciation –41 – –41 –35 –35 –41 –41 –35 –35 Depreciation for the year according to plan –11 –28 –39 –6 –6 –11 –11 –6 –6 Divestments during the year 1 – 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 Disposals during the year – – – – 0 – – – – Accumulated depreciation according to plan 51 –28 –79 –41 –41 –51 –51 –41 –41 Net carrying amount 41 98 139 16 16 39 39 15 15 A:9 Other assets A:10 Prepaid expenses and accrued income GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Tax assets 15 – – 13 Prepaid expenses 57 54 57 48 Interest receivables 30 49 8 14 Accrued interest income 451 615 564 676 Group contributions received – – 539 – Accrued guarantees 6 14 6 14 Other 11 24 9 20 Other accrued income 195 26 113 2 Total 56 73 556 47 Total 529 709 627 740 Other assets distributed by Prepaid expenses and accrued remaining maturity, carrying income distributed by remaining amount maturity, carrying amount Maximum 1 year 56 73 556 47 Maximum 1 year 525 700 623 731 Total 56 73 556 47 More than 1 year 4 9 4 9 Total 529 709 627 740 15 6 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES L Liabilities pp. 157–159 The bond loan conditions in SBAB’s long-term funding programme include a posL:1 Liabilities to credit institutions sibility for the bondholder to demand premature redemption of the holder’s bonds issued in such loan programmes if the Swedish state ceases to own the majority of GROUP PARENT COMPANY the shares in SBAB and the Swedish state, before such change in ownership, has not taken steps to guarantee SBAB’s commitments ensuing from the bond loan or SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 the bondholders have accepted this in such a way as is described in the current terms and conditions. However, subordinated loans and additional Tier 1 capital Liabilities in SEK 1,144 – 1,143 – issued under the long-term funding programme do not include the aforesaid condiLiabilities in foreign currencies 9,384 6,607 9,384 6,607 tions. Total funding under these programmes with the right to demand redemption amounted to SEK 55.0 billion (52.9) at 31 December 2019. Total 10,528 6,607 10,527 6,607 of which, repos 1 – – – L:4 Other liabilities L:2 Deposits from the public GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Trade payables 32 35 29 34 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Employee withholding taxes 12 11 12 11 Consumers 91,967 87,060 91,967 87,060 Liabilities to employees 123 181 135 165 Tenant-owners’ associations 8,386 8,227 8,386 8,227 Lease liabilities 91 – – – Corporates 30,189 29,639 30,189 29,639 Other 118 157 256 93 Total 130,542 124,926 130,452 124,926 Total 376 384 432 303 Other liabilities distributed by remaining maturity, carrying L:3 Debt securities issued, etc. amount Within one year 314 384 432 303 GROUP PARENT COMPANY 1–5 years 62 – – – SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total 376 384 432 303 Commercial paper Commercial paper in SEK GROUP — at amortised cost 160 500 160 500 SEK million 2019 2018 Commercial paper in foreign currency Remaining lease liabilities — at amortised cost 1,554 2,317 1,554 2,317 Lease liabilities 91 – Total 1,714 2,817 1,714 2,817 Total 91 – Lease liability distributed by remaining maturity Bond loans Within one year 29 – Bond loans in SEK 1–5 years 55 – — at amortised cost 44,966 57,343 18,126 14,876 6–10 years 7 – — in fair-value hedging 139,366 117,502 11,101 9,614 Total 91 – Bonds loans in foreign currency — at amortised cost 109,171 104,791 18,057 20,927 — in fair-value hedging 8,380 8,342 7,825 7,787 Accrued expenses and Total 301,883 287,978 55,109 53,204 L:5 deferred income Total debt securities issued, etc. 303,597 290,795 56,823 56,021 – of which, covered bonds 246,774 234,774 – – GROUP PARENT COMPANY – of which, senior non-preferred SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 bonds 6,026 – 6,026 – Accrued interest expense 1,619 1,627 202 173 – of which, other unsecured bonds and commercial paper 50,797 56,021 50,797 56,021 Other accrued expenses 186 163 145 129 Total 1,805 1,790 347 302 Accrued expenses and deferred income distributed by remaining maturity, carrying amount Maximum 1 year 1,805 1,790 347 302 Total 1,805 1,790 347 302 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 157 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES L:6 Provisions GROUP PARENT COMPANY DISTRIBUTION OF PLAN ASSETS SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 GROUP Pension provisions 140 105 – – % 2019 2018 Provision for special employer’s Swedish shares 2 2 contribution on pensions 35 26 – – Foreign shares 9 7 Provision for expected credit losses, loan commitments 13 7 13 7 Government bonds 25 25 Total 188 138 13 7 Mortgage bonds 12 15 Corporate bonds 26 28 PENSION PROVISIONS EXCL. SPECIAL EMPLOYER’S CONTRIBUTIONS Properties 12 12 Summary of defined-benefit pension plan Other 14 11 GROUP Total 100 100 SEK million 2019 2018 Present value of the obligation, closing balance 537 472 The defined-benefit pension plan is secured through insurance with SPP Pension Fair value of plan assets –397 –367 och Forsakring AB. Through investments in shares, interest-bearing instruments and property, the insurance capital will track the performance of the financial markets. Total 140 105 The aim of the management is to achieve a high and consistent return while ensuring a guaranteed increase in value. RECONCILIATION OF CHANGE IN PRESENT VALUE OF OBLIGATION FINANCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC ASSUMPTIONS GROUP GROUP SEK million 2019 2018 % 2019 2018 Present value of the obligation, opening balance 473 433 Financial assumptions Service costs during the current year 9 7 Discount rate 1.75 2.30 Interest expense 11 11 Annual salary increase 3.00 3.00 Gain/loss arising from changed financial assumptions 59 19 Annual inflation 2.00 2.00 Experience-based gains/losses –6 3 Annual increase in income base amount 3.00 3.00 Pension disbursements from plan –9 –11 Annual increase in pension disbursements 2.00 2.00 Gain/loss due to demographic assumptions – 11 Present value of the obligation, closing balance 537 473 Demographic assumptions Personnel turnover 5.00 5.00 The weighted average maturity of the defined-benefit obligation is 20.77 years Mortality table DUS14 DUS14 (20.20). RECONCILIATION OF CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF DISCOUNT RATE GROUP GROUP SEK million 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 Opening balance 367 355 Assumption, % 2.75 3.30 Interest income 9 9 Present value of the obligation 437 387 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in Service costs during the current period 8 7 interest expense/interest income 14 0 Interest expense 12 13 Premiums paid by employer 16 14 Assumption, % 0.75 1.30 Pension disbursements from plan –9 –11 Present value of the obligation 673 588 Closing balance 397 367 Service costs during the current period 14 12 Interest expense 5 8 The sensitivity analysis above is based on a change in one assumption while all other assumptions are kept constant. In the calculation of sensitivity in the defined-benefit obligation, the same method is applied as in the calculation of the reported pension provision. For further information on pensions, see Note G 1 and Note IC 5. 15 8 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES L:7 Subordinated debt and capital instruments PARENT COMPANY AND GROUP First possible Carrying amount, SEK million Nominal redemption Nominal amount right Interest rate, % Loan designation Currency amount outstanding for SBAB 31 December 2019 Maturity date 2019 2018 SUBORDINATED DEBT Subordinated loan 1 1) SEK 400,000,000 400,000,000 2020 3.825 Perpetual 400 399 Subordinated loan 2 SEK 1,100,000,000 1,100,000,000 2020 3M STIBOR + 3.250 Perpetual 1,099 1,097 Subordinated loan 3 SEK 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 2020 3M STIBOR + 1.300 11 Jun 2025 1,000 999 Subordinated loan 4 2) SEK 600,000,000 600,000,000 2020 2.250 10 Nov 2025 599 601 Subordinated loan 5 SEK 1,850,000,000 1,850,000,000 2020 3M STIBOR + 1.900 10 Nov 2025 1,850 1,850 TOTAL SEK 4,948 4,946 ADDITIONAL TIER 1 CAPITAL (equity) Subordinated loan 6 SEK 725,000,000 725,000,000 2021 3M STIBOR + 4.750 Perpetual 725 725 Subordinated loan 7 3) SEK 775,000,000 775,000,000 2021 5.052 Perpetual 775 775 Subordinated loan 8 SEK 1,600,000,000 1,600,000,000 2024 3M STIBOR + 3.650 Perpetual 1,600 – Subordinated loan 9 4) SEK 400,000,000 400,000,000 2025 3.670 Perpetual 400 – TOTAL 3,500 1,500 1) Interest rate: For the period 16 March 2015 to 16 March 2020: 3.825%. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to 3 month STIBOR plus 3.250%. 2) Interest rate: For the period 10 November 2015 to 10 November 2020: 2.250%. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to 3 month STIBOR plus 1.9000%. 3) Interest rate: For the period 17 May 2016 to 17 June 2021: 5.052%. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to 3 month STIBOR plus 4.750%. 4) Interest rate: For the period 5 September 2019 to 5 March 2025: 3.670%. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to 3 month STIBOR plus 3.800%. Subordinated loans are subordinate to the Parent Company’s other liabilities, which recognised as subordinated debt include conditions that entail an obligation to means that they carry entitlement to payment only after other unsubordinated credmake interest payments in the event that the regulatory authority no longer permits itors have received payment. The subordinated loans 1, 2, 6, 7, 8 and 9 are subortheir inclusion in own funds as AT1 instruments under certain conditions. dinate to other subordinated loans, known as additional Tier 1 capital. The capital Subordinated loans (capital instruments) that have not been redeemed are instruments issued in accordance with the more recent regulatory framework and included in own funds when calculating the capital adequacy of the Parent which are included in own funds as additional Tier 1 capital comprised subordinated ­Company and the Group. loans 1 and 2 (recognised as subordinated debt), and subordinated loans 6, 7, 8 For further information on the terms and conditions of SBAB’s subordinated and 9 (recognised as equity). The crucial difference between subordinated loans loans, see www.sbab.se and Note RC 8. ­recognised respectively as subordinated debt or equity, is that subordinated loans S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 159 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES EQ Equity p. 160 EQ:1 Equity The share capital amounted to SEK 1,958,300,000. At 31 December 2019, the SPECIFICATION OF CHANGES IN THE FAIR VALUE RESERVE number of shares was 19,583 (19,583), each with a quotient value of SEK 100,000. All shares are owned by the Swedish state. Dividends are proposed by the Board of PARENT COMPANY Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and are resolved by the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Directors has resolved to not propose SEK million 2019 2018 a dividend for the financial year 2019. For more information, see Note G 3 and Note G 5. Further information on equity is provided in the “Statement of Changes Financial assets measured at FVTOCI/­ in Equity” on page 98. Available-for-sale financial assets, opening balance 190 238 Unrealised change in value over the year –45 –57 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN RESERVES Reclassified to profit or loss during the year –11 –6 Tax attributable to the change 12 15 GROUP Financial assets measured at FVTOCI/ SEK million 2019 2018 Available-for-sale financial assets, closing balance 146 190 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI/Availablefor-sale financial assets, opening balance 190 238 Cash-flow hedges, opening balance 32 –80 Unrealised change in value over the year –45 –57 Unrealised change in value over the year 433 866 Reclassified to profit or loss during the year –11 –6 Realised change in value, reclassified to profit or loss –358 –724 Tax attributable to the change 12 15 Tax attributable to the change –16 –30 Financial assets measured at FVTOCI/Financial assets Cash-flow hedges, closing balance 91 32 available-for-sale, closing balance 146 190 Total 237 222 Cash-flow hedges, opening balance 489 –10 Further information on Reserves and the Fair value reserve is provided in Note G 1 Unrealised change in value over the year 4,363 3,929 Accounting policies, in the sections “Financial assets measured at FVTOCI,” Reclassified to profit or loss during the year –2,540 –3,295 “­Cash-flow hedges” and “Pensions.” Tax attributable to the change –390 –135 Cash-flow hedges, closing balance 1,922 489 Defined-benefit pension plans, opening balance –70 –39 Revaluation effects of defined-benefit pension plans –50 –39 Tax attributable to the change 11 8 Defined-benefit pension plans, closing balance –109 –70 Total 1,959 609 16 0 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES AC Collateral pledged and contingent liabilities p. 161 AC:1 Assets pledged for own liabilities AC:2 Contingent liabilities GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Loan receivables 313,044 301,956 – – Contingent liabilities concerning future payments Securities 2,794 1,842 2,794 1,842 Other contingent liabilities Total 315,838 303,798 2,794 1,842 Loan commitments and other credit-related contingent Of the assets pledged, SEK 313.0 billion (302.0) comprises the cover pool for covliabilities 48,662 37,535 48,662 37,535 ered bonds totalling SEK 246.8 billion (234.8). Other contingent liabilities – – 25,936 25,749 Loan receivables pledged as collateral mainly consist of the registered cover pool benefiting holders of covered bonds issued by SCBC and SCBC’s covered derivative Total 48,662 37,535 74,598 63,284 counterparties. In the event that the company becomes insolvent, the holders of the covered bonds and the covered derivatives counterparties have priority rights to the Contingent liabilities distributed pledged assets under the Covered Bonds Issuance Act and the Rights of Priority Act. by remaining maturity Within one year 43,805 33,193 69,741 58,942 1–5 years 4,857 4,342 4,857 4,342 Total 48,662 37,535 74,598 63,284 Excluding building credits of SEK 5,034 million (4,376), loan commitments and other credit-related contingent liabilities in the Group totalling SEK 43,628 million (33,159) were reduced to SEK 10,947 million (9,759) after taking into account the credit conversion factor, meaning the statistically calculated probability that the exposure will lead to disbursement of the loan. Excluding building credits of SEK 5,034 million (4,376), the corresponding figures for the Parent Company were SEK 43,628 million (33,159) and SEK 10,947 million (9,759), respectively. The Parent Company’s other commitments include an agreement concerning a liquidity facility with the subsidiary, SCBC, through which SCBC may borrow funds from the Parent Company for its operations if the need arises. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 161 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES FI Financial instruments pp. 162–168 FI:1 Classification of financial instruments FINANCIAL ASSETS GROUP 31 Dec 2019 Financial assets measured at FVTPL Financial Financial Derivatives in Other assets assets Fair value hedge (Obligatory) measured measured at Total SEK million option ­accounting classification at FVTOCI amortised cost Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks – – – – 5,750 5,750 5,750 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 1,108 – – 2,564 12,214 15,886 15,879 Lending to credit institutions – – – – 417 417 417 Lending to the public – – – – 383,807 383,807 384,417 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges – – – – –181 –181 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,791 – – 34,376 19,564 55,731 55,762 Derivatives – 12,715 372 – – 13,087 13,087 Other assets – – – – 44 44 44 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 44 – – 223 210 477 477 Total financial assets 2,943 12,715 372 37,163 421,825 475,018 475,833 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES GROUP 31 Dec 2019 Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Financial liabilities Total Derivatives in hedge Held for measured at fair value SEK million accounting trading amortised cost Total Liabilities to credit institutions – – 10,528 10,528 10,528 Deposits from the public – – 130,542 130,542 130,542 Debt securities issued, etc. – – 303,597 303,597 307,492 Derivatives 1,019 369 – 1,388 1,388 Other liabilities – – 205 205 205 Accrued expenses and deferred income – – 1,769 1,769 1,769 Subordinated debt – – 4,948 4,948 4,953 Total financial liabilities 1,019 369 451,589 452,977 456,877 162 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES FINANCIAL ASSETS GROUP 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets measured at FVTPL Derivatives Other Financial assets Financial assets Fair value in hedge (Obligatory) measured measured at Total SEK million option accounting classification at FVTOCI amortised cost Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks – – – – 0 0 0 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 3,371 – – 6,180 11,353 20,904 20,900 Lending to credit institutions – – – – 2,847 2,847 2,847 Lending to the public – – – – 364,215 364,215 364,857 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges – – – – 99 99 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 3,866 – – 35,258 11,821 50,945 50,969 Derivatives – 8,157 156 – – 8,313 8,313 Other assets – – – – 73 73 73 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 76 – – 406 175 657 657 Total financial assets 7,313 8,157 156 41,844 390,583 448,053 448,616 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES GROUP 31 Dec 2018 Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Financial liabilities Derivatives in hedge Held for measured at Total SEK million accounting trading amortised cost Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions – – 6,607 6,607 6,607 Deposits from the public – – 124,926 124,926 124,926 Debt securities issued, etc. – – 290,795 290,795 292,997 Derivatives 927 412 – 1,339 1,339 Other liabilities – – 174 174 174 Accrued expenses and deferred income – – 1,757 1,757 1,757 Subordinated debt – – 4,946 4,946 4,956 Total financial liabilities 927 412 429,205 430,544 432,756 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 163 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES FINANCIAL ASSETS PARENT COMPANY 31 Dec 2019 Financial assets measured at FVTPL Derivatives Other Financial assets Financial assets Fair value in hedge (Obligatory) measured measured at Total SEK million option accounting classification at FVTOCI amortised cost Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks – – – – 5,750 5,750 5,750 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 1,108 – – 2,564 12,214 15,886 15,879 Lending to credit institutions – – – – 102,596 102,596 102,596 Lending to the public – – – – 24,871 24,871 24,871 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges – – – – 0 0 0 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,791 – – 34,376 19,564 55,731 55,762 Derivatives – 1,708 11,646 – – 13,354 13,354 Other assets – – – – 556 556 556 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 44 – – 223 303 570 570 Total financial assets 2,943 1,708 11,646 37,163 165,854 219,314 219,406 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES PARENT COMPANY 31 Dec 2019 Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Derivatives Financial liabilities in hedge Held for measured at Total SEK million accounting trading amortised cost Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions – – 10,527 10,527 10,527 Deposits from the public – – 130,542 130,542 130,542 Debt securities issued, etc. – – 56,823 56,823 57,076 Derivatives 556 11,764 – 12,320 12,320 Other liabilities – – 86 86 86 Accrued expenses and deferred income – – 313 313 313 Subordinated debt – – 4,948 4,948 4,953 Total financial liabilities 556 11,764 203,239 215,559 215,817 16 4 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES FINANCIAL ASSETS PARENT COMPANY 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets measured at FVTPL Derivatives Other Financial assets Financial assets Fair value in hedge (Obligatory) measured measured at Total SEK million option accounting classification at FVTOCI amortised cost Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks – – – – 0 0 0 Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 3,371 – – 6,180 11,353 20,904 20,900 Lending to credit institutions – – – – 93,262 93,262 93,262 Lending to the public – – – – 24,845 24,845 24,914 Value changes of interest-rate-risk hedged items in macro hedges – – – – 0 0 0 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 3,866 – – 35,258 11,821 50,945 50,969 Derivatives – 1,516 7,246 – – 8,762 8,762 Other assets – – – – 34 34 34 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 76 – – 406 210 692 692 Total financial assets 7,313 1,516 7,246 41,844 141,525 199,444 199,533 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES PARENT COMPANY 31 Dec 2018 Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Derivatives Financial liabilities in hedge Held for measured at Total SEK million accounting trading ­amortised cost Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions – – 6,607 6,607 6,607 Deposits from the public – – 124,926 124,926 124,926 Debt securities issued, etc. – – 56,021 56,021 56,244 Derivatives 343 7,621 – 7,964 7,964 Other liabilities – – 155 155 155 Accrued expenses and deferred income – – 271 271 271 Subordinated debt – – 4,946 4,946 4,956 Total financial liabilities 343 7,621 192,926 200,890 201,123 Fair value measurement of financial instruments made in conjunction with measurement are based on observable market data with The measurement policies for financial instruments recognised at fair value in the the exception of the credit margin when valuing lending to the public. The models balance sheet are provided in Note G 1. In the “total fair value” column above, are based on discounted cash flows. information is also provided on the fair value of financial instruments that are Issued debt securities and subordinated debt are measured at the Group’s ­recognised at amortised cost in the balance sheet. ­current borrowing rate, Level 2. The carrying amounts for current receivables and liabilities have been assessed For lending to the public, where no observable credit margin data is available at as equal to their fair values. Securities recognised at amortised cost were measured the time of measurement, the credit margin on the most recent stipulated date of at quoted prices, Level 1. expiry is applied to set the discount rate, Level 3. For Lending to the public, Issued debt securities and Subordinated debt, fair value is established based on generally accepted valuation techniques. Calculations S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 165 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES FI:2 Fair value disclosures GROUP 2019 2018 Other Other observable Unobservable observable Unobservable Quoted market ­market data market data Quoted market ­market data market data SEK million prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Assets Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 3,672 – – 3,672 9,551 – – 9,551 Bonds and other interestbearing securities 36,166 – – 36,166 39,124 – – 39,124 Derivatives – 13,087 – 13,087 – 8,313 – 8,313 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 267 – – 267 482 – – 482 Total 40,105 13,087 – 53,192 49,157 8,313 – 57,470 Liabilities Derivatives – 1,388 – 1,388 – 1,339 – 1,339 Total – 1,388 – 1,388 – 1,339 – 1,339 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Other Other observable Unobservable observable­ Unobservable Quoted market ­market data market data Quoted market ­market data market data SEK million prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Assets Chargeable treasury bills, etc. 3,672 – – 3,672 9,551 – – 9,551 Bonds and other interestbearing securities 36,166 – – 36,166 39,124 – – 39,124 Derivatives – 13,354 – 13,354 – 8,762 – 8,762 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 267 – – 267 482 – – 482 Total 40,105 13,354 – 53,459 49,157 8,762 – 57,919 Liabilities Derivatives – 12,320 – 12,320 – 7,964 – 7,964 Total – 12,320 – 12,320 – 7,964 – 7,964 Parent Company and Group Measurement based on observable market data (Level 2) In the table, financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value in the balance Measurement aided by external market information other than quoted prices sheet are divided on the basis of the measurement methods used. included in Level 1, such as quoted interest rates or prices for closely related instruNo transfers were made between levels in 2018 or 2019. ments. The main tools used are models based on discounted cash flows. This group includes all non-quoted derivatives. Quoted market prices (Level 1) Measurement at quoted prices in an active market for identical assets and liabilities. Measurement based in part on unobservable market data (Level 3) A market is deemed to be active if the price data is easily accessible and correMeasurement whereby a material component of the model is based on estimates or sponds to actual regularly occurring transactions. The measurement method is used assumptions that do not originate directly from the market. This method is currently for holdings of quoted interest-bearing securities and for publicly quoted derivanot used on any asset or liability. tives, primarily interest-rate futures. 16 6 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES FI:3 Offsetting disclosures Financial assets and liabilities covered by a legally binding agreement regarding netting or a similar agreement but that are not offset in the balance sheet. OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS GROUP 2019 Amounts reported Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet in the balance sheet Provided (+)/ Amounts Amounts not Amounts Received (-) Provided (+)/ subject to offset in the reported in the Financial collateral Received (-) SEK million offsetting balance sheet balance sheet instruments – securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 13,087 – 13,087 –1,100 – –10,411 1,576 Repos 1,486 –1,486 0 – –1 – –1 Liabilities Derivatives –1,388 – –1,388 1,100 – 289 1 Repos –1,487 1,487 –1 – 0 – –1 Total 11,698 0 11,698 0 –1 –10,122 1,575 GROUP 2018 Amounts reported Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet in the balance sheet Provided (+)/ Amounts Amounts not Amounts Received (-) Provided (+)/ subject to offset in the reported in the Financial collateral Received (-) SEK million offsetting balance sheet balance sheet instruments – securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 8,313 – 8,313 –1,014 –581 –7,122 –404 Repos – – – – – – – Liabilities Derivatives –1,339 – –1,339 1,014 – –262 –587 Repos – – – – – – – Total 6,974 – 6,974 0 –581 –7,384 –991 Repos are recognised in the balance sheet under the headings Lending and Liabilities to credit institutions, respectively. For further information on offsetting, see Note RC 2, in the section on Counterparty risk. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 167 G RC IC TX A L EQ AC FI FINANCIAL NOTES Financial assets and liabilities covered by a legally binding agreement regarding netting or a similar agreement but that are not offset in the balance sheet. OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS PARENT COMPANY 2019 Amounts reported Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet in the balance sheet Provided (+)/ Amounts Amounts not Amounts Received (-) Provided (+)/ subject to offset in the reported in the Financial collateral Received (-) SEK million offsetting balance sheet balance sheet instruments – securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 13,354 – 13,354 –1,571 – –10,411 1,372 Repos – – – – – – – Liabilities Derivatives –12,320 – –12,320 1,571 – 289 –10,460 Repos – – – – – – – Total 1,034 – 1,034 0 – –10,122 –9,088 PARENT COMPANY 2018 Amounts reported Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet in the balance sheet Provided (+)/ Amounts Amounts not Amounts Received (-) Provided (+)/ subject to offset in the reported in the Financial collateral Received (-) SEK million offsetting ­ alance sheet b balance sheet instruments – securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 8,762 – 8,762 –1,609 –581 –7,122 –550 Repos – – – – – – – Liabilities Derivatives –7,964 – –7,964 1,609 – –262 –6,617 Repos – – – – – – – Total 798 – 798 0 –581 –7,384 –7,167 16 8 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S Sustainability notes pp. 169–181 For example, the Board of SBAB has adopted policies and instructions covering S:1 General information ­Sustainable Enterprise, Ethics, Equality and Diversity, Remuneration, Complaints ­Handling, Risk, Credit, Capital, Compliance, Independent Risk Control, Internal SBAB’s Annual and Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with Audit, Measures to Preventing Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, the GRI Standards: Core option. It also constitutes SBAB’s Communication on as well as Compliance with Financial Sanctions and Recovery Plans. Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact, a sustainability report in accordance In addition to policies and instructions decided by the Board, there are a number of with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and information on how SBAB contributes instructions decided by the CEO or by persons with authority delegated by the CEO. to the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development. Examples of such instructions include Policies, Outsourcing, Authorisation Instruction, Communication, Working Environment, Against Bribes and other C ­ orruption, Bank Report defined by the Board of Directors Confidentiality, Whistleblower Process, IT Governance and S ­ ecurity. The Board of Directors have signed, and thereby submitted, the Annual and Sustainability Report in its entirety. Code of Conduct We let our values and Code of Conduct act as a moral compass in terms of defining Sustainability reporting under the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) our behaviour and what we stand for as a company. Our Code of Conduct is SBAB’s Annual and Sustainability Report pertains to the 2019 calendar year and decided by the Board of Directors and is available for all employees on our intranet. has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The sepaIt provides guidance on how we should act and conduct ourselves in various situarate GRI and COP index sets out the location of the different GRI and COP disclotions and the inherent responsibilities of being a SBAB employee. Employees, mansures in the report. agers, consultants, members of the Executive Management and Board members are responsible for understanding and complying with our Code of Conduct. Read more on page 180 Supplier Code UN Global Compact & the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development SBAB’s Supplier Code addresses SBAB’s view and expectations of our suppliers’ The state’s ownership policy stipulates that state-owned enterprises should serve as ­sustainability efforts and compliance with international guidelines and principles. role models in the area of sustainable business and otherwise act in a manner that generates public confidence. Acting as a role model includes working strategically S:2.2 Obligations and transparently with a focus on a collaboration. These efforts are inspired and The state’s ownership policy stipulates that state-owned enterprises should serve as guided by international guidelines including the ten principles of the UN Global role models in the area of sustainable business and otherwise act in a manner that Compact as well as the SDGs of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. generates public confidence. Acting as a role model includes working strategically Read more on pages 178 and 180 and transparently with a focus on collaboration. These efforts are inspired and guided by international guidelines including the ten principles of the UN Global Sustainability reporting in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act Compact and the SDGs of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. This report comprises SBAB’s statutory sustainability report pursuant to the requirements of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. It also encompasses initial reporting UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress (COP) based on the EU’s guidelines on climate reporting, where SBAB has started to SBAB joined the UN Global Compact in 2009. SBAB’s commitment to the Global ­analyse the reporting framework of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Compact means that SBAB reports its work on implementing the Ten Principles of ­Disclosures (TCFD). the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-­ Read more on page 177 corruption in an annual Communication on Progress (COP). The separate GRI/ COP index states which parts of the report constitute SBAB’s Communication on The report’s scope and boundaries Progress, which is based on the BASIC GUIDE Communication on Progress, GC The Annual Report encompasses the Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB (publ). The Active Level, developed by the Global Compact. The UN Global Compact includes subsidiaries AB Sveriges Säkerstallda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond a precaution principle. SBAB is implementing a number of precautionary measures Corporation — SCBC) and Booli Search Technologies AB issue their own annual in daily operations, including employee training. We have also started efforts to reports. The Sustainability Report encompasses the Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB identify, manage and integrate sustainability risks in all central processes. (publ), AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ) and, unless otherwise stated, Booli Search Technologies AB. SBAB’s material impact occurs within the organisaUN 2030 Agenda and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) tion and in connection with SBAB’s lending. The state’s ownership policy states that, within the framework of their operations, state-owned enterprises must analyse the SDGs contained in the 2030 Agenda for Audit and limited assurance report Sustainable Development to identify which goals the company can influence and The formal Annual Report is to be found in specially marked sections, and has been contribute to through its activities. Companies are also expected to identify business audited. The Sustainability Report has been subject to a limited assurance review. opportunities that contribute to achieving the goals. SBAB has identified and choThe Corporate Governance Report is subject to a statutory review, which is less sen four of the 17 SDGs that we consider particularly important and relevant for our comprehensive than an audit or auditor’s review. Deloitte submits an audit report operations. The goals have been chosen based on extensive analysis in the form of for the Annual Report and the Corporate Governance Report, and a separate liminternal workshops and ranking exercises within operations, the Executive Manageited assurance report for the Sustainability Report. ment and the Board, and thus comprise an integrated part of SBAB’s governance model and daily operations. SBAB’s contribution to the respective goals is presented Read more on pages 183 and 186 in a separate table and in the freestanding GRI/COP index. Read more on pages 178 and 180 S:2 Guidelines and obligations Sweden’s environmental objectives The environmental objective system contains one generation goal, 16 environmenS:2.1 Guidelines tal quality goals and 17 intermediate goals in the areas of waste, biodiversity, hazState’s ownership policy ardous substances and climate. Sweden’s environmental objectives are the national SBAB follows the state’s ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned enterprises implementation of the ecological dimension of the SDGs. SBAB supports these 2017, which also encompasses the Guidelines for external reporting in state-owned objectives and actively contributes to the overall objective for environmental policy, enterprises and Guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment for the generation goal, which is to be able to hand over a society to the next generasenior executives in state-owned enterprises. tion in which the major environmental problems have been solved, without causing more environmental and health problems beyond Sweden’s borders. One of the Policies, instructions and directions environmental quality goals, goal 15, refers to a healthy built-up environment and Each year, SBAB’s Board of Directors adopts a number of policies and instructions has synergies with two of SBAB’s four prioritised SDGs, namely 11 and 12. SBAB is a at the statutory Board meeting. These are an important part of the internal goverleading player in the housing financing sector and has a responsibility to drive develnance and help the company to promote sustainable business and to create a opment in this area. ­consensus on company-wide issues and areas. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 169 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:2.1 Cont. The Paris agreement and the EU action plan for financing sustainable growth Other memberships of associations SBAB works to promote realising the goals of the Paris agreement and the EU action Since 2012, SBAB has been a member of the Swedish Financial Coalition against plan for financing sustainable growth. SBAB has also started to review the possibility child pornography. The Financial Coalition collaborates with ECPAT with the aim of of joining the reporting framework of the Task Force on Climate-related preventing and rendering it more difficult to trade in pictures featuring sexual abuse ­Financial Disclosures (TCFD). of children through financial systems on the internet. SBAB is also a member of Read more on page 179 diverse branch-related organisations. S:3 Definition of the reporting content SBAB’s Annual and Sustainability Report has been prepared pursuant to the recurring internal dialogue regarding the bank’s business logic in the Board of GRI’s principles for defining report content and quality. Stakeholder dialogue and Directors, the Executive Management and in operations. We maintain ongoing commateriality assessment form the basis for SBAB’s prioritised sustainability topics. munication, primarily with the most important stakeholders, to set the right priorities in our business development and sustainability work. Communication is conducted S:3.1 Stakeholder dialogue through means including customer surveys and meetings, dialogue with owner repSBAB has identified a number of particularly important stakeholder groups that all resentatives, question forums on www.sbab.se, physical meetings in various formats, affect and are affected by our operations in various ways. From a business perspecdialogues regarding accounting, and other formats for stakeholder engagement. tive, the most important stakeholders in the short, medium and long-term are the customers, the employees, the owner and investors. This priority has grown out of a FORMATS FOR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Customers Employees Owner & investors The public The confidence our customers have in SBAB’s employees are its most important Owner: SBAB is wholly owned by the Confidence from the general public SBAB determines our ability to develop asset. Motivated and committed Swedish government. The Swedish and other stakeholders such as nonin many respects, and therefore also our employees are a prerequisite for our government’s ambition for Swedish profit organisations, business partners, ability to take on a greater role in success and one of the most important state-owned companies – to set good media, suppliers and interest societal development. The knowledge, resources in terms of achieving our examples and serve as role models for organisations affects our opportunities skills, professionalism and consideration vision. Our employees’ motivation to sustainable development – has inspired to develop the operations in the desired shown by our employees on a daily basis create value through stakeholder us to clarify our role in the sustainable direction. Confidence from the public is are apparent in surveys conducted by relations depends on a number of development of society. a prerequisite for attracting new Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (Swedish Quality factors, including leadership, skills customers, establishing long-term Index, SKI). development, development Investors: Investor confidence in SBAB is relationships and growing. opportunities and our corporate culture. based on investors’ interaction with our employees as well as on a belief in our business model and our ability to support positive and sustainable economic developments. In dialogues through: In dialogues through: In dialogues through: In dialogues through: The internet (www.sbab.se), telephone, Performance evaluations, meetings, Owner: Ownership policy, owner Personal meetings, network meetings, customer surveys (SKI, brand surveys, employee surveys, workplace dialogues instructions, continuous ministerial seminars and conferences, media, customer panels, focus groups, etc.), with trade unions, monthly and contacts, board representation, AGMs, blogs, social media, AGMs, marketing social media, customer and support departmental meetings, the intranet, network meetings, etc. communication, etc. forum, blogs, personal meetings, AGMs, CEO blogs, etc. Investors: Personal meetings, group customer meetings, seminars and presentations, financial statements, conferences, the AGM, marketing www.sbab.se, etc. communication, etc. 170 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:3.2 Material topics How the material sustainability topics have been reported We report the results of our sustainability efforts in line with the GRI, which includes For each target area, we have adopted fixed strategies and activities, overall identifying and prioritising material sustainability topics. In late 2016 and early ­targets and metrics, and determined how the results should be reported. Activities, 2017, we completed a stakeholder and materiality assessment. This work included targets and metrics are reviewed each year in conjunction with the business plan15 interviews with Board members, the Executive Management, employees, the ning process. Since 2017, SBAB’s business plan has been fully integrated, which owner, corporate customers, business partners, stakeholder organisations and means that SBAB does not differentiate between business targets and sustainability NGOs, which were conducted as face-to-face meetings and by telephone. Moretargets. SBAB’s targets are presented earlier in this report. over, an online survey was conducted of SBAB’s retail customers, around 600 cusRead more on page 24 tomers in total. Listening to our stakeholders is important for identifying the financial, societal and environmental sustainability topics that are material for our operations. 14 of the 18 sustainability topics identified in the materiality assessments are By utilising input from the interviews and online surveys together with secondary reported as material in SBAB’s sustainability report. These are reported in our three sources, such as employee and brand surveys, an internal exercise was carried out, target areas as follows: with representatives from the operations and from the Executive Management, in order to agree on a gross list of SBAB’s material sustainability topics. These efforts Responsibility and transparency identified a total of 18 sustainability topics, which are presented below. • Customer experience • Risk and compliance MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT • Anti-corruption • Innovation and product and service development Key sustainability topics • Sustainable IT platform • Transparency Responsibility and transparency • Brand • Customer experience • Responsible mortgage provider • Risk and compliance • Community engagement • Anti-corruption • Offering of green products and services • Innovation and product and service development Attractive workplace • Sustainable IT platform • An attractive workplace • Transparency • Corporate culture and values • Brand • Climate impact and use of resources Sound finances • Environmental and climate requirements for customers and suppliers • Financial stability • Responsible mortgage provider • Profitability and growth • Social requirements for corporate customers and suppliers • Community engagement The above responsibility issues have been delimited in the report to include SBAB’s • Popular education direct efforts and are reported using at least one GRI indicator per material aspect. • Offering of green products and services Read more on page 180 Attractive workplace • An attractive workplace SBAB’s material impact is expected to take place within the organisation and in • Corporate culture and values ­connection with our lending. Sound finances Sustainability analysis to identify risks and opportunities • Financial stability In 2018, an extensive sustainability analysis, known as a gap analysis, was con• Profitability and growth ducted for SBAB’s entire operations. The analysis was conducted in five parts linked to SBAB’s three target areas. The analysis identified the current status and the Three target areas ambition level. The analysis identified 50 areas within which SBAB faced challenges Based on demands from our operating environment, the materiality assessment and or possibilities of varying scope. continuously ongoing stakeholder dialogues, SBAB has established three overall The current status and objectives were established based on SBAB’s materiality commercial and sustainable development target areas for the operations: assessment, business plan, model for governance and follow-up, prioritised SDGs ­Responsibility and transparency; Attractive workplace; and Sound finances. and other guidelines such as the UN Global Compact. The internal basis was complemented with an analysis of factors in the operating environment and industry Read more on page 22 practice in the area of sustainability. This functioned as the basis for a number of workshops, where representatives from the entire operations participated with the aim of calibrating the current status and the objectives. A total of nine workshops were conducted with around 50 participants. All of the workshops resulted in a full gap analysis including the current status, objective and ambition level for the respective area, together with an action plan. The action plans include activities aimed at reaching the objective. The results of the gap analyses were discussed and prepared by the Executive Management for decision by the Board. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 171 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:4 Governance and follow-up S:4.1 Overarching governance S:4.2 Follow-up SBAB has a number of functions for the governance and follow-up of sustainability SBAB has decided on a number of overriding, measurable and quantifiable goals for efforts. the respective target areas. These are presented earlier in this report. A number of Within SBAB, the Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that active, longspecific metrics (KPIs) exist for the respective target areas, which are measured and term efforts to achieve sustainable development are carried out within the bank. reported to the CEO and Board each month. In addition to the overriding business The Board also adopts a strategy, objectives and a Policy for Sustainable Enterprise. plan and its contents, operational goals and activities are in place at a departmental Furthermore, the Board monitors and assesses SBAB’s sustainability efforts. and functional level. The Executive Management presents the bank’s strategic business plan, includSome 50 areas were identified in the sustainability analysis. Responsibility has ing its aims, direction and objectives for sustainability efforts, in conjunction with been allocated to a representative of Executive Management and to an individual deciding the business plan and budget. SBAB’s sustainability efforts are fully intewith operational responsibility for each area. Moreover, each area has been allograted in SBAB’s business plan. The Executive Management are to control and take cated a sustainability strategist from the Sustainability unit. During the year, a new decisions on priorities and strategic direction for sustainability in accordance with structure was developed for reporting and follow-up. Moreover, work started during the decided business strategy. the year on specifying the identified areas as measurable targets and activities, with The Sustainability Marketing and Communication department (HMK) is led by special focus on 21 prioritised areas, which are considered of particular importance the Head of HMK, who is a member of the Executive Management and reports to the from a risk and opportunities perspective. Progress was noted in all of the prioritised CEO. HMK includes the Sustainability unit, which is led by the Head of Sustainability areas over the year. who reports to the Head of HMK and the CEO. The Sustainability unit is tasked with coordinating sustainability efforts at SBAB at an overall and total level, as well as in Responsibility and transparency relation to the overriding target areas and their measurable goals, together with the The ongoing governance and follow-up of goals linked to this area are allocated individuals with operational responsibility in the business. The Head of Sustainability between Accounting & Treasury, Business Specialists, Customer Experience, Data together with the Head of HMK are tasked with driving SBAB’s strategic sustainabilScience, Customer Service, Corporate Clients & Tenant-Owners’ Associations, ity efforts with the CEO and the Board, and are responsible for internal and external HMK, Tech and Risk. communication issues pertaining to sustainability efforts. The Head of Sustainability also participates in and represents SBAB with regard to sustainability topics in conAttractive workplace tact with the owner and in other external contexts. Within the Sustainability unit SBAB’s HR department is responsible for the ongoing governance and follow-up of there are two sustainability strategists who work full-time with sustainability topics the goals linked to this area. and who assist with coordinating and leading sustainability efforts in the operations. SBAB has a Sustainability Forum with representatives from different parts of the Sound finances operation who meet around two times per year. The representatives are well versed The ongoing governance and follow-up of the goals linked to this area are mainly in SBAB’s sustainability efforts and are also responsible for managing these issues in the responsibility of SBAB’s Accounting & Treasury department, and SBAB’s Tech their parts of the organisation. The Sustainability Forum is seen as a complement to department, for which sustainable technical development comprises a key element. the business planning, whereby sustainability is integrated into the business goals. The goals in Sound finances include the financial goals set by SBAB’s owner, the The aim of the Sustainability Forum is to inspire, raise awareness and enable us to Swedish state. learn from one another. The Forum is led by the Head of Sustainability together with the other sustainability strategists. S:4.3 Goals for 2020 SBAB has a Sustainable Bond Committee (SBC) that regularly meets four times a SBAB has adopted the following goals for 2020: year, or more often if needed. The aim of the SBC is to secure the process whereby green and sustainable bonds are issued, managed and discontinued. The SBC is comprised of seven individuals from different parts of the operations. The Chairman Sustainability Ranking in the Sustainability index 1) Top 3 of the SBC is SBAB’s CFO, who is also SCBC’s CEO. Transparency: Proportion of customers who believe that SBAB has an 85% offering that is straightforward and easy to understand Ownership policy Mortgages Top 3 Customer satisfaction: Sweden’s most satisfied Policies & customers according to the Swedish Quality Index Residential BOARD OF DIRECTORS Top 3 business plan mortgages Equality & diversity: Equality between women/men in 45–55 % Directions & CEO management positions (within the range) ­instructions Employee experience: Percentage of employees 92% who consider SBAB an overall great place to work EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT HMK Sustainability Forum Committed employees: Total Trust Index Sustainable Bond 86% Committee in Great Place to Work’s annual employee survey Profitability: A return on equity over time ≥ 10.0% Dividend: Ordinary dividend based on profit for the year after tax, ≥ 40% taking the Group’s capital structure into account Capitalisation: The CET1 capital ratio and total CET1 capital ratio ≥ 0.6% capital ratio exceed the regulatory requirement Total capital communicated by the Swedish FSA ≥ 0.6% ratio 1) SBAB’s own quarterly sustainability index, which is prepared in collaboration with a third party. 172 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:5 Supplementary information per target area S:5.1 Responsibility and transparency During the year, SBAB adjusted the stressed interest rate applied in the credit process from 7.0% to 6.5% as a result of the changed, lower interest rates in the marResponsible and transparent offering ket. We believe this measure will help young people, among others, to buy their own How we grant loans to consumers homes. We carry out continuous random follow-ups along with other reviews to ensure that Key elements of our work moving forward comprise continuing to adapt the lanall of our credit approvals are managed in a sound manner that complies with our guage of the credit process, to better manage any climate risks in the credit process credit regulations. For SBAB’s residential mortgages, collateral is provided in the and to further streamline and digitalise the credit process. form of a mortgage deed in immovable property or rights in a tenant-owners’ association. The loan is permitted to correspond to a maximum of 85% of the value of Preventative insolvency management the property. Granting of credit to consumers is based on a credit approval process that We work with preventative insolvency management. This entails early contact by determines whether customers have the financial capacity required to meet their comSBAB in cases where we find that our customers are having difficulties in making mitment. We base our credit approval process on existing credit rules, information their interest and amortisation payments. Sickness, unemployment, divorce and received from credit rating agencies, such as UC, and the Land Registry and other split-ups are the most common causes of payment difficulties for our customers. We ­controls as well as information provided by the customers themselves. The expertise create solutions, including tailored payment plans, to allow our customers opportuand professionalism of our mortgage administrators are important parts of the process. nity to get things under control. Normally, the process starts with creating a houseFirst and foremost, we assess the customer’s repayment ability, but also the colhold budget to then progress to a discussion with the customer on how we will conlateral provided for the loan. Loans are not approved if the ability to make repaytinue to manage the case. We own the entire insolvency management process. This ments cannot be guaranteed. The credit approval process centres around a calcumeans that throughout the process it is SBAB that helps our customers, not another lation of household costs, which is based on the income of the customers and their party. Establishing a healthy dialogue at an early stage often leads to a favourable mortgage and household expenses. If a customer applies for a mortgage for a tenantoutcome for our customers and for us. owner apartment, we also assess the customer’s calculation in relation to the risk that the monthly fee to the tenant-owners’ association may be raised. This is carried out by How we grant loans to corporates and tenant-owners’ associations measures including calculating the debt for tenant-owners’ association per square Our credit approval of corporates and tenant-owners’ associations is primarily metre. We also use various costing parameters in the calculation of household costs to based on their repayment capacity. In addition to the ability to make repayments, work out whether the calculation truly adds up, even if, for example, the interest rate or which we assess by analysing income and cash-flow statements, we also assess the other costs should rise. If the calculation indicates a sufficient surplus, a loan is normally collateral for the customer’s loan. When we lend money for construction of new granted provided that the customer satisfies other formal requirements and credit properties, we conduct an analysis of the project and make a forecast of the final ­regulations. If the calculation indicates a deficit, the loan is not granted. production costs. The value of the customers’ properties is appraised by SBAB’s valuation department. As part of this valuation, we also assess future maintenance HOUSING COST CALCULATION requirements and the customer’s ability to finance such requirements. + Borrower’s income 1) Sustainability criteria in the credit granting process for corporates and tenant-­ owners’ associations – Housing expenses 2) We promote sound environmental risk management in issued loans. This means any negative impact on the climate or environment should be avoided wherever possible, or at least minimised, mitigated or compensated for. In our credit granting pro– Living expenses 3) cess for property companies and tenant-owners’ associations, we consider environmental criteria as a part of the overall assessment, including environmental risks, = Surplus (or deficit) energy consumption and environment classification of the properties used as collateral. The property companies’ environmental policies are also relevant. When view1) The stated income is checked using the credit information service UC, among others. ing and valuing properties, in addition to factors such as the property’s location, 2) Repayments, running costs, monthly fees and stressed interest rates. condition and standard, special attention is paid to any occurrence of environmen3) In tally disturbing factors, such as polluted land, substandard ventilation and harmful accordance with the Swedish Consumer Agency’s guidelines, taking the number of minors and adults in the household into account. building materials. We also engage in a dialogue about sustainability topics with existing customers and offer customised products for this purpose. Amortisation and debt-to-income ratio At SBAB we believe that amortisation helps ensure sound household finances. We Results of other confidence surveys give all of our customers individual amortisation recommendations. In mid-2016, Swedish Sustainability Ranking Finance 2019 new amortisation rules were introduced in line with regulations issued by the SwedSBAB came in second place in the Swedish Sustainability Ranking Finance 2019, an ish FSA. These rules include a repayment rate of 2% per year for new residential annual survey of confidence and reputation for various banks in Sweden conducted mortgages with a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of more than 70%, and 1% per year by Nordic Brand Academy. The survey comprised around 2,000 interviews. down to an LTV ratio of 50%. In 2018, we introduced the increased amortisation requirement for households with high debt-to-income ratios, which entails that all Our operations build on trust new ­customers borrowing more than 4.5 times their gross income (their pre-tax Banking security income) must amortise an additional one percent of the mortgage per year. We work proactively with compliance and security issues to ensure that we comply The requirement applies to already existing amortisation rules. The ratio gives a with the regulations and requirements that apply to operations. Banking confidentigood indication of how sensitive customers’ ability to make repayments is to changes ality is a key point of departure for our security efforts. Living up to the expectations in interest rate or income levels, as well as the customer’s ability to amortise. We and requirements placed on us as a company is of vital importance to the confiapply a mandatory debt-to-income ratio of 5.5 times gross income in our lending. dence that our customers, owner, employees and other stakeholders have in SBAB. Our security measures involve both prevention and control. We take actions to Changes in the credit process detect and counteract threats in advance and we regularly check that our protecWe have made some adjustments to our credit process over the last few years to tive measures are effective. Security is always an important element in the better reflect contemporary society, including in terms of constellations of borrow­management and development of our products and services. ers, additional borrowers and forms of employment (permanent, temporary and project), but also with the aim of enabling young adults to buy their first home. Marketing communication Since 2017, a special function has been in place to handle cases of an infrequent SBAB’s Communication instruction regulates SBAB’s external and internal communature, including those described above, but also other cases that require special skills nication and information disclosure. This instruction also aims to ensure that SBAB’s and attention. This may include, for example, transfers in the event of a divorce or death, information disclosure to the market is correct, relevant and adheres to the applicaor cases where a customer is an entrepreneur. It is important that SBAB manages these ble communication rules. We have three underlying instructions: Instruction for stracases in a correct, factual and transparent manner to thereby avoid discrimination. tegic communication; Instruction for financial communication; and Instruction for During the year, we again reviewed our handling of customers approaching marketing. We also have a Direction for the marketing process, which describes retirement and who would therefore likely see their income decrease. These customSBAB’s work procedures for marketing activities. It is a tool aimed at ensuring compliers are also managed by a separate function with administrators with expertise in this ance with applicable regulations. SBAB had no incidents of non-compliance with regufield and the customers’ credit applications are processed on an individual basis. lations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communication during the year. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 173 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Integrity and protection of personal data Climate report for 2019 In 2017 and 2018, we completed a systematic and exhaustive initiative to adapt The table data shows greenhouse gas emissions expressed in tonnes of carbon dioxoperations to the new requirements of the GDPR, which entered force on 25 May ide equivalents, CO2e. SBAB’s climate report for 2019 was conducted in collabora2018. SBAB has a separate function, Privacy Office, where our data protection tion with the company U&We and using the Our Impacts tool and is available in full ­officer and data security specialists work. The team ensures our compliance with the at www.sbab.se. The raised quantities of CO2e emissions in 2019 were primarily applicable data protection legislation and proactively spreads know-how among our attributable to the expansion of the components in the report and more employees. staff about data protection security. In addition, the 2019 climate report also includes the subsidiary Booli Search Technologies AB as opposed to previous years. The outcomes in the 2019 climate report Complaints handling will act as the baseline for setting a comprehensive and time-limited reduction target At times, customers who are dissatisfied with SBAB’s handling of a case contact for CO2e emissions for the Group. SBAB with a complaint. It is critical that we take the time needed to address these matters in a professional manner. The primary aims of our complaints procedure is to ensure continued customer satisfaction and to pre-empt future complaints. EMISSIONS DIVIDED BY SCOPE 1) SBAB has policies in place to govern the conduct of our complaint handling. Our CO2e emissions, tonnes 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Instruction for complaint handling is decided by the Board. The instruction is complemented by the Consumer complaints guidelines, which explain how employees Scope 1 12.3 12.4 17.0 16.9 13.8 should manage complaints. Our policies are adapted to external requirements that Scope 2 39.6 22.9 22.9 26.1 54.1 we must address, such as the Swedish FSA’s General guidelines regarding complaints management concerning financial services for consumers (FFFS 2002:23), Scope 3 481.8 157.2 144.2 142.0 90.6 Regulations for insurance distribution (FFFS 2018:10) and the Payment Services Act Total 533.7 192.5 184.1 185.0 158.5 (2010:751). SBAB’s complaints officer, or customer ombudsman, is registered with the Swedish FSA, and information guiding customers in how to make a complaint is available at EMISSIONS DIVIDED BY SOURCE 1) www.sbab.se CO2e emissions, tonnes 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Responsible sourcing and the Supplier Code Scope 1 SBAB’s supply chain includes suppliers of various services and materials. The four Vehicles (SBAB owned) 12.3 12.4 17.0 16.9 13.8 largest supplier categories (consulting and staffing services; communication and event; property and office services; and software and IT services) comprise around Scope 2 80% of SBAB’s total costs within procurement. In 2019, a risk analysis was carried out District heating 23.2 21.4 21.5 22.4 40.1 for these categories together with an initiative to raise competence levels for the agreement owners. The aim was to create awareness and to manage sustainability District cooling 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 risks in the supply chain in a structured and preventative manner. In 2019, workshops Electricity 16.3 1.3 1.3 3.6 14.0 were carried out for all supplier categories with their respective agreement owners. Since 2017, SBAB’s Supplier Code has been attached to all material agreeScope 3 ments. The code addresses SBAB’s view and expectations of our suppliers’ sustainability efforts and compliance with international guidelines and principles. The code Water consumption 3) 5) 0.3 0.3 – – – is published on www.sbab.se. We intend to continue the ongoing development of our Waste for incineration 5) 0.4 0.1 0.4 2.5 0.2 Supplier Code to ensure increased focus on responsibility and sustainability in the entire supply chain. Over the year, we conducted internal training sessions for the Vehicles (upstream) 14.9 8.7 11.7 14.4 17.3 code among all of SBAB’s agreement owners. Air travel 131.6 130.3 115.9 108 66.2 Tax Rail travel 0.4 0.4 0.4 1.5 1.3 SBAB is wholly owned by the Swedish government. We only conduct operations in Copying paper 3) 5) 0.7 0.4 – – – Sweden, which means that we only pay tax in Sweden. Since SBAB employs 695 people, we are a relatively small employer. The employers’ contributions we pay on Server halls 4) 88.6 – – – – behalf of our employees help to strengthen security in society. We also pay guarantee IT procurement 4) 209.0 – – – – fees, mainly in the form of the resolution fee and fees to the national deposit guarantee, which help maintain financial stability in the community. Guarantee fees Hotel nights 4) 19.6 – – – – amounted to SEK 287 million in 2019. Our tax expense amounted to SEK 520 million. Taxis 2) 5) 3.3 3.6 3.7 2.4 – Together for the climate District heating (upstream) 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.6 4.5 SBAB’s own climate impact Electricity (upstream) 10.2 10.7 9.4 10.5 1.1 We are a digital bank. We have no branch offices and are mainly reached by our digital channels and over the telephone. This enables us to avoid unnecessary transTotal 533.7 192.5 184.1 185 158.5 portation and the operation of a number of branch offices around the country, which 1) The figures prior to 2019 comprise data excluding the subsidiary Booli Search Technologies AB. contributes to the relatively small size of our direct environmental impact. But we still 2) New value for 2016. want to reduce the impact we have. 3) New value for 2018. We work actively to limit postal mailings to customers, to thereby reduce SBAB’s 4) New value for 2019. impact on the climate and the environment. The above is achieved by distributing 5) Data excluding the subsidiary Booli Search Technologies AB. loan documents digitally and through collaboration with Kivra, where we are able to show substantial improvements and a drastic reduction in postal mailings over our 3-year collaboration. Today, payment notifications, terms and conditions, and annual statements to our retail customers as well as to send our employees’ pay slips S:5.2 An attractive workplace are sent with Kivra. Remuneration As employees, we contribute to the company’s ambitions by taking personal Our remuneration policy encompasses all SBAB employees, regardless of position. responsibility and, for example, utilise the office’s waste sorting facilities, turn off In accordance with the relevant policy, SBAB’s remuneration is to be competitive, lights and computers when we leave, use paper and printing frugally, and travel by capped and appropriate, moderate, reasonable, well considered and not salary-­ rail instead of air whenever possible. As a company, we create the prerequisites for leading. It should also contribute to high ethical standards and a good corporate our employees to note, drive and develop resource and energy-saving work methculture. The same applies to the benefits we offer – all employees are offered the ods that contribute to reducing environmental impact. In recent years, we have same benefits, regardless of position. Since 2012, there have been no incentive implemented a series of measures and activities to reduce our environmental programmes and there is no variable remuneration to our employees that could impact. We buy green electricity from renewable energy sources to all of our offices. have any significant impact on the SBAB Group’s risk profile. The total level of remuThe property we rent in Solna is BREEAM certified as Good. neration is determined based on responsibility, complexity and results within the During the year, a working group was appointed to develop reduction targets respective employee’s area, and also on how well the employee lives our values and and an action plan aimed at reducing the environmental impact of our operations. our values-­driven working approach. The reduction targets will be presented in 2020. SBAB applies individual salary-setting in accordance with our collective bargaining agreement, which means that remuneration and salary growth is individual and differentiated. All Parent Company employees are covered by collective agreements. 174 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Salary reviews take place annually by way of individual salary interviews, whereby perVOLUNTEER DAYS formance in the role and applicable salary criteria are taken into consideration. Each 2019 2018 year, employees can go on a salary setting course. SBAB also conducts annual salary ­surveys to ensure the continuation of successful work to prevent non-objective salary Whole days 73 51 ­differences and salary discrimination. Should abusive special treatment occur, procedures are in place to launch investigations and take actions. Reports should be submitHalf days 18 36 ted to line managers or HR. If the employee belongs to a union, a representative from Number of hours 624 502 that organisation is brought into the investigation. AGE DISTRIBUTION WOMEN/MEN Initiatives to promote skills development and diversity New start and entry positions for new arrivals Percentage distribution (%) Since early 2016, an initiative has been in place at SBAB that aims to contribute to Age distribution at 31 December 2019 Women Men Total diversity by working together with Sweden’s Public Employment Agency to offer new start and entry positions to newly arrived immigrants. In 2017, we also initiated 20–29 9 8 17 ­collaboration with the Tekniksprånget and Jobbsprånget labour programmes. These initiatives are pursued on a cross-functional basis throughout the organisa30–39 16 19 35 tion. In 2019, one applicant from Jobbsprånget progressed to a permanent position. 40–49 13 11 24 Hello World! 50–59 12 8 20 Maintaining the company’s competitiveness and sustainable societal development 60–69 3 1 4 requires competent employees, not least in the digital area. We contribute to lighting the stars of the future already today by backing the non-profit organisation Hello Total 52 48 100 World!, which works to support digital creation. On two occasions in 2019, Hello World! invited some 100 young people aged 8–18 to meet-ups at SBAB’s premises LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT WOMEN/MEN in Solna. We contribute premises, networks, refreshments and service through a Percentage distribution (%) number of employees working on a voluntary basis. Length of employment at 31 December 2019 Women Men Total Broadening the recruitment base We are reviewing several alternatives for broadening the base and reaching target <3 years 31 26 57 groups that we would otherwise miss in our recruitment processes. In 2019, the 4–6 years 6 6 12 Make Equal foundation helped us to review our employment advertisements to ensure they were formulated in an inclusive manner. 7–9 years 2 3 5 10–12 years 3 2 5 Volunteering Since spring 2016, SBAB employees have had an opportunity to undertake two days 13–15 years 1 1 2 of voluntary work per year at organisations that reflect our mission. Examples of such >16 years 10 7 17 organisations are Gengåvan in Karlstad and Stockholms Stadsmission. The volunteer work is performed during ordinary working hours, following which the volunteers Total 52 48 100 share their experiences by relating them on the intranet, in an article in social media, in a brief presentation for their work team or at a monthly meeting to which the entire organisation is invited. With this initiative, we want to make it possible for our employees to become involved and to contribute to making our society a better place. KEY EMPLOYEE FIGURES1) Key figures 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total number of employees at the end of the year 2) 695 574 506 485 429 of whom, women , % 2) 52 52 54 53 52 Temporary employees 3), % 5.0 1.0 1.6 1.6 1.3 Part-time employees 3), % 0.3 0.9 1.4 2.5 1.7 Average age, years 39 41 41 41 41 People who left the company over the year 78 61 74 62 58 People who joined the company over the year 158 133 100 113 100 Personnel turnover4), % 12 10 14 12 13 Equality Share of women on the Board of Directors, % 50 50 44 36 50 Share of women in the Executive Management, % 38 56 40 33 30 Share of female managers, % 43 44 45 45 44 Proportion of male employees, receiving parental leave allowance, % 38 37 47 41 24 Sick leave and wellness Short-term sick leave, % 2.3 2.2 2.0 2.1 1.9 Long-term sick leave, % 0.8 1.3 1.7 1.7 2.0 Total sick leave, % 3.1 3.5 3.7 3.8 3.9 Use of health-promotion contribution by all employees, % 78 79 79 74 69 1) The figures prior to 2019 comprise data excluding the subsidiary Booli Search Technologies AB. 2) Number of employees expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs), adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence. 3) Total number of employees at the end of the year. 4) Pertains only to the Parent Company SBAB Bank AB (publ). S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 175 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:5.3 Sound finances Green bonds impact reporting SUMMARY IMPACT REPORTING Eligible investment objects within SBAB’s green bond frameworks (“SBAB Green 2019 Bond Framework 2016” and “SBAB Group Green Bond Framework 2019”) totalled SEK 24.5 billion at 31 December 2019. According to SBAB’s calculations, these objects are estimated to generate an annual avoidance in GHG emissions correEligible investment objects within SBAB’s sponding to 13,048 tonnes CO2e. SBAB’s share of the financing is expected to green bond frameworks, SEK bn 24.5 ­correspond to an annual avoidance of 7,559 tonnes of CO2e. of which, SBAB Green Bond Framework 2016 4.7 The expected avoidance of GHG emissions has been calculated based on how much less energy the respective eligible investment object’s actual or expected of which, SBAB Group Green Bond Framework 2019 19.8 energy consumption is compared with various baselines decided by SBAB. There­ after, savings in CO2e emissions have been estimated for the respective objects Expected avoidance of GHG emissions, tonnes CO2e/year 13,048 based on the average emissions per kWh. of which, SBAB Green Bond Framework 2016 917 Further information is available in the SBAB Group Green Bonds Impact Report 2019, which is published on SBAB’s website. of which, SBAB Group Green Bond Framework 2019 12,131 SBAB’s share of the financing; Expected avoidance of GHG emissions, tonnes CO2e/year 7,559 of which, SBAB Green Bond Framework 2016 589 of which, SBAB Group Green Bond Framework 2019 6,970 FINANCIAL VALUE CREATION 2019 SBAB reports how financial value is created by breaking down created value for different stakeholders. Salaries and remuneration Interest paid attributable to Other operationally related to employees other funding expenses, for example SEK 630 million SEK 1,458 million expenses for business development, IT, premises Tax for the year Interest paid to and marketing SEK 520 million the public (deposits) SEK 486 million Profit for the year to be SEK 648 million reinvested into operations to Fee for national deposit guarantee and enable growth and investment resolution fee, which help maintain financial SEK 1,788 million stability in society. SEK 287 million 176 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:6 Sustainability reporting in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act From financial years starting after 31 December 2016, large undertakings must information to enable gaining an understanding of the company’s development, report sustainability in line with the rules in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act perposition and performance as well as the consequences for the operations. This infortaining to sustainability reporting. The provisions are based on an amendment to the mation should encompass questions pertaining to the environment, social condiEU Accounting Rules Directive (Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament tions, personnel, respect for human rights and anti-corruption efforts. The following and the Council amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-­ table, with references to the relevant pages of the report, to clarify how SBAB meets financial and diversity information by certain large undertakings and groups). Under the rules in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act pertaining to sustainability reporting. the new rules, a sustainability report is a report containing the requisite sustainability Climate and Societal conditions & respect Anti-Corruption efforts and other the environment for human rights action against financial crime Business model Pages 12–19 Pages 12–19 Pages 12–19 Policies and governance documents • P olicy for Sustainable Enterprise • P olicy for Sustainable Enterprise •P  olicy for Sustainable Enterprise • Credit Policy •E quality and Diversity Policy •P  olicy and Instruction for • Sustainable Bond Committee •P olicy to Promote Board Diversity Counteracting Money Instruction Laundering and Financing of • Ethics Policy Terrorism and Compliance with • Remuneration Policy Financial Sanctions • Work Environment Instruction • Instruction to Combat Bribes and •W histleblower Process Instruction Other Forms of Corruption • Code of Conduct •W  histleblower Process Instruction •S upplier Code •C  ode of Conduct •S ustainable Bond Committee •S  upplier Code Instruction Results and reference to Results: Results: Results: the GRI Pages 34–35, 60, 174, 176 Pages 33, 38–39, 42–43, 175 Page 33 GRI reference: GRI reference: GRI reference: • 305: Emissions • 205: Anti-corruption • 205: Anti-corruption • G4-FS8: Monetary value of • 403: Occupational products and services designed Health and Safety to deliver a specific environmen• 404: Training and education tal benefit for each business line broken down by purpose • 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity • 406: Non-Discrimination • 413: Local Communities Risk management Pages 76–77 Pages 76–77 Pages 76–77 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 177 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:7 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals UN’s Sustainable Development Goals UN’s associated targets Examples of SBAB’s activities and initiatives Page reference 8.1 Sustain per capita economic Contribute to GDP growth and jobs in Sweden 63, 176 growth in accordance with national Promote transparency to strengthen the position of 28–29 SDG 8: Decent work circumstances and, in particular, at consumers in the housing and residential mortgage market and economic growth least 7 per cent gross domestic product growth per annum in the least developed Equality plan (including diversity) and goals 50 Promote sustained, inclusive and countries sustainable economic growth, full Tool, Respekttrappan, to promote respect and equality 51–53 and productive employment and 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive in the workplace decent work for all employment and decent work for all Annual salary surveys to prevent non-objective salary 174 women and men, including for young differences and salary discrimination people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value Efforts to ensure that our channels are accessible for 32 people with disabilities 8.10 Strengthen the capacity of Volunteering opportunities for all employees 175 domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to Collaboration with Boost by FC Rosengård to increase 38 banking, insurance and financial services employment among young people for all Industry collaboration to reduce tax avoidance in the 39–41 construction industry and to ensure acceptable and just labour conditions for those working on the new construction projects that SBAB is part of financing Set ethical requirements for suppliers through the 174 Supplier Code 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to Green investment loans to property companies and 34 adequate, safe and affordable housing tenant-owners’ associations for environmental and energy SDG 11: Sustainable and basic services and upgrade slums measures in properties cities and communities Green consumer loans (Energy Loan) for sustainable 34 11.3 By 2030, enhance inclusive and investments in homes Make cities and human settlements sustainable urbanization and capacity inclusive, safe, resilient and for participatory, integrated and Green residential mortgages for energy-efficient housing 34 sustainable. sustainable human settlement planning and management in all countries Educate and motivate our customers to buy and invest 34 in measures to increase energy efficiency Financing new housing construction to increase access 38 to housing in Sweden Green bonds to finance energy-friendly and climate-smart 35, 60, 176 housing Climate stress testing of the mortgage portfolio 58 Industry collaboration to reduce tax avoidance in the 39–41 construction industry (see above) Collaboration with Stockholms Stadsmission, Faktum and 39 Situation Stockholm to reduce homelessness and exclusion 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people To provide know-how and education to our customers and 28– 29 SDG 12: Responsible everywhere have the relevant the public to enable everyone to take informed decisions consumption and information and awareness for about housing and the residential mortgage market production sustainable development and lifestyles Tools, services and information pages that help and inform 28–29 in harmony with nature our consumers on issues regarding housing and household Ensure sustainable consumption finances and production patterns Collaboration with Boost by FC Rosengård and Changers 38 Hub to increase financial awareness among young people 178 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:7 Cont. UN’s Sustainable Development Goals UN’s associated targets Examples of SBAB’s activities and initiatives Page reference Green investment loans (see above) 34 Green consumer loans (see above) 34 SDG 13: Climate action Green residential mortgages (see above) 34 Take urgent action to combat Monitoring the environmental impact of our own 35, 174 climate change and its impacts. operations Consultation (together with SBAB’s business partners) 34 for corporate clients and tenant-owners’ associations regarding how to improve property energy-efficiency Financing new housing construction that is more energy34–34 efficient than the older housing stock Green bonds (See above) 35, 60, 176 Certain sustainability criteria considered in the credit 173 granting process for corporate clients and tenant-owners’ associations as part of the overall assessment Climate stress testing of the mortgage portfolio 58 Green bonds in the liquidity portfolio 73 S:8 Reporting inspired by the framework of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Governance Strategy Risk management Indicators & Goals The Board’s oversight of climate-related Climate-related risks and opportunities The organisation’s processes for The organisation’s metrics for evaluating risks and opportunities. identified by the organisation. managing climate-related risks. climate-related risks and opportunities. Pages 84–85, 172 P  ages 34–35, 58, 60, 77, 171, Page 77 Pages 34–35, 174, 181 173, 174 Management’s role in assessing and The impact from risks and opportunities on Integration of the above processes in the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions pursuant to managing climate-related risks and the organisation’s operations, strategy organisation’s general risk management. the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. opportunities. and financial planning. P  age 172 Pages 77, 171–172 Pages 77, 171–172 Page 174 The resilience of the organisation’s Targets used to manage climate-related strategy, taking into consideration risks and opportunities different climate-related scenarios. Pages 58, 77, 171–172 Pages 34–35, 171–172, 174 We have begun to adapt our reporting structure and work for climate-related risks in accordance with TCFD's recommendations. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 179 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES S:9 GRI/COP INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CORE OPTION) UNGC GRI Standard Description Page reference Comment/Omission principle SDG Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation SBAB Bank AB (publ) 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 12–13, 67–71 102-3 Location of headquarters Solna, Sweden 102-4 Location of operations SBAB only has operations in Sweden 102-5 Ownership and legal form Limited company. SBAB is wholly owned by the Swedish government. 102-6 Markets served 12–13, 64, 67–71 102-7 Scale of the organisation 12–13, 64 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 42–53, 145–149, 175 8 102-9 Supply chain 33, 174 4, 5 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain No significant changes during the reporting period 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 169 102-12 External initiatives 40, 51–53, 175 102-13 Memberships of associations 169 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–9, 80–81 Statements from the CEO and the Chairman Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 17, 33,42–45, 169 10 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 172 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 170 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 175 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 22, 170 3 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 22–23, 170–171 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 171 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 64 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 170–171 102-47 List of material topics 171 102-48 Restatements of information No material changes 102-49 Changes in reporting No material changes 102-50 Reporting period 1 January–31 December 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report 28 March 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Updated annually as at 31 December 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 189 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3, 169 102-55 GRI content index 180 102-56 External assurance 186 18 0 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Sustainability topic Page Comment/ UNGC in SBAB’s materialGRI Standard Description ­reference Omission principle SDG ity assessment Economic Performance 201: Economic performance – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–103-3 Management approach 172 Financial stability 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 176 8 Profitability and growth 205: Anti-corruption – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–103-3 Management approach 172 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 33 10 policies and procedures Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption were reported 10 during the year ENVIRONMENTAL 305: Emissions – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–03-3 Management approach 172 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 174 7, 8 12, 13 Climate impact and 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 174 7, 8 12, 13 use of resources 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 174 7, 8 12, 13 SOCIAL 403: Occupational health and safety – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–103-3 Management approach 172 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 175 It is only relevant for SBAB to report sick 8 An attractive lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related leave. workplace fatalities Divergencies: statistics not broken down by gender or region 404: Training and education – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–103-3 Management approach 170 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 2019 completed 87% “My Plan” 8 An attractive and career development reviews Divergencies: statistics not broken down workplace by gender or employment category 405: Diversity and equal opportunity – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–03-3 Management approach 172 An attractive workplace 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 175 Divergencies: statistics not broken down 6 8 by minority group membership Corporate culture and values 406: Non-discrimination – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–103-3 Management approach 172 1, 2 An attractive 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No significant cases were 6 8 workplace reported during the year Corporate culture and values 413: Local communities – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–103-3 Management approach 172 Responsible 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 38–39, 175 mortgage provider impact assessments, and development programs Community engagement 417: Marketing and labeling – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–103-3 Management approach 172 Customer experience 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service No significant cases were Transparency information and labeling reported during the year Brand 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing No significant cases were Responsible communications reported during the year mortgage provider 418: Customer privacy – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–03-3 Management approach 172 Risk and compliance 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer No significant cases were reported during Sustainable IT privacy and losses of customer data the year platform 419: Socioeconomic compliance – boundaries: within SBAB 103-1–103-3 Management approach 172 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social No significant fines or sanctions have Risk and compliance and economic area been imposed on the organisation for non-compliance with laws and regulations FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR DISCLOSURES (GRI G4) Product Portfolio G4–DMA Management approach 172 1–10 Offering of green G4–FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a 34–35, 60, 1–10 8, 11, 13 products and specific environmental benefit for each business line broken 176 services Innovation down by purpose and product and service development S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 181 The Board of Directors’ signatures The Board of Directors’ signatures The Board of Directors of SBAB hereby submit SBAB’s Annual Report, which accounts were otherwise prepared in accordance with generally accepted accountincludes both the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. The formal Annual ing policies and provide a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s position and Report is to be found in specially marked sections, which are also apparent from the earnings. The Administration Report, which is provided on pages that have been table of contents. The Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with marked specially, provides a true and fair view of the development of the operations, the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines; GRI Standards: Core option. It position and earnings, and describes the significant risks and uncertainties faced by also constitutes SBAB’s Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Comthe Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. pact, sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 2, Item 2 of the Annual Accounts Act for information on how SBAB contributes to the 2030 Agenda for sustainable developCredit Institutions and Securities Companies, the Board considers the Group’s ment. equity to be sufficiently large in relation to the scope and risks of the operations. The Board and the CEO certify that the sections pertaining to the formal annual The information provided gives a true and fair view of the circumstances of the accounts and the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance company and nothing of material significance has been omitted which might affect with the international accounting standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and prothe view of the company created by the Annual Report. vide a true and fair view of the Group’s position and earnings. The formal annual Stockholm, 23 March 2020 Jan Sinclair, Chairman Leif Pagrotsky Inga-Lill Carlberg Lars Börjesson Board Member Board Member Board Member Daniel Kristiansson Johan Prom Board Member Board Member Jane Lundgren-Ericsson Synnöve Trygg Board Member Board Member Margareta Naumburg Anders Heder Employee representative Employee representative Klas Danielsson CEO Our audit report was submitted on 23 March 2020 Deloitte AB Patrick Honeth Authorised Public Accountant 182 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of SBAB Bank AB (publ) corporate identity number 556253-7513 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts At December 31, 2019, loans to the public amounted to 383,807 million, with loan loss provisions of 132 million. Given the significance of loans to the public (representOpinions ing 81% of total assets), the impact from the inherent uncertainty and subjectivity We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of SBAB Bank AB involved in assessing loan loss provisions, as well as the extensive disclosures (publ) for the year 2019 except for the corporate governance statement on pages required under IFRS 9, we consider this to be a key audit matter for our audit. 82–88. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are Refer to critical judgments and estimates in note G 1 in the financial statements included on pages 62–81, 89–168 and 182 in this document. and related disclosures of credit risk in note RC 1. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and present • We evaluated relevant controls within the loan loss provision process to verify if fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of parent company as of 31 they are appropriately designed and implemented during the year. We also December 2019 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then obtained an understanding of the process for key decisions from management ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Secuand committee meetings that form part of the approval process for loan loss rities Companies. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance ­provisions. with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and • We obtained an understanding of system-based and manual controls over the present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 recognition and measurement of loan loss provisions and for key controls December 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then designed tests to verify if the controls were implemented during the year. ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as • We assessed, supported by our credit risk modelling specialists, the modelling adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securitechniques and model methodologies against the requirements of IFRS 9. We ties Companies. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on assessed the sufficiency of a selection of the underlying models developed for pages 82–88. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts loan loss provisions. of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. • Finally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures relating to We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the loan loss provision to assess compliance with disclosure requirements included in income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. IFRS. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to Application of hedge accounting the parent company's audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation FSeveral criteria’s in IAS 39 has to be fulfilled to be able to qualify for hedge (537/2014) Article 11. accounting, including documentation of the characteristics and purpose of the hedge and regular testing performed on the effectiveness of the hedge. Given the Basis for Opinions complexity of the regulation for hedge accounting this is an area with higher risks for We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing banks. (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities SBAB has chosen to use hedge accounting for hedging of interest and currency under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. risk and applies hedging of fair value, macro hedge and cash flow hedges. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with proAt December 31, 2019, effects of hedge accounting in Net result of financial fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical items measured at fair value amounted to SEK –590 million, and in Other compreresponsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on hensive income of SEK 1,823 million. the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Given the complexity in the requirements for hedge accounting and the subjecRegulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, tivity involved in the judgements made, we consider this to be a key audit matter for where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. our audit. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriRefer to accounting principles regarding critical judgments and estimates in note ate to provide a basis for our opinions. G 1 in the financial statement and related disclosures of market risk in note RC 4. Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: Key Audit Matters • We assessed key controls over the documentation and overview of hedge ­relations Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, and their initial and on-going implementation. were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated • We evaluated the hedge documentation and relations to assess if the hedges accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our were appropriately designed in accordance with IFRS. audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated • We evaluated management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the hedges, and accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. assessment and accounting for ineffectiveness in hedges. • Finally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures relating to Judgments and estimates with respect to valuation of loan receivables hedge accounting to assess compliance with disclosure requirements included in Recognition and measurement of financial instruments as regulated in IFRS 9 is a IFRS. complex area with significant impact on SBAB's business and financial reporting. IFRS 9 is a new and complex accounting standard which requires significant judgment to determine the loan loss provision. Key areas of judgment include: • The interpretation of the requirements to determine loan loss provisions under application of IFRS 9, which is reflected in the Bank’s expected credit loss model. • The identification of exposures with a significant deterioration in credit quality. • Assumptions used in the expected credit loss model such as the financial condition of the counterparty, expected future cash flows and forward looking macroeconomic factors (e.g. unemployment rates, interest rates, gross domestic product growth, property prices). S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 183 Auditor’s report IT-systems that support complete and accurate financial reporting Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts SBAB is dependent on their IT-systems to (1) serve customers, (2) support their busiThis document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consoliness processes, (3) ensure complete and accurate processing of financial transacdated accounts and is found on pages 1–61 and 169–181. The Board of Directors tions and (4) support the overall internal control framework. Many of SBAB’s internal and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. controls over financial reporting are depend upon automated application controls Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover and completeness and integrity of reports generated by the IT-systems. Given the this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion high dependency on technology, we consider this to be a key audit matter for our regarding this other information. audit. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, We categorises key IT-risk and control domains relating to financial reporting in our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether the following sections: the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated • Changes to the IT-environment accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise • Operations and monitoring of the IT-environment obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be • Information security materially misstated. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that Changes to the IT-environment there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report Inappropriate changes to the IT-environment may result in systems that do not that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. ­function as expected and result in unreliable data processing with impact on financial reporting. Hence SBAB has implemented processes and controls to support that Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director changes to the IT-environment are appropriately implemented and function The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the prepara­consistently with management’s intentions. tion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair preOur audit procedures included, but were not limited to: sentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and • We assessed management principles and processes for change management in Securities Companies and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance the IT-environment. with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director • We assessed management monitoring of changes in the IT-environment. are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to • We evaluated segregations of duties. enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Operations and monitoring of the IT-environment In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Inappropriate operation and monitoring of the ITenvironment may result in the Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the inability to prevent or detect incorrect data processing. Hence SBAB has imple­company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as mented processes and controls to support that IT-environment is monitored applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of ­continuously and that incorrect data processing is identified and corrected. accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to • We evaluated the appropriateness of IT-System job scheduling and alarm cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. ­configuration capabilities. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsi• We evaluated the process for monitoring IT-System. bilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. Information security If logical security tools and controls are not configured, implemented and appropriAuditor’s responsibility ately, key control activities may be ineffective, desired segregation of duties may not Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual be maintained, and information may be modified inappropriately, become unavailaccounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstateable or disclosed inappropriately. This is of particular importance considering the ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes current cyber threat level. Hence SBAB has implemented processes and controls to our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guaransupport that information is safeguarded through access controls and that known tee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted audit­vulnerabilities are managed timely. ing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individu• We evaluated the process for identity and access management, including access ally or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the ecogranting, change and removal. nomic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consoli• We evaluated the process and tools that management use for the purpose of dated accounts. ensuring availability of data as per user request and business requirements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the annual accounts • We evaluated the appropriateness of controls for security governance to protect and consolidated accounts is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors websystems and data from unauthorised use. site: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description forms part of the auditor’s report. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the annual accounts and ­consolidated accounts, including the most important assessed risks for material ­misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in the auditor’s report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 18 4 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Auditor’s report Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director on pages 82–88 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. of SBAB Bank AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accorcompany’s profit or loss. dance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corWe recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit to be porate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be dis­conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally charged from liability for the financial year. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has ­provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Basis for Opinions A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accorWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards dance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 of the Annual in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these Securities Companies. ­requirements. Deloitte was appointed auditor of SBAB Bank AB by the general meeting of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate shareholders on the 29th of April 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since to provide a basis for our opinions. 28th of April 2016. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the Stockholm March 23, 2020 ­company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment Deloitte AB of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the ­parent company's and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. Signature on Swedish original The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the Patrick Honeth administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous Authorised Public Accountant assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company's organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in ­Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description forms part of the auditor’s report. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 185 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on SBAB Bank ABs (publ) ­Sustainability Report and statement regarding the Statutory ­Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To SBAB Bank AB (publ), corporate identity number 556253-7513 Introduction The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of SBAB Bank AB (publ) to undermaintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies take a limited assurance engagement of the SBAB Bank AB (publ) Sustainability and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Report for the year 2020. The Company has defined the scope of the Sustainability ­standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are independent Report on page 1–61 and 169–181 and the Statutory Sustainability Report on page of SBAB Bank AB (publ) in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in 177. Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Executive Management The limited assurance procedures performed and the examination according to The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible for the RevR 12 do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all preparation of the Sustainability Report including the Statutory Sustainability Report significant matters that might be identified in an audit. The conclusion based on a in accordance with the applicable criteria and the Annual Accounts Act respeclimited assurance engagement and an examination according to RevR 12 does not tively. The criteria are defined on page 177 in the Sustainability Report, and are provide the same level of assurance as a conclusion based on an audit. part of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by GRI (Global Reporting Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Initiative), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accountthe Executive Management as described above. We consider these criteria suitable ing and calculation principles that the Company has developed. This responsibility for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. below. Responsibilities of the auditor Conclusion Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come the limited assurance procedures we have performed and to express an opinion to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report, is not preregarding the Statutory Sustainability Report. Our engagement is limited to historipared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board cal information presented and does therefore not cover future-oriented information. of Directors and Executive Management. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial InforA Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. mation. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying Stockholm 23 March 2020 analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Our examination regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s Deloitte AB accounting standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement and an examination according to RevR 12 is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing Patrick Honeth standards in Sweden. Authorized Public Accountant 18 6 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Five-year Summary Five-year Summary INCOME-STATEMENT ITEMS GROUP SEK million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Interest income 5,868 4,924 4,572 4,601 5,123 Interest expense –2,395 –1,562 –1,423 –1,772 –2,681 Net interest income 3,473 3,362 3,149 2,829 2,442 Other operating income 1) 48 –82 14 89 –101 Total operating income 3,521 3,280 3,163 2,918 2,341 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of PPE and intangible assets –71 –32 –31 –27 –31 Other operating expenses –1,116 –1,017 –928 –862 –778 Total operating expenses –1,187 –1,049 –959 –889 –809 Profit before credit losses 2,334 2,231 2,204 2,029 1,532 Credit losses/recoveries –26 11 24 –18 –40 Impairment of financial assets, net 0 –1 – – – Operating profit 2,308 2,241 2,228 2,011 1,492 BALANCE-SHEET ITEMS SEK million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Lending portfolio 383,807 364,215 335,111 296,022 296,981 Other assets 91,725 84,140 81,676 79,134 77,571 Total assets 475,532 448,355 416,787 375,156 374,552 Deposits 130,542 124,926 111,895 96,769 76,639 Debt securities issued, etc. 303,597 290,795 274,517 247,407 264,205 Other liabilities 14,285 10,258 9,540 9,552 13,870 Deferred tax liabilities 579 194 83 207 47 Subordinated debt 4,948 4,946 4,942 5,939 7,943 Equity 21,581 17,236 15,810 15,282 11,848 Total liabilities and equity 475,532 448,345 416,787 375,156 374,552 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS % 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 New lending, SEK million 75,514 74,264 82,282 59,648 80,470 Net interest margin 0.75 0.78 0.80 0.75 0.68 Credit loss ratio –0.01 0.00 0.01 –0.01 –0.01 C/I ratio 34 32 30 30 35 Return on equity 2) 11.7 12.1 12.5 12.3 10.2 Return on assets 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 Number of employees at year-end, FTEs 3) 695 602 530 510 429 CET1 capital ratio 13.1 12.5 32.2 32.2 28.6 Tier 1 capital ratio 17.3 15.1 39.3 40.1 35.1 Total capital ratio 20.1 18.1 47.6 51.6 49.3 1) The item includes net commission, the net result of financial transactions and other operating income. 2) From 2017, SBAB has used a new definition to calculate the return on equity. The comparative figures for previous years have not been restated. 3) Number of employees expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs), adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 187 Alternative performance measures Alternative performance measures C/I ratio Alternative performance measures (APMs) are financial metrics of historical Definition: Expenses for the period before credit losses in relation to operating or future performance, financial position or cash flows that are not defined in income for the period. the applicable rules for financial reporting (for example, IFRS and the Swedish The APM aims to provide the reader with further information regarding the Group’s Annual Accounts Act) or in the EU’s Capital Requirements Directive (CRD cost-efficiency. IV)/Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR). SBAB uses APMs when these are relevant for the presentation and folGROUP low-up of the Group’s financial position and when these metrics are deemed to provide additional valuable information to readers of the financial reports. SEK million 2019 2018 SBAB has also chosen to present the APMs as they are in common use within Operating expenses –1,187 –1,049 the industry. APMs can be calculated with various approaches and, accordingly, SBAB’s metrics are not directly comparable with similar metrics preOperating income 3,521 3,280 sented by other companies. C/I ratio, % 33.7 32.0 New lending C/L ratio Definition: Gross lending for the period. Definition: Expenses for the period before credit losses in relation to lending to the The APM aims to provide the reader with an image of the inflow of new business public (calculated using the opening and closing balances for the period). during the reporting period. The APM aims to provide the reader with further information regarding the Group’s cost-efficiency. Credit loss ratio KONCERNEN Definition: Credit losses for the period in relation to lending to the public (closing balances). mnkr 2019 2018 The APM aims to provide the reader with further information regarding the relative Operating expenses –1,187 –1,049 ratio of credit losses to total lending. Lending to the public 374,011 364,215 GROUP C/L ratio, % 0.32 0.30 SEK million 2019 2018 Credit losses/recoveries –26 11 Definitions of other key performance indicators Lending to the public 383,807 364,215 Number of employees (FTEs) Number of employees expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs), adjusted for sick leave and Credit loss ratio, % –0.01 0.00 leave of absence Return on assets Net profit after tax for the period in relation to Return on equity average total assets Definition: Profit after tax in relation to average equity for the period (calculated CET1 capital ratio CET1 capital in relation to risk-weighted assets using the opening and closing balances for the period), after adjustment for additional Tier 1 instruments and value changes in financial assets recognised in equity. Total capital ratio Own funds in relation to risk-weighted assets The APM aims to provide the reader with further information regarding the Group’s Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital in relation to risk-weighted assets profitability in relation to unrestricted equity. Leverage ratio Tier 1 capital in relation to total assets and ­ GROUP off-balance sheet exposures restated with the application of credit conversion factors SEK million 2019 2018 Liquidity coverage ratio, LCR Liquid assets in relation to net cash outflows Profit after tax 1,788 1,726 over a 30-day stress scenario in accordance with the European Commission’s Delegated Average equity 15,2801) 14,2832) Regulation EU (2015/61) with regard to Return on equity, % 11.7 12.1 liquidity coverage requirements Survival horizon The number of days that the need for liquidity 1) Average equity has been adjusted for the dividend of SEK 690 million. can be met in a stress scenario before new 2) Average equity has been adjusted for the dividend of SEK 684 million. liquidity is needed Net stable funding ratio, NSFR A liquidity risk metric of a structural nature that Net interest margin demonstrates the stability of the Group’s Definition: Net interest income for the period in relation to average total assets funding in relation to its assets. The NSFR was ­(calculated using the opening and closing balances for the reporting period). calculated pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2019/876 of the European Parliament and The APM aims to provide the reader with further information regarding the Group’s the Council at 31 December 2019 profitability. GROUP SEK million 2019 2018 Net interest income 3,473 3,362 Average total assets 461,944 432,571 Net interest margin, % 0.75 0.78 18 8 S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 Contact details, addresses Financial calendar Credit rating Year-end report 2019 14 February 2020 Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Interim Report Jan–Mar 2020 29 April 2020 Long-term funding, SBAB A1 A Interim report Jan–Jun 2020 17 July 2020 Long-term funding, SCBC Aaa – Interim report Jan–Sep 2020 23 October 2020 Short-term funding, SBAB P–1 A–1 Year-end report 2020 11 February 2021 SBAB’s Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 April 2020 in Solna. Contact details Contact IR Sustainability contacts Contact for questions regarding the Telephone: +46 (0)8-614 43 98 report E-mail: investor@sbab.se Axel Wallin Head of Sustainability Pontus Niléhn Fredrik Jönsson axel.wallin@sbab.se Manager Financial Communications Head of Treasury pontus.nilehn@sbab.se Telephone: +46 (0)8-614 38 22 Johanna Bark fredrik.jonsson@sbab.se Sustainability Strategist johanna.bark@sbab.se Anders Hult Head of Funding Carl Lindståhl Telephone: +46 (0)8-614 38 64 Sustainability Strategist anders.hult@sbab.se carl.lindståhl@sbab.se Emma Holmberg Head of Investor Relations +46 (0)771-45 30 00 emma.holmberg@sbab.se Information for investors For more information and contacts, see www.sbab.se Addresses Head Office: SBAB Bank SBAB Bank SBAB Bank Box 1012 Box 53072 Box 4209 SE-651 15 Karlstad SE-400 14 Gothenburg SE-171 04 Solna Visiting address: Östra Torggatan 9, Visiting address: Södra Larmgatan 13 Visiting address: Svetsarvägen 24 ­Arkaden Telephone: +46 (0)771-45 30 30 Telephone: +46 (0)771-45 30 00 Telephone: +46 (0)771-45 30 00 Fax: +46 (0)31-743 37 10 Fax: +46 (0)8-614 38 60 Fax: +46 (0)54-17 71 10 E-mail: foretag-brf@sbab.se E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se Telephone Corporate Clients & SBAB Bank Tenant-Owners’ Associations: Rundelsgatan 16 +46 (0)771-45 30 30 SE-211 36 Malmö E-mail Corporate Clients & Tenant-­ Telephone: +46 (0)771-45 30 30 Owners’ Associations: Fax: +46 (0)40-664 53 58 foretag-brf@sbab.se E-mail: foretag-brf@sbab.se Corp. Reg. No.: 556253-7513 www.sbab.se Production: SBAB in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Print: Exakta Malmö 2020. S B A B A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 019 18 9 THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONFIDENCE! SBAB SWEDEN’S MOST SATISFIED RETAIL CUSTOMERS RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES 2019 SBAB SWEDEN’S MOST SATISFIED CORPORATE CUSTOMERS PROPERTY LOANS 2019 SBAB Bank AB (publ), Corp. Reg. No.: 556253-7513 SBAB ANNUAL REPORT 2019
