speexx United Nations Global Compact Speexx Progress Report 2019 2020 To: Foundation forthe Global Compact 801 2nd Avenue 2nd floor New York, NY 10017 USA From: Christina Quintanilla, Speexx, TumHingerstr. 32 80337 Munich Gernrany Mail: c.quintanilla@speexx.com Tel +49 (0189 1747482 46 Fax +49 (0)89 / 7479 23 08 lspe* Unned Nario6 Globd Com Fcr ftoO r6s Repürl speexx Statement of continued support by Armin Hopp Dear Sir / Madam, Speexx joined the United Natio ns Glo bal Compact in 2012 and thereby committed itsef to f ully alig ning its operational and strategic processes with the Global Compact's 10 Principles. The UN Glo bal Compact asks companies to embrace, suppoir and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rig hts, lab or standards, the environment and anti-corruption At Speexx, we strive to supportand disseminate the UN Global Compact's principles in our daily company procedures and to encourage our partners and clients to do the same. Our initiatives, such as 'A Million Chances' donation projects, 'Green Learning' programs and our ongoing financial support of Humentum (f o rmerly known as 'LINGOS' Learnlng ln NGOs), ref lect the Global Compact's values throughout tt is clear to us that the systematic incorporation of sustainability concepts in all operative areas of tlle co mpany remains a continuo us task. We are proud to continue our support for the United Nations Global Co mpact and to renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles President of Speexx About Speexx Speexx is the first intelligent language learning platform forthe digital workplace. For intemational corporations and a global workforce, Speexx is the only language platform that combines assessment, learning and continuous performance support. Unlike traditional training providers Spee»( helps to assess, build, growand maintain the language skillsthat matter. The Speexx branded Perfect Blend integrates online business communication skills assessment, mobile ard social leaming, 1 ,5OO expert coaches located throughout the worjd and personalized live online activities into one fully standardized, globally consistent learning experience. More than 8 million users in 1,500 organizationsincluding UNHCR, Adecco, Generali, Renault and UBS use Speexx to learn a language smader and d eliver results o n tirne. Speexx was f ounded in 201 1 and is headq uartered in Munich with off ices in London, Mad rid, Milan, Paris, Sao Paulo, New York and Shanghai. For more inf ormation, visit www spee)o(. com. lspeexx Unil ed N atiö ns Glo bal Com pet Prog r6s Rep onl speexx Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of intemationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rig hts ab uses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Desciption of the relevance of human ights for the company (i.e. human ights isk€ssessmenl.). Descrptio, of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Speexx fully supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We ensure that internationally proclaimed human rig hts are upheld in every stage of our organizational processes and that we are not complicit in any human rights abuses. Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is particularly significant for Speexx, which states: ('1) Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundarnental stages. Elemenhry education shall be compulsory. Technical and professiorEl education shall be made generally available and hig her ed ucation shall be eq ually accessible to all on the basis of merit. (2) Ed ucation shall be d irected to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. lt shall promote understandirE, tolerance and friendship among all nätions, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of tle United Nations for the maintenance of peace. (3) Parents have a p rior right to choose the kind of ed ucdjon that shall be g iven to their children. Each year, Speexx supports various charity projects lhrough its A Million Chances initiative. By supportirE education, foreign language skills and sustainability in disadvantaged regions and communities around the worid, Speexx hopes to help communities to support themselves in upholding intemationally proclairned human rights. lmplementation Desciption of concrete actionsto implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Righß isks and respond to Human Rights violations. The majority of our products are produced in-house, wfiere human rights protection is ensured. Our partnss and suppliers are selected carefully and evaluaied annually as part of our q uality management s ystem. Each year, Speexx donates educational solutions to a variety of projects around the world as part of our charity project A Million Chances.' By doing what we do best providing educational opportunities we are committed to working as a reliable partner in building a better future in dlsadvantaged regions of the wodd. A Million Chances does this byfocusing on three main goals: (1) Ed ucationas a spring board for ind ependerce and autono my is not a given in all regions of the world. lt needs to be facilitated and supported. (2) EnablirE foreig n languag e skills as a means of breaking down lang uage baniers is particularly dear to our hearts, and core to Speexx'values. (3) Sustainability helping victims and children in need, to in tum help themselves. We at Speexx, are determined to continue our engagement in the future. Ispeexx Uniled N dio ns Glo bal Com pet Prog r6s R€p ctl speexx Measurement of outcomes Desciption of how the company monitors and evaluates peiormance. The A Million Chances project is reviewed by senior management and the Speexx communicatiors d epartment on an annual basis. Each year, new goals and recipienß are selected for the following year. One of our projects for 2019 was with tlung4tum, a long-term partner and a training o rganization providirE hig h-q uality training and development courses for international NGOs. Spee)o( lang uage learning is part of their core membership offering. Our courses are proviled to Humentum members for hig hly discounted prices enabling and thereby helping humanitarian workers all around the world to help those in need. With over4,712 courses in English, Spanish and French courses in use, Humentum is a highly active lvlillion Chances Partner. Moreover, the engagementofthe participants can be d escribed as above parwith an above pass rate. particularly in Latin America. As part of the A l\4illion Chances initiative, Speexx also works with the Humanitarian Leadership Academy. Born out of the need to respond to natural disasters, the Humanitarian Leadership Academy is a global leaming initiative set up to enable humanitarians around the wodd to prepare forand respond to crises in theirown countries where they are volunteering. By donating leaming licenses to the Humanitarian Leadership Academy, Speexx enables the Acaderny to reach a wider aud ience with their humanitarian efforts by teaching more volunteers through the HLA's online learning platf orm and providing them with the ed ucation and training they need . The core message of this project is to relate the increasing need fo r continuous learning, includ ing lang uage skills and the effect that increased knowledge and communication skills can have in both business and humanitarian settings. Good communication increases organizatio nal ability to operate and coordinate at both global and local levels. Speexx is also a content partner to CSOD (Comerstone OnDemand), meaning that Speexx meets thdr string ent criteria to offer co urses via their leaming p latform. S pee)c( has been a partner of CSOD for over eight years. ln ad d ition, S pee)« offers coursesvia their charity DisasterReady.org, a Comerstone OnDemand Found ation initiative, to support their humanitarian efforts. DisasterReady.org works to develop the skills and maximize the impact of Humanitarian Aid and Developrnent Professionals around the globe, by providirg them wilh free online learning resources. Further informalion about the Speexx l\,4illion Chances projects can be found here: https /^,vww. speexx. mm/home/a-mi b n-chances/ : I I Ispsexx Un ed Natjo ns Glo bal Com @t ftog.Gs Repdl] Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulso ry labor; Principle 5: tiE ef f ective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employmert and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Desciption of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e. labor ights -related risks and oppoftunities). Desciption of witten policies, public commitments and company goals on labor ights. Speexx is mmmilted to the intemational laws, European laws and to the respective nalional laws. Embedded into this system of laws and human rig hts, we strongly support and are leg ally bound to up hold all goals ard aims stated in the d ifferent legal texts. Employment contracts are subjecl to German and European law and therefore contiain and respect both tlle f reedom of association and the effectjve recognition of the rig ht to collective bargaining. Our employees trave the rig ht to establish and ap point a rep resentalive com m itlee in o rd er to enforce their rig hß. We comply with the stipulations of the Eq ual Employment Opportunity laws in each counlry we are located in. lmplementation Desciption of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labor policies, reduce labor isks and respond to labor violations. All employment contracts are reviewed for compliance to labor laws by our legal consultants in each region. When f illing vacancies, applicants with d isabilities will be considered with priority if suitable. All employees, regardless of citizenship, race and gender, enjoy the sarne rig hts and opportunities at Spee»( Measurement of outcomes Desciption of how the company monitors and evaluates perfomance. Labor issues are reviewed by senior management at the end of each business year. We conduct global annual performance reviews (including self-assessment, manager reviews, and human resources quality check and review d iscussions) with q uarterly follow-up sessions for employees within Speexx. We also have target ag reements for selected departments that are evaluated either annually or on a q uarterly basis. There have been no incidents of violation of the Labor principles during the last reporting period. lsps* United Natoß Globd Com pacl ftogr6s R@dU speexx Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friend ty technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Desciption of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental ,rsks and opportunities). Desciption of policies, public commitnEnts and company goals on environmental protection. We want to protect the environment for our future generations. A global low carbon economy lies in the hands of every g lobal citizen. That is why going green at Speexx isn't just a catch phrase it is a co mmitment. We are committed to green leaming solutions. lmplementation Desciption of concrete actbns to implenent environmental polbies, reduce environmental isks and respld to environmental i nc idents. Speexx is a green learning solution. When leaming a language with Speexx, the classroom is the laptop. Learners work on their language improvement online and in a self-paced manner. Our learners are supported and motivated bytheirpersonal online coach via email and the live training sessions that take placevia virtual classrooms or via telephone. We increasingly encourage our custorners to switch from classroom-b6ed lessons to virtual sessions, which are just as effeclive for leamers. While trad itional classrooms rely heavily on paper, the entire Speexx communication is d igital: assEnmerts and feed back are sent to the learner and come with the solution as digibl files. Tasks and homework can be completed entirely o n the computer. lnstead of printing out and hand ing in assig nments on paper, learneß simply e-mail them to their coach and receive their feed back in the same way. Speexx students do not need to travel to attend dass. They can stJdy a language at their own pace at home, at work or at any other place in the wo dd with the online solution. Learning a lang uage with Speexx means entering a classroom without causing CO2 emissions. The live sessions are broadcästed f rom the teacheds home. The Speexx Virtual Classroom was developed to accommodate the specific needs of language learners; its excellent audio and video q uality allows leamers all over the world to easily communicate with theirlrainer. This makes Speexx a green language training solution mmpared to traditional classroorn-based courses. ln addition, at the Speexx offices we embrace the environmental principles and prioritize environmentdly friendly options wherever we can. Our offices are powered by renewable energy solar, wind and water. We switched from conventional power suppliers tö environmentally friendly and sustainable ones, ensuring that the power we use is green. lnstead of supplying plastic botfles with drinks which cause a lot of waste, Speexx offers large glass carafes wtrich can be refilled, washed and reused at work. With ourco rporate-wide virtual conferencing inf rast ructu re, we eliminate the need to travelthousands of miles around the wo rld. lnstead, we meet, train and collaborate and red uce our travel emissions to a minimum. lspe* Uiiled NatonsGlobd Com pal Prosr6sReprt) speexx Our lT department prides itself on its g reen credentials, always choosing energy efficientcomputers, servss, d evices and ensuring that eq uipment across the board is consistenty re-used, recycled or donated The Speexx 'green travel policy' actively encourages the use of public transportation, bicycles (which \,e encourage by supplying a company bike pump), video conferencing and telecommuting. Recycling and usirE recycled materials has been a standard practice at Spee)« since the company's inception. All recyclables are properly recycled. Measurement of outcomes Description of howthe company monitors and evaluates environmental peiormance. Our customer satisfaction is measured mid-term and end of term via online surveys, as an essential pad of our q uality management system. Speexx (Digiial Publishing AG) was also awarded the Bronze-lMedal by Ecovadis, the world's most trusted p rovider of business sustainability ratings. The award s prog ram recognizes excellence in sustainability am sustainable procurement across several categories including: stakeholder engagement, supplier engagement, supplier portfolio CSR performance improvement, program leadership and regional performance. Additionally, they serve to acknowledge and celebrate companies partnering with E covad is that are d riving p rogress in sustainability and ig niting change across the wo rld. The award recog nizes Speexx for its Ecovadis CSR rating, it was awarded in January 2020 and is valid untjl February 2021. Environmental issues are reviewed by our senior management team at the end of each business year. There have been no incidents of violation of the Environmental principles d uring the last reporting period. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 'l O: Businesses should work against conuption in all ils forms, including efrortion and b ribery. Assessment, policy and goals Desciption of the relevance of anti-cotruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruPtion risk-assessmerf). Description of policies, public commitnonts and company goals on anti-conuption. Speexx has a policy of zero-tolerance for conuption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery' our standard employment contract, which is signed by every employee, contains an anti-corruption clause, in which it is stated that the employee is required to inform the company of any attempt by suppliers, partners o I clients to g ive him/her personal gifts or benefits, and that the employee may not accept this type of gift or benefit. Our goal in the f irst year of Global Compact membership was to implement an anti-conuption poliry for the company and to introduce a training session on the topic f or employees. Our anti-corruptio n training couße is part of our onboarding process and accessible to all employees. lmplementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption pollcles, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. ln April 2014, an anti-corruption policy outlining the company's position of zero-tolerance was approved by the l\,4anagement Board and subsequently communic€ted to all employees and published on our internal resource and training center, to which all employees have access. tspeexx Unired Naio ns Glo b€l Com Pact Pro! r6s Rep ol ln addition, awareness and knowledge of the issue has been improved by the implementation of a training session on anti-corruption which is now a required training componentof all employees in the sales, manag ement, marketing, and f inance departrnents. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption peiormance. The anti-conuption training is a standard part of our onboarding process for new employees, thus maintaining awareness of the issue throughout the company. Trainings and attendance are reg ulady mo nitored in our internal HR management system. There have been no incidents of violation of the AntiCorruption policy during the last reporting period. lsp6es Urited Ndions Globd Cm p&t Progr6s R€pütl
