Sustainability Report 2019 | 2020 Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr at a Glance Landis+Gyr is a leading global provider of integratLandis+Gyr combines know-how, clarity of ­vision ed energy management solutions for the utility secand cutting-edge technology to help utilities capitaltor. Offering one of the broadest portfolios, the ize on decentralization of ­generation, decarbonizaCompany delivers innovative and flexible solutions tion of economies, digitalization of utility operations to help utilities solve their complex challenges in and better serve their customers. With sales of Smart Metering, Grid Edge Intelligence and Smart USD 1.7 billion in FY 2019, and 5,800 people in 27 Infrastructure. countries across five continents, Landis+Gyr unleashes the true potential of change to transform the world of energy for the better. Water Waste Chemicals CO2e –11 % –6 % –12 % –9 % 8,000,000 of direct CO2 emissions reduced T through the installed Smart Meter base In 2019/20, Landis+Gyr • Signed up to the UN Global C ­ ompact • Adopted the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (Core option) • Made significant headway in the Company’s ­comprehensive ESG program 02 At a glance Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Contents 1 Foreword 6 FUNDAMENTALS AND 7 Statistics 04 Material TOPICS 48 1.1 About this report 20 7.1 Water 6.1 Energy Efficiency 06 48 and Climate Protection 7.2 Waste 22 50 6.2 Resource Efficiency 2 Strategy and 7.3 Chemicals Business Model 27 54 6.3 Strategic Responsible 09 Sourcing 7.4 Carbon Footprint 28 58 6.4 Employee Motivation 7.5 Employees 3 Stakeholders 31 63 12 6.5 Occupational Health and Safety 4 CSR Strategy 34 8 Landis+Gyr and Progress 6.6 Fair Labor Practices Worldwide 39 64 14 6.7 Community Engagement 41 5 Materiality Analysis 6.8 Data Security and Privacy 9 Gri Index 66 17 43 6.9 Business Integrity 45 03 Contents Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 1 Sustainability PART OF OUR DNA • Landis+Gyr enabled 8 million tons of direct CO² emission reduction in FY 2019/20 through the installed Smart Meter base • The Group reduced its own CO² emissions by an additional 9% in the reporting period •C  SR goals established as an ­element for management’s and employees’ Short-Term ­Incentive •T  he Company signed up to the UN Global Compact and has adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) core option with this report Sustainability is at the core of what we do, it is part of ture and thus proactively supports the transformaour DNA and ingrained in our mission to manage ention of the energy industry. Internally, we strive to ergy better. As a global leader in an essential industry, optimize efficiencies and processes to continue to we are proud to provide critical infrastructure to utilminimize resource consumption and to further ities around the world, helping our customers, enerstrengthen our competitive position. gy consumers and entire communities to manage energy in a more informed and sustainable way. At Given our global presence, we have the opportunity Landis+Gyr, we hold ourselves and everyone we into affect positive change all over the world. As a marteract with to very high standards. Over the last ket leading energy management company, we have 120+ years, we have built a solid reputation in rea responsibility not only to our shareholders, emspect to leading innovation, quality products and as ployees, customers, partners and suppliers, but also a trusted partner with high integrity. to the communities, in which we operate, to demonstrate responsible and sensible behavior in Our products and services help utilities and their everything we do. It is our mission to manage energy customers to utilize energy and corresponding infrabetter and to drive positive change, including best in structure more economically and sustainably. In adclass sustainable social, environmental and governdition, energy management systems play an essenance practices. The objectives pursued by the Unittial role as companies all over the world increasingly ed Nations’ Global Compact are strongly aligned focus on sustainable development. The European with our own aspirations. Our refreshed Code of Commission has projected reduction in emissions in Business Ethics and Conduct reemphasizes our mothe European Union by up to 9% through the rolltivation to sign up to the UN Global Compact and to out of smart metering and smart grids. Such projeccommunicate on progress towards our CSR targets tions exist for all key markets and allowed us to calas well as their alignment with the United Nations culate savings of 8 million tons of direct CO² Sustainable Development Goals. We proudly conemissions in 2019/20 through Landis+Gyr’s smart firm the continued support of the UN Global Commeters installed world-wide. Furthermore, Landis+ pact and its ten principles in the areas of Human Gyr is one of the leading global partners for utilities Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. and economies to build sustainable grids of the fu04 Foreword Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Holding ourselves to very high standards, this report also reflects on what has been achieved compared to the direction envisaged. In doing so, we follow a comprehensive materiality analysis and adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a framework for this report, which, for the first time, is created in accordance with the GRI Standards Core option. As a provider of metrology, we take on the challenge of measuring our economic, environmental, and social performance and reporting on these annually to our stakeholders. Additionally, we are committed to the standards defined in the UN Global Compact as the foundation of our efforts to firmly establish a culture of integrity and to act responsibly, ultimately expanding our commitment to compliance and integrity. In 2007, we started our journey around carbon footprint and for years now, we have been collecting and improving figures on waste, water and chemicals used worldwide. These efforts are being recognized, as, according to a study by Morgan Stanley, 32% of Landis+Gyr shares are owned by sustainable funds. This ranks Landis+Gyr second amongst European companies and encourages us to continue our path as an industry leader. • We strive for a further improvement of the Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy, as part of a set of comprehensive policies, control Company’s Carbon Footprint mechanisms and certifications governing our inter• We enhance our waste management and nal and external operations, manifests what drives our behavior every day. Consequently, our CSR goals aim to reduce the landfill ratio are also linked to our Short-Term Incentive Plan • We follow our ambitious CSR Roadmap and (STIP). As of Financial Year 2020 (1.4.2020– 31.3.2021), all eligible Landis+Gyr employees will prepare for the next CSR cycle 2022–25 have 10% of their respective short-term incentive linked to CSR goals. These goals address both the enhancement of the environmental impact of the Company as well as our products. We take pride in the progress we have made and the impact our products, services and actions have on communities and the environment every day. We continue to strive for further improvement to drive forward our mission to manage energy better and leading the way in doing so responsibly. Werner Lieberherr Chief Executive Officer 05 Foreword Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 1.1 About this report This report covers the reporting period of ­Landis­+ important new standards: Firstly, Landis+Gyr Group Gyr’s financial year 2019/20 from April 1st, 2019, to AG signed up to the United Nations Global Compact March 31st, 2020, for all relevant core data regard(UNGC) and is implementing the ten principles of the ing the GRI Core option, where not stated differently. UNGC in its internal and external business operaSome of the additional illustrative examples providtions. This document reports on the progress on the ed in Chapter 6 describe projects that exceeded the ten principles on the UNGC. Secondly, this is the first reporting period and took place, for example, in report by Landis+Gyr Group AG that has been presummer 2020. Where this is the case, it is stated in pared according to the Global Reporting Initiative the text. GRI Standards, adopting the Core option. The report covers the Landis+Gyr Group AG, also reLandis+Gyr implemented the GRI standards based ferred to as “the Company” or “the Group”. Landis+ on the principles of Materiality, Stakeholder IncluGyr Group AG is a joint stock company listed at SIX siveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness. Swiss Exchange in Switzerland (ISIN: CH0371153492, With regard to the quality of the information reportticker symbol: LAND, valor number: 37115349). ed, the principles of Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reliability and Timeliness were adhered The Company reports annually on its Corporate Soto. cial Responsibility progress. This report on FY 2019/20 is the first report of the ongoing reporting cycle from FY 2019/20 to FY 2021/22. It features two 06 About this Report Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Supporting the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Landis+Gyr signed up to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in January 2020. While the company adhered to the ten guiding principles of the UNGC already before signing, the formal adherence to the UNGC is a motivation to enhance the sustainability report to fulfill Communication on Progress to UNGC. Human Rights Environment Landis+Gyr respects and protects international huLandis+Gyr applies a precautionary approach to enman rights and, with its renewed Code of Business vironmental challenges and promotes greater enviEthics and Conduct and its Supplier Code of Conronmental responsibility through dedicated initiaduct, continues to make sure that the Company is tives as well as through its products and services. not complicit in human rights abuses. The CommuLandis+Gyr develops and provides environmentally nication on Progress for this topic is covered in the friendly technologies and helps others to do so. The introduction to Chapter 6 as well as in Chapter 6.6 Communication on Progress for this topic is covered Fair labor practices and 6.3 Strategic responsible in Chapters 6.1 Energy efficiency and climate protecsourcing. tion and Chapter 6.2 Resource efficiency, and environmental data is reported in Chapters 7.1–7.4. Labor Landis+Gyr upholds the freedom of association and Anti-Corruption the effective recognition of the right to collective Landis+Gyr works against corruption in all its forms, bargaining. It recognizes the importance of the especially extortion and bribery. Communication on ­elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory laProgress for this topic is covered in Chapter 6.9. bor, the effective abolition of child labor and the elimination of discrimination. The Communication Landis+Gyr has an anonymous grievance Speak Up on Progress for this topic is covered in the same system in place for all kinds of suspected or known chapters as mentioned above for Human Rights. violations against its policies, including the above topics (see Chapter 6, Introduction). 07 About this Report Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals In signing up to the UNGC, the Group shows its full commitment to delivering its part in reaching the Sustainable Development Goals, on which the UNGC is based. Reporting according to GRI provides evidence of the success of the endeavor. Landis+Gyr contributes to all Sustainable Development Goals wherever possible. The SDGs on which Landis+Gyr is able to contribute the most are: How Landis+Gyr How Landis+Gyr ­supports affordable and ­supports responsible clean energy is explained production and responsiin the foreword, in ble consumption of re­Chapters 2, 4 and 6.1. sources by the company is described in Chapters 6.1 to 6.3. The products of Landis+Gyr support responRead how Landis+Gyr sible energy consumption, this is desupports decent work in scribed in Chapter 2. Chapters 6.5 and 6.6. Employee data is listed in Chapter 7.5, and Landis+Gyr measures ­Landis+Gyr’s strategy involving sustainaits Carbon Footprint, ble economic growth is outlined in the the data is listed in company’s Annual Report on pages 10– Chapter 7.4. Actions to 21. reduce the footprint of the company and its products are described in Chapter 6.1. Landis+Gyr supports this Goal by its very company purpose. Read more on Landis+Gyr supports this in Chapter 2 and in this goal by enforcing the Annual Report on strong ethical guidelines pages 10–21. both internally and externally, see more in Chapter 6.9. Landis+Gyr supports this goal directly with its product range. Read more on this in Chapter 2. Financial data for Landis+Gyr Group AG, as well as the Annual Report for FY 2019 including governance data, can be found at: www.landisgyr.com/investors/results-center/ Learn and discover more at www.landisgyr.com 08 About this Report Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 2 Strategy and Business Model Landis+Gyr is a leader in energy management solutions. The Group (LAND) is publicly listed at SIX Swiss Exchange and is active in over 100 countries globally with its own presence in 27 countries. By ­providing transparent information on energy demand and use, the Company’s products and services enable utilities and distribution system operators to build and operate smart energy systems. Landis+Gyr continues to leverage its position as an shape the way how energy is produced and used in industry leader in Advanced Metering Infrastructure the future. They are therefore fundamental to providing grid edge intelligence solutions to create Landis+Gyr’s business. an ecosystem of Connected Intelligent Devices. This Internet of Things builds the foundation for valUtilities have already started embracing new busiue-added process automation and business applicaness models. They adjust to the continually changing tions in Smart Grid, Smart Cities and beyond. regulatory environment and respond to new demand patterns. These are driven by the changing This strategy is underpinned by the Group’s commitneeds and expectations of consumers who become ment to operational excellence and cost-competi“prosumers”, not only consuming but also producing tiveness, driving business efficiency and sustainabilienergy. To be successful in this new reality, utilities ty throughout its supply chain. In addition, the need a partner who offers flexible, reliable, and seplatform-based modular product development procure solutions with a high degree of automation. vides the Company with flexibility, by engaging bestin-class partners for design, manufacturing, and As a market leader with a proven track record, supply chain services. Landis+Gyr is in an excellent position to both respond to utilities’ evolving needs and to profit from the opDecarbonization, Decentralization portunities that emerge as a result. The strategy reand Digitalization mains unchanged; to capitalize on current industry The transformation of the energy grid continues dynamics and to gain further market share, the Group apace. Decarbonization and the shift to renewable will continue to build on its three growth platforms: energy resources, the resulting decentralization of Smart Metering, Grid Edge Intelligence and Smart Inenergy generation, and the digitalization of grid opfrastructure. Sustainability is a highly relevant factor erations – these three interconnected trends drive to all three platforms and Landis+Gyr will further inthe transformation of the energy industry and crease the tangibility of the topic in the future. 09 Strategy and Business Model Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr ')DFWRUV)XHOLQJ(QHUJ\*ULG7UDQVIRUPDWLRQ 6PDUWPHWHUVDVJULGHGJHVHQVRUVDUHWKHIRXQGDWLRQRIHQDEOLQJ LQIUDVWUXFWXUHIRUIXWXUHHQHUJ\GLVWULEXWLRQV\VWHPV (PEUDFHQHZ EXVLQHVVPRGHOV 'HFDUERQL]DWLRQ 'HFHQWUDOL]DWLRQ 5HGHVLJQ UHJXODWRU\ SDUDGLJP 'LJLWDOL]DWLRQ 7UDQVIRUPDWLRQ 'HSOR\HQDEOLQJ 1HZFXVWRPHU LQIUDVWUXFWXUH H[SHULHQFH The transformation of the industry derived from the CSR strategy of Landis+Gyr. Any adjustments to the “3D factors” and the growing demands of consumers corporate strategy are subsequently reflected in the are the defining elements of the framework of the CSR strategy. Technology for the grids of the future The Group benefits from the geographic ers to better steer and manage their own energy ­diversification of its smart metering business consumption and cost. The Advanced Metering Inand its capabilities to support customers frastructure Project business model of Landis+Gyr on each level of their transformational journey. involves the full range from hardware and software Furthermore, Landis+Gyr continues to to integration into the existing utility infrastructure develop intelligent system solutions in a netand builds the core of Landis+Gyr’s offerings. Smart work of top-level scientists and universities, Meters with grid edge intelligence open a wide range testing on the use cases of the future. of opportunities for analysis and connectivity, with faster response times for fault location and predicUtilities in countries with emerging smart metering tive measures for grid-hardening. Most of all, the businesses turn to Landis+Gyr thanks to its strong new infrastructures unlock an immense potential for presence across the globe and its credibility as a optimized usage of generation capacity and network market leader. Landis+Gyr also plays a leading role infrastructure, but also for energy savings and susin some of the most important national Advanced tainable energy use by end consumers. This resulted Metering Infrastructure roll-outs in countries such in 8 million tons of direct CO² emission reduction as France, the United Kingdom and Japan. New opthrough Landis+Gyr’s installed Smart Meter base in portunities emerge as additional markets begin to 2019/20 (7.3 million tons in FY 2018/19). The savings undergo a technological advancement process. are calculated in a proprietary model developed by Smart Meters with enhanced functionality allow for Landis+Gyr based on publicly available data.* advanced load management, enabling end consum10 * Omission according to GRI Strategy and Business Model due to confidentiality constraints. Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr The Group continuously leverages its platforms to Finally, the “services-based business model” includes add further devices, sensors, applications, and serdelivery, deployment, integration, and operation on vices, such as smart street lighting, electric vehicle behalf of the customer. Landis+Gyr offers utilities a (EV) charging, smart water metering and other infrabroad range of customized services through its structure opportunities. Today’s use case requireManaged Services contracts, such as training, instalments include ever more computing power, distriblation and software design support, software licensuted intelligence, and flexible communications es, cloud services and Software as a Service. across the grid – the foundations of Landis+Gyr’s Grid Edge Intelligence offering. The Company meets Over the last reporting period, Landis+Gyr intensithe needs of the market with its Gridstream® fied the focus on cutting-edge Research and Devel­Connect solution – a utility-oriented Internet of opment even more, with 75% of Landis+Gyr’s more Things platform and its next-generation grid sensor than 150 million USD annual Research and DevelopRevelo, recently launched in the US. Furthermore, ment expenditure flowing into software developLandis+Gyr’s comprehensive offering encompasses ment and IT. To ensure sustainable development, next-generation metering, edge intelligence card, R&D core processes are targeted by one of the main next-generation network equipment, network and CSR roll-outs in FY 2019/20 and early FY 2020/21 device management software, and an app store and (summer 2020), the Green Design Manual. software development kit, to support third-party applications. Distribution Automation Smart Meters Monitoring and management Electricity, gas and heat/cold of the distribution grid meters with two-way communication Distributed Energy Head-End Systems Management Translate meter data into Manage Distributed Energy relevant business information Resources intelligently Advanced Grid Analytics Stand-alone Meters Gain transparency on grid Digital meters for electricity, traffic, loads and peaks heat/cold and gas Meter Data Management Advanced Load Process and prepare data for Management a variety of utility programs Managing load capacity and operations effectively Communication Devices Services and Training and Networks Tailor-made and flexible – Paving the way for the creation proven by dozens of utility of utilities’ Internet of Things customers Street Light Management Remote monitoring and control of lighting 11 Strategy and Business Model Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 3 Stakeholders As a public company, Landis+Gyr is operating in a regulated industry with energy utilities as main customers. As energy distribution networks are a natural monopoly, and stable energy supply is a key element of public infrastructure, regulators closely monitor behavior, pricing, and service of the energy utilities and their partners to also protect consumers’ interest. Landis+Gyr identifies the list of stakeholders based Suppliers on the business model, the parties involved in the Landis+Gyr deals with a broad number of local and business and the end consumers. Landis+Gyr’s busiglobal suppliers. Furthermore, the Company mainness activities therefore include the following staketains partnerships in the areas of technology, develholders: opment, and services. Customers Approach Landis+Gyr actively serves approximately 3,500 Supplier selection is based on a strict catalog of cri­energy utilities around the world. They range from teria. As part of active discussions during qualificapublic to investor-owned and include multinational tion and periodic evaluation Landis+Gyr captures players as well as middle-sized and small municipalsuppliers’ interests and concerns regarding sustainities. In the area of communication technology, ability matters. ­submetering, water, heat/cold and gas metering, Landis+Gyr also serves real estate companies and Energy Consumers, Consumer their service providers. ­Associations and NGOs As Landis+Gyr’s business is pure Business to BusiApproach ness, the Company has no direct interactions with Landis+Gyr seeks and maintains regular exchange end consumers. Nevertheless, and as Smart Meterwith customers through its own sales organization, ing can directly impact the way how energy is conby attending trade fairs and conferences and via sumed, consumers, consumer associations and own customer events. Ideas are discussed, concepts NGOs also belong to the Company’s Stakeholders. presented and jointly developed. Approach Regulators The company primarily appeals to end-consumers As public bodies, regulators ensure the functioning and NGOs through active participation in events and of the market, which is tied to distribution network presentations and a transparent information policy monopolies. Furthermore, the regulators protect that covers the information needs of consumers and the interest of end consumers by approving tariffs, their representatives. business cases and technology investments when they might impact tariffs and customer rights. Local Communities With its presence in 27 countries Landis+Gyr is imApproach pacting the local communities it is part of and engagSince regulators have an arbitrator-like role, the ing to create a positive environment for its employcompany’s contact primarily focuses on better unees, neighbors, and the communities the Company derstanding their concerns and goals in order to be is a member of. able to integrate them into the solution design (via e.g. standardization and industry associations). Approach The regular exchange with local authorities and the neighborhood creates a solid relationship and forms a basis for inflow of potential stakeholder interest and concern. Together with an open information policy, that helps to prevent possible problems. In addition, the Company and its employees actively engage in community projects. 12 Stakeholders Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr &XVWRPHUV 6KDUHKROGHUV 5HJXODWRUV ΖQYHVWRUV (PSOR\HHV 6XSSOLHUV (QHUJ\ /RFDO &RQVXPHUV &RQVXPHU &RPPXQLWLHV $VVRFLDWLRQV DQG1*2V Employees Shareholders/Investors Landis+Gyr employs 5,700 people worldwide with As of March 31, 2020, 11,099 shareholders were enthe sole mission to help society manage energy bettered in the share register with Kirkbi Invest A/S, ter. Denmark, and Rudolf Maag, Switzerland, each holding more than 3% of the outstanding share capital of Approach Landis+Gyr Group AG. The Company maintains a Employees are proactively informed about topics regular and open dialogue with investors, analysts relevant to the company through monthly informaand proxy advisers. tion events by the Group CEO and the regional management. Answering employees’ questions plays an Approach important role in this. An attractive intranet and varLandis+Gyr maintains a regular exchange with anaious training options secure alignment with business lysts, proxy advisers, institutional investors, and its requirements and allow for individual development. shareholders. This happens via the Annual General In addition, the pulse of the organization is felt in Meeting, through the announcement of its half-year employee surveys. The results are compared with and year-end results, a Capital Markets Day, its own peers. Any deficits are then worked on with specific roadshows, and the Company’s participation in inmeasures and progress is determined in a follow-up vestor events. Geographically, the focus is on Switsurvey. zerland, neighboring countries such as Germany and France, Great Britain, and the USA. The breadth of these stakeholders is manifested in securing a close link to the Company’s business the present CSR strategy, which is based on a comstrategy, which falls – according to Swiss law – under prehensive materiality analysis. The nine topics, mathe responsibility of the Board of Directors. These terial to Landis+Gyr and a sustainable development interviews laid a solid foundation for the Company’s of the business, resulted from qualitative interviews comprehensive CSR program. More information can with customers, regulators, investors, NGOs, and be found at www.landisgyr.com/investors and in the members of the Company’s middle and executive Company’s Annual Report. management. Also, Directors had been involved in 13 Stakeholders Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 4 CSR Strategy and Progress Landis+Gyr – a Responsible Global Corporate Citizen Landis+Gyr’s engagement for the safety of its employees and customers, the protection of the environment and the sustainable use of resources has been at the core of the Company since its foundation in 1896. In 2018/19, the Company implemented a three-year cycle for the stepwise development of its sustainability strategy based on a comprehensive materiality analysis according to GRI guidelines. For the strategic CSR development, Landis+Gyr has erate. Landis+Gyr produces and operates solutions identified nine areas material for the Company and that reduce and mitigate the overspend of energy external stakeholders. For these areas, identified in sources. Measuring and saving of CO² emissions and a comprehensive materiality analysis, over 70 single energy efficiency has therefore been at the beginprojects were kicked off in 2019. The present report ning of the Company’s sustainability approach. is the first of the ongoing cycle and covers the reporting period from 1.4.2019 to 31.3.2020 (FY On the other hand, social, societal, ethical and gov2019/20). Many of the initiatives started in the first ernance standards have been implemented into year of the cycle are currently in the implementation Landis+Gyr’s policies for decades as well. The first full phase. Some initiatives are planned for implementamateriality analysis and the start of combining the tion in the next 2 years. In FY 2021/22, a new materithree elements of economic, social or stakeholder ality analysis will then set the tone for the new cycle and governance and thus ESG into one comprehenstarting in FY 2022/23. sive set of sustainability standards in 2018/19 therefore marked not the start, but rather the entering Enabling a more sustainable use of resources into a mature age of Landis+Gyr as a Global ResponAccording to the GRI, the total amount of natural resible Corporate Citizen. The adoption of the GRI sources extracted has tripled in the last 40 years. guidelines provides a guide on structuring the inforCurrently renewable resources are consumed 1.7 mation for better comparability and helps L ­ andis­+Gyr times faster than our planet’s ecosystem can regento set their CSR efforts in a global context. 14 CSR strategy and Progress Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Sustainability at Landis+Gyr The United Nations Brundtland Commission defined Sustainability as a development that meets the needs of the present without ­compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Landis+Gyr’s company purpose, to “manage energy better” defines the Company’s core action range regarding the needs of the present within the ecological factor of sustainability. During the reporting period, the Group has made further progress in reducing its own energy use. CO² emissions dropped by 9%. Planned reductions of waste, wastewater, and chemicals as well as recycling projects are all well underway. The last two months of the reporting period, February and March 2020, were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, first in China and then globally. The pandemic explains the reduced emissions to a certain extent, but ­Landis­+Gyr saw significant reductions already before February. Most importantly, the Group reduced 8 million tons of direct CO² emission in 2019/20 through its products and intelligent software solutions implemented at utilities worldwide. As more areas will shift to renewable energy sources, the potential for direct savings by the modernization of grids will decrease. Landis+Gyr is pushing sustainability-oriented processes further into Research and Development as well as into the supply chains and partnerships in order to tap new potential for energy savings. But not only ecological aspects are being considered in the Company’s CSR strategy. Of high relevance in the materiality analysis are Data Security and Privacy as well as Business Integrity and Employee Motivation – at With this report and by focusing on the material topthe same levels as Energy Efficiency and Climate Proics Landis+Gyr provides an accurate picture of the tection. The progress on the over 70 projects in the benefits and risks the Company’s activities can gennine material areas is being monitored quarterly and erate to its stakeholders. The report reflects the amreported in this report to the public once a year. bitions and activities Landis+Gyr is undertaking Read more about the materiality assessment and based on the Company’s materiality analysis. each topic in the following chapters. Landis+Gyr started to measure its carbon footprint in 2007 following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). Over the years, reporting has been extended Of high relevance in the materiality to also cover also other CSR topics and to complement financial reporting as required as a public comanalysis are Data Security and Privacy as pany listed at SIX Swiss Exchange. The first Environwell as Business Integrity and Employee mental Report was published in 2011 and the first Motivation – at the same levels as Energy Sustainability Report in 2017. Efficiency and Climate Protection. 15 CSR strategy and Progress Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr CSR Goals Integrated in Code of Conduct and in 10% of the total assessment. The first new KPI focusShort-Term Incentive System es on the reduction of the landfill ratio of the total In its new Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, waste. The second is the further reduction of the CO² Landis+Gyr states that as a public company it is ememissions in relation to sales. The third KPI guides bracing the opportunity to further expand the scope the organization towards a more sustainable portfoof its own sustainability management efforts. All relelio and the benefits resulting from it. vant environmental, social, governance and economic impacts of the Company’s activities are taken into The Steering Committee as Central CSR Organ consideration. Landis+Gyr’s Corporate Social ReIn its last Sustainability Report, Landis+Gyr ansponsibility (CSR) initiative aims to help the Company nounced the establishment of a newly founded and its customers meet the needs of today’s commucross-functional and cross-regional Sustainability nities without compromising those of future generaCommittee. The Committee took up its work with a tions. Also, it allows the Company to create value by ground-laying materiality analysis and subsequently mitigating operational risks related to environmental with the set-up of Landis+Gyr’s global CSR program. impact, including climate change, by responding to The Committee has established its workflows and regulatory opportunities and constraints and managrolled out and monitored several projects. For all ing its corporate reputation. topics, the Committee agreed on ambitions and a corresponding implementation roadmap. The impleAnother milestone is reached by the reorientation of mentation is monitored quarterly and reported in the short-term incentive system that covers more the annual CSR report. The Committee consists of than two thirds of the workforce. Announced in July Senior Executives and is chaired by Hans Sonder in 2020 and with immediate activation, the three finanhis role as the Company’s CSR Officer. He also liases cial goals Sales, EBITDA, and Cash Flow are supplewith the Company’s Executive Management and the mented by three environmental goals, weighed by Board of Directors. 16 CSR strategy and Progress Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 5 Materiality Analysis As a publicly listed company, the s­ takeholder engagement is partly regulated and met within the ordinary course of business and ­shareholder dialog. Furthermore, ­Landis+Gyr regularly meets with customers, industry associations, regulators and the financial ­community. In addition to that, the ­Sustainability Committee entered into a dialog with dedicated s­ takeholders specifically for the materiality analysis. The key questions for the assessments of the stake• Landis+Gyr is increasingly becoming part of the Inholder Groups were: ternet of Things where data security is a major concern. The Group should leverage its high standards • What are the opportunities and risks for Landis+and best-in-class knowledge in data security in orGyr regarding to sustainability? How can the Comder to contribute to safe energy networks of the pany best embrace the rising interest in ESG topics future. by its stakeholders? • Several stakeholders expressed that the Group • How can Landis+Gyr render its business model should inform openly on sustainability targets and more robust for future ESG challenges, capitalize initiatives as well as the results achieved. on opportunities and become more sustainable? • Landis+Gyr should enhance the relation to suppliThe answers to these questions emphasized ers, making sure they are in line with Landis+Gyr’s Landis+Gyr’s position as a key player in building susvalues and sourcing strategy. The Supplier Code of tainable energy infrastructure: Conduct should be public. • Landis+Gyr is well positioned to truly manage ener• Landis+Gyr could make its community engagement gy better in a global sense of the word and contribmore visible and link it to strategy and sourcing inute to the the United Nation’s Sustainable Developitiatives. ment Goals. Hence this should be the focus for Landis+Gyr’s sustainability plan. 17 Materiality Analysis Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Stakeholders Shareholders / Investors Energy consumers / Local Communities Customers Regulators Suppliers Associations / NGOs Employees Energy Efficiency & Climate Protection Resource Efficiency Strategic Responsible Sourcing Employee Motivation Issues Occupational Health and Safety Fair Labor Practices The weighting of the material topics by stakeholders forms Community Engagement the basis for the stakeholder side of the materiality matrix: Data Security and Privacy the darker the dot, the higher the relevance for the corresponding stakeBusiness Integrity holders. Based on the results of this consultation process, and on internal studies by the Sustainability Committee, the Group then identified relevant economic, social, environmental, and governance issues in a series of qualitative interviews with representatives of above listed stakeholders. The analysis was conducted following a holistic approach and not omitting any relevant topics. Landis+Gyr applied the GRI Reporting Principles for the Materiality Analysis in 2018/19 and this report for the year 2019/20. Topics were ranked by relevance or impact to stakeholders and to Landis+Gyr in the Materiality Matrix. 18 Materiality Analysis Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 4.00 3.80 Data Security and Privacy Energy Efficiency 3.60 and Climate Protection Business Employee Integrity 3.40 Motivation Fair Labor Processes Relevance to stakeholders 3.20 Strategic Occupational 3.00 Responsible Sourcing Health and Safety 2.80 Resource Efficiency 2.60 Community Engagement 2.40 2.20 2.00 2.00 2.20 2.40 2.60 2.80 3.00 3.20 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 Relevance to Landis+Gyr Nine topics were identified as being most relevant Topics that have been defined as material and of the for Landis+Gyr, the Company’s business and its relahighest strategic importance are: Energy Efficiency tions to stakeholders. The topics were ranked by levand Climate Protection, Data Security and Privacy, el of stakeholder concern and potential impact on Employee Motivation, Business Integrity. Further the Company. This process was carried out in 2018material topics with a defined action plan are: Com19 for the current CSR cycle. 71 actions were defined munity Engagement, Fair Labor Practices, Occupaand are being implemented along a central global tional Health & Safety, Resource Efficiency, Strategic roadmap. This report shows the actions taken, the Responsible Sourcing. goals reached and an outlook to the upcoming years in the cycle in which the Group strives to finalize and implement all the 71 actions. 19 Materiality Analysis Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6 FUNDAMENTALS AND Material TOPICS The binding compass for everything that is done at Landis+Gyr is the new Code of Business Ethics and Conduct – whether it is by the Board, the management, or employees producing, installing or selling Landis+Gyr products. The Code has been revised and updated as part of the material topic Business Integrity. It defines a modern CSR ­approach to all material topics. Landis+Gyr’s ethics were already defined in the preits essence is regularly promoted by world-wide trainvious version of the Code of Business Ethics and ing initiatives and supported by a variety of promoConduct. However, the Code didn’t include all astion materials. The roll-out of the updated Code of pects of responsibilities of the Group to its stakeBusiness Ethics and Conduct to the white-collar popholders. As part of this CSR cycle engagement, and ulation was accompanied by multiple communicain accordance with Landis+Gyr’s internal policy retions to employees regarding the changes therein, view process, the Code has been updated to include including a video summarizing the new rights and the requirements of UNGC, as well as being signifiresponsibilities stemming from the updated Code. cantly extended in the area of responsibility of the Blue-collar employees are periodically trained on the Company towards its employees as well as towards Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in direct sesthe environment. The Landis+Gyr Code of Business sions at the local level. Every employee is required to Ethics and Conduct has always been material to the sign the Code, thereby acknowledging having reCompany’s CSR initiatives. However, during the CSR ceived, read, and understood it. It is the responsibility updates in the year 2019, it became clear the Code of the Global Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) to furshould be updated to explicitly mention all its asther develop the Code and enforce its implementapects. tion to all areas of activities at Landis+Gyr. The updated Code, which is publicly available, was The Code of Business Ethics and Conduct covers all published on July 23, 2020, following approval from relevant aspects of Landis+Gyr’s business operations the Board of Directors on that same day. Signed by from compliance with laws and regulations, conflicts the Chairman of the Board and by the CEO, the Code of interest, and anti-competition to Landis+Gyr’s reof Business Ethics and Conduct states the central sponsibility to the natural environment and to its emprinciples, key policies, and procedures governing ployees, such as non-discrimination and safety in the the behavior of Landis+Gyr and its employees, and workplace. 20 FUNDAMENTALS AND Material TOPICS Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6WHS(PSOR\HH ȏ(PSOR\HHFDOOVWKHKRWOLQH RUOHDYHVDPHVVDJHRQWKH ZHESRUWDO ȏ$WWDFKHVDQ\UHOHYDQW VXSSRUWLQJGRFXPHQWV ȏ5HFHLYHVXQLTXHFDVHQXPEHU 6WHS)XUWKHU$FWLRQ 6WHS7KLUGSDUW\YHQGRU ȏ5HVSRQVHLVWSURFHVVHGE\ ȏ7KLUGSDUW\YHQGRU WKLUGSDUW\YHQGRU WUDQVFULEHVWKHPHVVDJH ȏ(PSOR\HHFDQUHDGWKH ȏ0HVVDJHWUDQVODWHGLQWR(QJOLVK UHVSRQVHE\ORJJLQJEDFNLQWR ȏ6HQGVWUDQVFULSWLRQWR WKHV\VWHPXVLQJWKHXQLTXH /DQGLV*\U FDVHQXPEHU 6WHS/DQGLV*\U ȏ&KLHI&RPSOLDQFH2ɝFHU UHFHLYHVQRWLȴFDWLRQDQG PHVVDJHWUDQVFULSW ȏ&&2OHDYHVZULWWHQUHSO\ Speak Up System At Landis+Gyr, ethics and compliance are everyone’s wise want to report directly to their supervisor, Reresponsibility. Thus, Landis+Gyr strongly encouraggional Compliance Officer, or Chief Compliance Ofes every employee who knows of or suspects a violaficer. The Speak Up system ensures the anonymity tion of applicable laws, regulations, the Code or the of the reporting person if the person so wishes. EmCompany’s related policies, including those relating ployees or third parties can report a concern either to accounting, internal controls and auditing matby phone or via a secure website. All local phone ters, to report that information immediately to their numbers and websites are listed in the Appendix to supervisor, their Compliance Officer, the Chief Comthe Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. Every perpliance Officer or by using the Speak Up system. This son who raises a concern can expect to receive a Speak Up system is the anonymous grievance sysresponse within a week. tem that all employees can use to inform Landis+Gyr of suspected or known violations of its internal poliReported violations are promptly investigated and cies and procedures, including its CSR Directive and treated confidentially to the extent reasonably possiinitiatives, as well as of applicable laws. ble. The Company does not tolerate any kind of retaliatory actions against any employee who, in good This 24-hour Speak Up system is operated by an infaith, reports suspected wrongdoing, or complaints dependent provider. Employees can use the Speak about violations of the Code or other internal poliUp system to report concerns they may not othercies. 21 FUNDAMENTALS AND * Suppliers and third parties Material TOPICS added in summer 2020. Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.1 Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection Management Approach Landis+Gyr recognizes that sustainably accessible natural resources are finite and being depleted at a non-sustainable rate. The Company, its stakeholders, its value chain as well as the product and services provided are affected by climate change and depend on a more ­sustainable use of energy for the future. Therefore Landis+Gyr chose a holistic management approach covering both the impact of the Company’s operations and of its products and services in use. Consequently, Landis+Gyr is fully committed to reducing its own carbon footprint and that of its products and services. In addition, it strives to contribute with its products and services to the reduction of the carbon footprint of others. For Landis+Gyr, climate change offers risks as well ation. To understand, measure and manage energy as opportunities. While increasing regulations of consumption and CO² emissions in order to continemissions pose a potential risk, the emergence of uously reduce the Company’s negative environmennew technologies holds opportunities for Landis+tal impact, the Group uses GHG protocols at the Gyr to provide increasingly smart and energy-efficore of its product and solutions. Emissions along cient products and solutions. Smart Meters enable the entire product life cycle are monitored and remeaningful energy efficiency gains and the integraduced by a continuous process based on the quartion of renewable resources into the supply network, terly Group wide data collection by the environmenwhich, in turn, makes it possible for utilities and end tal office. The basic data of the selected KPIs is consumers to reduce their CO² emissions substanreviewed by an external party. Landis+Gyr has tially. The Group helps to mitigate climate change measured its Carbon Footprint since 2007, with a on a global scale by developing state-of-the-art full assessment of Scope 1 (direct emissions from ­technologies and solutions. The topic includes all of owned or controlled sources) and Scope 2 (indirect ­Landis­+Gyr’s activities and its products. emissions from the generation of purchased energy). Scope 3 metrics (indirect emissions (not includUsing conservative cost benefit estimates from the ed in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the jurisdictions with deployments, Landis+Gyr estireporting Company, including both upstream and mates enabling 8 million tons of direct CO² emission downstream emissions) are limited to business travreduction in the past business year through the inel. The processes are led by the head of Group CSR stalled smart meter base. Savings will decrease proand Business Transformation reporting directly to portionally to the installed base, as electricity prothe CEO. duction becomes cleaner every year. The Group’s supply chain has increasingly gained in importance over the past years. That goes hand in Landis+Gyr is also committed to reducing the enerhand with the fact that certain processes have been gy consumption of non-renewable sources, the outsourced. However, Landis+Gyr requests its supgreenhouse gas emissions, waste, the use of water pliers to sign and follow the Group’s Supplier Code and hazardous chemical substances of its own operof Conduct, which includes the Green Procurement Requirements. 22 Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Goals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • CO² impact of our products (smart meters) • Establish a Sustainability KPI as important calculated and communicated element of Landis+Gyr’s Short-Term Incentive plan • Sustainability KPIs defined and implemented* • Promote switch to renewable energy at key sites •N  ew targets set for energy consumption savings; first actions identified • Develop new design features for an “even fairer” meter • Efforts to purchase “green” energy: The number of sites purchasing green energy is • Energy reduction activities derived from constantly increasing the energy audits • Reynosa, Corinth and Nuremberg • Further enhance and update the full completed self-declaration checklist guideline park (Basis ISO50001) Targets for energy consumption savings set, first actions identified and addressed* • Improved communication within the organization • Updated part of existing sets of guidelines and policies* The impacts occur internally and externally and Landis+Gyr is ­involved directly and indirectly. The Impact of Development Processes on Sustainability The Fair Meter project was started in 2013 as an initiative of Dutch network companies Aliander and Stedin in collaboration with meter suppliers. Landis+Gyr is a continuous member of the project. By implementing the Green Design Manual, Landis+Gyr’s whole Development process will receive another push to develop its products according to sustainability and fair standards. Joe Andrews, Product Manager for Residential Products and Raimond Bauknecht, head of the Global Practice Team talk about the impact of development processes on sustainability in this interview conducted by the CSR team. Joe Andrews, you have been in close contact with our both to product characteristics and organizational Dutch customers since they launched the Fair Meter behaviors and they worked hard not just to measure Concept. This concept integrates many ideas of suswhat may be the status quo but also how to meastainable, eco-friendly and resource-efficient product ure and manage the ambition to improve. They designs. What are the most important elements of the called this the fair meter performance ladder delibFair Meter concept? erately – it was a ladder to climb higher in ambition Joe Andrews: In my opinion it would be the holistic and in reality. The measurable nature of the ladder or “joined-up” nature of the initiative. It was both really helped us to identify where we were in our comprehensive and smart. Our customers in the performance very good by the way and rewarded Netherlands really put a lot of effort into defining a us to be even more ambitious in specific areas and comprehensive structure to measure sustainability one of these areas was circularity and resource effiand corporate social responsibility in the topics of ciency in a new product development for the E360. Circularity, Fairness, and Transparency and Footprint. The topics were applied in a measurable way 23 Energy Efficiency * Completed in summer 2020 and Climate Protection Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Is this a trend that energy utilities start focusing also “One key area – and mainly on eco-friendly and resource-efficient products and do you see other markets and customers following a under our own control – is similar path? exploiting the potential of Joe Andrews: Yes, this is definitely a trend. It is a product design.” fact of life that we are becoming increasingly aware – Raimond Bauknecht, Head of the Global as a society that our irresponsible consumption of Practice Team material resources is simply not sustainable. Our customer are stakeholders in that society and in addition our customers are in the very special position With the Green Design Manual Landis+Gyr has deof rolling out product and technology that can fined a “green way” forward also regarding device achieve a public good. It is very important to them design. Raimond Bauknecht, you were in the driving that in realizing this public good for energy efficient seat in this project. What are the primary goals of this they do not do harm by working with organizations undertaking? that do not have good CSR credentials or by buying Raimond Bauknecht: As part of our overall CSR and using products that do harm by consuming prestrategy we are executing life cycle assessments, cious resources or otherwise being wasteful of virgin both at product and at system level, to evaluate and materials and not having scope for those materials improve the environmental footprint of our portfoto be recovered and sent on to a second life when lio. One key area – and mainly under our own control the meter has finished its normal lifecycle. Not only – is exploiting the potential of product design. Creatis this a trend in the general sense but we have seen ing ‘greener’ products by identifying related design the pioneering work by our Dutch customers directly principles and deriving specific measures for implereused by other customers in their procurement mentation is what our Green Design Manual aims to frameworks. address. This is the foundation for practical design requirements in harmonized R&D procedures which “It is critical we show leadership.” are applicable globally to all products to maximize the impact on our Company environmental perfor– Joe Andrews, Product Manager for Residential Products mance. How important is it for Landis+Gyr to demonstrate a leadership role also in this area? Joe Andrews: It is critical we show leadership. Showing leadership in doing the right thing in this context can only be good for our brand in the wider sense. It is also a way for us to distinguish ourselves from our competition within our industry and be seen to be leading in our industry is an important competitive advantage – measurable and rewarded by our customers. Finally, it is the right thing to do for our employees – we collectively are responsible for millions of units of production and material consumption – whatever we do to reduce our material footprint and improve our environmental behaviors and live up to our social responsibility is good for our collective sense of being part of the solution rather than contributing to the problem. 24 Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr What does that mean for the Landis+Gyr developWhat benefits can customers expect when investing in ment teams? green designed products from Landis+Gyr? Raimond Bauknecht: The Green Design Manual Raimond Bauknecht: By implementing the Green provides specific requirements as well as guidance Design Manual, customers can expect that Landis+ and help for practical implementation to developGyr products exceed requirements for sustainability ment teams for five areas that are key in device deand environmental compliance defined and mansign: dated by regulators and internal policies. This will result in improved LCA figures including lower car1. Use more Sustainable Materials bon footprint over lifetime, easier recyclability and 2. Reduce Material Usage disposal at end-of-life. Moreover, it will also give 3. Use less Hazardous Materials them cost benefits due to reduced material usage, 4. Facilitate Disassembly of Final Product less recycling cost and minimized waste. Reduced 5. Manage Self-Consumption self-consumption – possibly at the expense of a slightly higher initial product cost – will finally result Implementation is ensured by including the Green in lower total cost of ownership (TCO) over the prodDesign Manual as a checklist item in design review uct lifetime. We have investigated the implications of guidelines for Electrical Hardware, Mechanical Engiall these measures thoroughly. The governance apneering and Component Management. The GDM is a plied around these will guarantee that customers “living document” that is frequently updated. It inwill see absolutely no compromise on product qualcludes Annexes with best-practice examples for ity and lifetime. know-how sharing. Additional areas are likely to be added based on experience in the utilization of this manual. 25 Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Smart Meter ROLL-OUT in the UK with a Special Application for Electric Vehicles Landis+Gyr first started installing the ‘next generation’ of UK smart meters in November 2017. Since then it has become a leader in the UK marketplace, continuing to build the grid of the future and ­collaborating on innovation projects with the local government. Up to now Landis+Gyr has delivered or contracted Pilot Phase for EV Smart Metering at Public 21 million meters to be delivered to various energy Charging Stations utilities in the UK. The SMETS2 (smart metering Landis+Gyr was furthermore selected by the UK Deequipment technical specifications 2) roll-out in the partment for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy UK is Government mandated with a total of 53 milBEIS to participate in a Government’s trial program lion smart electricity and gas meters to be deployed for electric vehicles. The ‘Beyond Off Street Smart before 2024 as part of the country’s plans to upMeter Electric Vehicle Charging Program’ is intended grade its energy infrastructure. to demonstrate how the smart metering system can be used to set charging times and rates wherever In 2020, Landis+Gyr has continued its role as a leadelectric vehicles are parked. The objective is to deer of the SMETS2 roll-out in the UK despite the unvelop an innovative use of the smart metering sysprecedented challenging environment that the COVtem to perform electric vehicles smart charging in ID-19 pandemic has brought. Taking extra safety public settings, including on-street residential and precautions and aligned with the Government and shared parking. The program will help to determine partners, the Company is working hard to maintain long-term policy for electric vehicles smart charging momentum on the roll-out in a challenging COVin the UK. It requires an interoperable and cyber seID-19 environment. As the UK begins to navigate a cure system to ensure consumer protection includpost COVID-19 setting with Government commiting data privacy and grid protection. By acting as an ments to a ‘green recovery’ and increased domestic interface between the consumer and the grid, the electricity consumption, the importance and urgensmart meter system can provide this protection. In a cy of making the SMETS2 roll-out a success has nevfirst phase until 2021, Landis+Gyr is participating in er been c­ learer. the design, development, and tests for one of the two parts of the program, called SmartSTEPs. In a second phase, the system will be deployed. In the project, Landis+Gyr will develop and test an Electric Vehicle charge point device incorporating SMETS2 smart meter technology as an example how smart product design can support both, energy efficiency and climate protection. 26 Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.2 Resource Efficiency Management Approach Landis+Gyr is committed to contributing to the circular economy where value once created from raw materials and resources is ­preserved at the highest level possible. The Company, its stakeholders, its value chain as well as the products and services provided are relevant to resource efficiency. This includes design and processes that consider implemented. Part of the initiative to reduce the enthe full lifecycle including recycling. An integrative vironmental footprint of products is based on the part is the ­avoidance of harmful materials, a responGreen Design Manual (see Chapter 6.1), which specsible use of water and strict waste management. ifies key design principles and related requirements Landis+Gyr implements vigorous measures to proand provides practical implementation guidance mote the effective and practical use of resources, in and best-practice sharing to development teams. terms of both products and service offerings. They also include internal business processes, encomLandis+Gyr products have a positive impact on the passing design, manufacturing, logistics, sale, and environment. It is therefore key that their design and disposal. A particular focus is placed on the efficient manufacturing processes are as sustainable as possiutilization of resources and control of chemical subble. With the initiative to assess the product lifecycles stances. and circular economy, Landis+Gyr increases the use of recycled materials, reduces material consumption The business areas of Product Management, Reper benefit generated and enhances their recyclabilisearch & Development, Supply Chain Management ty. Using more sustainable and less hazardous mateand Quality Management work closely together to rials is another aspect of resource efficiency. The initialign the development, manufacturing, recycling and ative is being rolled out to all product groups, with disposal of products with their positive impact when large-volume products being targeted first. Goals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • Released and implemented global “Green • Develop KPI focused on reduction of the Design Manual”* environmental impact of the portfolio • A system to track all global projects regard• Execute product Life Cycle Assessments ing Restriction of the use of certain (LCA) incl. KPIs focused on reduction of the ­Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registraenvironmental impact of our portfolio tion, Evaluation, Authorisation and • Set up targets for year-on-year reduction of ­Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) complinon-RoHS/REACH compliant components ance implemented from 2021 onwards • Company-wide assessment on inclusion • Track conflict minerals for all projects to of recycled materials in production set goals for 2022 onwards completed* • Set targets for electricity meter self-­ • Global usage for top five metal/plastic consumption and use it actively as a TCO materials incl. recycled content assessed, optimization proposal towards customers development of a tracking system in progress* • Set year-on-year reduction goals for average materials usage for 2021 onwards • Data provided for overall renewable and non-renewable and materials usage • Implement measures to track and improve recycling rates for heat and gas meters The impacts occur internally and externally and Landis+Gyr is ­involved directly and indirectly. 27 Resource Efficiency * Also completed later than March 2020 Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.3 Strategic Responsible Sourcing Management Approach Environmental sustainability management involves tackling various operational issues. Landis+Gyr has a responsibility to identify, assess, and address the environmental impacts of its products throughout their lifecycles at every phase, from product manufacturing and usage through to recycling of end-of-life products. An updated green procurement policy helps Landis+Gyr to improve in this area. The topics of strategic responsible sourcing has an impact on the whole lifecycle, and its boundaries include not only development and production but also the lifecycle of the products and the supply chain. Supply chain at Landis+Gyr includes manufacturing sites, procurement, logistic and quality functions. Landis+Gyr operates 10 major manufacturing sites across the globe and has outsourcing partnerships with strategic suppliers in Eastern Europe and South-east Asia. The four key pillars of Landis+Gyr’s supply chain are (i) the mechanical parts, (ii) Printed Circuit Board Assemblies with all electronics, (iii) assembly of the meter, and (iv) final integration with Green procurement involves purchasing products, calibration, customization, sealing and packaging. It parts, components, and materials with minimal enviis important to highlight that Landis+Gyr produces ronmental impact from suppliers that vigorously high-precision measuring devices under mass propromote environmental protection. To that end, the duction conditions and it has a modular and flexible cooperation of suppliers throughout the entire supsupply chain which enables outsourcing at any stage ply chain is essential to ensure that business operof the production flow. For software and service ates in a way that reduces the environmental impact products, Landis+Gyr relies mainly on internal reand risks. sources (research & develop team) to deliver the best solutions to our customers. It is crucial to Landis+Gyr’s CSR policy to ensure suppliers’ compliance with the Company’s quality, environmental, health and safety policies and the Landis+Gyr Supplier Code of Conduct. The Landis­+ Gyr’s procurement strategy includes the expansion of relationships with suppliers in terms of sustainability targets and values. 28 Strategic Responsible Sourcing Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Landis+Gyr’s impact on the supply chain is indirect. The responsible party for implementation is the It can be measured via the commitment of suppliers Global procurement and supply chain team reportto the Landis+Gyr’s responsible sourcing requireing to the Executive Vice President Supply Chain ments. The focus of implementation lies on the most Management & Operations. The management apimportant partners in the value chain being responproach is evaluated with regular yearly supplier ausible for a combined purchase value of 85%. Special dits. The relevant policies are the Landis+Gyr Code attention is given to suppliers in critical environof Business Ethics and Conduct, the Supplier Code ments and potentially dealing with critical topics of Conduct, as well as the Environment, Health and (risk-based approach) such as conflict minerals. Safety Policy and the Green Procurement Policy. The Group prefers suppliers that act according to the Group’s environmental principles, including quality, occupational health and safety and environmental policies. In order to fulfill these requirements, Landis+Gyr has developed a stringent qualification process. It includes declarations of compliance, selfand third-party assessments as well as auditing¹. All current major suppliers of Landis+Gyr are in the process of signing the Landis+Gyr Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which was last updated on July 23, 2020. Landis+Gyr is furthermore minimizing the use of environmentally harmful materials (e.g. REACH, RoHS, Conflict Minerals), and the release of emissions. Goals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • Issued revised Supplier Code of Conduct • Get commitment of top 100 suppliers addressing green procurement, conflict (85% of global spend) to revised Supplier minerals as well as human rights requireCode of Conduct ments* • Evaluate future suppliers based also on • Supplier certificates asking suppliers to their ESG policies confirm compliance with environmental • Implement green product designs and laws and to submit a conflict minerals establish a green design statement for template installed in all regions* newly designed products • Roll-out of Green Procurement Policy has started* The impacts occur externally and Landis+Gyr is involved directly and indirectly. As mentioned above, Landis+Gyr has recently updated its Supplier Code of Conduct and added a Green Procurement Requirements annex thereto. Suppliers are requested to confirm having been made aware of this Code and Annex and of being in compliance with its terms. The suppliers are requested to confirm their adherence with their signature. ¹ Supplier Audits are now based on CSR-ISMS in ­addition to VDA 6.3 to cover the RBA Code of Conduct and the aligned Landis+Gyr Code of Conduct evidence as well as to address specific ISO 27001 29 Annex A requirements. Strategic Responsible * Completed in summer 2020 Sourcing Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Green Procurement Requirements and Supplier Code of Conduct To promote green procurement, Landis+Gyr requests suppliers and business partners to engage in the promotion of environmental ­protection, and the supply of products, parts and components and ­materials with minimal environmental impact. The Group requests suppliers to confirm its requests by subscribing to the Green Procurement Requirements and Supplier Code of Conduct and by ­cooperating for joint improvements. Conflict Materials Hazardous Materials and Cycle Economy Landis+Gyr strives to prevent the use Conflict MinerSuppliers are requested to design and implement a als within its products and requires that its suppliers system for the thorough management of those maand partners share this objective. Landis+Gyr has terials, components and processes which may have also adopted the SEC Rule 1502 (US only) & OECD negative environmental impact. A special focus lies Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply on chemical substances in products. Landis+Gyr Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and Highasks its suppliers to establish a design approach to Risk Areas. Suppliers and partners are requested to pursue resource sustainability (green design), for excomplete and submit Conflict Minerals Reporting reample by reducing material usage and design asgarding the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten & gold semblies for maximized recyclability. Suppliers are (3TG) as well as cobalt compliance forms. The forms asked to establish a system for identification and are submitted to Landis+Gyr every two years or management of hazardous chemical substances in when requested by Landis+Gyr based on perceived products policies. risk. 30 Strategic Responsible Sourcing Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.4 Employee Motivation Management Approach Employee Motivation is a prerequisite for the ability to deliver great customer service and achieve outstanding business results. Landis+Gyr is committed to an organizational culture where all employees feel motivated and engaged. Landis+Gyr identified Employee Motivation as a key topic that would benefit from increased global focus. ple of equal employment opportunity and non-discrimination and forms the basis of requirements for new hires. Based on the Global Performance Review Policy, Landis+Gyr strives to ensure that all employees achieve their professional potential. Managers and employees have two formal opportunities to discuss business behavior and performance against goals each year. Regular, two-way feedback is encouraged. The global people platform myGPS (Success Factors) records individual development plans, learning history and goals. Landis+Gyr is also committed to promoting internal talents, identifying potential successors for key positions. The Company’s ambition is to help employees create and maintain their Individual All HR processes are potentially impacted by this Development Plan that sits within myGPS (Success topic, and while training and internal projects refer Factors). Wherever possible, vacancies are to be to Landis+Gyr employees only, the policies regardfilled with internal talent. ing Operational Health and Safety as well as ethical guidelines are applied to temporary employees and The Group strives to implement a global employee extended in to the supply chain (read more on this motivation strategy until 2021, with a global career in Chapter 6.6). Evidence of the direct impact of Emdevelopment framework and standardized engageployee Motivation is visible across the whole organiment surveys. These projects will facilitate the creazation, on the interface with Landis+Gyr’s customers tion and strengthening of a working environment and is being reflected in the quality of its products. that allows employees to deliver to the best of their While Landis+Gyr extends its full Operational Health abilities, whether in relation to their current role or and Safety Programs to temporary employees or their future career progression. Every other year the contractors working on Landis+Gyr sites, the manapproach will be evaluated in a range of measures. agement approach with regard to Employee MotivaThese include an audit of the initial action plans, pertion relates to Landis+Gyr employees only. formance goals for leaders relating to the maintenance of action plans, measures for individual develEmployee motivation is a multi-layered topic; to enopment but also global learning campaigns as well sure energies are consistently focused across the as the impact of succession planning across the ororganization, the following elements are prioritized: ganization. supportive management, positive work environment, opportunities for growth, trust in leadership, meaningful work. Furthermore, proper business conduct and standards of behavior for all employees are clearly outlined in the Landis+Gyr Global Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. It includes the princi31 Employee Motivation Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr At the same time, Landis+Gyr will be carrying out an programs are provided as part of local social plans initiative that includes a global approach to simplify and always in consideration of local employment and right-size the organization, allowing for inconditions and laws. creased customer intimacy and speed to market as well as overall improved efficiencies and quality conTraining and Career Development Reviews trols. This process will result in an estimated reducThe Company provides training to its employees tion of Landis+Gyr’s workforce by approximately through a variety of different channels and includes 12% and shall be concluded by the end of Fiscal Year compulsory training, skills development as well as 2020. Landis+Gyr is working closely with all stakesupporting individual career growth. For several holders and social partners and expects a positive years, Landis+Gyr has provided its employees unlimimpact on Employee Motivation in the mid-term, ited access to LinkedIn learning. On average, emwhilst currently implementing the challenging proployees invest around 17 hours per year completing cess of streamlining the organization. Transition learning activities. Goals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • Conducted a global engagement survey, • Maintain Employee Engagement action cascaded the results, and involved employplans ees in creating sustainable action plans • Implement a global employee motivation • Launched global policies for talent acquisistrategy tion and international assignments* • Introduce a global reward and career • Developed one consistent corporate framework onboarding program* • Initiate unconscious bias training for the • Established LinkedIn Learning to focus Executive Management team global learning campaigns on key topics such as unconscious bias The impacts occur internally and Landis+Gyr is involved directly. 32 Employee Motivation * Launched in summer 2020 Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr The survey is planned to be carried out bi-annually. Whilst participation in the survey is voluntary, the goal is to receive feedback from at least 80% of the employees. Within six weeks of the engagement survey taking place, a global CEO communication will convey the overarching survey results. Leaders will then be required to share the local survey results and to engage their teams in the creation and maintenance of an action plan that is aimed at improving levels of employee motivation and engagement across the organization. Action plans are to be documented within the internal HR tool within three months of the survey results being available. Employee Engagement Survey Going forward, the planning process will form one of In September 2019, Landis+Gyr conducted a survey the key enablers for employee engagement. Leaders among all employees in order to evaluate their level work collaboratively with their teams to identify the of engagement and to identify room for improvebarriers and blockers to engagement and the correcment. With a response rate of 88%, participation tive actions. A Global HR dashboard including relewas high. With a favorability score of 84%, the vant metrics will be available to the Extended Leader­Landis­+Gyr’s Sustainable Engagement was rated at ship Team every quarter, which will also include the top end by comparison to an external benchinformation about internal hires from the talent pipemark. The category reflects the levels of attachment line. A pulse survey mechanism will be developed to toward the organization and the employees’ willingtake place between the global bi-annual survey. ness to give discretionary effort. Customer Focus was also highly rated, as was the Group’s Culture of Collaboration and People Management. Landis+Gyr outperformed the Global High Technology norm in all of the mentioned categories. Employees and Managers have collaborated on ar­ eas for improvement and over 400 action ideas have been formally registered with the goal being to enhance the level of employee engagement. On the other hand, there were opportunities identified in the categories of Innovation & Change; Strategy & Leadership and Personal Development; the delta to the Global High Technology norm was 2%, 3% and 1% accordingly. These categories formed the basis of the Executive Management Team engagement targets, which were cascaded throughout the whole organization. 33 Employee Motivation Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.5 Occupational Health and Safety Management Approach The Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) of all employees is a top priority at Landis+Gyr. The Company is committed to maintaining safe workplace environments that reduce the risks of accidents, ­injuries, and illnesses. To maintain and strengthen a high standard of workplace occupational health and safety, Landis+Gyr provides ­employees with regular training and events to integrate job safety into daily work. The primary goal is to ensure that everyone is kept safe and healthy. It is obvious that the physical well-being of all emLandis+Gyr has an OHS monitoring system in place ployees needs to be a core focus. The right to a that enables the different management levels to healthy and safe workplace is recognized as a hucontribute to and manage OHS issues and monitor man right. Hence, ensuring occupational health and the safety performance in order to introduce addisafety is a must. Also, absences of employees due to tional control measures as required. Current OHS injuries or illnesses create costs and additional expractices are compliant across the Group due to the penditures for an employer. As a result, the occuparequirements of OHSAS 18001, ISO 45001 and national health and safety of employees has a direct tional laws. The Quality, Environmental, Health, and influence on productivity and is a major success facSafety Policy (QEHS) Company policy and OHS guidetor. Occupational health and safety at work involves line – both internal documents – apply Group-wide, both the prevention of harm, and the promotion of while some policies and guidelines are site-specific health and well-being. With its offices, operations, to cater for the variations in national laws and site supply chain and products Landis+Gyr is exposed to operational activities. the topic to a large extent. 34 Occupational Health and Safety Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr While the primary focus is on Landis+Gyr’s employtem), with reporting structures in place at Group ees and activities, Landis+Gyr additionally request CEO level. The Group has implemented managesuppliers to follow the same requirements via the ment systems, processes, guidelines, training proSupplier Code of Conduct. In the design of products, grams and reporting tools / dashboards to ensure Landis+Gyr follows stringent safety requirements the required level of occupational, health and safety based on external regulations and internal guideis maintained across the organization. Internal and lines, to ensure that all products can be used safely external occupational and health and safety audits throughout their lifecycle. are regularly undertaken to monitor OH&S performance. The IMS system is measured through the The site manager in charge is accountable. OHS reannual setting of global KPIs for OH&S. sponsibilities are cascaded to quality managers and managed as part of the integrated management sysGoals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • Standardized and globally enforced OHS • Maintain and further improve current OHS management system, which aims to further management system towards strengthen preventive focus through “more global and more preventative focus” improved risk assessment, further harmo• Expand OHS awareness and requirements nizing regional processes and KPIs, and for key suppliers integrating supplier safety • Further drive continuous improvement of • Developed and established global accident the Occupational, Health and Safety culture investigation and reporting system (which across Landis+Gyr, based on in-depth also incorporates Near Miss reporting)* analysis of improved OHS data reporting • Various COVID-19 measures put in place to systems protect employees and maintain the ability to deliver The impacts occur internally and Landis+Gyr is involved directly. The OHS system at Landis+Gyr During the current reporting period, there have Landis+Gyr has an Occupational, Health and Safety been no fatalities due to work-related injury or highManagement System with a dedicated policy which consequence work-related injuries. Accidents are addresses both local requirements (e.g. legal, standclassified in categories Minor (up to one day abards or code of practice) as well as the requirements sence) and Lost Time (more than one day absence). of the ISO 45001 standard. ISO 45001 sites are auAll Lost Time accidents are reported to Group OHS. dited periodically by a certified external party. In the past business year, Landis+Gyr recorded 11 Lost Time Incidents at a Lost Time Incident FrequenAll contractors are covered by the same policies as cy Rate of 0.88. (LTIs x 1,000,000)/Exposure Hours. employees. Risk assessments are undertaken across The number of hours worked in the reporting period all levels of the organization to identify potential was 12,548,400. Nevertheless, for every Lost Time risks to compliance, the well-being of people and the Accident, Landis+Gyr requests a corrective action environment and the achievement of the objectives. plan to fix the problem and to address the root Risk assessments are used as the primary mechacause of the accident. nism for the identification of hazards and their ­elimination through the implementation of correcThe Lost Time Incidents can be classified as follows: tive and preventive actions. Management teams throughout the Group ensure (based on auditable 6 = Struck by moving object; evidence) that they have processes in place to facili1 = Contact with electricity; tate regular consultation with employees and obtain 1 = Fall from height; their participation in the identification of occupa1 = Slip, trip, fall; tional health and safety risks and implementation of 1 = Trapped by something falling; and the related controls. Every year, OHS audits of sever1 = Contact with sharp object. al sites are undertaken by a central team, in addition to annual local OHS audit programs. 35 Occupational Health * Implementation after the closing of the business year. and Safety Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Each location must identify specific local hazards – COVID-19 Measures depending on their activities – and will undertake Landis+Gyr’s commitment to the occupational site-specific risk assessments. Preventive risk identihealth and safety of its employees and customers fication and related actions to eliminate hazards and has been at the core of the Company’s values since minimize risks are managed through the Integrated its foundation. That became even more important Management System for Quality, Environment, during the recent COVID-19 pandemic crisis. Soon Health and Safety and Business Continuity. Employafter the outbreak of the pandemic in China, the ees, in their daily activities, and managers, when carGroup adapted protection measures for employees, rying out job observations and PM reviews, identify partners, and customers, depending on each counpotential risks in the workplace. Actions to eliminate try’s situation and developments in 2019/20 and hazards and risks are also identified during each lo2020. The global measures can be summarized as cation’s Annual IMS Management Review and Annual follows: During times in which incident rates in the Internal IMS Audit program. An overall IMS Managecorresponding countries were high, office personnel ment Review is undertaken at the executive level on were and still have been instructed to work from an annual basis. Emergency response plans are in home (where this has been possible). Medically vulplace for all sites. nerable personnel remained at home and medical care is ensured for all employees. All governmental The Landis+Gyr process for Managing QEHS-Critical measures and recommendations are being moniActivities includes the identification of related imtored and followed. External visitors are generally provement activities, designates local responsible not allowed at Landis+Gyr sites during times of highmanagers, hazard assessments for personal protecer incident rates, such as for example in Switzerland. tive equipment and preventive maintenance for Governmental lockdown rules were and still are equipment, tools, devices and vehicles. The QEHS strictly followed even when resulting in partial lockonboarding process is standardized. Initial and redowns of own operations such as in India or South curring QEHS training is undertaken. Africa in early 2020. Strict social distancing and quarantine rules played their part in avoiding the spread Best Practice Standards have been established and of the virus among employees. implemented, which set out additional controls required in relation to hazards associated with driving, electrical work, office safety, workstation ergonomics and manual handling, as well as procedures for 5S implementation, subcontractor QEHS Management and IMS Document Control. 36 Occupational Health and Safety Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr RoSPA Award UK For the 14th consecutive year, the Landis+Gyr team Rafal Pereszczako, Integrated Management System in the UK received the internationally renowned Ro(IMS) Coordinator for the UK, attended the virtual SPA (Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents) awards ceremony at the beginning of September President’s Award for continuing to demonstrate 2020. He was delighted to receive this recognition high standards of occupational health and safety. on behalf of Landis+Gyr (UK). “The RoSPA awards are known to be one of the most stringent health and Organizations receiving an RoSPA award are recogsafety accolades in the world and the longest-runnized as world leaders in occupational health and ning of its kind in the UK. We are proud of this safety practice. Every year, nearly 2,000 entrants vie achievement. It demonstrates our commitment to to achieve this accolade whose headline sponsor is aspects such as health at work, environmental manNEBOSH the National Examination Board in Occuagement, and safety inside and outside of the workpational Safety and Health. place”, he stated proudly. For more information about the RoSPA Awards visit www.rospa.com/awards Pequot Lakes in Minnesota, USA, a Landis+Gyr Research and Development Center, received the 2019 Outstanding Award in Occupational Safety and was recognized during the Minnesota Safety and Health Conference. 37 Occupational Health and Safety Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Near Misses System Landis+Gyr has recently updated its Global OHS reporting system to ­capture Near Miss data across all global sites. The system now provides a new layer of data, testimony of another evolution of the safety culture at Landis+Gyr. The Near Misses System encourages ­employees to become more aware and open to reporting – which in turn generates a transparent environment and higher OHS ­awareness. Several sites had already implemented Near Misses Chris Hope, EMEA Systems & Processes Manager Reporting Systems locally. However, the common and responsible for the global roll-out of the Near system has now been implemented across the Misses System, expects the project to enhance an Group, covering all employees, and is managed cenopen work atmosphere. He said: “The system is extrally. The system has been fully operational since pected to not only enable the reporting of near miss summer 2020 and provides greater insight into areincidents, but also to generate a greater awareness as of potential OHS risk. This enables the organizaof OHS risks across the organization and drive an tion to implement corrective actions and control improved safety culture”. measures on a global scale to further mitigate potential OHS risk across the organization. Over the course of the next 12 months, further training sessions and awareness campaigns are planned globally. This additional near miss data collected through the system will be shared across the Group to enable better identification of OHS risk areas and improve OHS awareness across all Landis+Gyr sites. 38 Occupational Health and Safety Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.6 Fair Labor Practices Management Approach Landis+Gyr is committed to treating its employees with the dignity they deserve. The Company’s Fair Labor Standards are aligned with global standards and guidelines, such as the UNGC, and thereby the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labour Organization. Landis+Gyr is committed to upholding and promottion and was newly organized. Landis+Gyr’s Fair Laing fair labor practices in all locations and for all embor Practices focus on the implementation of a set ployees globally. Advanced Fair Labor Practices – of internal guidelines and control measures within whether imposed by local statutory requirements or the entire organization and supply chain to ensure by our internal standards where such statutes do compliance with local laws and international standnot exist – are the norm at all Landis+Gyr sites. ards. A central requirement is the guarantee of Landis+Gyr’s commitment to fair labor practice is equal employment opportunities without discrimialso a pillar of its supply chain operations. As such, nation and harassment based on age, gender, relithe Company has imposed comparable human gion, sexual orientation, or ethnic/social origin. rights protections on suppliers and demands the Landis+Gyr’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct abolishment of modern slavery in its supply chain, as also covers employees’ responsibilities to each othevidenced by the Landis+Gyr Supplier Code of Coner, such as respect for one another, and not engagduct. ing in discrimination or retaliation. All employees must agree to fully comply with the Code and to parSeveral aspects led to the decision to classify the ticipate in regular training sessions. topic of Fair Labor Practices as material, including local legal requirements that need to be implementThis topic is managed by the Group Chief Complied and complied with, as well as best practices isance Officer. Like all other CSR material topics, it is sued by organizations such as the United Nations or governed by the CSR Steering Committee. Alongside the International Labour Organization. the Group Chief Compliance Officer, the Global Head of Human Resources and the Global Head of Fair Labor Practices have been a long-standing comSupply Chain Management and Operations manage mitment of Landis+Gyr. However, with the current the monitoring of the internal and external operaCSR roadmap, the topic received even more attentions, respectively, with regards to this topic. Goals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • Rolled out new Code of Business Ethics and • Adopt a reporting framework and a human Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct to rights due diligence process in accordance protect minors and young people, promote with the UN Guiding Principles fair and ethical relationships, and explicitly • Focus on a Landis+Gyr specific risk area as prohibit modern slavery and other human a core element in each yearly development rights violations* of Code of Business Ethics and Conduct • New learning content focused on ethics • Mandatory e-learning enhancing compliand integrity rolled out* ance training programs to include external • Updated internal stakeholders on fair labor consultants and agents topics including modern slavery The impacts occur internally and externally and Landis+Gyr is involved directly and indirectly. 39 * Process planned in FY 2019/20 and carried out in spring Fair Labor Practices and summer 2020. Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr On the Impact of the new Code of Business Ethics and Behavior Stefania Varga, the responsible project lead from the Global ­Compliance and Privacy team for the development and global roll-out of the new Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, talks about the impact of development processes on sustainability in this interview conducted by the CSR Team. “Clearly stating and codifying How did you notice that there is an increase in awarewhat we ­already lived ness? created an ­increased awareness We had immediate positive feedback during the rollof employee rights.” out. Employees of all levels addressed our team with inquiries, some wanting to ensure that current local – Stefania Varga, Global Compliance and Privacy practices were indeed in line with the newly codified standards, for example working hours. In this way, we With the new Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, immediately saw people being more aware of their Landis+Gyr incorporates several international standrights, and being more confident in asking or talking ards. How has the Code been impacted by these about these topics, because they were now reasstandards and how does that impact show in the daysured that Landis+Gyr does guarantee these rights, to-day application of the Code? even if they are in some cases not guaranteed by local The new Code incorporated the UNGC Principles regulations. We also received a lot of direct feedback and the fair labor standards of the Responsible Busithat the global communications on this topic were ness Alliance. The alignment with these standards well received, understandable and clear. and the UNGC principles has improved our Code in the sense that we are now explicitly listing all of the How did you make sure that the blue-collar workers Company’s requirements towards its employees in a were equally trained and understood the Code? holistic way. The previous version of the Code inOur team put together a concise summary of all cluded topics such as anti-discrimination and equal changes implemented in the updated Code, which opportunities, but other topics such as working we then sent to all local Human Resources offices hours, fair compensation, prohibition of child labor where Landis+Gyr employs blue-collar workers. The and modern slavery were not explicitly stated in the local HR teams then held in-person training sessions code before. Some of these topics were not historiin groups to advise on the new changes to the Code, cally included as Landis+Gyr did not feel like the which culminated in all blue-collar workers signing company was impacted by, for example, modern off on the Code. In order to make sure that local emslavery, and because some topics are regulated by ployees understood the contents and to enhance local laws, such as working hours. In now making the importance, the material was translated into all these amendments to the Code, the Company showrelevant local languages such as Chinese, Greek, cases to its employees and other stakeholders that Portuguese, Spanish, German, etc. these are topics of the utmost importance to Landis+Gyr, that the Company is aware of all these topics and potential risks, and is abiding by these rules on a group level. This uniform standard of human rights shows our workforce that regardless of where they are located, they are all protected by the same high standards. In turn, employees have also become more aware of their rights. 40 Fair Labor Practices Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.7 Community Engagement With its presence in 27 countries Landis+Gyr is impacting the local communities it is part of. Hence, Landis+Gyr is engaging to create a positive environment for its ­employees, neighbors and the communities the Company and its branches are a member of. Until 2020, Community Engagement had been manpact are a positive engagement with the neighbouraged at local and regional level. While there were hood and an improved attractiveness as an employglobal activities such as the participation in the er. These are also the touchpoints for Landis+Gyr to “Wings for Life” initiative, most projects have so far participate in local communities and find inspiration followed a grassroots approach headed by local for new projects. management. However, with the growing importance of community engagement Landis+Gyr decidLandis+Gyr has no operations with significant actual ed to define a global framework, targets and KPIs. or potential negative impacts on local communities. Whilst implementation is within regional and local The Group focuses positive impact initiatives on a responsibility, investments and outcomes will be wide range of social activities and charity projects tracked and monitored globally in the future. that improve the motivation of existing and new employees, the engagement of business partners and The topic is managed and monitored by the Global interaction with authorities and neighborhoods. In Community Engagement Program Coordinator. The addition, Landis+Gyr engages in and contributes to action streams (concept and strategy; KPI to measa number of third-party community projects. Such ure, collect and report; global projects / undertakactivities are intended to create value for the Comings) cover specific aspects of the topic which might pany, the Company’s employees and families, the be reviewed as part of the next cycle. The impact is, neighborhoods, local communities, and society. due to its nature, global with emphasis on places where Landis+Gyr has a presence. The areas of imGoals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • Enhanced awareness and acceptance of • Start to lead, supervise, track and consolicoordinated community engagement date Community Engagement activities activities within the Group* within the Community Engagement Directive • Developed a global strategy and guidelines for the Group’s community engagement • Establishing quarterly reporting worldwide • Gaining a solid basis allowing for a pro• Defined a set of global KPIs for community found mid-term Community Engagement engagement and reporting strategy • Collection, consolidation and communica• Provide full transparency on Landis+Gyr’s tion of community engagement stories global community engagement activities internally and externally • Global Community engagement organization set up* The impacts occur externally and Landis+Gyr is involved directly and indirectly. 41 Community Engagement * Roll-out after end of FY 2019/20. Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Community Engagement at Landis+Gyr Finland Landis+Gyr Finland took part in the bike-to-work competition to save CO² and raise money for the local children’s hospital. The Finnish team participated in the Kilometer comdistance. Even more important to the team, howevpetition, a nationwide cycling competition between er, was that by cycling, they raised EUR 1,260 to be teams running from May to September 2019 and handed over to the children’s ward of the Central 2020. Landis+Gyr Finland takes part every year in Hospital of Central Finland. An overarching element this national competition. In 2019, 42 colleagues to both initiatives is the active and positive team from Landis+Gyr Finland cycled 30,164 km in total. spirit driving the Community projects. Landis+Gyr This mileage saved 2,111 liters of petrol and 5,277 kg Finland is destined to take a leading role in spreadof CO² compared to if the participants would have ing this team spirit to the global community engagebeen taking cars or public transport over the same ment initiatives from 2021 onwards. 42 Community Engagement Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.8 Data Security and Privacy Landis+Gyr’s products and services bring intelligence to the power grid by collecting and analyzing data and enabling energy utilities and energy consumers to make fact-based decisions regarding energy management. This exposes users to the risk that personal data could be misused. As a result, data privacy and security are fundamental to Landis+Gyr’s success and sustainable business development. Landis+Gyr is continuing to further enhance the Chief Information Security Officer and centrally regdata security and privacy program to manage the inulated in the Data Security Policy, which is strongly creasing risk and requirements that are being seen influenced by GDPR and other Privacy regulations. from regulation and cyber security threats. Personal The policy describes the importance, the boundary information and other data collected from consumas well as the managing principles of this material ers, customers, employees and other stakeholders topic. is subject to data protection laws in all countries in which Landis+Gyr operates. The Company is exImportant entities within the Group managing the posed and involved in the risks of data security and topic are the Compliance and Data Privacy Officers privacy in its activities as well as with the products, who set the boundaries and monitor implementasolutions and services sold. The Group takes meastions, followed by the Cyber and Information Securiures and precautions to protect the information ty Department, which provides a secure environgathered and generated by its products within the ment with gradations to satisfy the different security limitation of its influence boundaries. and compliance requirements. Product Management, Engineering, production, and the supply chain The natural boundary of Landis+Gyr’s influencing also comply with data security and privacy policies. sphere for Data Security and Privacy is in the use Documents are stored in linkage with the process phase of products and solutions. Landis+Gyr takes and kept safe for the period required by the respecevery precaution in the design and production of its tive law. Landis+Gyr has a cyber-security incident products, ensuring that the data used or generated and vulnerability submission portal implemented on by our products and solutions is protected and its the Group’s web sites. The form can be used by any privacy kept. The topic covers a vast field from Emoutside party to alert Landis+Gyr about any security ployee Data, Customer Data and Product and Seror data breach or data loss topic or such potential vice Compliance. It is managed by the Company’s dangers. Goals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • Expanded the Company’s global security • Formalize the Company’s security intelliawareness and training program gence function • Enhanced access and identity management • Roll out enhanced application security program and data protection solutions programs world-wide • Updated the Company’s Security Informa• Enhance and extend the Company’s Secure tion and Event Management Solution and Development Lifecycle program across all associated security operations development and manufacturing areas • Globalized and enhanced the Company’s • Enhance products and solutions to continusecurity compliance framework with data ously meet customer and regulatory privacy strategy and policies privacy and security requirements The impacts occur internally and externally and Landis+Gyr is involved directly. 43 Data Security and Privacy Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Data Security Management It is imperative for Landis+Gyr to be informed immediately when security events are detected, quickly assess the security event for impact, and to respond appropriately. In the reporting cycle, two ­complaints were received and dealt with. In the reporting cycle 2019/20, there were two subform purpose-built to protect enterprise environstantiated complaints received concerning customments from security breaches. Its cloud-native er privacy, one from an outside party and one from ­Software as a Service solution enables visibility, coa regulatory body. Whilst not facing any substantial ordination, and control across the enterprise’s on complaints or leaks concerning the loss of customer premise and multi-cloud. Partnering with ReliaQuest data, both complaints were reviewed and assessed, brings Landis+Gyr 24×7×365 security monitoring, as and proper actions were taken to remediate any well as enhanced log aggregation and correlation, concerns from the parties making the complaint. and enhanced security orchestration, automation, and response capabilities from an industry leader in As part of the Group’s ongoing effort to continually the Security Managed Services field. strengthen its Cyber Security Program, the global Security Operations Center has been enhanced, inAlong with this partnership, Landis+Gyr has also fincluding a new partnership with ReliaQuest. Reliished the roll-out of ServiceNow for managing secuaQuest is a global leader in cyber security that delivrity incidents and vulnerabilities, delivering a global ers industry-leading visibility and automation on consolidated real-time view of security posture. demand across complex environments with a plat44 Data Security and Privacy Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 6.9 Business Integrity Landis+Gyr conducts business in many countries in which business practices may vary greatly. And, given the industry in which ­Landis+Gyr operates, many of Landis+Gyr’s customers are government owned or highly regulated. Therefore, Landis+Gyr’s employees, agents, contractors, and other intermediaries are ­expected to conduct business with the utmost integrity. Landis+Gyr is active in more than 100 countries, all All Landis+Gyr employees are required to abide by of which have different legal requirements and exthe Landis+Gyr Code of Business Ethics and Conpectations. The Company is therefore exposed to a duct. All white-collar employees are trained on the variety of risks due to its global operations, such as content of the Code of Conduct on a yearly basis. bribery, corruption, fraud, and anti-competitive beFurthermore, the Company offers specialized trainhavior. Therefore, the Company’s related standards ing sessions on the most relevant compliance risks. are valid for Landis+Gyr Group and its subsidiary Training sessions focused on anti-corruption and companies, including all its employees and other competition law are completed on a yearly basis by agents, contractors, or intermediaries under employees who deal directly with customers, agents, Landis+Gyr’s control. distributors, vendors, and competitors, as well as anyone who is a direct manager. Landis+Gyr’s stringent integrity standards are showcased in the Company’s Code of Business Ethics and Globally, the Company has installed appropriate Conduct. The Code prohibits corruption, violations channels for reporting suspected or known violaof fair competition, and human rights infringements. tions of the Code of Conduct, other internal policies, Consequently, the Company has implemented a or the law. For this purpose, Landis+Gyr implementcompliance governance structure with responsible ed a confidential 24-hour hotline for making such managers at the group level, as well as in the rereports, as well as a web portal where employees gions, all of whom ensure that that all compliance can file a complaint. Finally, concerns can be reportpolicies and processes are implemented at the local, ed through different channels in the organization, regional, and global levels. These individuals also adsuch as via e-mail to a manager, HR Business Partvise internal stakeholders regarding compliance topner, or Compliance Officer. To this end, a case manics. agement system has been rolled out to record and monitor complaints and their resolution. In addition, Landis+Gyr has implemented a third-party due diligence process. It requires a mandatory due diligence check prior to the appointment of a third-party intermediary. This check is conducted by or with the assistance of an independent third party and scans potential third party intermediaries against blacklists, sanctions lists, adverse media, and other databases that may reveal a lack of business integrity. The Company’s third-party due diligence process is regularly re-evaluated and updated to ensure third parties are properly screened and vetted before business engagements are initiated. 45 Business Integrity Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr The topic of Business Integrity is owned and manbehavior is ultimately everyone’s responsibility. Beaged by the Group Chief Compliance Officer. The sides these organizational resources, Landis+Gyr Group CCO reports regularly to an Ethics Committee has a thorough training program in place, and opermade up of the Group’s CEO, CFO, General Counsel, ations are audited by Internal Audit. As a next step in and Head of HR. The Group CCO is also supported developing the compliance function, Landis+Gyr will by a Global Compliance Team, as well as by the Relaunch a monitoring program and audit plan specifigional Compliance Officers. The Group CCO relies on cally for compliance-related topics. Central Policies cross-functional stakeholders to drive compliance to these processes are: across the organization, as compliance and ethical • Anti-Corruption Policy: a global policy that offers a deep dive into the topic of corruption and other associated prohibited practices • Sponsoring and Political Contributions: a global policy that regulates employee sponsoring and political contributions • Unfair Competition and Antitrust Policy: a global policy that offers a deep dive into the topic of ­antitrust and all associated prohibited practices Goals reached in 2019/20 Roadmap cycle ending in FY 2021/22 • New Code of Conduct introduced and • Launch a monitoring program and an audit trained* plan for compliance-related topics • Ethics Committee established to ensure • Create a certified compliance and ethics that critical compliance topics are platform ­addressed at the highest level within the • Onboarding Suppliers to Due Diligence organization checks • E-learning content rolled out with focus on ethics and integrity for the Code of Conduct, Anti-Competition, and Anti-­ Bribery • Quarterly Ethics and Compliance News­ letters shared with the global organization • Third-Party Due Diligence checks for Agents and Distributors The impacts occur internally and externally and Landis+Gyr is involved directly and indirectly. As of the creation of this report, Landis+Gyr’s governFurther, 5 of 12 EMT members (41.67%) attended a ance body members, the Executive Management face-to-face Code of Conduct training session during Team (EMT), was made up of 12 members, distribut2019/20. This live training focused on a variety of ed geographically as follows: 4 in the Americas, 1 in compliance risks that Landis+Gyr is exposed to due APAC, and 7 in EMEA. Of these, all 12 EMT members to its internal and external operations, including an(100%) completed a Landis+Gyr Code of Business ti-corruption. Lastly, 7 of 12 EMT members (58.3%) Ethics and Conduct e-learning session, which focuses completed a Preventing Bribery and Corruption on a variety of compliance risks, including corruption. e-learning session. This is a yearly requirement, and This completion occurred either (1) during the Code thus all EMT members will be (re)trained on this topof Conduct E-Learning Campaign, which launched on ic in fall 2020. November 1, 2019 and ended on November 30, 2019, or (2) upon joining Landis+Gyr (for those who joined the Company after November 30, 2019). 46 Business Integrity * Was introduced after the end of FY 2019/20. Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr At Landis+Gyr, in accordance with global Company 2019. The remaining 1,360 employees were either protocol, prospective employees receive, along with an exception to the launch population (i.e., blue-­ the offer of employment, a copy of the Code of Busicollar workers) or joined the Company after Novemness Ethics and Conduct, which includes information ber 30, 2020. For this latter group, it was required about internal anti-corruption policies and procethat the same e-learning session be completed withdures. The acceptance of the norms outlined in the in 7 days of joining Landis+Gyr. Completion is being Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and its suptracked locally as part of onboarding. The e-learning porting policies is a condition of employment. session focuses on a variety of compliance risks, including corruption. All Landis+Gyr policies, including the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy, Furthermore, 1,427 employees (24.74%) attended a are routinely communicated to our intermediaries face-to-face Code of Conduct training session during during onboarding. Furthermore, these policies are the reporting period. This live training focused on a also communicated to our customers during the variety of compliance risks that Landis+Gyr is extender phase. With regards to suppliers, the same is posed to due to its internal and external operations, communicated to them through the Landis+Gyr including anti-corruption. The target population for Supplier Code of Conduct, which was updated rethis training were employees at various global locacently. Suppliers need to confirm adherence. tions who deal directly with customers, agents, distributors, vendors, and competitors, as well as anyAt the end of FY 2019/20, Landis+Gyr employed a one who has a management role. total of 5,768 employees, distributed geographically as follows: 2,080 in the Americas, 1,510 in Asia PacifLastly, 1,161 employees (20.13%) completed a Preic, and 2,178 in EMEA. Of these, 4,107 or 71.2% of venting Bribery and Corruption e-learning session. Landis+Gyr’s employees completed the e-learning The target population for this training were employsession for the Landis+Gyr Code of Business Ethics ees who deal directly with customers, agents, disand Conduct during a campaign which was launched tributors, vendors and competitors, as well as anyon November 1, 2019, and ended on November 30, one who has a management role. 47 Business Integrity Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 7 Statistics 7.1 Water Landis+Gyr adopted prudent water management over a decade ago with the sites learning from each other how to save water consumption, treat wastewater and reuse water on site. Wastewater and total consumption were reduced, with a significant increase in reused water. While total water consumption rose from 104,962 Water is measured with water meters in all larger m3 in 2017/18 to 115,325 m3 in 2018/19, for sites. The Noida site moved into a new facility with 2019/20 and thus the reporting period of this year’s on site sewage treatment and reuse of the water in report, the figure dropped to 102,876 m². spring 2019, this affects the water figures of the site from FY 2019/20 onwards, hence the increase of reIn the Asian Pacific region APAC, the reduction was used water overall. With Alpharetta and Kansas City, was 21% compared to the previous year. In Europe, two mid-size sites currently cannot provide water Middle East and Africa, reductions of total water use information and are not included in the notes beamounted to 8.7%. The amount of reused and recycause the landlord does not provide water concled water was increased and amounts to 7% of the sumption details. Some of the smaller sites do not total water for 2019/20. Direct draining of water to report water because it is included in tenant fees public waters or ground was further reduced. and are thus not included in the total. The water consumption of the smaller sites that are not included does not have a material impact on overall consumption and is estimated as lower than 1% of the total. Table 1: Water used – Group Overview [m³] 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total m³ 116,340 116,520 104,962 115,325 102,876* Water used from public water supply 64,314 73,906 65,291 64,059 61,389 Industrial water n. a. n. a. 44.5 38.2 56 Water used from own wells 35,379 36,731 34,384 44,298 37,249 Rainwater collected 16,646 5,884** 5,242 6.931 4,182 Total waste water 89,397 97,100 90,152 97,535 85,210 Water reused 1,199 2,322 1,432 2,627 3,327 Water recycled 891 746 – – 3,964 * The Annual Report stated 99,903 m³. The new adjusted total includes corrected data from the Noida (APAC) site of additional 2,973 m³, based on a newly adapted calculation mode based on an estimate. ** The lower consumption of rainwater for the period 2016/17 can be traced to the Corinth factory. In the preceding years, the site inadvertently reported its water source as ’rainwater’ instead of ’own wells’. 48 Water Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Table 2: Water used by region [m³] 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Americas 27,832 30,262 29,793 28,835 30,206 Water consumption from public water supply system 20,835 24,133 24,043 21,484 25,395 Water from own wells (groundwater) 752 802 717 651 629 Water other (e.g. rainwater) 6,245 5,327 5,033 6,697 4182 Total waste water 15,032 18,937 17,588 14,025 18,351 Direct drain to public waters or ground 2,358 3,985 4,175 4,379 3983 Water, to public sewage system (drain discharge) 12,674 14,952 13,413 9,646 14,369 Amount of water reused 1,199 2,322 1,432 2,627 3,327 Amount of water recycled – – – – – Industrial water – – – – – APAC 51,205 46,095 41,709 52,013 41,198 Water consumption from public water supply system 16,578 19,806 17,582 18,156 13,168 Water from own wells (groundwater) 34,627 26,289 24,127 33,857 28,030 Water other (e.g. rainwater) – – – – – Total waste water 39,974 40,767 41,688 51,984 37,217 Direct drain to public waters or ground – – – – – Water, to public sewage system (drain discharge) 39,974 40,767 41,688 51,984 37,217 Amount of water reused – – – – – Amount of water recycled 891 746 – – 3,964 Industrial water – – – – – EMEA 37,303 40,163 33,461 34,481 31,472 Water consumption from public water supply system 26,902 29,966 23,667 24,419 22,826 Water from own wells (groundwater) – 9,640 9,540 9,790 8,590 Water other (e.g. rainwater) 10,401 557 209 234 – Total waste water 34,392 37,396 30,875 31,527 29,641 Direct drain to public waters or ground 10,486 12,556 9,268 10,451 8,736 Water, to public sewage system (drain discharge) 23,906 24,840 21,607 21,076 20,905 Amount of water reused – – – – – Amount of water recycled – – – – – Industrial water – – 45 38 56 49 Water Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 7.2 Waste After an increase in waste in the previous reporting year due to the ­relocation of production and assembly lines, Landis+Gyr was able to significantly reduce its waste in the current reporting period from 4,345 tons to 4.091 tons or 6%. Landis+Gyr is continuously taking measures to rethe closing of numbers for the Annual Report. The duce waste and increase recycling, also throughout adjustments for Reynosa concern a recycling waste the reporting period. Best practice examples from stream of waste that is being exported to the USA sites include the reduction of landfill to zero in Cufor professional recycling. Of these 442 tons that ritiba and the minimum waste approach for the relowere recycled, 3 tons or less than 1% resulted in cation of Jyskä Office in Finland. landfill. Numbers differ from the numbers reported in the The adjustments for Noida are due to the change of Annual Report due to a waste stream for meters of a site and adjustments in measuring methods that retotal of 442 tons out of the Reynosa site plus 8 tons sulted in a delayed reporting of a part of the waste out of the Noida site that were only reported after stream. Office relocation with minimized waste generation When Landis+Gyr Finland moved their office in February 2020, they had the task of removing and recycling old office supplies and no longer used paper books that had accumulated in the old office for over 20 years. The team not only organized proper recycling processes for recyclable waste, but they went all-in to reuse and recycle all materials to the maximum. The team first classified the types of materials and designed a simple strategy to allocate the resources in different channels. Office supplies and recyclable punches, or scissors. Empty binders and plastic books were then collected in one central area. The pockets as well as similar items were advertised onlocal Jyväskylä Craft and Design School was contactline and given to local NGOs. Finally, all employees ed through the initiative of an employee who had were free to take remaining materials home either been studying at the school during a six-month for their children or to be brought to daycare centers study leave from December 2018 to May 2019. She or kindergartens. In the end, almost zero material knew that the school would be happy to receive the went to waste. office supplies such as colored papers, staplers, Over the years, books like dictionaries and other professional literature from the last millennium had accumulated. These amounted to 76 boxes, and were brought to the Sovatek foundation, which offers workplaces for reintegration after rehab. Sovatek uses the recyclable paper to produce a raw material for construction insulation. The recycled insulation from the old Landis+Gyr books and catalogues was then delivered to the local Ecovillage “Ekovilla Oy” to be used in new buildings. Ulla Yrjölä said: “This Engagement on all levels to not only recycle but truly reuse all kind of materials from the old offices shows that our team is dedicated to the local communities and extremely motivated to support our Community Engagement. 50 Waste Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Zero landfill in Curitiba In 2018, the Curitiba site started a project to reduce lect and properly dispose of the waste in a compostthe waste portion that goes to landfill. The portion of ing process. The majority of the composting is now landfill at the start of the project was around 3.0%– done through the new partner. However, compost3.5% per year (up to 400 kg). By the end of FY 2019, ing has a long tradition at the Curitiba site with a the site reached the goal of zero landfill. The project composting unit installed on site already years ago. was based on 3 lines of action: 1) internal processes Parts of the restaurant and garden wastes are disadequacy and standardization for correct waste colposed of directly on site. The generated humus is lection and separation 2) raising all workers’ (emused for a local community garden and employees ployees, contractors, visitors) awareness of correct can also take it home for personal use. waste disposal 3) a third-party development to colTable 3: Waste – Group Overview [t] 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total t 3,949 3,874 4,083 4,345 4,091* Tons per Region Americas 1,855 1,258 1,189 1,192 1,549 APAC 290 380 352 485 403 EMEA 1,804 2,236 2,542 2,669 2,139 Sold 1,412 1,369 1,464 1,471 1,351 Incinerated 193 150 101 102 90 Landfill** 490 360 403 510 389 Recycled 1,864 2,002 2,128 2,268 2,265 * The Annual Report stated 3,641 tons. The new adjusted total includes corrected data from the Reynosa (442 t) and Noida (8.1) sites, resulting in significantly higher numbers of recycling categories for the Americas. ** Incl. 5% landfill ash 51 Waste Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Table 4: Waste by region [kg] 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Americas 1,855,117 1,258,125 1,188,803 1,191,618 1,548,478 Wood scrap 516,890 20,199 13,168 5,780 7,030 General waste 258,319 234,281 243,330 257,272 217,275 Metal scrap 33,339 39,971 39,183 4,695 9,356 Paper (recycled) 526,767 610,800 593,730 628,851 697,993 Plastic waste 118,744 91,431 90,377 76,421 402,974 Food leftover 85,125 61,675 80,797 98,021 105,160 Electrical and electronic waste 113,529 92,374 60,425 55,163 33,689 Sludge 69,794 75,414 54,431 48,988 48,988 Hazardous waste 12,169 25,697 11,421 15,263 20,929 Debris 112,320 4,390 300 300 300 Oil waste 6,050 1,210 1,490 640 – Textile waste 1,413 493 – – – Alkali waste – – – – – Glass and ceramic waste 530 50 – 100 4,719 Acid waste – – – – – Medical waste 128 140 151 124 65 Mining waste – – – – – Cinder – – – – – Rubber waste – – – – – Soot & dust – – – – – Other waste – – – – – APAC 289,690 380,303 352,019 485,199 403,355 Wood scrap 26,399 60,184 48,585 72,130 34,813 General waste 62,474 71,923 44,916 94,634 60,318 Metal scrap 62,648 40,988 38,665 103,321 86,964 Paper (recycled) 84,787 96,762 118,539 108,549 82,850 Plastic waste 26,938 11,935 11,879 9,753 24,898 Food leftover 6,799 5,754 4,596 4,984 5,497 Electrical and electronic waste 4,480 4,680 8,392 20,418 37,082 Sludge – – – – – Hazardous waste – 87,561 76,077 71,410 69,334 Debris – – – – – Oil waste 165 20 – – – Textile waste – 496 370 – 1,599 Alkali waste – – – – – Glass and ceramic waste – – – – – Acid waste – – – – – Medical waste – – – – – Mining waste – – – – – Cinder – – – – – Rubber waste – – – – – Soot & dust – – – – – Other waste 15,000 – – – – 52 Waste Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 EMEA 1,804,621 2,236,057 2,541,890 2,668,672 2,139,334 Wood scrap 320,318 464,404 500,752 633,582 588,120 General waste 386,312 311,994 281,557 320,194 271,875 Metal scrap 458,980 616,483 823,010 855,469 594,533 Paper (recycled) 459,249 621,842 629,339 620,442 508,258 Plastic waste 104,907 133,017 232,907 169,680 108,041 Food leftover 4,860 4,960 4,960 4,960 4,980 Electrical and electronic waste 49,208 42,996 27,413 32,063 33,764 Sludge – 11,450 6,110 2,820 3,120 Hazardous waste 11,581 20,795 14,013 9,602 6,124 Debris – – – – – Oil waste 620 440 4,130 5,210 8,370 Textile waste – – – – – Alkali waste – – – – – Glass and ceramic waste 7,195 5,269 4,397 2,828 2,008 Acid waste – – – 1,780 – Medical waste – – – – – Mining waste – – – – – Cinder – – – – – Rubber waste 1,391 2,407 1,060 1,642 2,851 Soot & dust – – – – – Other waste – – 12,242 8,401 7,290 53 Waste Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 7.3 Chemicals Minimizing the use of chemicals and phasing out of harmful chemicals remain a top priority for Landis+Gyr. In 2019/20, the company reduced the total use of chemicals by 12% from 10.6 to 9.3 tons. In a five-year comparison compared to FY 2015, the As the proportion of advanced meters in the manuuse of chemicals was reduced by over 30%. Most refacturing mix continues to grow and more environmarkable is the reduction of dichloromethane in the mental materials are adapted, the use of chemicals Americas by 64% and the reduction of tetrahyis expected to further decrease in the future. dromethylphtalic anhydride in EMEA by almost 65%. Table 5: Chemicals handled – Group Overview [t] 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total t 13.8 12.2 11.9 10.6 9.3 Tons per Region Americas 6.8 6.0 7.1 7.6 6.8 APAC 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.7 1.7 EMEA 6.0 5.0 3.5 1.4 0.8 54 Chemicals Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Table 6: Chemicals handled by region [kg] 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Americas 6,869.0 6,001.0 7,090.0 7,575.0 6,761.0 Ethyl acrylate – – – – – Acrylic acid 2-hydroxyethyl – – – – – 3-Isocyanatomethyl-3,5,5-trimethylcyclohexyl isocyanate – – – – – Ethylbenzene – – – – – Xylene – – – – – Silver and its water-soluble compounds – – – – – 1,2-Dichloroethane – – – – – Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) 2,919.0 2,597.0 1,848.0 1,616.0 1,063.0 Tetrachloroethylene – – – – – Tetrahydromethylphthalic anhydride – – – – – Toluene 0.1 – – – – Lead – – – – – Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate – – – – – n-Hexane – – – – – Manganese and its compounds 3.6 3.6 3.6 3.6 3.6 Acetone 5.8 5.7 7.6 7.6 12.0 Isobutane – – – – – Isobutyl alcohol – – – – – Isopropanol 3,170 2,650 4,301 5,032 4,435 Ethyl alcohol 78.2 48.5 115.0 158.2 250.0 Ethylene glycol 12.1 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.0 N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone 0.1 – – – – Hydrogen chloride – – – – – Chlorine 675.9 681.0 791.0 746.6 986.0 N-butyl-acetate – – – – – Paraffinic hydrocarbon 3.6 3.6 3.6 – – Cyclohexane – – – – – Tetrahydrofuran – – 8.5 – – n-Butane 0.1 – – – – Propylene glycol monomethyl ether – – – – – Propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate – – – – – Methyl alcohol 0.1 – – – – Methyl isobutyl ketone – – – – – Methyl ethyl ketone – – – – – Methylcyclohexane – – – – – Sulfuric acid – – – – – 55 Chemicals Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 APAC 994.6.0 1,210.8 1,322.0 1,667.0 1,724.0 Ethyl acrylate – – – – – Acrylic acid 2-hydroxyethyl – – – – – 3-Isocyanatomethyl-3,5,5-trimethylcyclohexyl isocyanate – – – – – Ethylbenzene 27.8 60.3 47.5 49.6 41.9 Xylene 150.0 120.0 91.0 94.9 80.2 Silver and its water-soluble compounds – – – – – 1,2-Dichloroethane – – – – – Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) 247.1 – – – – Tetrachloroethylene – – – – – Tetrahydromethylphthalic anhydride – – – – – Toluene 93.0 82.5 65.2 68.1 57.5 Lead – – – – – Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate – – – – – n-Hexane 71.5 123.0 94.3 98.4 83.1 Manganese and its compounds – – – – – Acetone 4.5 – – – – Isobutane – – – – – Isobutyl alcohol – – – – – Isopropanol – – – – – Ethyl alcohol 40.0 30.0 17.0 16.5 20.0 Ethylene glycol – – – – – N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone – – – – – Hydrogen chloride – – – – – Chlorine – – – – – N-butyl-acetate 8.8 16.8 12.0 12.5 10.5 Paraffinic hydrocarbon – – – – – Cyclohexane – – – – – Tetrahydrofuran 185 463 694 1,013 1,165 n-Butane – – – – – Propylene glycol monomethyl ether – – – – – Propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate 2.7 1.4 – – – Methyl alcohol – – – – – Methyl isobutyl ketone 6.6 3.5 – – – Methyl ethyl ketone 18.7 41.0 36.8 33.5 28.3 Methylcyclohexane 21.5 46.9 36.8 38.4 32.4 Sulfuric acid 18.7 291.0 232.0 242.4 205.0 56 Chemicals Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 EMEA 5,953.9 4,930.7 3,508.0 1,407.0 788.0 Ethyl acrylate – – – – – Acrylic acid 2-hydroxyethyl – – – – – 3-Isocyanatomethyl-3,5,5-trimethylcyclohexyl isocyanate – – – – – Ethylbenzene – – – – – Xylene 2,032.0 1,465.0 649.0 – – Silver and its water-soluble compounds 13.0 21.6 1.1 7.5 – 1,2-Dichloroethane – – – – – Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) 419.0 26.6 – – – Tetrachloroethylene 220.0 250.0 210.0 210.0 225.0 Tetrahydromethylphthalic anhydride 1'216 2'342 1'984 1'067 424 Toluene – – – – – Lead – – 15.8 14.0 3.5 Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate – – – – – n-Hexane 710.0 455.0 320.0 86.0 125.0 Manganese and its compounds – – – – – Acetone – – – – – Isobutane – – – – – Isobutyl alcohol – – – – – Isopropanol 135.3 34.0 8.5 6.0 – Ethyl alcohol 404.6 53.5 132.0 5.5 – Ethylene glycol – – – – – N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone – – – – – Hydrogen chloride 606.0 215.0 165.0 – – Chlorine – – – – – N-butyl-acetate – – – – – Paraffinic hydrocarbon – – – – – Cyclohexane 152.0 44.0 3.0 – – Tetrahydrofuran – – – – – n-Butane – – – – – Propylene glycol monomethyl ether 23.0 11.0 2.0 – – Propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate – – – – – Methyl alcohol – – – – – Methyl isobutyl ketone – – – – – Methyl ethyl ketone 23.0 13.0 18.0 11.0 11.0 Methylcyclohexane – – – – – Sulfuric acid – – – – – 57 Chemicals Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 7.4 Carbon Footprint The Landis+Gyr Group emitted 24,889 t of CO²e in 2019/20. This is 2,445 t CO²e or 8.9% less than in 2018/19. Compared to the first carbon footprint assessment in 2007, absolute emissions have reduced by 38%. Landis+Gyr records its carbon footprint and the • Compared to the first carbon footprint asdata is verified by an external partner on a yearly basessment in 2007, absolute emissions have reduced by 38% from 40,426 to 24,889 t sis. The targets for the Company to reduce CO² CO²e. emissions have been set year-on-year since 2007, this strategy applies also throughout the current re• Scope 1 emissions were reduced from 7,143 porting cycle. Landis+Gyr uses the annual data capt CO²e in 2007 to 2,879 t CO²e 2019/20. tured in a global reporting system to compare year• Scope 2 emissions were reduced from 27,762 on-year emissions and identify trends in relation to t CO²e in 2007 to 18,600 t CO²e 2019/20. the emission performance of the Group. •S  cope 3 emissions were reduced from 5,521 t CO²e in 2007 to 3,410 t CO²e in 2019/20. The Carbon Footprint of Landis+Gyr is measured in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) Corporate Accounting and Reporting StandOver the years, scope 1 and scope 2 emissions were ard. The GHG Protocol categorizes emissions under generally trending downwards with occasional peaks, three scopes as follows: while scope 3 emissions have been rising and falling around the same original level until 2016/17. Over • Scope 1: Direct emissions from sources that the past three years, scope 3 emissions decreased are owned or controlled by the company; significantly in total and year-on-year, showing a • Scope 2: Indirect emissions associated with clear downwards trend. the generation of purchased electricity and district heat consumed by the company; Footprint 2019/20 and comparison year-on-year • Scope 3: All other indirect emissions that Scope 1 (direct emissions) amount to 2,879 t CO²e occur from sources not owned nor con(11.6% of total). Scope 2 (indirect emissions) repretrolled by the company. Landis+Gyr reports sent the largest component with 18,600 t CO²e business air travel, which is part of Scope 3. (74.7% of total). Business air travel (Scope 3) contributes 3,410 t CO²e (13.7% of total), to the Group’s carThe web-based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainabilbon footprint. ity software (former SoFi) is used for data capture, aggregation, and analysis. The software is well inteCompared to 2018/19, overall emissions fell by 8.9% grated in the Landis+Gyr Group and its sites worldin 2019/20. Scope 1 emissions decreased by 10.7%, wide. mainly due to a reduction in gasoline and diesel use in company vehicles, like for example the light fuel For total emissions according to the GHG protocol, oil reduction to zero in the Corinth facility. Scope 2 2007 has been set as the base year for the Group. emissions decreased by 4.3%, mainly due to a reDue to several significant changes in the internal duction in electricity consumption. Projects included group organization since 2007, a total comparison the installation of sensors and time switches for of the emissions can be made only on Group level. electricity and airconditioning, implementation of Hence, only group level data for 2007 is disclosed. LED lights, reduced heating in storage areas, the adaption of more efficient heating systems in all facilities wherever possible and in all cases of renovations and replacements of energy using elements. Scope 3 emissions decreased by 26.9%, mainly due to travel restrictions as well as increased use of virtual meeting technology and the effects of COVID-19 in the last quarter of 2019/20. 58 Carbon Footprint Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr At a regional level, Landis+Gyr’s operations in the Americas contribute the largest proportion to the Group’s overall emissions at 12,172 t CO²e (or 49%), followed by EMEA at 7,770 t CO²e (31%), with the Asia-Pacific operations contributing 4,947 t CO²e (20%). Intensity Ratios At a regional level, emissions per employee in Asia-Pacific fell by 23.3%, however increased in EMEA and the Americas by 2.3% and 1.3% respectively. In the APAC region, the number of employees increased by 13.2% while emissions simultaneously decreased by 12.6%, leading to this large reduction of emissions on a per employee basis. In EMEA and in the Americas region, overall emissions also decreased, however, this decrease was accompanied by a larger decrease in employee numbers leading to an increase of emissions on a per employee basis. Emissions per turnover decreased in all three regions in 2019/20, by 19.5% in Asia-Pacific, 5.5% in EMEA, and 2.2% in the Americas. Compared to last year, emissions per product increased in APAC and decreased in the other two regions. The decrease of total emissions (–9.6%) led to an overall decrease of emissions on a per product basis. An important factor in the continuous reduction of energy ­consumption for Landis+Gyr is the training and awareness of its employees. One of the forerunners in terms of employee awareness is the Curitiba site, which regularly runs awareness campaigns. 59 Carbon Footprint Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Table 7: Global Energy Consumption Group Overview Tons CO²e per Economic Intensity 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 kg CO²e per product 1.5 1.1 1.0 1.2 1.1 t CO²e per employee 4.3 4.2 3.8 4.0 3.7 t CO²e per 10 m² floor area 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.2 kg CO²e per USD 100 turnover 1.7 1.5 1.3 1.3 1.3 Energy Consumption L+G Americas APAC EMEA Electricity (national grid mix) – daytime MWh 22,464 11,951 3,369 7,144 Electricity (national grid mix) – nighttime MWh 179 179 Electricity (renewable sources) MWh 3,654 171 3,483 Electricity by on–site power generator MWh 54 54 Steam (district heating) MWh 2,174 2,174 Heavy fuel oil MWh Light fuel oil MWh Gasoline: not for vehicle MWh Emergency power diesel MWh 110 22 78 10 Town gas (natural gas) MWh 4,948 2,394 836 1,718 LPG (50/50) MWh LPG (70/30) MWh Process Emission CO2 kg CH4 kg 1,088 1,088 N2O kg HFC kg PFC kg SF6 kg Business Travel (own fleet) Gasoline consumption m3 493 406 3 84 Diesel consumption m3 182 15 167 CNG consumption m3 1 1 Alcohol consumption m3 Gasoline [< 1.4 l] km 67,653 65,992 1,661 Gasoline [1.4 – 2.0 l] km 68,066 33,872 34,194 Gasoline [> 2.0 l] km 46,984 46,984 Diesel [1.4 – 2.0 l] km 381,034 49,056 331,978 Diesel [> 2.0 l] km 147,533 27,360 120,173 Truck Diesel [7.5 t] km Business Travel (other) Airplane (short haul) pkm 749,223 233,702 171,684 343,837 Airplane (long haul) pkm 28,299,434 15’540’644 6,811,838 5,946,952 60 Carbon Footprint Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Table 8: Total Group Emissions by Scope and Source [t CO²e] 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Reduction Scope 1 Heavy fuel oil – – – – – Light fuel oil 19 27 30 2 – Emergency power diesel 341 15 41 23 84 Natural gas 903 991 1,067 1,093 1,006 LPG (50/50) – – – – – LPG (70/30) – – – – – Process emissions 41 99 100 105 27 Gasoline consumption 1,325 1,160 1,248 1,214 1,159 Diesel consumption 676 548 531 602 486 Gasoline: Not for vehicle – – – – – Gasoline [< 1.4 l] 25 27 40 24 10 Gasoline [1.4 – 2.0 l] 22 29 10 30 13 Gasoline [> 2.0 l] 7 2 7 8 12 Diesel [1.4 – 2.0 l] 130 135 84 75 54 Diesel [> 2.0 l] 26 59 58 48 29 CNG [1.4 2.0 l] – – – – – CNG [< 1.4 l] – – – – – Truck Diesel [7.5 t] – – – – – Total [t CO2e] 3,516 3,092 3,215 3,224 2,879 –10.7% Scope 2 Electricity 21,636 21,098 18,635 18,810 17,972 District heating 833 718 697 635 628 Total [t CO2e] 22,470 21,816 19,333 19,445 18,600 –4.3% Scope 3 Airplane (short haul) 952 749 616 308 148 Airplane (long haul) 5,358 5,938 4,925 4,357 3,262 Total [t CO2e] 6,311 6,686 5,541 4,665 3,410 –26.9% By Source Electricity / District heating 22,470 21,816 19,333 19,445 18,600 Fuels (diesel oil) 360 42 71 25 84 Fuels (natural gas, LPG) 904 991 1,067 1,093 1,006 Direct process emissions 41 99 100 105 27 Road travel 2,211 1,960 1,977 2,002 1,762 Air travel 6,311 6,686 5,541 4,665 3,410 Total [t CO2e] 32,296 31,594 28,088 27,334 24,889 –8.9% 61 Carbon Footprint Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Table 9: Carbon footprint by region [t CO²e] 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Americas 14,113 13,480 13,616 13,461 12,172 Scope 1 1,714 1,458 1,628 1,712 1,497 Scope 2 9,331 9,065 8,999 9,116 8,838 Scope 3 3,068 2,957 2,989 2,633 1,837 APAC 6,659 6,439 5,718 5,660 4,947 Scope 1 489 199 243 257 265 Scope 2 4,746 4,403 4,214 4,275 3,863 Scope 3 1,424 1,837 1,261 1,129 819 EMEA 11,524 11,675 8,754 8,213 7,770 Scope 1 1,312 1,435 1,345 1,256 1,117 Scope 2 8,394 8,348 6,119 6,054 5,899 Scope 3 1,818 1,892 1,290 903 753 L+G Total 32,296 31,594 28,088 27,334 24,889 Percentage at regional level Americas 43.7% 42.6% 48.5% 49.2% 48.9% APAC 20.6% 20.4% 20.3% 20.7% 20.0% EMEA 35.7% 37.0% 31.2% 30.1% 31.1% Due to rounding not all totals are equivalent to the sums in the tables. 62 Carbon Footprint Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 7.5 Employees Landis+Gyr values its employees as the most important resource for future success and supports the freedom of association. With the renewed and updated Code of Business conducted a global employee survey to identify areEthics and Conduct, Landis+Gyr emphasizes its as where dedicated programs and activities might pledge for equal opportunities, and the prevention strengthen employee engagement. The survey had a of any form of discrimination and harassment has high response rate of 88% and will be conducted been enforced with the Code’s implementations and every two years. training sessions. Furthermore, the Company has Age Range (in years) APAC EMEA¹ Americas Group Under 20 1 9 52 62 20–29 439 205 380 1,024 30–39 576 596 573 1,745 40–49 278 636 603 1,517 50–59 192 590 338 1,120 60–64 19 131 97 247 65+ 5 11 37 53 Total 1,510 2,178 2,080 5,768 Gender Distribution Female 370 805 750 1,925 Male 1,140 1,373 1,330 3,843 Total 1,510 2,178 2,080 5,768 Length of Service (in years) 0–1 597 554 522 1,673 2–5 360 583 490 1,433 6–15 290 605 756 1,651 16–25 162 238 283 683 26+ 101 198 29 328 Total 1,510 2,178 2,080 5,768 Employees per Function Total Other 900 R&D 1,414 Sales & Customer Operations 1,150 SCM & Operations 2,304 5,768 Employees by Employment Contract Female Male APAC EMEA* Americas Permanent 1,711 3,712 1,430 1,930 2,063 Temporary 214 131 80 248 17 Employees by Employment Type Female Male Full-Time 1870 3798 Part-Time 55 45 Diversity of Governance Female Male % Female % below age 50 Board of Directors 1 7 13 0 Group Executive Management 1 3 25 0 63 * including Headquarters Employees Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 8 Landis+Gyr Worldwide Global Headquarter Zug (SUI) EMEA APAC Regional HQ Sales Offices Regional HQ Zug (SUI) and Service Centers Sydney (AUS) Austria R&D Centers R&D Centers Belgium Noida (IND) Gauteng (RSA) Czech Republic Sydney (AUS) Jyskä (FIN) Denmark Tokyo (JAP) Manchester (GBR) Finland Montluçon (FRA) Manufacturing France Northfields (GBR) Joka (IND) Germany Nuremberg (GER) Laverton (AUS) Italy Prague (CZE) Zhuhai (CHN) Netherlands Stockport (GBR) Poland Sales Offices Zug (SUI) Slovakia and Service Centers Manufacturing Slovenia Australia Corinth (GRE) South Africa China Gauteng (RSA) Spain Hong Kong Montluçon (FRA) Sweden India Nuremberg (GER) Switzerland Japan United Kingdom New Zealand Singapore ISO 9001 (Quality Management) ISO 22301 (Business Continuity) Regional HQ ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) ISO 17025 (Testing and Calibration Laboratories) Landis+Gyr Site ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety) ISO 27001 (Information Security) 64 As of October 2020 Landis+Gyr WOrldwide Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr North America South America Regional HQ Sales Offices R&D Centers Alpharetta (USA) and Service Centers Curitiba (BRA) Alpharetta (USA) R&D Centers Manufacturing Austin (USA) Alpharetta (USA) Curitiba (BRA) Bethlehem (USA) Roseville (USA) Indianapolis (USA) Sales Offices Lafayette (USA) Jacksonville (USA) and Service Centers Pequot Lakes (USA) Kirkland (USA) Curitiba (BRA) Manufacturing Lenexa (USA) Duque de Caxias (BRA) (Network Operation Center) Reynosa (MEX) Orange (USA) Overland (USA) Phoenix (USA) Roseville (USA) Waukesha (USA) ISO 9001 (Quality Management) ISO 22301 (Business Continuity) Regional HQ ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) ISO 17025 (Testing and Calibration Laboratories) Landis+Gyr Site ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety) ISO 27001 (Information Security) 65 As of October 2020 Landis+Gyr WOrldwide Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 9 GRI Index GRI ref. Standard GRI Indicator Index GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Impressum & Contacts 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Chapter 2 Brands: Landis+Gyr; Gridstream; Gridstream Connect. Products: Devices (Electricity, Gas, and Heat and Cooling Meters (Preand Post-Pay); Communication modules (Wired and wireless), Data Loggers and Data Concentrators (including Volume Correctors), Handheld Terminals; Load Management Receivers (one way and two way), Street Light Controllers, Line Sensors and Thermostats; Gas Quality Analyzer Controller; Distributed Automation Devices and Systems; Meter Test Equipment; Software (Smart Metering Management, Analytics, Field Operation Manager, Network Monitor, Substation Platform, SCADA Center Enterprise Information System, Device Monitoring and Management apps, SAP Utility Adapter); Service (Solution Consulting, Cloud Service, Deployment and Project Delivery Services, Managed Services, Operational Support Services, Smart Grid Services, Support Service); Training. Landis+Gyr does not have banned products or services. A large portion of its products need approval for installation in the marketplace. 102-3 Location of headquarters Impressum & Contacts 102-4 Location of operations 27 Countries with own offices or operations. Americas: Brazil, M ­ exico, USA, Canada*; Asia Pacific: Australia, China & Hong Kong, India, Japan, Malaysia*, New Zealand, Singapore, Thailand*, Vietnam*; EMEA: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania*, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom. In the bold marked countries Landis+Gyr has significant operations. Additionally, in countries marked with a “*” Landis+Gyr is running major projects, see Annual Report for project overview. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Impressum & Contacts 102-6 Markets served Chapter 2 102-7 Scale of the organization • Total number of employees: 5,768 • Total number of operations: Operations with more than 50 employees: 21 (Melbourne, Sydney, Zhuhai, Joka, Noida, Prague, Jyväskylä, Montlucon, Nurnberg, Corinth, Johannesburg, Zug, Northfields, Stockport, Reynosa, Alpharetta, Kirkland, Lafayette, Lenexa, Pequot Lakes, Curitiba) • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations): USD 1,699 million • Total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity: Market capitalization on March 31, 2020 was USD 1.9 billion • Quantity of products or services provided: Close to 20 million devices More information in the Annual Report and in Chapter 2. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Data is listed in Chapter 7.5. While Landis+Gyr uses temporary human resources in its activities as supplementary where necessary, it does not do so to the extent that a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. The main data was compiled on the global HR platform. There are no significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c. 102-9 Supply chain The supply chain at Landis+Gyr includes manufacturing sites, procurement, logistic and quality functions. Landis+Gyr operates 10 major manufacturing sites across the globe and has outsourcing partnership with strategic suppliers in Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia. The four key pillars of Landis+Gyr’s supply chain are (i) the mechanical parts, (ii) PCBAs with all electronics, (iii) assembly of the meter, and (iv) final integration with calibration, customization, sealing and packaging. It is important to highlight that Landis+Gyr produces high-precision measuring devices under mass production conditions and it has a modular and flexible supply chain which enables outsourcing at any stage of the production flow. For software and service products, Landis+Gyr relies mainly on internal resources (research & development team). More information in Chapter 6.3. 66 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Operations: No major changes in the business year, except production lines supply chain optimization. Changes in capital: From 2012 through the date of the initial public offering, the Company had a nominal share capital of CHF 295,100,000, divided into 295,100,000 fully paid-in registered shares with a nominal value of CHF 1.00 each. In connection with the initial public offering of the Company, the shareholders’ meeting held on July 11, 2017 resolved to change the number and nominal value of shares such that since the date of the initial public offering on July 21, 2017 the nominal issued share capital of the Company is CHF 295,100,000, divided into 29,510,000 fully paid-in registered ordinary shares with a nominal value of CHF 10.00 each. As a consequence of its share buyback program, the Company resolved at the AGM 2019 to reduce its share capital by CHF 2,587,510 to CHF 292,512,490, divided into 29,251,249 fully paid-in registered ordinary shares with a nominal value of CHF 10.00 each. Landis+Gyr did not have any significant changes in supply chain in the last business year. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Landis+Gyr applied the precautionary approach. In addition to reviewing and approving the Group’s comprehensive annual risk assessment process, the Board and its committees are updated regularly by members of the Group Executive Management and Extended Executive Management on all key risks facing the Group, such as quality issues, the progress of major customer projects, the progress of R+D projects and other risk areas as they are identified. 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact; Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); IEEE International; ECS Ethics and Compliance, Switzerland 102-13 Membership of associations UCA International User Group; ZigBee Alliance; Thread Group; ETSI (The European Telecommunications Standards Institute); Eurelectric; ESMIG; DLMS; Metering standard associations in several countries; Swissmem; IG exact; Electrosuisse; Verband Schweizerischer Elektrizitätsunternehmen (VSE); swissmig; Several Chambers of Commerce 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chapter 1 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Chapter 6 introduction text behavior 102-18 Governance structure General Assembly, Board and Committees of the Board (Audit and Finance Committee, Remuneration Committee), Executive Management are fully described in the Corporate Governance Report www.landisgyr.com/about/executive-management-and-board/ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and Annual Report Chapter Governance Report 2019: its committees www.investors.landisgyr.com/annual-report/2019/en/#start 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report Chapter Governance Report 2019: www.investors.landisgyr.com/annual-report/2019/en/#start 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Annual Report Chapter Governance Report 2019: purpose, values, and strategy www.investors.landisgyr.com/annual-report/2019/en/#start 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Chapter 3 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 44% of the Landis+Gyr employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreement is reported by the HR responsible of each country. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Chapter 3 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Chapter 3 and 4 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised through Topic raised: Chapter 5; Responding on raised topics: Chapter 4 & 6.1–6.9 ­stakeholder engagement 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial The list of significant legal entities is included in the Governance report under statements 1.1.3. There is no entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents that is not covered by the report. www.landisgyr.com/investors/publication-downloads/ 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Chapters 4, 5 and 6.1–6.9 The creation of the report was based on principles of relevance (materiality), stakeholder inclusivity, sustainability context and completeness of the information. With regard to the quality of the information reported, the principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability have been observed. 67 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 102-47 List of material topics Landis+Gyr used the GRI Materiality Principle to define the material topics. The analysis was performed as follows: • Identification of relevant economic, social, environmental, and governance issues with stakeholder involvement • Evaluation and ranking of the level of stakeholder concern regarding each issue (internal and external Materiality Workshop) • Evaluation and ranking of the potential impact on the company of each issue • Defined set of ambitions and action areas for relevant topics • Representation of the issues and their prioritization in the materiality matrix, along the axes of Relevance to Stakeholders and Relevance to Landis+Gyr • Definition of a set of ambitions and action areas for each of the relevant topics • Elaboration of a roadmap and actions, deliverables, Key Performance Indices, budgets and responsibilities See Chapter 5 for material topics. 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements in respect of former report. In respect to the Annual Report corrections for Waste and Water were made. Explanations to be found in Chapters 7.2 and 7.1. 102-49 Changes in reporting This is the first report following the GRI standards. Landis+Gyr previously published its first environmental impact report in 2011 and the first full sustainability report in 2017. 102-50 Reporting period 01.04.19–31.03.20, throughout the report referred to as FY 2019/20 or 2019/20 102-51 Date of most recent report This is the first report following the GRI Standards, Landis+Gyr has been publishing its annual Sustainability Reports yearly at the end of October since 2017. 102-52 Reporting cycle Landis+Gyr will report annually, on the reporting period beginning of April to end of March. This is the first report of the three-year cycle from 2019/20 to 2021/22. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Impressum & Contacts 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Standards option. 102-55 GRI content index Pages 66 –74 102-56 External assurance The report has not been externally assured. However, aspects of the report have been audited as part of the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 18001 (45001) and ISO 25000 audits. Furthermore, the GHG data has undergone an external review by Sphera and energy audits have been performed on the most important production sites in Corinth and Reynosa. The process has been attended and supported by BHP Consulting, Zürich, a CSR consulting specialist. Furthermore, this report has been audited by our internal audit. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and their The nine material topics with their boundaries, management approaches and boundary evaluation, including the dimension of impact involvement and place, are discussed in Chapters 6.1–6.9. The materiality analysis and reasoning for choosing the nine material topics is described in Chapter 5. 103-2 The management approaches and their The management approaches and their components are described in the ­components Chapters 6.1–6.9. Fundamental values and processes that apply to all material topics are described in Chapter 6 in the introduction. The general CSR approach at Landis+Gyr including processes and responsibilities is described in Chapter 4. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Effectiveness of the management approach is described in Chapters 6.1–6.9, discussing the different material topics and also as part of the role of the steering committee, which oversees the full initiative and is described in Chapter 4. The effectiveness of the management approach and the status of the different activities is assessed in the CSR steerco. 68 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 Material Topic: Business Integrity 205-2 Communication and training about antiChapter 6.9 corruption policies and procedures GRI 301: Materials 2016 Material Topic: Resource Efficiency 301-1 a Total weight or volume of materials that is used to • Plastics: 8,977,800 kg produce and package the organization’s primary • Metals: 6,220,227 kg products and services during the reporting period, by non-renewable materials used and renewable • Printed Circuit Boards and electromechanical parts: 3,799,507 kg materials used • Renewable material used (cardboard and wood for packaging): 4,076,627 Kg Data source: Procurement data; PCBA and electromechanical data is estimated to be 20% of total non-renewable weight. Renewable packing from supplier is calculated to be 10% of total non-renewable weight. Renewable packaging to customers is as purchased. APAC data missing (outbound cardboard). GRI 302: Energy 2016 Material Topic: Energy Efficiency 302-1 a Energy consumption within the organization: Landis+Gyr Group consumed 396,208.26 MJ in diesel and 17,811,607.57 MJ in Total fuel consumption within the organization town gas during the reporting period. from non-renewable sources 302-1 b Energy consumption within the organization: None Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources 302-1 c Energy consumption within the organization: The total electricity consumption in the national grid mix was 22,643 MWh; electricity consumption 3,654 MWh consumption fully based on renewable sources; on-site production amounted to 54 MWh; total 26,351 MWh. A split of electricity consumption for heating and cooling is not available with the current data. District heating (steam): 2,174 KWh 302-1 d Energy consumption within the organization: None electricity sold 302-1 e Energy consumption within the organization: 120,701,654.69 MJ (electricity, diesel, town gas) Total energy consumption within the organization in MJ 302-1 f Standards, methodologies, assumptions, GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard; and and/or calculation tools used Reporting tool: web based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainability software (formerly SoFi) 302-1 g ELCD embedded in SoFi by Sphera Scope 1 emission factors: IPCC (2007), ELCD (2007); Scope 2 emission factors: GaBi 4 Database (2006), IPCC (2007) 302-3 a Energy intensity: Energy intensity ratio for the The total energy intensity ratio for the organization was 7,104.28 ­ organization (kJ per 100 USD TO) (kJ per 100 USD TO). 302-3 b Energy intensity: Organization-specific metric This number is calculated in KJ per 100 USD turnover (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio (total TO = 1,699 mUSD). 302-3 c Energy intensity: Types of energy included in the All; relevant are: Electricity, fuel, heating, steam intensity ratio; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all 302-3 d Energy intensity: Whether the ratio uses energy Based on Scope 1 and 2 (Inside the organization) consumption within the organization, outside of it, or both 302-4 a Reduction of energy consumption: Amount of 7,595,314.78 MJ, see Chapter 7.4 for a list of measures. reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples 302-4 b Reduction of energy consumption: Types of energy All; as included in the calculation of Scope 1 and 2 (electricity, fuels, heating, included in the reductions; whether fuel, steam) electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all 302-4 c Reduction of energy consumption: Basis for Calculation of reduction is year-on-year, the main reason for choosing this calculating reductions in energy consumption, approach is consistency over time such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it 302-4 d Reduction of energy consumption: Standards, GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation Reporting tool: web based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainability software tools used (formerly SoFi) and reduction measure action item excel template 69 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 a Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: Gross direct Chapter 7.4 (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO² equivalent 305-1 b Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: Gases included All (relevant: CO², CH4, N²O) in the calculation; whether CO², CH4, N²O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF³, or all 305-1 c Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: Biogenic CO² None emissions in metric tons of CO² equivalent 305-1 d Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: Chapter 7.4 Base year for the calculation 305-1 e Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: Source of the IPCC (2007), ELCD (2007); and emission factors and the global warming GWP rates: potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to CO² = 1; the GWP source CH4 = 25; N²O = 298; HFCs = 124-14,800; SF6 = 22,800; PFCs = 7,390-12,200 305-1 f Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: Consolidation Operational control approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control 305-1 g Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: Standards, GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard; and methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation Reporting tool: web based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainability software tools used (formerly SoFi) 305-2 a Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: Gross 18,600 metric tons location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO² equivalent 305-2 b Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: If The calculation is location-based where no market contract exists and applicable, gross market-based energy indirect market-based where such a contract exists (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO² equivalent 305-2 c Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: If All (relevant: CO², CH4, N²O) available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO², CH4, N²O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF³, or all. 305-2 d Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: Base Chapter 7.4 year for the calculation 305-2 e Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: Source GaBi 4 Database (2006), IPCC (2007); of the emission factors and the global warming GWP rates: potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source CO² = 1; CH4 = 25; N²O = 298; HFCs = 124-14,800; SF6 = 22,800; PFCs = 7,390-12,200 305-2 f Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: Operational control Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control 305-2 g Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard; and Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or Reporting tool: web based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainability software calculation tools used (formerly SoFi) 305-3 a Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: Gross 3,410 metric tons other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO² equivalent 305-3 b Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: If Not available available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO², CH4, N²O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF³, or all 305-3 c Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: Biogenic None CO² emissions in metric tons of CO² equivalent 305-3 d Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: Business flights Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories and activities included in the calculation 70 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 305-3 e Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: Chapter 7.4 Base year for the calculation 305-3 f Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: Source GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard; and of the emission factors and the global warming Reporting tool: web based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainability software potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the (former SoFi) GWP source 305-3 g Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard; and Standards, methodologies, assumptions, Reporting tool: web based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainability software and/or calculation tools used (formerly SoFi) 305-4 a GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization 1.3 kg CO²e per 100 USD turnover 305-4 b GHG emissions intensity: Organization-specific Revenue (turnover) metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio 305-4 c GHG emissions intensity: Types of GHG emissions Scope 1 and 2 included in the intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3). 305-4 d GHG emissions intensity: Gases included in the All (relevant CO², CH4, N²O) calculation; whether CO², CH4, N²O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF³, or all 305-5 a Reduction of GHG emissions: GHG emissions Chapter 7.4 reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO² equivalent. 305-5 b Reduction of GHG emissions: Gases included All (relevant CO², CH4, N²O) in the calculation; whether CO², CH4, N²O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF³, or all 305-5 c Reduction of GHG emissions: Base year or Reduction of GHG emission is calculated in comparison to the previous year baseline, including the rationale for choosing it (year-on-year), influenced by the measures taken as described in Chapters 7.4, 6.1 and 6.2 305-5 d Reduction of GHG emissions: Scopes in which Chapter 7.4 reductions took place; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3). 305-5 e Reduction of GHG emissions: Standards, GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard; and methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation Reporting tool: web based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainability software tools used (formerly SoFi) 305-7 a Significant air emissions: in kilograms or multiples Methane (CH4): 1.15 t N²O: 0.05 t No other emissions occured. 305-7 b Significant air emissions: Source of the emission GWP CH4 = 25 factors used 305-7 c Significant air emissions: Standards, GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard; and methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation Reporting tool: web based SpheraCloud Corporate Sustainability software tools used (formerly SoFi) GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 a Water discharge by quality and destination Chapter 7.1 Omissions: With Alpharetta and Kansas City, two mid-size sites currently cannot provide water information and are not included in the notes because the landlord does not provide water consumption details. Some of the smaller sites do not report water because it is included in tenant fees and are thus not included in the total. The water consumption of the smaller sites that are not included does not have a material impact on overall consumption and is estimated as lower than 1% of the total. 306-1 b Water discharge by quality and destination: Chapter 7.1 Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used 306-2 a Waste by type and disposal method: Total hazardous waste generated: 96,387 kg Total weight of hazardous waste and disposal The quantity is either reused in the production process e.g. for coating methods (Melbourne: approx. 69,400 kg), recycled (Curitiba, Stockport, Nürnberg, Lafayette: approx. 24,200 kg) or incinerated (Reynosa: approx. 2,800 kg). 71 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 306-2 b Waste by type and disposal method: Total weight Visit Chapter 7.2 for more information on topics such as disposalor reuse of non-hazardous waste and disposal methods methods. • Total paper (recycled) generated: 1,289,101 kg • Total wood scrap generated: 629,963 kg • Total general waste generated: 549,468 kg • Total metal scrap generated: 690,853 kg • Total plastic waste generated: 535,913 kg • Total electrical and electronic waste generated: 104,535 kg • Total debris generated: 300 kg • Total food leftover generated: 115,637 kg • Total sludge generated: 52,108 kg • Total other waste generated: 7,290 kg • Total glass and ceramic waste generated: 6,727 kg • Total oil waste generated: 8,370 kg • Total textile waste generated: 1,599 kg • Total rubber waste generated: 2,851 kg • Total medical waste generated: 65 kg Further insight: Some of the midand smaller size sites do not have waste statements available and therefore use estimates for their waste assessment. 306-2 c Waste by type and disposal method Most sites have a waste contractor who provides the information in a waste report. However, some sites measure their waste directly, some mid-size and smaller size sites use estimates. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Material Topic: Strategic Responsible Sourcing 308-1 a New suppliers that were screened using Whereas more than 100 suppliers representing more than 80% of the sourcing environmental criteria volume of Landis+Gyr have signed the 2009 version of the Code of Conduct, the roll-out of the updated Code started in FY 2020. See more information in Chapter 6.3. Omission: Data about suppliers being screened based on environmental criteria is not available yet and shall be made available during this CSR cycle. 308-2 a Number of suppliers assessed for environmental Whereas more than 100 suppliers representing more than 80% of the sourcing impacts volume of Landis+Gyr have signed the 2009 Version of the Code of Conduct, the roll-out of the updated Code has started in FY 2020. See more information in Chapter 6.3. Omission: Data about suppliers being screened based on environmental criteria is not available yet. Landis+Gyr is working on the issue during the current CSR cycle to make the data available. 308-2 b Number of suppliers identified as having Landis+Gyr does not have suppliers with significant actual and potential significant actual and potential negative negative environmental impacts. environmental impacts 308-2 c Significant actual and potential negative No significant actual and potential negative impacts have been identified in the environmental impacts identified in the supply supply chain. chain 308-2 d Percentage of suppliers identified as having 0% significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment 308-2 e Percentage of suppliers identified as having 0% significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 Material Topic: Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 403-1 a Implementation of the OHS System Chapter 6.5 403-1 b Scope of the OHS System Chapter 6.5 403-8 a Occupational health and safety management Chapter 6.5 system: Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 403-8 b Occupational health and safety management None system: Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including the types of worker excluded 72 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr 403-8 c Occupational health and safety management None necessary system: Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used 403-9 a Work-related injuries: For all employees Chapter 6.5 403-9 b Work-related injuries: For all workers who are not No differentiation; indications are included under 403-9 a. employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization 403-9 c Work-related injuries: Work-related hazards that Chapter 6.5 pose a risk of high-consequence injury 403-9 d Work-related injuries: Actions taken or underway Near misses system introduced, see also Chapter 6.5. to eliminate other work-related hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls 403-9 e Work-related injuries: Whether the rates have The rates are based on 1,000,000 hours worked. been calculated based on 200,000 or 1,000,000 hours worked 403-9 f Work-related injuries: Whether and, if so, why any No workers have been excluded from this disclosure. workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including the types of worker excluded 403-9 g Any contextual information necessary to Procedures and training material is made available to all sites ensuring understand how the data have been compiled, standardized reporting. Global OHS guideline on lost time incidents and medical such as any standards, methodologies, and treatment incidents are in place. Near misses are captured as per lately. See assumptions used also Chapter 6.5. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Material Topic: Employee Motivation 404-1 a Training and Education: Average hours of training Chapter 6.4 per year per employee A split on gender or category is not available at this time (omission). The reporting system will be enhanced to enable required reporting within the CSR cycle. 404-2 a Training and Education: Programs for upgrading Chapter 6.4 employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-2 b Training and Education: Transition assistance Transition programs are provided as part of some social plans or they may also programs provided to facilitate continued form part of bespoke individual agreements but always in consideration of local employability and the management of career employment conditions. endings 404-3 a Training and Education: Percentage of total Female 48%, male 76%; full-time 66%, part-time 51% employees who received a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Material Topic: Fair Labor Practices 405-1 a Diversity and Equal Opportunity: Diversity of Chapter 7.5 governance bodies 405-1 b Diversity and Equal Opportunity: Diversity of Chapter 7.5 employees GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 a Operations and suppliers considered to have The Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct have been updated, significant risk for incidents of child labor and enhancing also the avoidance of child labor and exposure of all workers to young workers exposed to hazardous work hazardous work. Suppliers are requested to confirm their compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct by signature. The implementation of the code is assessed in audits. Results of the assessment is not available yet (omission). The monitoring of child labor and young worker exposure is being added to the audit list and will be reported within the CSR cycle. 408-1 b Operations and suppliers considered to have Not available for the reporting term (omission). The specific risk of exposure to significant risk for incidents of child labor child labor has been added to the risk monitoring system. 408-1 c Measures taken by the organization in the Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct have been updated (enhancing reporting period intended to contribute to the also the statement forbidding forced or compulsory labor as well as child labor), effective abolition of child labor distributed and trained (CoC). www.apps.sp.landisgyr.net/sites/GDMS/Documents/10-04-04-02-GL-1022.pdf 73 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Material Topic: Community Engagement 413-1 a Local Communities: Operations with local See Chapter 6.7 for the management approach. Group-wide aggregated data is community engagement, impact not available yet (omission), but a global data aggregation project is in progress assessments, and development programs in FY 2020/21. The disclosures for the GRI 413 Standard are an integral part of the data aggregation process. For FY 2019/20 a non-exhaustive list of projects with social impact include: Support for local schools – Mexico / Cycling for a Good Cause – several sites in the UK, Greece, Switzerland, Finland / women’s empowerment (invincible women) project – India. For FY 2019/20 a non-exhaustive list of projects with environmental impact includes: Bushfire Donation – Australia and Zero Landfill project – Curitiba (see page 25–33 in the Annual Report). On top of that, Landis+Gyr has a positive impact on local communities by enabling consumers and utilities to manage energy better. The company enabled communities to save 8 million tons CO² emissions in FY 2019/20. Local community consultation committees are in place in Emerging Economies where Landis+Gyr is active (India, Mexico, South Africa). The Speak Up process described in Chapter 6 or direct contact to local management is available for local communities. GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Material Topic: Data Security and Privacy 418-1 a Total number of substantiated complaints Chapter 6.8 received concerning breaches of customer privacy 418-1 b Customer Privacy: Total number of identified leaks, Chapter 6.8 thefts, or losses of customer data 418-1 c Customer Privacy: If the organization has not Chapter 6.8 identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact 74 GRI Index Sustainability report 2019 | 2020 Landis+Gyr Impressum ©Landis+Gyr Group AG Concept and Text: IRF Reputation AG, Zurich Design: m3 gmbh, Wetzikon Contacts: Landis+Gyr AG Theilerstrasse 1 6301 Zug, Switzerland Phone: +41 41 935 6000 New address as of December 1st, 2020 Landis+Gyr AG Alte Steinhauserstrasse 18 6330 Cham, Switzerland Eva Borowski Senior Vice President Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Phone: +41 41 935 63 96 eva.borowski@landisgyr.com
