About This Reporting Period Statement Centering on the sustainability philosophy of “cherishing limited resources and pursuing sustainable development”, This report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019, and some parts the 2019 China Minmetals Sustainability Report is to Report may concern significant years in the development of the Corporation. convey the message to the public that we are committed to creating the greatest value for stakeholders, and to Reporting Cycle make known what we have been done and achieved The Corporation publishes the sustainability report annually and this report is the 13th to build a valuable, innovative, safe, green, happy, winsustainable development report since 2007. win and harmonious image. Stakeholders are the most important resources for the Corporation’s sustainable Reporting Scope development. We adhere to the main theme of “cherishing This report covers the information related to the headquarters and subsidiaries of stakeholders and making every effort to create unlimited China Minmetals Corporation. In view of the different businesses of subsidiaries, there value for them”, and strive to disclose to the stakeholders will be slight differences in the boundary and range of specific topics and explanations the information about our CSR practices and performance will be provided in corresponding paragraphs of this report. as much as possible in an accurate, truthful and objective manner. By doing so, we hope to achieve the most References effective communication with our stakeholders on an For readability, China Minmetals Corporation is referred to as China Minmetals , the equal, comprehensive and in-depth basis, to enhance Corporation , the Company and we . mutual trust and cooperation with them for common progress. Preparation Basis The report is prepared in compliance with the requirements of Guidelines to the A third-party assurance engagement on this report has Central State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central Government on Fulfilling been performed by TUV NORD. The statement of assurance Corporate Social Responsibilities released by the State-owned Assets Supervision is attached hereto as an appendix. and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC), and in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) issued by the Global China Minmetals Corporation Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). It also refers to the international standard June 2020 Guidance on Social Responsibility (ISO 26000:2010), Chinese national standard GB/ T 36000-2015 Guidance on Social Responsibility, the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and Guidelines for Social Responsibility in Outbound Mining Investments issued by China Chamber of Commerce of Metals, Minerals & Chemical Importers & Exports. Data Sources All data contained herein are from the Corporation’s official documents, statistics reports and financial statements as well as its sustainability practice information collected by the sustainability information management system of the Corporation and reviews by the functional divisions and subsidiaries. Report Availability This report is available in both Chinese and English. Please contact us for a hard copy. You may also view the PDF version of this report in Chinese and English as well as the dynamic information related to CSR activities of the Corporation under “Social Contribution” on the homepage of the China Minmetals’ official website. Address of the headquarters: Tower A, Minmetals Plaza, No.3 North Chaoyangmen Avenue, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China (100010) Tel: 0086-10-60169896 Fax: 0086-10-60169831 Email: csr@minmetals.com Website: http://www.minmetals.com.cn Contents 02 Message from the Chairman 01 03 05 04 Message from the President High-quality Development Whole-process Safe and Eco-friendly Construction Boosts Remarkable Stable Operation Facilitates Environmental 06 About Us Achievements Protection 13 Sustainability Management Stable Resource Development with Good 34 Strengthening Safety Management 54 Environmental Protection Strategy 74 Momentum Deepening Risk Prevention Development of Green Industries 56 76 18 Feature 1: Splendid 70 Years of Robust Growth of Metallurgy Engineering 36 Optimizing the Production Environment 57 Eco-friendly Operation 80 Projects Development and Greater Progress for Building Safety Culture 58 Biodiversity Conservation 84 Transformation and Development of Trade 40 a New Era and Logistics Making Significant Contributions with 41 24 Feature 2: Securing a Complete and Diversified Businesses Decisive Victory in the Battle against Constant Efforts in Emerging Sectors 43 Poverty 02 04 06 Innovative Models Staff Team Seeks Better Openness and Cooperation Enhances Vitality Growth Promotes Mutual Benefit Making Technological Advances 46 Respecting Labor and Creations 62 Contributing to a Better Life 88 Deepening Management Innovation 50 Employee Training and Development 64 Promoting Win-win Cooperation 91 Employee Care 68 A Good Neighbor to the Community 96 102 Outlook 2020 104 Appendix China Minmetals Corporation Message from the Chairman Message from the Chairman The year 2020 marks the last year for winning The 2019 China Minmetals Sustainability Report has of metallurgical construction contractors. In 2019, we been officially released. The report shows our efforts in thoroughly applied the general requirements on Party the first centenary goal of securing a decisive such aspects as corporate development, technological building in the new era, earnestly implemented the victory in completing the building of a innovation, safety management, and common growth with responsibility system for Party building, and continuously employees throughout the year of 2019. We expect that improved the quality of Party building. We also took steps moderately prosperous society in all respects. this report will serve as a magnifying lens for all walks of to forestall and defuse major risks in a more aggressive Now the battle trumpet has sounded, we, as life to look more closely at China Minmetals and a major manner, supported targeted poverty alleviation in a more required by President Xi Jinping, should work channel for all stakeholders to communicate with us. accurate manner, prevented and controlled pollution in a more intensive manner, and devoted to building a benefitas one in spite of challenges and difficulties sharing platform for employees in a more heart-warming The year 2019 was a fruitful year of China Minmetals to bolster areas of weakness, consolidate and marked the 70th anniversary of the founding of the manner. the foundation for corporate development, People’s Republic of China. When celebrating the brilliant achievements made by China over the past 70 years, Th ro u g h su st ain e d e ffor t s m a de i n re ce nt ye a r s, constantly enhance our competitiveness, all members of China Minmetals at home and abroad China Minmetals has realized a robust and promising and accelerate the building of a worldthoroughly implemented the guiding principles of the 19th development trend. With concerted and vigorous efforts of CPC National Congress and followed the guidance of Xi all members of China Minmetals, we are striding forward class metal mining group, thus contributing Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics to the stated objectives. The greatest achievements come more to the realization of the two centenary for a New Era, and fulfilled the requirements and decisions from the hardest work. We always hold the correct political goals and the Chinese Dream of national of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council. We stance, commit ourselves to the “Two Maintenances” also adhered to “Four Consciousness” (political integrity, (safeguarding Xi’s status as the core of the CPC Central rejuvenation. thinking in terms of the big picture, following the Committee and the whole Party, as well as the authority leadership core, and keeping in alignment with the central and centralized, unified leadership of the CPC Central Party leadership), “Four Confidences” (full confidence in the Committee), and unswervingly adhere to the path of path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese high-quality development, the strategic direction of main characteristics)”, and “Two Maintenances” (resolutely responsibilities and main businesses, and the marketmaintaining the core status of General Secretary Xi Jinping oriented reform, all of which are successful practices of in the CPC Central Committee and the Party, and resolutely China Minmetals for high-quality development and also maintaining the authority and unified leadership of the CPC significant guidelines to be followed by China Minmetals Central Committee). Therefore, we achieved the best-ever for a long time to come. business performance since the strategic restructuring. Our foundation of development was consolidated, the quality The year 2020 marks the last year for winning the first of development was improved, and the confidence in centenary goal of securing a decisive victory in completing development was enhanced. the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Now the battle trumpet has sounded, we, as In the past year, we handled various complicated situations required by President Xi Jinping, should work as one in spite with composure, improved our overall competitiveness of challenges and difficulties to bolster areas of weakness, steadily, and made fruitful efforts in stabilizing growth, consolidate the foundation for corporate development, promoting reform, and adjusting structure. we saw constantly enhance our competitiveness, and accelerate significant improvements in operation quality, business the building of a world-class metal mining group, thus indicators, and asset quality. With the constant optimization contributing more to the realization of the two centenary of management mechanisms, we actively responded goals and the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. to the call for deepening the reform of state-owned enterprises (SOE), pushed forward a series of reforms such as “double-hundred enterprises“ and mixed-ownership reform in a balanced manner, and implemented the contractual management thoroughly, so as to constantly Chairman and Party Group Secretary of boost enterprise vitality. By further highlighting main China Minmetals Corporation responsibilities and main businesses and optimizing the Tang Fuping industrial structure, we made constant efforts in enhancing the acquisition of mineral resources and the innovation of metallurgical techniques, and improving the production and operation quality of mines and the market position 02 03 China Minmetals Corporation Message from the President Message from the President The year 2019 marked great endeavors, The year 2019 marked great endeavors, leapfrog 2019 also marked the fourth year after the strategic development, and excellent per formance of China restructuring of the former China Minmetals and China l e a p f r o g d e v e l o p m e n t , a n d e xc e l l e n t Minmetals on the journey towards the goal of “two Metallurgical Group Corporation (MCC Group). Over performance of China Minmetals on the doublings in three steps”. In the face of complicated and the past four years, we have always followed President challenging situations at home and abroad, we followed the Xi Jinping’s instructions on the development path for journey towards the goal of “two doublings guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese state-owned enterprises, and faithfully shouldered the in three steps”. In the face of complicated and Characteristics for a New Era, thoroughly implemented the glorious mission of guarding and serving the country as challenging situations at home and abroad, we decisions and plans of the CPC Central Committee, and a metal mining enterprise. Taking the unique advantages vigorously promoted the spirit of “never delaying, never of complementar y restruc turing as the driver for followed the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought slacking”. Moreover, we have always focused on the main business integration and focusing on system unification, on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics idea of high-quality development, and tackled challenges management alignment, business integration, and cultural and made progress with firm faith and great passion, which fusion, we have constantly strengthened the business for a New Era, thoroughly implemented helped us achieve sustainable growth in production and structure of “four beams and eight columns” and achieved the decisions and plans of the CPC Central operation for four consecutive years and score the bestperformance outcomes beyond the expectation. The Committee, and vigorously promoted the ever business performance since the strategic restructuring. hardworking and diligent employees of China Minmetals have joined hands to build up confidence for forging ahead spirit of “never delaying, never slacking”. and shape the future for better development. In 2019, China Minmetals’ revenue exceeded RMB 600 Moreover, we have always focused on the billion for the first time, and we achieved year-onmain idea of high-quality development, and year growth of 13.3% in total profits, with the business We have embarked on a new journey in the new era. 2020 performance indicators hitting a record high and the asset is the last year to secure a decisive victory in building a tackled challenges and made progress with quality indicators reaching the best-ever level. Over the moderately prosperous society in all respects at a high level firm faith and great passion, which helped us past year, we have always attached great importance to and to accomplish the goals of the 13th Five-year Plan, as the main responsibilities and main businesses of the metal well as the crucial year to lay a solid foundation for making achieve sustainable growth in production and mining industry, and achieved a stable and rising operation a good start of the 14th Five-year Plan. It is an arduous operation for four consecutive years and score quality of mines. Thanks to the sustainable and strong mission and a heavy responsibility for China Minmetals the best-ever business performance since the growth momentum of metallurgy engineering projects, to achieve success in all work. We will continue to uphold we have undertaken quite a few strategic projects related the great banner of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with strategic restructuring. to the transformation and upgrading of the steel industry, Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, insist on seeking played an active part in the Belt and Road Initiative, and progress while maintaining stability and high-quality promoted capacity cooperation among international development, and fulfill the target of “two doublings in communities. We have promoted the transformation three steps”. We will make every effort to build a world-class of traditional trade business models, and increased the metal mining group with supports from all sectors of the annual volume of merchandise trade by 10.2% year on community, thus contributing more to the decisive victory year. By steadily developing diversified financial and real of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects estate businesses, we realized sustained improvements and the realization of the Chinese Dream of national in economic returns and brand effects. We adhere to an rejuvenation. innovation-driven development strategy and have built a quality-oriented system featuring the replacement of old growth drivers with new ones. By strengthening risk prevention and control, continuing to streamline the organizational structure, and taking serious measures to improve basic management, we have managed to consolidate the foundation for further development. Besides, we have enhanced risk prevention and control in the fields of work safety and environmental protection with the ever-increasing investment and the constantlyGeneral Manager and Deputy Party Group Secretary of improved system. We have fostered new business lines and China Minmetals Corporation, Chairman of China new growth drivers by applying advanced technologies of Metallurgical Group Corporation new energy materials, and dominated the market of highend positive materials in China. Guo Wenqing 04 05 China Minmetals Corporation About Us About Us Strategic vision To be the world-class powerhouse in the metals and minerals industry Company China Minmetals Corporation (China Minmetals), headquartered in Beijing, was established as the result Profile of a strategic restructuring of two Fortune Global 500 companies – the former China Minmetals and China Strategic positioning Mission Core values Corporate spirit Metallurgical Group Corporation (MCC Group). China By the end of 2019 A main force to ensure the To ensure the security of Cherishing limited Never delaying, Never Minmetals, an important state-owned backbone security of resources resources supply for the resources and pursuing slacking enterprise with metals and minerals as its core business, The Corporation nation sustainable development A national team to upgrade is directly managed by the central government. It is had managed RMB the metallurgical industry Innovation-driven 2.16 a pilot enterprise for state-owned capital investment transform and upgrade the An integrated service companies. In 2019, it ranked 112th among the Fortune provider in the industry industries Global 500 companies. trillion of assets China Minmetals strives to play the role of a state-owned Including RMB capital investment enterprise in the field of metals and minerals and to become a world-class powerhouse in the metals and minerals industry. By the end of 2019, the Corporation had managed RMB 2.16 trillion of assets, 929.5 billion in total assets including RMB 929.5 billion in total assets. Overseas organizations, resource projects, and construction Overseas organizations, projects are located in more than 60 countries and resource projects, and construction projects regions across the world. China Minmetals was rated are located in more than as Grade-A enterprise in 2018 performance appraisal, Grade-A enterprise in 2016-2018 tenure performance appraisal and outstanding contribution enterprise in scientific and technological innovation by SASAC. 60 countries and regions across the world China Minmetals has eight listed companies Publically listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and MCC (601618.SH, 1618.HK) the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Minmetals Capital (600390.SH) Minmetals Rare Earth (000831.SZ) Publically listed on the Minmetals Development (600058.SH) Shanghai Stock Exchange China Tungsten Hightech (000657.SZ) Zhuzhou Smelter Group (600961.SH) Publically listed on the Hong Minmetals Resources (1208. HK) Kong Stock Exchange Minmetals Land (0230.HK) 06 07 China Minmetals Corporation About Us Organizational Structure Business System China Minmetals Corporation Business System Discipline Inspection and Supervision Team Metals and Metallurgical Trade and Finance and Minerals Construction Logistics Real estate General Office (Party Leadership Group’s Office/BoD Office) Strategy Development Division Enterprise Management Division (Reform Financial Division Organization Department of Party Leadership Group Capital Operation Division Inspection of Party Leadership Group Office Publicity Department of Party Leadership Group (Party Building International Business Management Department Science and Technology Management Division IT Center HSE Division (Emergency Management Division) Audit Division Legal Division Purchasing Management Division Mineral development Metallic materials New energy materials Metallurgical Engineering Basic Construction Trade and Logistics Financial Services Real-estate Development Promotion Office) (Human Resources Division) Division Corporate Culture Division Labor Union Office) To be the world-class powerhouse in the metals and minerals industry Cherishing limited resources and pursuing sustainable development The field of metals and minerals The field of metallurgical construction Full-time Director China Metal Mining Supervision and Discipline Audit Center Information Center We possess rich reserves of metals and minerals. Overseas mines are We, as the pioneers and main forces of China’s steel industry, have worldlocated in Asia, Oceania, South America, and Africa, etc. We own a class metallurgical construction enterprises, which have successively number of world-class mines such as Las Bambas Copper Mine, Dugald undertaken the planning, investigation, design, and construction projects (Supervisory) Office River Zinc Mine, and Papua New Guinea Ramu Nickel and Cobalt Mine. of major production facilities of large and medium-sized domestic steel Enforcement Center Economic Research Institute The output of copper, zinc, tungsten, antimony, and bismuth are among enterprises. Since the beginning of the new century, we have undertaken the top list in the world. major domestic iron and steel design and construction projects such as Zhanjiang Iron and Steel Industry Base of Bao Steel, Project for Industrial Upgrading of HBIS Hegang and Production Capacity Transfer of Xuangang in Tangshan, and project of Guangxi Fangchenggang iron The field of trade and logistics and steel base. Relying on our strong technological advantages, we have entered the international market and undertaken the design and construction of main large and medium-sized greenfield steel projects We have a global network for trade flows, with global purchasing, global China Metallurgical Group China Minmetals Non-ferrous Metals Hunan Nonferrous Metals Holding Minmetals Development Co., Ltd. Minmetals Capital Co., Ltd. Minmetals Land Limited Minmetals Mining Holdings Co., Ltd. Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. China Tungsten and High-tech China Minmetals Rare Earth Co., Ltd. Changsha Research Institute of Hunan Changyuan Lico Co., Ltd. Minmetals Exploration & Minmetals Finance Co., Ltd. China Minmetals H.K. (Holdings) Minmetals Innovative Investment Minmetals Asset Management in the world in recent years, such as the Formosa Ha Tinh Steel project marketing, and the flowing scale of metallic and mineral products in Vietnam, Malaysia’s Kuantan united steel project, India’s TATA steel leading domestically. project, and ArcelorMittal’s project in Ukraine. We have developed core technical advantages, design and construction capabilities throughout Development Co., Ltd. Corporation all links to make great strides towards the goal of building the world’s No. Materials Co., Ltd. Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. Limited Limited Co., Ltd. Group (HNG) 1 national team of metallurgical construction. Co., Ltd. The field of finance and real estate Relying on the advantages of high-tech construction developed in the field of metallurgical construction for many years, we have accomplished We have a number of financing licenses, with significant advantages in the overall development and construction of several new urban areas. trust, leasing, securities, futures, finance companies, and funds. China Thus, we are a well-known domestic expert in all-round solutions to Minmetals is one of the SASAC’s first batch of 16 central state-owned urban construction. We also have accumulated significant advantages enterprises with real estate as their main business. Minmetals Land and in six major business areas, such as underground utility tunnels, sponge MCC Real Estate under China Minmetals enjoy high popularity. Divisions of headquarters Affiliate entities Subsidiaries cities, and special-theme engineering. 08 09 China Minmetals Corporation About Us Corporate China Minmetals continuously improves the management of the organizational control and decision-making system, optimizes decision and control list and strengthens corporate governance. By building a streamlined and efficient Themed Education Governance organizational management structure, we strive to establish a modern, market-oriented, and scientific governance system for state-owned capital investment companies, thus guaranteeing the fulfillment of our responsibility for The case of Minmetals China Minmetals regards “remaining true to the Party’s original aspiration and keeping our mission firmly in mind” Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. as an everlasting theme in strengthening Party building, and a permanent theme in the development of Party investors. We actively respond to the requirements of the SASAC on the construction of online supervision system In 2019, selected in the textbook members. The Corporation has moved to ensure that the relevant education and learning activities are carried out for state-owned assets and SOEs, and promote the implementation of the three major and one greatness decisionon Party organization China Minmetals held: on a regular and institutionalized basis. We keep pressing ahead with the campaign themed “remaining true to making and operation supervision system of the Corporation to meet the requirements of state-owned assets by the Organization the Party’s original aspiration and keeping our mission firmly in mind” by earnestly launching extensive learning supervision. Department of the CPC 28 activities, discussions and investigations with a clear focus on the key topics of the Party’s organizational work, Central Committee which have enabled all Party members to gain a deeper understanding through learning, to master the knowledge At the invitation of the Central Organization Department, Tang Fuping, as a representative of six central SOEs with through discussions, and to consolidate the knowledge through investigations. In addition, the Corporation good corporate governance, participated in the forum on “Integration of the Leadership of the Party into Corporate Effor ts made by the Par t y Party Group meetings, committee of the Public Service has launched themed classes online to further expand training channels and enhance the overall theoretical Governance” symposium. Department of Minmetals deliberating over and understanding and raise all Party members’ political quality. Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. to listening to the reporting of enhance the awareness of public 193 issues Strengthening organization construction security, social etiquette, mutual assistance and healthy lifestyle Inspection and Rectification 14 By comprehensively sorting out the China Minmetals formulated Based on the actual situation in local communities stood out current situations of boards of directors the Recommendations on of the leadership team, from more than 1,300 cases of 96 The Corporation regards the response to discipline inspections carried out by the CPC Central Committee and the central SOEs, and was listed into and super visors of subsidiaries the Member Selection and we actively adjusted and demanded rectification as a major political task. Therefore, we have combined inspection and rectification with the the Selected Cases of Secretaries in the Corporation, China Minmetals Appointment Workflow of replenished members of Board Meetings, deliberating Primary Party Organizations (SOE Corporation’s themed education, daily supervision, and our efforts to deepen reforms. With a more proactive attitude, formed the Plan for Understanding the Boards of Directors and the boards of supervisors Version). over and listening to the the Current Situations of Boards of Supervisors to further clarify of subsidiaries of China we have put in place a more effective rectification mechanism that has integrated discipline inspection, inspection reporting of 44 issues Directors and Supervisors of Enterprises procedures for selecting Minmetals. on ecological and environmental protection and our themed education. At the same time, we pay close attention to Directly Affiliated to China Minmetals and appointing members the implementation of rectification measures to ensure that we can transform the results of rectification into progress 32 and Recommendations for Further for the boards of directors in corporate governance, thereby promoting the Corporation’s high-quality development. Improvements to provide suggestions and supervisors. for members of boards of directors and President’s meetings, supervisors to implement different Consolidating the Three Basics categories of adjustments. deliberating over and listening to the reporting of China Minmetals has taken serious measures to enhance basic management, basic team building, and basic skills 227 issues of Party members by strengthening teams and primary Party organizations according to the Party’s organizational line for the new era. We have made great efforts to develop the basic human resources management system Party First-class enterprises are inseparable from first-class Party building, which leads the development of the enterprises. Therefore, China Minmetals thoroughly studies and applies Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese centering around the four dimensions, selected four groups of young Party officials, and launched the “Waving Party Flag, Sparkling Party Emblem” campaign at the primary Party organizations to promote Party building and Building Characteristics for a New Era, and continuously enhances the “Four Consciousness (maintaining political integrity, thinking in terms of the big picture, following the leadership core, and keeping in alignment with the central Party the Corporation’s core business. In 2019, through the intelligent Party building platform, we significantly improved the use of information technology in Party building. leadership)”, fortifies the “Four Confidences (full confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics)”, and ensures the “Two Maintenances” (resolutely maintaining the core status of General Secretary Xi Jinping in the CPC Central Committee and the Party, and resolutely maintaining the authority and unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee), so as to steer the Corporation forward on the right course. We earnestly implement the system of responsibility for Party building, and have established the closed-loop Party building mode from the responsibility implementation to the evaluation and assessment to the feedback and AntiChina Minmetals works earnestly to improve Party conduct and enforce Party discipline with intensified anticorruption efforts. By setting up the team responsible for the establishment of the compliance system, and improvement, which has stimulated internal impetus to consolidate Party building and enabled the Corporation to realize the synchronized progress in Party building and business development. corruption developing the compliance liaison officer mechanism, the Corporation has promoted anti-corruption and integrity in an all-round manner, and has further improved the coordinated organizational system for compliance management. “Adhering to the Party leadership over state-owned enterprises and establishing a and Integrity modern enterprise system” Earnestly improving the Party’s style of work, and taking firm action to eliminate We adhere to the Party leadership over state-owned enterprises and formalism, bureaucratism, hedonism, and extravagance; establishing a modern enterprise system. By integrating the enhancement of Intensifying efforts to identify potential corruption risks in key areas and processes, Xi Jinping, General the Party leadership with corporate governance, China Minmetals has been as well as investigate and deal with disciplinary violations and corruption cases to Secretary of the CPC Central promoting the development of a modern state-owned enterprise system resolutely cut off the chain of interests; with Chinese characteristics and the transformation to a state-owned capital Committee, has stressed Establishing a working mechanism that facilitates coordination in disciplinary investment company. Moreover, we cooperated with the Organization that we must adhere to inspections at different levels to make sure that all Party organizations can truly Department of the CPC Central Committee in completing the inspection of supervise their own conduct and enforce strict discipline; the Party leadership over the Corporation’s practices in adhering to the Party leadership over statestate-owned enterprises Developing mechanisms and systems for preventing and controlling corruption owned enterprises and establishing a modern enterprise system. We have risks at overseas organizations to ensure the safety of state-owned assets; and establish a modern compiled the Problems and Solutions Concerning the Party Leadership Over enterprise system. State-owned Enterprises and the Establishment of a Modern Enterprise System Analyzing typical corruption cases for warning and education purposes. and submitted it to the authority, which has been well-received. 10 11 China Minmetals Corporation Sustainability Management Sustainability Context Sustainability Management Opportunities Challenges Emerging countries along the Belt and Road The world economy is undergoing a new round New create new growth drivers. of in-depth adjustments after the financial crisis, China Minmetals, as a member of the UN Global Compact, actively engages in sustainable development at and there are greater challenges for companies to home and abroad. We have accelerated the integration of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development The application of digital and intelligent technologies by steel enterprises accelerates the upgrade and expansion of the industry. develop in the international market. Sustainability and the diamond-shaped CSR model to create a sustainability model in the new era, and contribute to the Model China is in the pivotal stage for improving the realization of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. economic structure and fostering new drivers of The development of the transportation, energy growth. sectors and new-type urbanization provide strategic opportunities. Faced with increased external risks and shocks, the metal mineral industry is under ever-increasing pressures in development. About the Model Elements of the Model The metallurgical industr y puts for ward increasingly strict requirements on comprehensive Implication The diamond-shaped model Core values Cherishing limited resources and management and service quality. epitomizes China Minmetals’ relentless pursuit of pursuing sustainable development sustainable development and firm commitment to Cherishing Main resources Natural resources, human creating the greatest possible integrated value for limited resources resources and social resources and pursuing the economy, the society, and the environment. sustainable Means Whole process integration and total development employee involvement Rationale “Maximum integrated value for the Approaches CSR management, CSR practices, CSR Strengths Weaknesses economy, the society, and the environment = dissemination, CSR research Maximum positive impact on stakeholders – Multiple products, businesses and coverage of Relatively delayed transformation into a resourceMinimum negative impact on stakeholders” Process Application to all areas of business and the whole industry chain oriented company, weak capitalization, and to-bemanagement strengthened international competitiveness A constantly improved business system featured by “four beams and eight columns”. Low profitability and inadequate contributions to the overall performance for the metal mining sector Significant achievements in technological innovation and incubation of projects in emerging Insufficient efforts in building a national team industries to upgrade the metallurgical industry The Value Creation Formula of CMC ∑ ∑ Max Comprehensive Value = Positive Effect Negative Effect Max Min World-class metals and minerals conglomerate t ce s m a n a g e m e n I nv e s t m e n t a n n r es o u r d financ i al ma Huma n ag e t Smelting Proces m en ent opmen sing t ag em Devel Sou an r ci Safety and health Partnership m our ce s Hu man ng sk l re s re so Distrib tion a ur u ehensive r Cherish limited nageme ma lora Nat resources and pursue pr Value creation Environmental Harmony rces i n sustainable development Our Action Plann protection Employee development Co m E xp Co n st ru c tio Social re source s nce ution t ing nt Fina ssm e He n d nt alth Science an eme A ss e Real estat , saf e anag Implementa et y an technology ti on m tion Monitoring Improvement d enviro n m e nt a l m a n a g e m e nt Te c hnol ogy and i nf o rm a Adhering to the general principle of pursuing progress while ensuring stability , China Minmetals thoroughly implements the new development concepts, sticks to high-quality development, and enhances the Corporation’s competitiveness in an all-around manner. CS CSR C Rm CSR SR Focusing on the two core business sectors, metals & mining and metallurgical construction, China Minmetals keeps deepening high-quality an disse r p ra es ag development. We have promoted the reform of state-owned capital investment companies, enhanced the comprehensive performance of ea em c tic mina rch en es the Corporation, and further improved the Minmetals Model , which shaped the core competitiveness of China Minmetals. By accelerating t t Wh tion en ol m the improvement of our independent innovation capabilities and cultivating a batch of enterprises with leading technologies, we aim to Bottom-up promotion ep lve roce i nv o of good practices ss i nt e l oy e e empower the Corporation in international competitions with stronger competitiveness in the high-end markets, and make unremitting g rat i o n Total emp Top-down dissemination efforts to achieve the goal of “two doublings in three steps” and accelerate the construction of a world-class metal mineral enterprise. of cutting-edge expertise China Minmetals’ model of sustainable development featuring value creation 12 13 China Minmetals Corporation Sustainability Management CSR China Minmetals is committed to building an effective CSR communication mechanism to have an indepth understanding and respond to the expectations and demands of stakeholders. In this way, we strive Stakeholder Based on the Corporation’s actual operation and business, we seek to new mode to enhance communication and interaction with stakeholders, proactively identify key CSR topics, respond to Communito promote all relevant parties to participate in the Company's decision-making and operation, ensure their Engagement stakeholders’ concerns, and keep improving our CSR performance to grow together with all stakeholders. cation right to know, supervise and participate, and achieve common development. At the 12th International Conference on CSR Reporting in China, the 2018 China Minmetals Sustainability Report won the GoldenBee Excellent CSR Report 2019 • Evergreen Award with Two Stars. The report has won the GoldenBee Excellent CSR Report award for seven consecutive years. SASAC & Local Customers Shareholders Governments CSR China Minmetals has established a sustainability Expectations and Communication Expectations and Communication Expectations and Communication requirements response requirements response requirements response reporting mechanism with 13 sustainability reports DissemiCompliance Special report Tax payment Take the initiative to Contractual Carry out contracts since 2008. On this basis, such qualified subsidiaries operation according to law pay taxes obligations Improve product nation are encouraged to issue the independent reports, the Satisfactory market Increase profitability Employment Provide support and High-quality capitalization promotion guidance products quality overseas performance reports and the sustainability Safe production Safety management Economic Drive economic Quality service Increase service reports of major projects, forming a three-dimensional development growth capacity Green Energy conservation reporting model of parent company, subsidiaries and development and emissions project-oriented reports. reduction Brand promotion Brand building In addition to the annual issuance of sustainability reports, the social responsibility column is set up on the Company's website to disclose information on the understanding of social responsibility of the top leadership, the management philosophy of the Suppliers/ Company, our CSR organizations and stakeholders. Contractors Employees Partners Expectations and Communication Expectations and Communication Expectations and Communication Analysis requirements response requirements response requirements response Very Important Good faith Honor agreements Equal Open Regular High-level exchange of Material Openness and fairness Disclose procurement opportunities Career communication Education and communication Long-term stable of visits Strategic Topics Mutual benefit information Seek common development Occupational training Physical examination relationship cooperation 1.Safe production development health and training 2.Technological Innovation Employee care Care for employees 3. Sustainable Management 4. Performance Growth 5. Pollution Control 6. Project Quality Importance to stakeholders 7. Poverty Alleviation 8. Customer Service 9.Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction NGOs, 10. Employee Health Industry Communities, Counterparts Media 11. Global Development and the 12. Win-win Partnership Public 13.Investor Communication Expectations and Communication Expectations and Communication Expectations and Communication 14. Resource Development and requirements response requirements response requirements response Utilization 15. Supply Chain Partnership Fair competition Maintain business Improve Help developing Transparency Enhance information environment community communities disclosure 16. Career Development of environment Employees Industry Participate in the development industry standard Respect Protect aboriginal 17. Tax Payment According to Law formulation community culture cultures Important Impact on the Corporation’s sustainable development Very Important 18. Protection of Employees' Rights and Interests Support the public Organize charitable good activities 19. Biodiversity Protection 14 15 China Minmetals Corporation Sustainability Management Benchmarking against the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development SDG9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive We launched businesses related to smart cities, beautiful rural areas, utility tunnels, health and elderly care services, etc., and participated in the construction and sustainable industrialization and foster of high-end real estate projects, development of urban districts, construction of innovation ecosystems, sustainably manage transportation facilities, and energy conservation and environmental protection forests, combat desertification, and halt and projects. Progress in implementing the 2030 Agenda reverse SDG1 We undertook assistance tasks in over 20 counties, including six fixed-point poverty SDG10 We adhered to responsible community building, and actively participated in alleviation counties. By earnestly implementing poverty alleviation-oriented assistance Reduce inequality within and among community construction and shared development achievements with local End poverty in all its forms countries everywhere tasks, we were determined to lift all poor people out of poverty. communities by organizing the SOE Open Day campaign and planning various themed activities. SDG2 We created a model of poverty alleviation through the development of industries with SDG11 We launched businesses related to smart cities, beautiful rural areas, utility End hunger, achieve food security China Minmetals’ characteristics, launched a meeting for promoting poverty alleviation Make cities and human settlements inclusive, tunnels, etc. and improved nutrition and through the development of industries in Huayuan County, constructed rabbit breeding safe, resilient and sustainable promote sustainable agriculture projects in Zhenxiong County, launched projects of Chinese bee breeding and the construction of supporting facilities for greenhouses in Yiliang County, launched pig breeding projects in Weixin County, started the cultivation of oranges and muskmelons in Yanhe County, and constructed the navel orange industrial park in Dejiang County. SDG3 We raised funds through the charity train of Wei Jicheng from Australia and China SDG12 By adjusting the production mode and the energy structure, making full use Ensure healthy lives and promote Population Welfare Foundation to purchase medical equipment for Zhenxiong County, Ensure sustainable consumption and of independently developed new technologies of energy conservation and well-being for all at all ages and organized emergency response training, improved contingency plans, and carried production patterns environmental protection, we achieved efficient recycling and reuse of resources out emergency response drills to enhance employees’ safety early warning awareness and and energy, and increased comprehensive benefits. We accelerated the research emergency response capabilities. on green and intelligent technologies, as well as other core technologies, provided steel companies with the most advanced techniques and equipment, environmental protection technologies up to the most stringent requirements, and efficient engineering construction and operation services. SDG4 We gathered students from poor families, provided them with free training and regular SDG13 Adhering to green development, we continued to increase investments in Ensure inclusive and equitable subsidies, and recommended them to suitable positions. For overseas projects, we provide Take urgent action to combat climate change environmental protection governance and upgrade environmental protection quality education and promote scholarships to assist students to get access to education. and its impacts equipment, and solidly promoted energy conservation management. Besides, lifelong learning opportunities we updated the statistical monitoring and reporting system, and expanded and for all upgraded the energy saving and emission reduction data reporting information system. SDG5 We abided by labor laws and regulations, respected human rights, upheld policies on SDG14 As an explorer of seabed mining sites, China Minmetals hosted the Third Achieve gender equality and equal and non-discriminatory employment, implemented democratic management, and Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, International Seabed Authority Contractor Conference. We deeply participated empower all women and girls organized various forms of recreational activities for female employees. seas and marine resources for sustainable in the Sixth Technology Forecast Survey, engaged in the strategic research development and technological forecast for the 2021-2035 national medium-long term development plan for science and technology in the areas of national resources, environmental protection, new materials, marine development, and so on, and integrated in the national scientific and technological innovation system. SDG6 By promoting the governance of major businesses, we achieved ultra-low emissions SDG15 By carrying out environmental protection and ecological restoration work in line Ensure availability and and advanced the reduction of coal consumption by adopting cleaner alternatives. We Protect, restore and promote sustainable use with high standards, and attaching great significance to biodiversity conservation sustainable management of strengthened wastewater treatment and reuse, further regulated the diversion of rainwater of terrestrial in the process of project construction and management, we safeguarded habitats water and sanitation for all and sewage, and urged enterprises to investigate and manage soil pollution risks. and promoted the harmonious coexistence of man and nature. SDG7 We formulated the Implementation Plan for Building the Energy Saving And Environmental SDG16 We carried out the democratic management system with the basic form of the Ensure access to affordable, Protection Platform to promote energy conservation management, and developed a batch workers’ congress and the open system of factory affairs to further open up the Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for reliable, sustainable and modern of domestically and internationally leading technologies of energy conservation and channels of democratic management, supervision and decision-making of staff sustainable development, provide access to energy for all environmental protection. and workers, thus enhancing employees’ sense of ownership. justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels SDG8 We promoted the in-depth implementation of the strategy of developing enterprise by SDG17 We helped local suppliers establish sustainable business models, innovate in Promote sustained, inclusive and talent management, carried out training for officials, young employees, and secretaries Strengthen the means of implementation service models, enrich service content, promote the construction of global sustainable economic growth, of Party branches, as well as pre-job training for new employees to stimulate the vitality and revitalize the global partnership for marketing networks, and enhance comprehensive customer service capabilities, full and productive employment of talents. Relying on the high-quality business system featured by “four beams and eight sustainable development and strengthened cooperation with various stakeholders, such as the government, and decent work for all columns”, we guaranteed steady business growth for four consecutive years, fully playing financial institutions, enterprises, and partners. our role as the stabilizer and ballast stone for the national economy. 16 17 中国五矿集团有限公司 China Minmetals Corporation About Us SPLENDID 关于我们 Cherishing Limited Resources, Playing a Leading and Exploratory Role Setting Foot on the Path Towards Strategic Transformation and Undertaking Responsibilities and Missions in the Reform and Opening-up Development As the reform and opening-up swept through the whole country, Per capita consumption of metal minerals As China is poorly endowed with natural resources, The history of national development is composed of the endeavors of countless individuals. China Minmetals began to make changes, and tried out the increases along with the rapid development of the there is an increasing dependence of China on The past splendid 70 years of PRC witnesses China Minmetals’ contributions to the Chinese transformations towards diversified businesses and industry and national economy. Especially during the period of imported resources. At present, more than 80% of mining industry and the efforts of generations of members of China Minmetals. YEARS OF In the course of gradually developing from a specialized importer and exporter of metal and trade integration. The Corporation also carried out pioneering and explorative practices widely, which laid the foundation and industrialization, per capita consumption of metal minerals may even see explosive growth. Under this China’s copper, iron ore, lithium, and other major minerals rely on imports, and the figures for cobalt, DEVELOPMENT mineral products that did not produce a single ton of metal and mineral products into one of accumulated experiences for subsequent strategic development. circumstance, whether there are sufficient supplies of metal and mineral resources to guarantee the nickel, chromium and other varieties even exceed 90%. China’s largest and most internationalized metal and mineral corporations, China Minmetals AND GREATER has upheld the mission to “guarantee the supply of metal resources for the country”, demand for economic development has become an important factor, and even a bottle-neck problem, Since 2000, China Minmetals has earnestly implemented the mission of guaranteeing reliable PROGRESS FOR remaining true to the original aspiration and keeping the mission firmly in mind. affecting economic development. Therefore, supplies of metal mining, and launched the transformation to an industry group focusing on A NEW ERA economic prosperity drives rapid increases in As one of the first SOEs established in mineral demand, and the development of the metal mining mainly by extending to resource China, China Minmetals was born in minerals industry supports steady economic growth. sectors of the upstream of the supply chain. Through the first year following the founding In 1972, China Minmetals Import and Export Since the 1980s, China Minmetals has begun meticulous studies, China Minmetals has determined of PRC and undertook the mission to Corporation, as the exclusive representative of to go global. We have successively opened 2019 marks the 70th anniversary of The reform and opening-up has boosted the to pay more attention to metals in the shortest fix the tattered nation. Struggle and China, joined the Negotiation on Cooperation branches and representative offices in more than the founding of the People’s Republic development of the Chinese economy, which has supply and of the highest quality in China. responsibility have been the keywords of Sino-Japanese Steel Sectors with six steel 40 countries and regions around the world, and of China. Over the past seven decades, further increased the demand for metal minerals. China has started from scratch to that vividly depict the great efforts made manufacturers, including Nippon Steel of Japan, established a huge global trade network. grow into the world’s second-largest by China Minmetals through various which was held for 22 consecutive years afterward. economy, and is steadily moving generations. During the period, a total of 83 million tons of steel In the 1980s, China Minmetals Import and towards the center of the international On the one hand, China Minmetals integrates China’s advantageous metal resources to promote was imported from Japan, accounting for over half Export Corporation began to set up representative stage. As our country grows stronger, In 1951, Premier Zhou Enlai signed the Notice of of the total steel imports of China. The negotiation offices overseas one after another. the extension of the industry chain from the upstream resource sectors to deep processing, and our people are becoming happier. Appointment greatly reduced the cost of imported steel and the further to the higher end of the value chain. In the past 70 years, China Minmetals steel price renegotiated each year became one of In 1984, the foundation of the Shangri-La has fought through difficulties Contributing to Economic Recovery and Development the important benchmark for world steel prices Hotel, Beijing, controlled by China Minmetals dauntlessly and made unremitting over the same period, which had great impacts on Import and Export Corporation was laid, which efforts. For 70 years, it is the hard work, I n 2002, aiming to s ol ve As of now When PRC was just founded, the economic foundation was quite weak and everything the Asian steel market. was an important attempt of China Minmetals in great courage, and perseverance of the critical problems in Jiangxi wise and diligent Chinese people who waited to be fixed and improved. Under that circumstance, China National Minerals Company the process of launching diversified businesses. Province, such as disorderly have cut ways through mountains and and China National Hardware & Electricals Import Company, the two predecessors of China exploitation of tungsten The total tungsten resources of Our tungsten smelting We also built bridges over waters that change lead the world Minmetals, came into being. We used to be a specialized importer and exporter of metal and resources, expor ts at low China Minmetals have reached capacity has reached “impossibilities” into possibilities. The 1.5128 20,000 mineral products, and shouldered the great responsibility of breaking through economic prices, and the difficulty for Chinese people have created “Chinese blockades, opening up trade channels, earning foreign exchange through exports, and in the output of hard alloy miracles” one after another. related enterprises to make million importing materials in short supply for the country. ends meet, China Minmetals China Tungsten Hightech Materials tons tons/year, accounting for Co., Ltd. (China Tungsten), a took decisive action to 10 Through our great endeavors and groundbreaking work, China Minmetals guaranteed S PLE N DI D 70 YE AR S O F DE V E LO PM E NT subsidiary of China Minmetals integrate the development % of China’s total steady and sufficient imports of metal materials that China could not produce. Those and a flagship platform for the of tungsten resources, Tungsten reserve development of the tungsten materials helped restore the economy and lay a modern industrial foundation for PRC, 606,000 a n d g r a d u a l l y i n c re a s e d capacity industry, has become a played a significant role in supporting agricultural development and alleviating the shortage of market supplies, vigorously supported the restorative development of machinery, efforts to build a complete tungsten industr y chain world-renowned metallurgical, military, transportation, and many other industries in China，and contributed tons developer of tungsten resources integrating tungsten mines, to the implementation of the 1st and 2nd Five-year Plans of China. China Minmetals was the and a producer of tungsten tungsten smelting, tungsten A ND GREATER PR OG RES S FO R A N E W ER A importer of steel materials needed by Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge, Daqing Oilfield, and other products. p o w d e r, h a r d a l l o y, a n d groundbreaking projects. deep processing, promoting the extension of tungsten resources to the higher end of the value chain. 18 19 中国五矿集团有限公司 China Minmetals Corporation About Us 20 中国五矿集团有限公司 实施全流程安全运营 21 关于我们 On the other hand, China Minmetals insists on “going global”, and gets access to strategic Launching Strategic Restructuring and Setting a Good Example resources lacked in China through various approaches, such as fixing the prices of resources through long-term contracts, capacity investments, and 100-percent buyouts. After 2013, the global mining industry Deepening the Reform and Pursuing entered a period of the winter season Innovation-driven Development In 2009, China Minmetals acquired major assets of OZ Minerals Ltd., the world’s and prices of major metal varieties No.2 zinc miner and Australia’s No.3 mining company, and turned a profit in the dropped dramatically. At that time, China In September 2015，the CPC Central Committee and the State Council issued the Guideline Following Strategic Guidance, Pursuing Excellent Performance same year. In 2014, China Minmetals acquired Las Bambas Copper Mine, which Minmetals became deeply aware of the To Deepen Reforms of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), which noted that the supervision over was then the largest copper mine around the world, and the acquisition became necessity to open up new paths and state-owned assets should be improved during the SOEs reforms to ensure the security Upholding the grand Attaching greater significance to the Party leadership, we constantly strengthen the problemone of the largest Chinese investments in the overseas metal mining sectors. create unique competitive advantages. of assets. More state-owned assets should be focused on industries and key areas and vision of “building of a oriented philosophy and consolidate the foundation of main businesses. We have innovatively Since the copper mine was put into operation in 2016, it has produced as much infrastructure projects concerning national security, lifelines of the national economy, and world-class metal mining created an internal collaborative market, comprehensively developed cooperation mechanisms, as copper ore concentrates that contain a total amount of copper equivalent to people’s well-being. Giving full play to the role of state-owned assets in investing in and g r o u p” a n d f o l l o w i n g promoted business integration in an orderly manner, and focused on promoting cultural 20% of the total copper output of copper ore concentrates in China in the same It has produced as much as copper operating companies, structural adjustments should be carried out to guarantee that some the guidance of the “two integration. All our excellent performances form the interpretation of the complementary period, effectively alleviating the shortage of domestic copper resources. ore concentrates that contain a total companies will be developed through innovation, others will be reorganized or merged, doublings in three steps” advantages created by the restructuring. amount of copper equivalent to and still others will exit the market. strategy, the restructured 20 By firmly following the guidance of and implementing related strategies, China % China Minmetals has As China Minmetals realizes new highs in performance indicators, the Corporation’s operating Minmetals is gradually developing from a specialized importer and exporter of metal and mineral products that did not produce a single ton of metal and of the total copper output shown greater vitality in indicators have been improving, total asset turnover rate and current asset turnover rate have increased year after year, and the asset-liability ratio has decreased year after year. Dividends of copper ore concentrates in China corporate development. mineral products into one of China’s largest and most internationalized metal created by the restructuring have been released continuously, which has promoted continuous and mineral corporations. in the same period. improvements in the quality of corporate assets and development, and contributed to stable and sustainable development. Turnover ( $100 million) Over the past four years RMB billion The revenue The gross profit The period The period The period of of trade of strategic restructuring The average annual development transformation and expansion increase rates of China China Metallurgical Group Corporation (M CC G r o u p) i s a ls o a ce nt r a l S O E and a metallurgical For tune Global 500 company respec tively, star ted mineral development, metal materials, new energy materials, metallurgical Minmetals’revenue, gross profit, and net profit were 529.7 610.4 800 with a glorious and long histor y of development. As a super conglomerate, the strategic restructuring to realize complementary advantages with their engineering, infrastructure construction, trade logistics, financial services, and 11.9 % , 435.5 493.4 58.2 % 700 MCC G roup is the longes trunning respective strengths in the metal mining real estate development as the “eight 600 construction force in China’s iron and steel industry, serving as the pioneer and main force in this field. From 1948, and metallurgical industry. Their restructuring contributed to the columns”, China Minmetals creates relatively large wiggle room for effectively responding to the cyclical fluctuations and , TURNING LOSSES 12.1 14.1 16 160.7 % creation of the first metal mining industry INTO S PLE N DI D 70 YE AR S O F DE V E LO PM E NT when it participated in the construction of the metal mineral industry as well as 500 PROFITS of Ansteel, the cradle of China’s iron & chain covering all processes, including sustainable and steady development of steel industry, to the construction of resource acquisition and exploration, enterprises. 2016 2017 2018 2019 400 WISCO, Baogang Group, TISCO, Pangang design, construction, operation, respectively The same Group, and Baosteel, MCC Group has circulation, and deep processing. Such The restructuring has substantially year of the undertaken the planning, investigation, an industry chain has become the two increased the Corporation’s overall R&D restructuring 300 d e s i g n a n d co n s t r u c t i o n o f m a j o r companies’ unique advantage, enhancing and operation capabilities, dramatically A ND GREATER PR OG RES S FO R A N E W ER A production facilities of nearly all large both companies’ competitiveness and say reduced operating costs of domestic 200 and medium iron and steel enterprises in in the entire industry. mines, continuously strengthened China, and contributed to and witnessed the Corporation’s capability to launch 100 the expansion and development of The restructuring helps create a brandoverseas operations independently, and China’s steel industry. new and stable business system. incubated and strengthened strategic 0 Regarding metal mining, metallurgical emerging industries. 1955 1950 1960 1965 1970 1975 1981 1980 1982 1983 1984 1985 1987 1986 1989 1988 1990 1991 1993 1992 1995 1996 1994 1997 1998 1999 2000 2002 2001 2004 2003 2006 2005 2008 2007 2010 2009 2012 2011 2014 2013 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 China Minmetals and MCC, a metal construction, trade logistics, and finance mining Fortune Global 500 company and real estate as the “four beams”, 20 21 中国五矿集团有限公司 China Minmetals Corporation About Us 22 中国五矿集团有限公司 实施全流程安全运营 23 关于我们 Drawing Lessons from the Past and Marching Towards a Bright Future The year 2019 marked the fourth year after the strategic restructuring of the former China Minmetals and China Metallurgical Group Corporation (MCC Group). All the endeavors made over the past four years have been translated into the constantly emerging synergies brought by the restructuring. The Corporation has been creating new business achievements and new practical changes and showing a new corporate image to all sectors of the community and all staff members. Summarizing the Development Experience Tang Fuping pointed out that In recent years, China Minmetals has forged ahead along the path of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. The Corporation has shouldered the economic responsibility, political responsibility, and corporate social responsibility, realized a Defining the We are now basking in the glory of yesterday. In 2019, we ranked 112th among the Fortune robust and promising development trend, and summarized a bunch of valuable experience: Global 500, supervised RMB 2.16 trillion of assets, made a presence in over 60 countries and Development regions through our overseas organizations, resource projects and engineering projects, and had The first is to pursue the correct political stance, commit ourselves to the “Two Maintenances” Direction eight listed companies. Where is China Minmetals heading to in the future? (safeguarding Xi’s status as the core of the CPC Central Committee and the whole Party, as well as the authority and centralized, unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee); Just the same as 70 years ago, the road for dream chasers is under their feet and in their grasp. The second is to unswervingly adhere to the path of high-quality development; The year 2020 is the last year to secure a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous The third is to unswervingly focus on main responsibilities and main businesses; society in all respects and to accomplish the goals of the 13th Five-year Plan, as well as the The fourth is to firmly press ahead with the market-oriented reform. 70th anniversary of the funding of China Minmetals. As an old Chinese saying goes, though an ancient state, Zhou undertook the mission to realize self-renewal. China Minmetals, with core All of these are successful practices of China Minmetals in high-quality development and We ranked competitiveness redefined and exuberant vitality inspired, is striding forward under the guidance 112 significant guidelines to be followed by China Minmetals for a long time to come. of a clearly-specified strategy. th We remain true to our original aspiration and keep our mission firmly in mind. In this sense, we, among the Fortune under the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Guo Wenqing stressed that Global 500 Era, will thoroughly implement the decisions and arrangements of the CPC Central Committee S PLE N DI D 70 YE AR S O F DE V E LO PM E NT and the State Council, constantly enhance our competitiveness, and accelerate the building of a world-class metal mining group, thus making greater contributions to the attainment of the two centenary goals and the realization of the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. Over the past several years following the restructuring, China Minmetals has systematically answered a range of strategic, overall, and fundamental questions: what to do, how to do, and This is the best answer China Minmetals can give. who to do, and blazed the trail for development featuring rapid rise, positive transformation, A ND GREATER PR OG RES S FO R A N E W ER A and sustained growth. The trail is paved by the full compliance with General Secretary Xi Jinping’s significant instructions, the full recognition of the goal of “two doublings in three steps”, the profound understanding on the “complementary restructuring”, and the vigorous promotion of the spirit of “never delaying, never slacking”. 22 23 中国五矿集团有限公司 China Minmetals Corporation 关于我们 About Us 24 中国五矿集团有限公司 实施全流程安全运营 25 An Arduous Mission to Shake off Poverty SECURING A China Minmetals has actively responded to Fixed-point Poverty Alleviation Performance of China Minmetals COMPLETE Qilian It takes more than one cold day for the river to freeze three feet deep, and only a little bit of the call of the CPC Central Committee and County AND DECISIVE warmth in the early spring could not melt the ice. Eliminating poverty, improving people’s the State Council, overcome the difficulties, Number of poor people left Poverty headcount ratio(%) Time of the exit from poverty livelihood and gradually achieving common prosperity is the fundamental requirement of such as a large number of aid recipients, VICTORY IN socialism, as well as a historical task and a solemn pledge of the Party. It is a matter of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, attaining the two centenary goals, striving heavy tasks of pover ty alleviation, and poor conditions of infrastructure facilities, 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 THE BATTLE China Minmetals has undertaken for the great success of socialism with Chinese characteristics for a new era, and realizing the and strove for serving as the major force Zhenxiong County the task of helping of poverty alleviation, successfully helping 303,013 238,264 122,276 22.9 18 9.26 By the end of 2020 7 Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. Wumeng AGAINST seven counties under the partner assistance program win the battle against poverty. counties Qinghai Mountainous Area POVERTY In 2019, China Minmetals took General Secretary Xi Jinping’s significant remarks on poverty alleviation as the guideline, thoroughly implemented the decisions and arrangements of under the paired-up assistance Province Yiliang County program shake off poverty the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, and made all-out efforts to fulfill the Zhenxiong Wumeng 35,804 22,778 2,227 26.42 16.54 1.58 By the end of 2019 responsibilities and accomplish the missions with a strong sense of responsibility and County Mountainous Area purpose. Besides, following the principles of “featured, targeted, prolonged”, we devoted greater efforts in assistance to poverty alleviation, and built a poverty alleviation model with Yiliang Weixin Yanhe Tujia Lifting all rural residents living County County Autonomous County Huayuan Weixin County below the current poverty line characteristics of China Minmetals. Moreover, we spared no effort in helping the areas under County Wumeng 35,960 5,058 48 9.1 1.57 0.015 By the end of 2018 partner assistance improve production, living conditions and people’s livelihood, and made Dejiang Mountainous Area out of pover ty by 2020 is a County positive contributions to winning the battle against poverty. solemn promise made by the Hunan CPC Central Committee, and One guideline Huayuan County Yunnan Guizhou Province it must be fulfilled on time. It General Secretary Xi Jinping’s significant exposition on poverty alleviation Province Province Revolutionary Base 8,991 3,484 428 11.4 4.5 0.55 By the end of 2019 is a tough battle that greater area importance must be attached to in the final push. Three principles Yanhe County Wuling Mountain 70,347 45,232 20,239 11.47 7.38 3.3 By the end of 2020 -An excerpt from the speech Featured targeted prolonged Area delivered by General Secretary Xi Jinping at a symposium on Dejiang County securing a decisive victory in Two intensives Wuling Mountain 52,238 26,834 6,237 11.24 5.77 1.34 By the end of 2019 poverty alleviation Heavy tasks Area Intensive launching intensive demonstration A large number Poor conditions of poverty of aid recipients of infrastructure alleviation Three focuses Focus on “helping people increase confidence in their own ability to lift themselves out of poverty and see that they can access the S E CUR IN G A CO M PLE TE A ND DE CI SIV E education they need to do so“ to tackle the educational problem China Minmetals undertakes Six of the seven fixedThe seven fixed-point Focus on “long-term development” to tackle the industrial problem p o i nt p ove r t y a l l e v i at i o n poverty alleviation counties poverty alleviation tasks in Focus on “address worries about food and clothing and access to seven fixed-point poverty counties, namely Zhenxiong have a weak industrial compulsory education, basic medical services and safe housing” to alleviation counties, and County, Yiliang County, and base, and local poor people tackle the livelihood problem e nte r p r i s e s a f f i l i ate d to Weixin Count y of Yunnan have relatively weak China Minmetals provide Province, Huayuan County of awareness and capability V ICTORY I N TH E BATTLE AGA INS T P OV E RTY assistance to more than 20 Hunan Province, Yanhe Tujia of self-improvement. The poor counties. The number Au t o n o m o u s Co u n t y a n d Co r p o rat i o n u n d e r t a k e s of fixed-point pover ty Dejiang County of Guizhou heavy tasks to prevent the alleviation tasks undertaken Province, are located in formation of the vicious cycle by China Minmetals ranks extremely poor mountainous of poverty and ill-health, and third among central SOEs. areas, ethnic minority areas, or improve public services. revolutionary base areas. 24 25 25 中国五矿集团有限公司 China Minmetals Corporation 关于我们 About Us 26 中国五矿集团有限公司 实施全流程安全运营 27 Tang Fuping pays a visit to the Creating a Solid Mechanism for Poverty Alleviation Through Sound Top-Level Design Industrial Poverty Alleviation Base in Huayuan County, Featured, Targeted, Prolonged Targeted Poverty Alleviation Hunan Province In the face of arduous tasks, China Minmetals thoroughly studies the guiding In 2019, China Minmetals implemented major decisions of the CPC Central Committee. Under the leadership of the Corporation’s principles from General Secretary Xi Party Group and upholding the three principles of “featured, targeted, prolonged”, China Minmetals invested RMB 50.093 million Jinping’s major addresses on poverty in six fixed-point poverty alleviation counties, a year-on-year increase of 42.3%. Overall planning Partner assistance Implementation al le viatio n, a nd un d er t h e u n ified Unified leadership and decisionprovided by the by officials serving leadership of the Corporation’s Party Group, of the Corporation’s making by the Corporation’s temporary Party Group we strengthen the overall planning and headquarters subsidiaries positions China Minmetals invested RMB a year-on-year increase of 50.093 42.3 implementation of responsibility, remaining % true to the Party’s founding mission and seeking happiness for the Chinese people. million in six fixed-point poverty alleviation counties Unified leadership of the The Corporation’s leading group of poverty the reporting of poverty alleviation efforts. In We launched Through concerted efforts To p ro m o te p ove r t y Giving full play to the strong Corporation’s Party Group alleviation has been established, with Tang addition, the President’s office meeting held 19 Fuping, Chairman and Party Group Secretary three briefings on poverty alleviation. of the Corporation and alleviation through suit of corporate leaders and of China Minmetals Corporation, serving as other social forces consumption government officials taking Guo Wenqing attends a In 2019, Tang Fuping inspected and conducted donation ceremony held at the temporary positions in the the head, Guo Wenqing, President and Deputy aided primary school in Yiliang projects to alleviate Corporation, we organized Party Group Secretary of China Minmetals field research in Huayuan County, Guo Wenqing County, Yunnan Province poverty through industry we introduced RMB we purchased RMB various professional training Corporation, and Dong Mingjun, Deputy Party inspected and conducted research in Yiliang development 5.948 13.306 sessions Group Secretary and a board director of China County, and Dong Mingjun conducted research 5 Minmetals Corporation, taking deputy roles in in 6 counties. the group. which covered million of assistance funds million of agricultural 496 From May 30 to 31, 2019, China Minmetals held products from the six fixedIn 2019, the Party Committee of China Minmetals the company-wide meeting and training sessions programs for “addressing point poverty alleviation worries about food and counties held two special meetings on studying the on poverty alleviation. Tang Fuping attended the c l o t h i n g a n d a c c e s s to guiding principles and statements from General meeting, where he talked with officials serving compulsor y education, grassroots officials we helped them Secretary Xi Jinping’s major addresses on poverty temporary positions and put forward new tasks. basic medical services and 915 promote sales of RMB safe housing” alleviation, and conducted three briefings on Partner assistance Seventeen subsidiaries of China Minmetals have been partnered with a range of fixed-point 3 2.569 million of agricultural technical staff in total provided by the poverty alleviation counties, as the Corporation mobilizing its internal resources to give stronger p ro j e c t s fo r a l l e v i a t i n g products support to those areas in combating poverty. Each subsidiary has established its own research Corporation’s poverty through education S E CUR IN G A CO M PLE TE A ND DE CI SIV E teams who conducted field research in poverty-stricken counties which they were partnered with, improvement subsidiaries and cooperated with local governments in reducing poverty by providing financial services, by promoting the development of the mining industry, and by boosting consumption. China Minmetals helped Zhenxiong County raise RMB 5.024 million through the charity train of Wei Jicheng from Australia to purchase hearing aids and learning devices for deaf and mute children in Zhenxiong County. In addition, we raised RMB 400,000 through the China Population Welfare Foundation High-caliber officials China Minmetals always deploys the most responsible and professional officials to the front line of to purchase medical equipment for Zhenxiong County, realizing synergies for promoting public welfare. serving temporary poverty alleviation. As of the end of 2019, the Corporation sent 11 officials serving temporary positions V ICTORY I N TH E BATTLE AGA INS T P OV E RTY to poverty alleviation counties, including one director-level cadre, six deputy county heads, and four positions in povertyfirst secretaries stationed in local villages. We have stepped up our efforts to fight against poverty in stricken areas By fully integrating and mobilizing resources, China Minmetals has made solid progress in organizing targeted areas of extreme poverty, and to all counties of extreme poverty, we have dispatched deputy county training programs, which are pragmatic and effective. According to the characteristics of projects on poverty heads and first secretaries, and completed the rotation of appointed officials in a timely manner. The alleviation through industry development that are aided by the Corporation, we carry out practical training on officials and the poor people have put forth united efforts in seeking development, attraction projects, epidemic prevention and control, breeding, planting, and so on. Centering on innovative assistance methods, overcoming difficulties, and creating a good life, with their high confidence in the final victory and high such as the export of labor services, our construction skills training was highly praised. With the support morale. Their efforts have won the trust and unanimous praise of the local officials and the masses. of government officials undertaking temporary positions in China Minmetals, we carried out training on e-commerce, trade negotiations, financial literacy, and so on. 26 26 27 27 中国五矿集团有限公司 China Minmetals Corporation 关于我们 About Us 28 中国五矿集团有限公司 实施全流程安全运营 29 Creating and In 2019, China Minmetals spent more than 75% of and thus show strong vitality and driving force. Focusing on Focusing on prominent problems of fixed-point poverty alleviation counties in “addressing disseminating raised funds on alleviating poverty through industry In 2019, the Huayuan County Party Committee prominent problems worries about food and clothing and access to compulsory education, basic medical services development, and based on the natural resource and County Government held a county-level and safe housing,” China Minmetals strengthened efforts in related fields and provided nearly mature models for in “addressing endowment in poor areas, we developed various promotional meeting on alleviating poverty RMB 13 million of funds to support projects concerning people’s livelihood. We supported the alleviating poverty worries about food projects with distinct local characteristics, which through industry development at the base for drinking water project of Qiaoshan Town, Yiliang County with an additional investment of RMB through industry have begun to show effects. In Huayuan County, alleviating poverty through industry development and clothing and 6.5 million, which made the total investment reach RMB 10 million. Apart from that, we invested development China Minmetals, through joint efforts with local in Huayuan County built by China Minmetals, which access to compulsory RMB 1.37 million into a water diversion project in Dazhu Village, Yiliang County, and RMB 1.706 governments and rural cooperatives, has developed attracted residents from surrounding towns and education, basic million to support improvements of the living environment in Changyi Village. As we continued a mature model with clear requirements on counties to participate and learn from each other. medical services and to strengthen efforts to support aid projects, we invested RMB 500,000 in the emergency rescue ownerships for alleviating poverty through industry safe housing.” project in Huayuan County, through which we provided assistance to 87 needy local people. development in the field of large-scale breeding of In addition, China Minmetals has replicated the corn-eating ducks and shiitake mushroom growing. model to other fixed-point poverty alleviation Featuring “funded by central SOEs + operated provided nearly RMB The drinking water project of Qiaoshan Town, Yiliang County counties. We have constructed a rabbit industry 13 by rural cooperatives + increasing incomes of is a key project of Zhaogtong City supervised by the municipal project in Zhenxiong County, carried out projects government. Once completed, the project will benefit 22,328 registered poor households + promoting sales of Chinese bee breeding and building supporting people in five villages. It will guarantee the supply of drinking of products in the company + fostering internal facilities for greenhouses in Yiliang County, million of funds to support water for 15,810 farmers, 5,915 registered poor people, 4,280 drivers through the clear distribution of incomes,” teachers and students from six schools, and Anlechang Village. launched pig breeding projects in Weixin County, projects concerning the model helps guarantee reasonable division of launched orange and muskmelon cultivation people’s livelihood labor, professional operation, and targeted partner projects in Yanhe County, and built a navel orange assistance, and gradually cultivates internal drivers industrial park in Dejiang County, etc. for sustainable development of the Corporation, Strengthening efforts In 2019, we earnestly followed President Xi Jinping’s instruction on stepping up the to guarantee access to development of modern vocational education, striving to cut off intergenerational transmission of poverty through the development of education. By fully mobilizing internal resources and vocational education relying on the Panzhihua Technician College, where the world welding champion was born, the Corporation launched the “Mining Center” education program for poor students from the six fixed-poverty alleviation counties. The program features distinctive characteristics of China Minmetals and provides employment opportunities for students after graduation. China Minmetals invested RMB 1.133 million in Zhenxiong County to guarantee access of students from poor households to compulsory education and construct dormitories for teachers. China Minmetals launched the S E CUR IN G A CO M PLE TE A ND DE CI SIV E “Loving Packages” campaign and distributed China Minmetals aided the construction of the project for alleviating poverty through industry development in Huayuan County, Hunan Province: The shiitake mushroom growing Base 9,118 packages in total China Minmetals sent a workgroup to recruit poor students from the six fixed-point poverty-alleviation counties and offered those students the opportunity to participate in a three-year professional training program for free at Panzhihua Technician College that enables them to become intermediate technicians. During the training, students V ICTORY I N TH E BATTLE AGA INS T P OV E RTY can get subsidies regularly to cover part of the living and communication expenses, and China Minmetals promises to provide all students with job opportunities after the As of the end of 2019, China Minmetals built two corn-eating duck breeding bases, two completion of the program. In August 2019, China Minmetals appropriated a total of RMB shiitake mushroom growing bases, a slaughtering, processing, and refrigeration center, a bacon 712,480 to recruit the first batch of 48 students from impoverished families to participate processing plant, and a new rural construction demonstration base in Huayuan County. Besides, in the program to learn welding techniques, architectural metal construction, electrical there was an oil tea project under construction. In 2019, the duck breeding base distributed a automation, mechatronics, automotive maintenance, and so on. During the three years of total of 20,000 ducklings and 210,000 shiitake mushroom sticks, and the sales of industry projects study, China Minmetals, taking into consideration such factors as students’ strengths and amounted to RMB 3 million, lifting 2,000 registered poor people out of poverty. development needs, and the demand on highly skilled talents in the new era for social and economic development, formulates practical, feasible, efficient, and reasonable training plans to comprehensively improve students’ skills and overall competence. 28 29 29 中国五矿集团有限公司 China Minmetals Corporation 关于我们 About Us 30 中国五矿集团有限公司 实施全流程安全运营 31 Vigorously Dong Mingjun inspected the Pueraria planting base of promoting We c a r r i e d o u t q u a r t e r l y product promotion meetings Weixin County. poverty to promote products of poverty-stricken areas with alleviation distinctive local characteristics through at the headquarters and some subsidiaries, and invited cooks consumption of state dinners to cook dishes for the audiAence, and cultivate and motivate the audience’s enthusiasm for consumption. In 2019, China Minmetals, starting from the design of On statutory holidays, we We par ticipated in work mechanisms and fully organized members of trade fairs organized by relying on more than 700 labor unions to purchase Petrochina and Sinopec special agricultural products internal labor unions, we to promote sales through of fixed-point pover ty various channels. started the “people’s fight” alleviation counties; against poverty through consumption. Based on the internal “National Primar y Agricultural Products We initiated the “Zhaotong Products Trading Platform” and financialrelated business service platforms, to Beijing” campaign and extended Continuing to In 2019, China Minmetals continued to promote the “futures + insurances” poverty alleviationoriented financial model, and continued to optimize the business structure for price and through partnerships with the campaign to the six fixed-point poverty alleviation counties, which explore new guarantees, striving to provide more services for poor households in different regions that featured paths the mobile APP of the Agricultural helped promote local agricultural Bank of China, JD.com, Benlai.com, plant different varieties. Through the program, China Minmetals won multiple big prizes, products to Beijing and central WeChat Shop, and other online SOEs. Throughout the year, the for poverty including the Award of Best Innovative Financial Product on Poverty Alleviation in China’s platforms, we conducted online sales of agricultural product. campaign helped promote RMB 5.81 million of agricultural products. alleviation Securities and Futures Industry, Award of Best Targeted Poverty Alleviation Program in China’s through Securities and Futures Industry, Award of Pilot Project on Targeted Poverty Alleviation of Shanghai Futures Exchange, and so on. financial services China Minmetals has been enriching financial approaches and carriers to alleviate poverty with the professional strengths guaranteed by all-inclusive financial licenses. In 2019, the Corporation introduced the China Minmetals Trust Sanjiangyuan Targeted Poverty Alleviation No. 9, No. 10 and No. 11 charitable trusts worth RMB 370,000, RMB 330,000, and RMB 300,000 respectively. The charitable trusts were respectively invested in public welfare charity projects, such as targeted poverty alleviation, of Xihe County of Gansu Province, Liuzhi Special District of Guizhou Province and Lintao County of Gansu Province. S E CUR IN G A CO M PLE TE A ND DE CI SIV E In 2019, China Minmetals successively operated such futures as rubber, corn, sugar cane, cotton, apples, and so forth in Yunnan, Heilongjiang, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, Gansu, Inner Mongolia, etc. The compensation for these futures totaled RMB 4.373 million, and the sales of V ICTORY I N TH E BATTLE AGA INS T P OV E RTY sugarcane, a major insured variety, reached RMB 32 million, effectively boosting the confidence and income of the majority of farmers. 30 31 31 China Minmetals Corporation High-quality Development Boosts Remarkable Achievements Total profit 01 RMB billion 14.1 16.0 12.1 High-quality 2017 2018 2019 Development Boosts Remarkable Asset under management RMB trillion 2.16 1.68 1.85 Achievements Undertaking the mission of guarding and serving the country, China Minmetals adheres to the path of high-quality development, and strives to build a highquality business struc ture rooted in “four beams and eight columns”. The 2017 2018 2019 Corporation has firmly implemented the “competitiveness improvement” campaign, highlighted the main responsibilities a n d m a i n b u s i n e s s e s o f m e t a l m i n i n g a n d m e t a l l u rgi c a l construction, promoted the transformation of traditional trade, and steadily developed diversified financial and real estate businesses. The Corporation has achieved sustainable growth in production and operation for four consecutive years, fully displaying China Minmetals’ role as a stabilizer and a ballast stone of the national economy. 32 33 China Minmetals Corporation High-quality Development Boosts Remarkable Achievements Stable Resource Development with Successful Commencement of Chentaigou Project Good Momentum Chentaigou Iron Mine of China Minmetals, located in Anshan City, Liaoning Province, possesses a superlarge-scale iron deposit with total resources of 1,112 million tons. In terms of construction scale, Chentaigou As of the end of 2019, We have been deeply aware of the important role of the metal mining industry as the cornerstone for of national Iron Mine has an annual designed iron ore output reserves of major metals of economy, always stayed true to the original mission, and actively undertaken the duties of ensuring resource provision of 11 million tons in mining and dressing, making it China Minmetals included and leading the upgrading of industries, thus accelerating the building of a “world-class” metal mining group. one of China’s super-large-scale black underground deep-shaft mines. In April 2019, the construction of The Corporation possesses rich reserves of metals and minerals. Overseas mines are located in Asia, Oceania, prospecting well (auxiliary well and measure well) 4.094 South America, and Africa, etc. We own a number of world-class mines such as Las Bambas Copper Mine, Dugald River Zinc Mine, and Papua New Guinea Ramu Nickel and Cobalt Mine. The output of copper and zinc are listed in was completed with a depth exceeding 1,000 meters, playing a pivotal role in realizing the target of 11 billion tons of iron the world’s first echelon in resource reserves and ranks among the global top 10, and the resources of tungsten, million tons in mining and dressing. antimony, and bismuth lead the world in both resource reserves and production output. 30.2261 Steady increase in production of the three world-class mines million tons of copper 12.5617 China Minmetals possesses three world-class mines, among which the Las Bambas Copper Mine, as a operation in the project construction of large-scale overseas mines to keep up with the production globally-leading prime copper asset, has 6.9 million schedule. In 2019, the Las Bambas Copper Mine Unveiling of Minmetals Rio Tinto Exploration Company Limited million tons of zinc tons of copper ore reserves and 10.61 million tons of produced 382,500 tons of copper concentrate, 1.2036 copper mineral resources. The Dugald River Zinc Mine roughly the same as that of last year, the Dugald River Minmetals Rio Tinto Exploration Company Limited, jointly established by China Minmetals and in Australia is one of the largest and highest-grade Zinc Mine produced 170,000 tons of zinc concentrate, Rio Tinto Group, was successfully unveiled in Sanya, Hainan on December 30, 2019. After its zinc mines in the world, and the Papua New Guinea up 16.24% year on year, and the Papua New Guinea million tons of nickel establishment, Minmetals Rio Tinto Exploration Company Limited would build a solid team, discover Ramu Nickel and Cobalt Mine is a world-class nickelRamu Nickel and Cobalt Mine produced nickelworld-class mineral resources, and seek opportunities for prospecting prime mines. Meanwhile, China cobalt resource exploitation and utilization project. cobalt hydroxide containing 33,000 tons of nickel and 1.5128 Minmetals and Rio Tinto Group would further strengthen exchanges and research on data, promote 2,915 tons of cobalt, maintaining a high and stable technological innovation, development and research, and build a highland for new technologies and We have strengthened the management and production output for three consecutive years. methods of exploration in China, thus facilitating the long-term sustainable development of both million tons of tungsten sides in the mineral industry. 142,900 As of December 23, 2019, Duddar Lead-Zinc Mine in Pakistan produced 502,800 tons of ore, over-fulfilling the production target of 2019 and achieving its peak annual production capacity of 500,000 tons one year ahead of schedule. As a result, the project was rated as one of the important engines for the socio-economic development tons of antimony of Baluchistan Province. 245,200 tons of bismuth 231,500 tons of rare earth. 34 35 China Minmetals Corporation High-quality Development Boosts Remarkable Achievements Robust Growth of Metallurgy No.3 Blast Furnace System of Baosteel Zhanjiang Engineering Projects The construction of No.3 Blast Furnace System of Baosteel Zhanjiang is a key step for the Corporation to meet the increasing market demand for super-strength steel products, China Minmetals boasts world-class metallurgical construction enterprises and leads the metallurgical construction industry to reach a higher respond to the structural adjustment of level and move closer to the center of the world arena by virtue of its exclusive core technologies, continuous transformation and innovation iron & steel industry in Shanghai and other capabilities, and irreplaceable metallurgical industry chain integration advantages. Meanwhile, relying on the hi-tech construction advantages regions, and give full play of Baosteel accumulated in the metallurgical construction industry over the years, China Minmetals has set foot into such fields as high-end housing Zhanjiang’s production technologies and cost construction, urban development, urban transportation, municipal infrastructures, energy conservation and environmental protection, to pursue advantages. Following the latest requirements high-level and high-end development. of intelligent manufacturing and green manufacturing, MCC has introduced the new standards of whole-process ultra-low emission Metallurgical In the field of metallurgical construction, we have accelerated breakthroughs in key technologies such as green and intelligent technologies, and strengthened the reserve of applied technologies. We have aimed at the top to help Baosteel Zhanjiang build an advanced, Construction efficient, and competitive intelligent and ends of the value chain and the industrial chain, enhanced the capacity of integration and re-engineering of green steel-making plant. metallurgical construction, and provided domestic and foreign steel enterprises with industry-leading steel technologies and equipment, environmental protection technologies up to high standards, and efficient engineering construction and operation services. HBIS Tangsteel Industrial Upgrading and HBIS Xuanhua Steel Capacity Relocation Projects With the goal of building a new-generation “green, intelligent, and brand-based” process steel-making plant, MCC has assisted HBIS Group in building the HBIS Tangsteel industrial upgrading and HBIS Xuanhua Steel capacity relocation projects, and designed a world-class and green development-oriented coastal quality steel base with world-leading technologies, equipment, and energy conservation and environmental protection level. 36 37 China Minmetals Corporation High-quality Development Boosts Remarkable Achievements The world’s first long-distance and large-scale production centralized control center project Main body of the race track of the National Sliding Center completed CISDI Information of CISDI Group On September 17, 2019, Shanghai Baoye Group Corp. completed the main body of the race track of the Co., Ltd. has built the world’s first National Sliding Center, which is the first of its kind in China to host bobsleigh, skeleton and luge events at long-distance and large-scale the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. The completion of the main structure of the 1,975-meter track laid production centralized control the foundation for the sliding test of the track in early 2020. center proj ec t -Shaogang Intelligent Center, which can realize trans-procedure, crossarea, long-distance, and largescale centralized control, borderless coordination, and big data decision-making. The intelligent center has improved work efficiency by 20%-40%, reduced blast furnace fuel ratio by 2%-10%, lowered the cost of iron per ton by RMB 1050, establishing a milestone benchmark for intelligent steel manufacturing. Construction To serve national strategies, we are committed to high-end housing projects, urban development, urban transportation, municipal infrastructure, energy conservation and environmental protection, etc. By supporting of Basic the development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, the Yangtze River Delta, the Guangdong-Hong KongEngineering Macao Greater Bay Area, and the Xiongan New Area, we contribute to the construction of basic engineering projects and rapid economic development. Projects Lanzhou Olympic Sports Center Project In July 2019, the Lanzhou Olympic Sports Center Project undertaken by China MCC17 Group Co. Ltd. (MCC17) was kicked off. Upon completion, the project will become the main stadium for Lanzhou to host the 2022 Provincial Games, thus invigorating the construction and economic development of Lanzhou City. 38 39 China Minmetals Corporation High-quality Development Boosts Remarkable Achievements Transformation and Development of Making Significant Contributions with Trade and Logistics Diversified Businesses In 2019 Relying on our global marketing network and giving full play to China Minmetals’ By optimizing the structure of capital assets, China Minmetals realizes the transformation, upgrading and optimization of existing leading role in managing and serving the supply chain of commodities represented the volume of merchandis a year-on-year businesses, effectively responds to cyclical fluctuations in the metal mining industry, and promotes the sustainable and stable development e trade exceeded increase of by metals and minerals, we have developed productive services, such as modern of enterprises. 86.27 14.2 % logistics, e-commerce and financial services, and vigorously carried out supply chain management and value chain integration. In this way, we have reduced the costs of the circulation of commodities and improved the operating efficiency of million tons the industry. Finance China Minmetals has obtained multiple licenses on financial business, and boasts significant advantages in trust, leasing, securities, futures, financial services, funds, and other financial sectors. We have improved the financial business management and control system, and perfected dynamic risk investigation, monitoring and early warning mechanisms, comprehensively improving our financial service capabilities and risk prevention capabilities. The 100-million-ton Caofeidian International Iron Ore Exchange Center Minmetals Capital Minmetals International Minmetals Securities The 100-million-ton Caofeidian International Company Limited Trust Co., Ltd. improved the income Iron Ore Exchange Center is a new-type structure significantly and ranked top among central won A rating in the industry environmental, intelligent, efficient, and multideveloped into a mediumfinancial holding SOEs in evaluation for multiple purpose international ore trading center. As one sized broker of China. terms of overall strength. consecutive years. of the projects vigorously promoted by China Minmetals, the trading center, upon completion, will significantly boost environmental protection and the international status of China’s iron Minmetals Innovation Investment Co., Ltd. China Minmetals H.K ore trading sector. In 2019, the first ship of improved fund running and launched funds for mass (Holdings) Ltd. overseas mixed iron ore operated by Caofeidian entrepreneurship and innovation, as well as for technological preserved and increased the value of International Iron Ore Exchange Center arrived innovation, helping the Corporation realize industry overseas assets, effectively expanding at the port, creating necessary conditions for development and conduct technological innovation. overseas financial channels. mixing businesses. The first cross-border settlement transaction at Dugald River Zinc Mine Dugald River Zinc Mine is one of the world’s largest-scale and highest-grade known zinc deposits and also the first mining project of Minerals and Metals Group (MMG) built and put into production from the greenfield stage. In December 2019, a zinc concentrate export transaction of the Dugals River Zinc Mine was successfully settled in RMB for the first time. The transaction is a milestone event in bulk resource trade in Australia, and plays an example in promoting the internationalization of the RMB and innovating in methods of Sino-Australian trade settlement. Tang Fuping inspects Shenzhen International Financial Building project 40 41 China Minmetals Corporation High-quality Development Boosts Remarkable Achievements Real Estate Constant Efforts in Emerging Sectors Acting on the principle that houses are for living in, not for speculation, we keep innovating in business models and improving development quality. MCC Real Estate Group Co., Ltd. (MCC Real The company’s brand value reached China Minmetals has fully grasped opportunities to vigorously develop new energy materials. The Enables a production 40 RMB 14.8 billion, and its long-term credit Corporation owns a large number of large-scale new energy raw material mines, including the lithium capacity of AAA 100,000 mine in Qinghai Salt Lake and the world’s third-largest laterite nickel mine, and has formed the first echelon Estate) ranked the th in China Top of strategic emerging mineral miles such as lithium, graphite, and rare earth. We have built a new energy has been rated by the 100 Real Estate Developers and won the title material industry chain from the resource side, which enables a production capacity of 100,000 tons of new of Excellent City Developer and Operator in domestic authoritative credit rating tons of new energy battery energy battery cathodes and precursor materials and guarantees the Corporation’s dominant market share China. agency. cathodes of high-end cathode materials. Exploring seabed mining areas Leading the night economy in Tianjin with the MCC World project China Minmetals is the first corporate contractor in the exploration of deep-sea mining areas in China, and The MCC World in Tianjin is the first commercial real estate project undertaken by MCC Real Estate in China. has been approved as the exclusive explorer of 72,740 The project creates a high street for people to enjoy their life while meandering. MCC Real Estate integrates square kilometers of seabed areas in the Eastern technological innovation into project development, construction and operation, and incorporates Pacific. Through the Xiangyanghong 10 research environmental protection measures relating land, water, and material saving into the entire lifecycle of vessel, China Minmetals carried out exploration tasks in the project. Besides, by taking measures to improve air quality and dynamic comfort, control pollution, 2019 around the seabed mining areas and completed guarantee safe water supply, etc., MCC Real Estate protects the health of consumers in the long business the operation of two segments. Through the research cycle. With the support of cutting-edge technologies, such as IoT and big data, the company has developed tasks, we obtained a large amount of exploration and applied intelligent business management systems to empower business operations. data covering water depth, topography, geology, geophysics, hydrology, meteorology, and environment in the two blocks of A3 and A4, as well as over 1,400 kg of Seabed Polymetallic Nodule and sediment samples. Minmetals Hallstatt Tourism Town in Huizhou Drawing on the Austrian architectural style, taking the town of Hallstatt in Austria as the model, and based on local characteristics, Minmetals Land made great efforts to build Minmetals Hallstatt Operation of Graphite Resources Tourism Town and recreate the world-famous town of Hallstatt in Huizhou. Minmetals Hallstatt Tourism is now an AAAA Tourist Attraction of China. With a strong brand influence, the project is Graphite is an indispensable resource in some emerging known across the Pearl River Delta and even the whole country, and industries, such as new energy and new materials. is a masterpiece high-end residential project in Huizhou. China Minmetals’ graphite project in Longjiang County is larger, and the graphite resource is a favorable negative electrode material. The successful launch of the Longjiang graphite project guarantees access to rich reserves of graphite. In the future, China Minmetals will build world-class green and intelligent mines and create an integrated graphite industry chain covering the construction of graphite reserves, mining and selection, spherical graphite, and deep processing of graphite and other negative electrode materials. 42 43 China Minmetals Corporation Innovative Models Enhances Vitality 14 independently established research and design institutions 39 national key R&D platforms including national key laboratories 02 29,000 scientific and 3 academicians of the Chinese Innovative Models Enhances Vitality technological staff Academy of Engineering more than 80,000 technicians As an innovator, China Minmetals adheres to innovation-driven development and strives to replace old development drivers with new ones. We comprehensively promote technological and management innovation, and earnestly build up corporate competitiveness, innovation capability, control, influence, and resilience in the high-end market. 30,516 led or participated in the formulation over valid patents accumulatively 1,300 international and national standards accumulatively, toping among central SOEs in comprehensive scientific and technological strengths 6 subsidiaries of China Minmetals the top three among central SOEs in terms were selected in the of the number of “doublecomprehensive reform hundred enterprises” list of “double-hundred enterprises” 44 45 China Minmetals Corporation Innovative Models Enhances Vitality Making Technological Advances Enhancing By strengthening the construction of technological platforms and consolidating the foundation for technology management, China Minmetals provides guarantees for technological innovation in main Innovation businesses. We have also improved mechanisms for technological investments, technology incentives, and Capacity introduction and training of technological talents, and established a technology evaluation index system to ensure the improvement of the Corporation’s overall innovation capability. We strengthen R&D of core technologies, reserve superior scientific and technological achievements, and pay attention to market-based applications of these achievements to achieve a substantial leap in scientific and technological innovation. In 2019, China Minmetals was We have set up the Minmetals Technology Innovation Development Fund to complement the scientific rated Enterprise with Outstanding Contribution to Scientific and Technological Innovation by the State-owned Assets Supervision and and technological fund, the innovation and entrepreneurship fund, and the PE fund. Based on this, we Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC). have launched research in applied basic and forward-looking technologies driven by the special scientific and technological fund, R&D of major, core, key, and common technologies supported by the Minmetals Technology Innovation Development Fund, the transformation and application of mature scientific and technological achievements promoted by the innovation and entrepreneurship fund, and the systematic Strengthening We engaged in the strategic research and technological forecast for the 2021-2035 national mediumlong term development plan for science and technology in the areas of national resources, environmental and multi-level technological financial system supported by strategic emerging industries of the the Top-level protection, new materials, marine development, and so on, and integrated into the national scientific and Corporation and participated by the PE fund. Design technological innovation system. We have compiled the Guiding Opinions on Accelerating Technological 39 R&D expenses of the Corporation (RMB billion) Innovation of China Minmetals to enhance the top-level design and overall coordination of technological innovation work and clarify the development plan for technological innovation by 2030. national key R&D platforms, including 11.95 national key laboratories 7.9 increasing by Established the China Minmetals New Energy Materials Central Research Institute 51% by restructuring Changsha Kuangye Academy, which is the first company-level institute under China Minmetals Capital Engineering & Research 2018 2019 Incorporation Limited (CERI) and China MCC20 Group Corp. Ltd. won the title of National Technological Innovation Model Enterprises Tang Fuping visits the technical staff of Central Research Institute of Building and Construction Co., Ltd. of MCC Group Guo Wenqing presents the first prize of the State Scientific and Technological Progress Award for ACRE of MCC 46 47 China Minmetals Corporation Innovative Models Enhances Vitality Seeking By comprehensively analyzing major technological gaps in mineral development, advanced materials, new energy materials, metallurgical engineering, and so on, we have developed an overall research plan Harvesting Technological Breakthroughs on key technological breakthroughs which clarifies nine major research directions, objectives and tasks, and proposed measures for implementation. By pooling strengths in internal and external research and development, we strive to solve key problems restricting the development of the industry. Scientific and Technological China Minmetals was rated A in the performance assessment of central SOEs from 2016 At the 21st China Patent Award Ceremony Innovation to 2018 and Enterprise with Outstanding Contribution to Achievements Scientific and Technological Innovation by the SASAC. 11 9 patents of China China Minmetals won metallurgical science and Minmetals technology awards issued by China Iron and Steel won the China Association and the Chinese Society of Metals, including Patent Award 4 1 4 Co n d u c t i n g re s e a rc h i n co re China Minmetals has accelerated technologies in key fields, such as the application of core including first prizes, second prize, and third prizes. “solid waste recycling and reuse” technologies and promoted and “exploration and exploitation of underground resources.” “The control and equipment technology a b a tc h o f re l a te d p ro d u c t s, including the “environmentally friendly disc feeder”, forming a China Minmetals actively participated in the research, planning and formulation of standards related to industry 2 silver prizes for all core processes of mediumgroup of independent brands that development, and led or participated in the formulation and 1,300 9 thick plates” breaks the international demonstrate strengths of and monopoly, and the technology of bring benefits to the Corporation. of more than international and ultra-high temperature subcritical national standards. merit prizes power generation with low BTU gas has become a key green energysaving technology promoted by the Chinese Society of Metals. Projects that won science and technology awards in 2019 First prize of the State Second prize of the State Second prize of the State Second prize of the State Scientific and Technological Scientific and Technological Scientific and Technological Scientific and Technological Enhancing IPR By systematically sorting out, analyzing and classifying existing patents, we track the development trend of superior products and services with market competitiveness, and strengthen our competitiveness Progress Award Progress Award Progress Award Progress Award Management in industries where the Corporation has strong capabilities. Besides, we have optimized functions of the science and technology management information platform, and built the science and technology Project name Project name Project name Project name information statistics system, the project statistics system, and the patent management information system to serve grassroots departments and divisions. T h e o r y, t e c h n o l o g y a n d Development and application Th e t e c h n o l o g y o f h i g h Technological innovation and engineering application of equipment and technology efficiency and high-reliability engineering application of of high-rise steel-concrete in green and efficient electric micromachining and its large-span structures hybrid structure arc furnace steelmaking application to high-end printed circuit boards As of the end of 2019 Main completion Main completion Main completion Main completion among which the Corporation obtained organization organization organization organization 30,516 patents 8,875 were invention patents China Metallurgical Construction Research Institute Ltd. (the fifth completion organization)） CISDI Engineering CO., Ltd. ( t h e p r i m a r y co m p l e t i o n organization), Xi’an Electric Furnace Institute Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Jinzhou Precision I ndustr y Technology Co., Ltd. (the second completion organization), Zhuzhou China Metallurgical Construction Research Institute Ltd. (the second completion organization) (the third completion Cemented Carbide Works o rg a n i z at i o n ) , M CC S F R E Import & Export Company Heavy Industry Equipment Co., (the fourth completion Ltd.(the seventh completion organization) organization) 48 49 China Minmetals Corporation Innovative Models Enhances Vitality Deepening Management Innovation Risk We continue to improve our risk management system, enhance the governance of special risks, and effectively solve root causes of risks, making every effort to ensure that all risks are known, controllable, Prevention and tolerable and curb the spread of risks. With such efforts, we strive to contribute to stable economic and and Control social development. ! As state-owned enterprises play a leading role in key industries and fields, their control and influence should be enhanced. Insisting on putting stability first, China Minmetals, by adopting market-oriented reforms to pilot state-owned capital investment companies, aims to regulate decision-making issues and procedures in the headquarters. In this way, the Corporation strives to reshape the management system, strengthen the anti-risk capability, and explore the “Minmetals Model” for deepening reforms of SOEs. Preventing and controlling Preventing and controlling Deepening In line with important requirements of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on deepening the reform of state-owned enterprises, we have issued a reform work plan (upgraded version) for pilot capital risks investment risks Reforms investment companies, carried out comprehensive reforms, mixed ownership reforms, and technological With the financial company as the platform and supported by We properly controlled capital i nve s t m e n t s t h ro u g h o u t t h e innovation reforms of “double-hundred enterprises”. Meanwhile, we have implemented in-depth contractbased management to make our contract system more scientific and further enhance employees’ the capital system, we enhanced year, monitored and resolved recognition of the value of contract honoring. We have initially created the ideological, institutional and centralized capital management. risks to PPP projects, investigated We accelerated the construction of and eliminated risks to overseas practical bases for new management mechanisms of SOEs. a firewall for financial businesses, projec ts, strengthened postwent all out to pay off the wages investment management, and In 2019, the headquarters of China Minmetals adopted the “strategic management + financial benefit of members of private enterprises effectively dealt with projects with management + key operations management” model, which enhanced the relevance and effectiveness and migrant workers, and improved financial risks. of the Corporation’s management work. Hunan Changyuan Lico Co., Ltd. and China Metallurgical City capital safety and efficiency. Investment Construction Co., Ltd. were selected by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) into the fourth batch of pilot enterprises in the mixed ownership reform. Minmetals Development Co., Ltd., China Tungsten, CISDI Engineering CO., Ltd. (CISDI), China ENFI Engineering Co., Ltd. (China ENFI), WISDRI Engineering & Research Incorporation Limited (WISDRI), and MCC17 were selected in the “doublehundred enterprises” list, the third most among central SOEs in terms of the number of “double-hundred enterprises.” Coordinated We continued to strengthen coordinated operation and management of the 100 billion internal market, the scale of which has reached more Development than RMB 160 billion. Constantly expanding cooperation and deepening Promoting IT China Minmetals has formulated an IT application plan to support the implementation of corporate strategies and management innovation through information-based approaches. Through the monitoring collaboration, we have upgraded project-to-project decentralized collaboration to the enterprise-to-enterprise centralized distribution the scale of which has Application system, human resources management project, ERP systems of China Tungsten and Changsha Kuangye and supply, which has brought about a batch of significant collaboration reached more than RMB 160 Academy, coupled with other information-based platforms, China Minmetals lays a solid foundation for projects. online management and businesses, as well as online query of employee data. Such efforts show that billion China Minmetals are taking new steps towards the transformation into a digital and intelligent enterprise with enhanced production, operation, and management. Building By accelerating supply-side structural reforms and continuously strengthening the governance of loss-making enterprises, we realized a Leaner declines in the number of loss-making enterprises, the amount of loss, China and the scale of losses, exceeding the objectives set by SASAC. We also advanced the separation and handover of state-owned enterprises’ Minmetals “Three Supply and One Property” and other social undertakings in an orderly manner, made solid progress in the reform of collectively owned properly resettled factories and other historical issues, and properly resettled 72% of laidoff workers. 72 % of laid-off workers WISDRI National Research Center of Energy Efficiency Optimization of Steel Production 50 51 China Minmetals Corporation Whole-process Safe and Stable Operation 03 Whole-process China Minmetals and all levels Safe and Stable Operation of its subsidiaries organized 26,024 training sessions on work safety Safety and health form the basis for the greater happiness of which were participated by 889,341 employees at work. We closely focus on the overall goal of preventing and defusing major safety risks and resolutely curbing all kinds of accidents . Through centralized investigation and rectification of trainees hazards, we aim to improve safety management and safety measures, thus creating a healthy and safe work environment for employees. In 2019, eight projects of MCC Group won the honorary title of “Excellent Construction Engineering Project up to Work Safety Standards for Construction” in a selection organized by the Professional Committee of Construction Safety of the China Association of Construction Industry. MMG’s total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) per million of working hours was 1.58, one of the best among the 27 members of International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). Five technologies of China Huaye Group Co., Ltd., including the safe and efficient construction technology of the largediameter 1,500m ultra-deep shaft, won first and third prizes of the first Safety Science and Technology Progress Award issued by China Association of Work Safety. 52 53 China Minmetals Corporation Whole-process Safe and Stable Operation Strengthening Safety Management Improving By organizing emergency training, improving contingency plans and conducting emergency drills, we strive to enhance employees’ response to early warnings and emergencies, enhance the emergency rescue Emergency command system’s ability to organize and coordinate emergency rescues and first aid, and strengthen Response the emergency rescue department’s ability to respond promptly to accidents and the effectiveness and efficiency of on-site medical treatment. Work safety management is the basis for all work. We strictly adhere to work safety and firmly implement the “one-vote veto” system in work safety management. Through greater efforts and stricter measures, we aim to guarantee efficient safety management in key industries, enterprises, areas, and links, and continuously Conducting an emergency The HSE emergency command rescue drill for underground fire center in Hunan Nonferrous Metals consolidate the foundation for work safety. In 2019, China Minmetals withdrew work safety funds in full and accidents in non-coal mines used the funds in line with relevant rules, and reached a new high in the investment in work safety. In June 2019, China Minmetals, and the Jinan Adhering to systematic management, Hunan Establishing Responsibility is the soul of safety, while standardization is the foundation of safety. We have established a work safety responsibility system of “both CPC committees and governments are held accountable, officials Emergency Management Bureau, co-organized an emergency rescue drill for underground fire Nonferrous Metals Holding Group Co., Ltd. (Hunan Nonferrous) has invested nearly RMB 3 Long-term take responsibility for workplace safety in performing their duties, relevant government departments accidents in non-coal mines at Xiaoguanzhuang million to build the HSE emergency command Mechanisms work together in a coordinated way on work safety issues, and those who fail to perform their duties are Iron Mine under Minmetals Luzhong Mining center to achieve information-based emergency punished”, and built a long-term work safety management mechanism to guarantee that all enterprises Co., Ltd. The drill strengthened the company’s management, making the company a pioneer fulfill their responsibilities. command of emergencies, emergency skills, among central SOEs in Hunan and provincial coordination ability, and logistics suppor t, enterprises in the field. The center supervises and comprehensively tested the company’s subsidiaries of Hunan Nonferrous to actively Improving the work safety responsibility system emergency response capabilities and measures promote the standardization of work safety, and to deal with underground fire accidents, thus guarantees that all member companies reach Defining work safety management responsibilities providing effective guidance and reference for the related industry standards. In line with requirements on contractprevention and handling of similar accidents. based management, China Minmetals optimized safety and environmental China Minmetals issued the Guiding protection responsibility targets, which Opinions on Defining Responsibilities for highlighted the precise management of Work Safety Management to clarify work safety and environmental protection work. safety responsibilities, including safety production responsibilities of leaders of China Minmetals continued to optimize different enterprises, business divisions, safety and environmental protection functional departments, and work safety responsibility lists and promoted the supervision responsibilities of leaders implementation of the work safety and departments responsible for the responsibility system among all staff. supervision of work safety work. Conducting an emergency drill involving multiple parties Minmetals Development establishes the Safety and In 2019, the Rosebery mine conducted an emergency management team also formulated an action plan to Environmental Protection Technology Service Center drill to test the emergency preparedness and apply the experience of the drill to business models to contingency plans of its operations. The emergency ensure the safety of employees and the community. Minmetals Development established the Safety and management team and the crisis management team Environmental Protection Technology Service Center of the mine, as well as its major stakeholders, including supported by a professional, practical, and efficient team local and state emergency services organizations, in Northern China. The center will integrate work safety representatives from local governments, dam safety and environmental protection management resources and environmental regulatory agencies, and local of production enterprises, pool technical strengths, and residents, participated in the drill. comprehensively strengthen supervision and technical support. Based on the center, Minmetals Development Through the drill, the Rosebery mine tested the effect will gradually build a regionally integrated work safety of its contingency plan and emergency response, and environmental protection management system that strengthened relationships with key stakeholders, features “complementary advantages, resource sharing, and understood the constraints of local resources on and coordinated management”. emergency response. The mine and corporate crisis 54 55 China Minmetals Corporation Whole-process Safe and Stable Operation Deepening Risk Prevention Optimizing the Production Environment We have actively promoted the construction of a dual-prevention system comprising safety risk grading We have increased investments in safety technologies to support the R&D, transformation, and promotion management and hazard investigation and governance, strengthened the capacity of safety risk of safety technologies. By integrating safety technologies into intelligent construction of the Corporation, management and control, continued to deepen investigation and elimination of hazards, and carried out we have promoted the application of safety technologies to cover key areas of work safety, and enhanced regular inspections and reporting of hazards. the Corporation’s intrinsic safety level. Mining subsidiaries promote the application of advanced equipment, such as rock drilling trolleys and wet braking trackless transportation vehicles. Construction enterprises have continuously improved information-based work safety management, and made significant progress in the construction of smart Source governance construction sites. Centralized Concerted and precise investigation of efforts in key governance of safety hazards industries highly risky links Steadily promoting the construction of digital, automatic, and intelligent mines Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. has steadily advanced the construction of “digital, automatic, and intelligent” mines, and accelerated the application of large equipment and facilities. The company has With clear focuses, we We carried out a threeFocusing on key links, successively put in use 3m3 scrapers, 6m3 mine cars, rock drilling trolleys, welding robots, and remotely Digital made great efforts to month campaign to tackling difficulties, controlled scrapers, and launched trial runs of the tailings pond online monitoring and early warning prevent and control improve work safety, implementing targeted system and the energy management system, significantly improving the level of the company’s equipment, major safety risks, and especially to launch measures, and carrying intrinsic safety level, and productivity. solved key problems special inspections of out more specific and difficulties standing hazardous chemical a n d e f fe c t i v e w o r k in the way of the safe enterprises. Production safety management: Automatic development of the enterprises at all levels we comprehensively Corporation. At the formulated a work strengthened the beginning of 2019, we plan for centralized management of major conducted a centralized rectification of hazards hazard sources of investigation of safety with strengthened hazardous chemicals, hazards that lasted for a organization and and comprehensively Intelligent month. leadership. strengthened safety management of tailings ponds and transportation systems. MCC has strengthened supervision on construction sites, carried out hazard investigation and rectification, and comprehensively promoted the standardization of work safety. MCC’s work safety inspections covered all projects, and the total inspected items reached 1,901. Hunan Nonferrous improves equipment safety through hazard investigation Minmetals Mining Holding Limited (Minmetals Mining) conducted comprehensive inspections of eight Hunan Nonferrous Metals has set up more than RMB 2 million of special funds for upgrading and subsidiaries engaged in production, two mines suspended for reconstruction, and two mines ceased transforming personnel transportation vehicles of Kangjiawan mine under HNG-Shuikoushan Company, production. By doing so, the company rectified all hazards. and tested all mine cars to improve the safety of facilities and equipment. 56 57 China Minmetals Corporation Whole-process Safe and Stable Operation Building Safety Culture Occupational Attaching great importance to the occupational health of employees, we have established the Corporation’s occupational health and safety management system to improve the working environment of employees. Health By providing care and psychological counseling for employees, we have earnestly protected the physical and mental health of all employees. Focusing on strengthening the construction of safety culture, we actively guide employees to hold proper attitudes towards safety issues and work safely, constantly improve the safety emergency management system, and effectively enhance our safety assurance capabilities. MMG cares for employees’ mental health and well-being MMG has built a mental health framework comprising the three key areas of awareness and prevention, Safety In 2019, we supported the Emergency capacity building, and support and recovery, striving to promote good mental health practices. The Management Department in sorting out key framework also provides support for employees suffering from mental diseases (such as depression and Quality points and preparing the question bank for anxiety) to ensure that every employee is safe and supported in the workplace and can seek help when evaluating the performance of leaders of central needed. In 2019, to enhance employees’ awareness of mental health, MMG organized various activities, SOEs. Besides, we organized Changsha Institute including the “R U OK?” project seminar, professional support visits at the headquarters, mental health Production enterprises of Mining Research to complete the work safety awareness lectures, and the Bangbas International Mental Health Day competition, etc. under China Minmetals at all levels organized guidance manual for first-line positions of high-risk 26,024 industries, and compiled the operation guidance manual for six high-risk operational positions of MMG highlights the management mining enterprises, such as mine lifting workers, of employee health and welfare work safety training sessions, rock drillers, and tailings operators. Production which were participated by enterprises under China Minmetals at all levels Zhuzhou Smelter Group Company Limited under Hunan 889,341 Nonferrous conducts on-site safety training through organized 26,024 work safety training sessions, mentorship In 2019, the Dugald River Zinc Mine developed which were participated by 889,341 employees. a comprehensive health and welfare program to provide employees with healthcare and employees monitoring services. The management team conduc ted struc tured risk assessments of occupational health hazards that may cause Safety Focusing on the theme of “risk prevention, hazard elimination, accident containment” during the national Work Safety Month, we carried out work safety activities with rich content in various forms, implemented injuries to the staff of Dugal River Zinc Mine, identified existing health risks based on the Awareness safety responsibilities, and enhanced employees’ safety awareness. assessment results, implemented control measures to minimize risks, and conducted lifelong health monitoring. Work safety skill competition of Minmetals Development Minmetals Development organized a companylevel skill competition which was participated by the most competent teams selected by companies. During the Work Safety Month, in the Wuxi Logistics Park, the company organized exchanges and competition and mutual learning activities in the forms of theory tests and skill contests. Through the competition, Minmetals Development established a benchmark and promoted advanced experience, and initially formed a safety culture featuring “competition, learning and catch-up and excellence” for the whole company. The Hsikwang Shan of Minmetals Rare Earth Co., Ltd. launches Law of the PRC on MCC5 organizes occupational health first aid training Prevention and Control of Occupational Diseases publicity week campaign 58 59 China Minmetals Corporation Staff Team Seeks Better Growth 04 The Corporation has 199,141 employees The Corporation has organized training for 421,655 trainees Staff Team Seeks Better Growth Talented people are the driving force for corporate development. Following the strategy of strengthening the enterprise with talented people, we develop and cultivate talent resources, tap the potential of talented people to the full, and earnestly safeguard the rights and interests of employees. We also build an excellent platform for the growth and development of employees, and devote ourselves to the common growth of enterprises and employees. China Minmetals boasts six collective and nine individual winners of the title of Advanced Collective and Model Worker of Central SOEs. CERI won the honorary title of National Worker Pioneer in 2019. 60 61 China Minmetals Corporation Staff Team Seeks Better Growth Respecting Labor and Creations We attach importance to and safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of employees, and strictly abide by the Labor Law of the People’s Republic of China, the Labor Contract Law of the People’s Republic of China and other laws and regulations governing the employment of Democratic We have been actively exploring new mechanisms for democratic management that are in line with the practical demands of corporate development, giving full play to the role of the democratic management workers at overseas project locations. With respect for human rights, we pursue equal and non-discriminatory employment policies, and Management system that takes the Workers and Employees’ Congress as its basic form and the open system of factory fulfill democratic management, so that each employee’s value is fully respected and realized. affairs as its main content, and ensuring the unimpeded channels for democratic management, democratic supervision, and democratic decision-making of employees, thus enhancing employees’ sense of ownership. In 2019 Equal We strictly follow the policy of equal and non-discriminatory employment, and treat employees of different nationalities, races, genders, religious beliefs and cultural backgrounds in a fair and equitable Employment manner. Besides, we adhere to the principle of equal pay for equal work, and are committed to avoiding all subsidiaries of China Minmetals established all forms of forced labor and child labor. their labor unions with Raising employees’ awareness of human rights through training 100 % The Corporation creates unified recruitment platforms that offer diversified recruitment channels, emphasizes brand building as an employer, and strengthens the introduction of professional talents. Las Bambas Copper Mine has endeavored to raise the awareness of human rights among its employees and During campus recruitment, we organize innovative labor contract signing ceremonies and offer New membership security officers. The security team of Las Bambas Copper Mine has organized regular training on safety Year gift packages for new employees’ families to extend our care for new employees with creativity, and human rights for all private and public security officers working in the mining area, security officers sincerity and ceremonies, and disseminate our corporate culture and brand communications. In 2019, the along the southern transport corridor (the national highway through which logistics transport fleet passes), Corporation and subsidiaries of China Minmetals recruited 4,133 fresh college graduates. as well as the Peruvian police. The training content includes interpretation of human rights, the history and development of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Global Compact and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, and the details of each framework. All trainees have been Compensation We pay social insurance for employees in strict accordance with national policies and regulations and provided with tools to identify and protect human rights. ensure that employees enjoy due social security benefits. Adhering to the concept of “value-based, and Benefits performance-oriented, benefit-shared” in salary distribution, we have optimized the salary structure, and given full play to the incentive effect of the compensation and benefits system to enhance the employees’ sense of gain. Strengthen the management of individual incentives and constraints, and establish an all-round salary distribution system at the micro and macro levels; Set up a comprehensive salary system with a full range of short-, middle-, and longterm incentives based on incentives for heads of subsidiary Incentive mechanism units during their as well as midand long-term incentives of salary distribution for key employees, so as to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship of employees. Revise the Enterprise Annuity Plan of China Minmetals and Enterprise Annuity Implementation Rules for the Headquarters of China Minmetals, continuously optimize the welfare system, Optimization of the and further enhance employees’ senses of gain, happiness enterprise annuity plan and security. 62 63 China Minmetals Corporation Staff Team Seeks Better Growth Employee Training and Development Insisting on driving corporate development with the support of talents, we have focused on building the capabilities of employees and providing employees with a wide range of training opportunities and a broad platform for career development, and continuously enhanced their overall competences and working skills, aiming to realize the common progress and development of employees and enterprises. Employee We have deeply promoted the strategy of strengthening the enterprise through talented people. Taking the in-depth reform of the talent development mechanism as the power and the implementation of major Education national talent projects as the leverage, we earnestly attract, gather and make good use of all types of and Training talented people, tap the potential of talented people to the full, and provide the support of talented people for building a world-class metal mining group. Official training plan Training for young employees Compiling the 2019-2023 Official Education Targeting outstanding young officials, we and Training Plan to guarantee a sound organized three demonstration training top-level design; build a competence classes for young talents in 16 days. The and quality model for leadership teams training content covered Par ty spirit of secondary institutions to clarify the learning, evaluation and interpretation, Youth talent training demonstration class of China Minmetals core competences and expatiate on key l e a d e r s h i p t r a i n i n g, i n t ro d u c t i o n o f behaviors required for different levels businesses, seminars, learning through of positions; launch different categories action, etc., and the training results include of official education projects that teach 32 personal study projects more than 70 trainees according to their aptitude, so as management cases, and 46 internal training to enhance trainees’ political standing and sessions covering more than 100 employees. sharpen their professional skills. Training for secretaries of Party branches Pre-job training for new employees China Minmetals successfully launched China Minmetals held the 2019 pre-job demonstration training classes for training for new employees. 176 new secretaries of Party branches in Yingkou, employees from all subsidiaries based in Liaoning Province, in which 101 secretaries Beijing received the training on Party style of Party branches were trained in rotation. learning, lectures by the Group’s leadership, Main course modules such as polic y corporate profile and strategies, business principles, Party building practices, forging operation and development, and outwardthe Party spirit, etc. were carried out in bound training for teams. It is aimed to forms of lecturing, case study, experience guide new employees to know the Group as sharing, group discussion, etc. Through the soon as possible, realize the change of the training, we aim to further standardize and role they play, and understand corporate promote the Group’s unique model of Party culture. affairs training. “Post-80s Class” Training Camp of the Second Course of Minmetals Land Youth Talent Training Program 64 65 China Minmetals Corporation Staff Team Seeks Better Growth Position Position management is the origin of personnel management. Adhering to uniform position establishment and focusing on human resources information, we strive to promote the construction of the basic system Talent The unrestricted flow of talented people is the precondition for bringing out the best of talented people. We ensure unimpeded flow of talented people inside and outside the Group, promote orderly System of human resources management, thus providing a mechanism to guarantee the establishment of a multiCommunication flow of talented people among China Minmetals’ affiliated enterprises and within and outside the Optimization and Growth dimensional career development path for employees. Group, put all kinds of outstanding talented people to the most suitable positions, and strive to build an ecosystem of “all creatures strive for freedom under frosty skies” for talented people. Guiding the growth of Clarifying paths for career employees development Selecting suitable talents within the Group and assigning them to frontline positions at Introducing a fourdimensional Revising the Position System foreign mines, so as to train excellent young talents, build an internal talent market and Focusing on the human resources management plan, Management Measures and scientific allocation form a professional talent reserve, promote cross-organization talent exchange, and fully which covers the employee level, the Employment Qualification of human resources release the potential of talents position sequence, the employee Management Measures, so as to Activating the For secondary divisions with excellent talents, launching open recruitment and position level, and the employee further clarify the two-way promotion internal talent market selection of outstanding talents within the Group as department heads, thereby further remuneration level, to provide twochannel and career development strengthening the talent team building and promoting the integration of subsidiaries way development opportunities for p a t h s fo r e m p l o ye e s a n d h e l p talented people (i.e., to be transferred employees understand their position to positions of the same level or to in the Group and identify their career be promoted to higher levels), thus development direction and plan. guiding employees’ growth along the Selecting and assigning officials to participate in aid projects Selecting officials to take four dimensions. up temporary positions in aid projects in Xinjiang, Tibet, and Qinghai, and recruiting two officials from western regions and minority areas to take up temporary positions and get trained in the Group Promoting exchanges of officials with external Exchanging officials with the People’s Government of Beijing Municipality – China stakeholders Minmetals has established a long-term strategic partnership with the People’s Government Overview of the position system Optimizing growth of Beijing Municipality to exchange officials for taking up temporary positions paths for talented people Selecting and assigning high-quality talents to support external organizations. Management Professional Operational Special affairs In 2019, China Minmetals recommended the 20th batch of 9 talents with doctoral sequence sequence sequence sequence degrees to support the economic and social development of western and other (Sequence M) (Sequence P) (Sequence O) (Sequence C) regions in need, so as to sharpen their mind and skills E2 P8 Chief experts 07 Chief …… Management positions of the incorporated enterprises technicians P7 Senior experts …… Management positions of the headquarters Management positions of the key subsidiaries 06 Master Management positions of the subsidiaries …… P6 Experts technicians Special affairs sequence M12 Operational sequence 1 Operational sequence 2 General function sequence Business feature sequence Operational sequence ...... 05 Senior P5 Senior …… technicians professional positions …… P4 Intermediate 04 Technicians M8 professional positions …… P3 Junior 03 Senior workers …… professional positions …… 02 Intermediate P2 Professional workers M1 assistant positions 01 Junior P1 Professional workers supporting positions China Minmetals boasts six collective and nine individual winners of the title of Advanced Collective and Model Worker of Central SOEs 66 67 China Minmetals Corporation Staff Team Seeks Better Growth Employee Care Caring for employees wholeheartedly, we provide employees with a favorable working and living environment, and show love and care to employees on significant festivals. We actively carry out various cultural and artistic activities to enrich the employees’ spare time, promote communication among our employees, and enhance employees’ sense of identity and belonging to the Group. Care on We launch a variety of celebrating events on major festivals to motivate employees’ vigor and strengthen the teams’ cohesion. Significant Festivals An overseas labor union of MCC organizes an oil painting experience activity in celebration of the “March 8” Women’s Day Minmetals Land’s regional company in eastern china organizes an Employees’ Birthday Party in the first quarter of 2019 Leadership We attach impor tance to employee care, and carry Concerns to out various kinds of caring Employees activities for employees in need, female employees, overseas employees and retired employees, so that our employees can better feel the love and warmth of the big family of China Minmetals. Minmetals International Trust Co., Ltd. holds a farewell party for the employees who retired in 2019 Minmetals Trading Co. Ltd. affiliated to Minmetals Development carries out poverty relief activities for needy employees 68 69 China Minmetals Corporation Staff Team Seeks Better Growth Cultural We organize and plan rich and colorful cultural and sports activities to enrich employees’ cultural life and promote communications and exchanges among employees. Through such efforts, we strive to build a Life pleasant working environment to enhance the cohesion and centripetal force of the Corporation and motivate employees’ passion for work. 1 2 3 4 1.China Minmetals organizes the “New Era, New Minmetals, New Glories” speech contest in honor of the third anniversary of the restructuring 2.China Minmetals organizes the “Splendid 70 Years of Development and Greater Progress for a New Era” chorus contest 3.The 23rd Metallurgical Construction Group Co., Ltd. of Minmetals organizes a table tennis team match 4.Minmetals Land holds the fourth football league 70 71 China Minmetals Corporation Eco-friendly Construction Facilitates Environmental Protection 9.5 13.5 62.0 05 % % % The year-on-year integrated The year-on-year The year-on-year energy consumption COD emissions SO2 emissions decreased by decreased by decreased by 9,003 The number of 250,000 The number of trainees of Eco-friendly Construction environmental protection environmental protection training training sessions reached reached Facilitates Environmental Protection Building an ecological civilization is vital for sustaining the development of the Chinese nation. During corporate operation and management, China Minmetals thoroughly implements President Xi Jinping’s instructions on ecological civilization while focusing on ecological conservation and pursuing green development. The Corporation has achieved benign interaction between corporate development and environmental protection, and made unremitting efforts to contribute to the construction of a beautiful China. 72 73 China Minmetals Corporation Eco-friendly Construction Facilitates Environmental Protection Environmental Protection Strategy Supporting With a great sense of political responsibility and a sincere and serious attitude, we fully support various ecological and environmental protection inspections. Based on the feedback on rectification work, we Supervision work to consolidate our political responsibility for environmental protection and avoid all pollution and accidents throughout the year. With the approval of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, the seventh Central Ecological Environment Protection Supervision team entered China Minmetals and China Minmetals earnestly implements national strategies on ecological and environmental protection, actively explores effective models for green development, and continuously improves the Corporation’s Examination conducted an environmental protection inspection from July 10 to August 10, 2019. During the inspection, China Minmetals and its subsidiaries actively collaborated with the inspection team by disclosing relevant environmental management capabilities and green competitiveness. information to stakeholders through various channels on a daily basis and revealed the corresponding rectification work in time. Identifying We issued the Guiding Opinions on Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection in 2019, and set Pollution “fighting pollution according to high standards and promoting high-quality green development” as the main goal of annual energy conservation and environmental protection work. Strictly in accordance Enhancing We have organized publicity and training activities on energy conservation and environmental protection, and actively created a green culture. According to the SASAC’s overall deployment for the World Earth Day, Hazards with the SASAC’s standards and requirements for the supervision and inspection of ecological protection Employees’ the National Energy Conservation Week and the National Low Carbon Day, China Minmetals has organized Environmental of central SOEs, China Minmetals has effectively strengthened the investigation and management a series of publicity activities centering on the theme of “green development, energy saving first” based on of environmental hazards from four aspects, namely basic work, daily management, management of enterprises’ production and living conditions. We have established and practiced a resource-saving and project sites and procedures, and identification and rectification of environmental risks. With such efforts, we aim to realize up-to-standard emissions and environmental risk control, and made comprehensive Protection intensive recycling and reuse concept, and created a favorable atmosphere for energy saving and carbon reduction. Throughout the year, we organized a total of 9,003 environmental protection training sessions deployment for a tough battle against pollution. No environmental pollution accidents above grade Awareness which were participated by more than 250,000 members. occurred throughout the year. Environmental protection activities Targeted pollution control Minmetals Rare Earth promoted Minmetals Mining and other national environmental protection subsidiaries of China Minmetals held policies with a special column in a timely energy saving knowledge contests manner, tracked and reported on the and special training programs, which progress of large-scale environmental stimulated employees’ enthusiasm China Minmetals, in line with Minmetals Development updated protection projects, and selected to learn energy saving knowledge. the principle of “investigating all the Management Files for Sources of individuals with excellent contributions pollution factors, not omitting Pollution of Production Enterprises to environmental protection, effectively any potential risks or carrying out under Minmetals Development and enhancing employees’ environmental a repeated investigation”, carried the “one factory, one file” policy protection awareness. out a general survey of sources to fully understand the pollution of pollution. The Corporation and emissions data of production established the first database of enterprises, and cooperated with sources of pollution, which laid a these enterprises to implement solid foundation for targeted and pollutant and emission control scientific pollution control. measures thus guaranteeing lawful pollutant production and emissions. China MCC20 Group Corp Ltd. North China Aluminum Co., Ltd. hired produced the Make China More experts and professors from the Beautiful promotional video to Chinese Research Academy of the demonstrate efficient energy saving Ministry of Ecology and Environment, and environmental protec tion conduc ted special training on Upgrading We have further strengthened the construction of the statistics monitoring system. According to the latest requirements of the SASAC on energy conservation and environmental protection reports, we have management practices of frontline environmental protection policies the Statistical revised and improved relevant systems in a timely manner, straightened out the reporting mechanism, construction sites. and regulations as well as on-site supervision and inspection capabilities. System and expanded and upgraded the energy saving and emission reduction data reporting system, thus empowering all subsidiaries of China Minmetals in terms of energy-saving and emission-reduction management. 74 75 China Minmetals Corporation Eco-friendly Construction Facilitates Environmental Protection Development of Green Industries We actively incubate diversified energy-saving and environmental protection industries, and have MCC Huatian leads the formulation of two national standards strengthened R&D efforts in related fields. By building a group of professional environmental protection for the energy efficiency of sewage equipment enterprises and environmental protection projects, we strive to become a pioneer and leader in the development of green industries in the metal mining industry. In April 2019, MCC Huatian Engineering Technology Co., Ltd. (MCC Huatian) led the formulation of two compulsory national standards the Minimum allowable values of energy efficiency and energy efficiency rating for submersible type push flow mixer for sewage treatment (GB 37485-2019) and Minimum allowable Green By applying green technologies to project construction and accelerating breakthroughs in pollution prevention, we aim to drive the green development of the metallurgical industry through technological values of energy efficiency and energy efficiency grades for rotary aerator machine in wastewater treatment (GB Metallurgical innovation. “The development and application techniques and equipment technologies for the 37483-2019), which have been officially published and will be implemented on May 1, 2020. As the first batch of energy efficiency standards for major environmental protection equipment in the field of sewage Construction desulfurization and denitration of coke oven flue gas” technological achievement of ACRE of MCC and “The research and application of green and high-efficiency construction technologies for large hot-rolled strip treatment in China, the two standards are of guiding significance and are highly feasible. The standards engineering” of China MCC20 won first prizes of the China Metallurgical Science and Technology Award. will guide enterprises to use more energy-efficient, energy-saving, safe, and reliable equipment, which will comprehensively improve technologies of the industry. Cutting-edge green and energy-saving technology Trial run of the set of equipment on the acid-free treatment of the surface of high-strength steel plates of Changsha Research Institute brings about RMB Most iron and steel companies in China apply power generation technologies that use metallurgical coal 25 gas with a low calorific value and low power generation efficiency. China City Environment Protection In December 2019, the commissioning of the set of equipment for the acid-free treatment of the surface Engineering Limited Company (CCEPC) has made breakthroughs in the “technology and industrialization of high-strength steel plates independently developed by Changsha Research Institute was completed in of efficient, clean, and intelligent power generation through metallurgical coal gas with a low calorific the phase-two heat treatment project of Valinly Steel, which is a key project of the steel industry in Hunan billion of economic Province. The successful commissioning marks the launch of the first set of equipment of its kind to be value,” which has reached the advanced international level and become a key green and energy-saving benefits each year technology promoted by the Chinese Society for Metals. put in commercial use, and shows that the company’s acid-free cleaning technology has reached another new level. The equipment, which abandons pickling and shot blasting processes, realizes environmentally The total installed capacity of generating units that apply the technology has reached near 7,000MW, which friendly cleaning of the plate surface. It is estimated that the equipment can reduce the discharge of more generates more than 50 TWh annually and brings about RMB 25 billion of economic benefits each year. than a million tons of waste acid each year while avoiding the generation of all kinds of dust and effectively protecting the safety of soil, water and atmosphere. To eliminate pollution caused by heavy metals in the Xiangjiang River Basin, Zhuzhou Metallurgical Group moved the plant from the urban area of Zhuzhou to Shuikoushan Town, Hengyang City, fulfilling its commitment to the people of Hunan 76 77 China Minmetals Corporation Eco-friendly Construction Facilitates Environmental Protection Development Based on our advanced technologies and industrial advantages in solid waste treatment and water environment governance, we have constructed various green projects and developed a of Green batch of domestically and internationally leading energy-saving and environmental protection Businesses technologies in the fields of soil restoration, air pollution governance, sewage treatment, solid waste treatment and clean energy, effectively promoting the coordinated development of production, operation, as well as ecological and environmental protection. Solid waste China ENFI undertakes the comprehensive waste treatment treatment project in Xiongan New Area We have built a comprehensive China ENFI has won the bid for the comprehensive waste treatment project in Xiongan New Area. solid waste treatment system Once completed, the project will become the only comprehensive solid waste treatment facility in to promote the construction of Xiongan New Area as well as China’s first comprehensive waste treatment project with a fully hidden The desulfurization and denitrification upgrade and reconstruction project of sintering machines of Henan Jiyuan Iron & Steel Group Co., Ltd. “zero-waste cities” according to design. Working toward the reduction, recycling, and safe disposal of such waste, the project features local conditions and lead industry a “de-industrialized” design and is located in the countryside while creating a unique landscape. The development. project contributes to the centralized treatment of solid waste in the Xiongan New Area as a whole along the whole production process while co-existing harmoniously with the environment. The first hydrogen-based metallurgical demonstration project Build the world’s first CERI teamed up with HBIS Group to develop and build the world’s first hydrogen-based metallurgical hydrogen-based demonstration project with a capacity of 1.2 million tons. The project will carry out innovations and R&D during the metallurgical demonstration whole process of production, which covers distributed green energy, low-cost hydrogen production, purification project with a capacity of of coke oven gas, hydrogen-based metallurgy, hot delivery of finished products, and carbon dioxide removal. This 1.2 million tons will contribute to the solution of problems in the metallurgy of iron and steel, such as environmental pollution and carbon emissions, and explore ways for the steel industry to develop a low-carbon economy. Creating an environmentally friendly sintering process The desulfurization and denitrification upgrade and reconstruction project of sintering machines of Henan Jiyuan Iron & Steel Group Co., Ltd. constructed by Northern Engineering & Technology Corporation, MCC (NETC) was successfully put into operation. The project applies a number of independently developed energy-saving and environmental protection new technologies, such as activated coke flue gas purification technology, steam-electric dual-drive technology, flue gas recirculation sintering (FGRS) technology, new-type multi-purpose and highefficiency circular coolers, middle sealing devices for new sintering machines, etc. Sintering machines of Jiyuan Iron & Steel are among the most advanced in China and represent the development direction of sintering technology. Water Environment Water environment comprehensive governance project in Laian Governance Exploring a green and circular path for turning waste into treasure Focusing on water environment MCC Huatian’s water environment comprehensive governance project in Laian County, Chuzhou governance, China Minmetals has City, Anhui Province, is the first regionand basin-wide comprehensive water environment developed water pollution control treatment PPP project in Laian County. With the goal of improving urban services for ecological MCC Baosteel Technology Service Co., Ltd. has established a technological research center on and treatment technologies and progress, the project adopts solutions that address both the symptoms and root causes to comprehensive utilization of metallurgical slag, and invented a series of unique formulas and processes. systems to drive the technological improve the weaknesses of the water pipeline network, while focusing on the construction of Produced from waste steel slag, the four major categories of products, namely steel slag micro powder, upgrading and industrialization the ecosystem. The landscape system composed of clear waters and blue skies, solves waterspecial-type grit of steel slag, steel slag permeable pavement bricks, and steel slag heavy soil, especially of the water pollution control and related problems in urban development from the six aspects, namely water resources, water steel slag ecological permeable pavement products, are ideal raw materials for building sponge cities. The governance sector, thus effectively security, water environment, water ecology, water culture, and water economy. Through scientific “steel slag mountains” in the past were replaced by lush trees and green grass, and these formulas and protecting precious water sources diagnosis, systematic planning, and targeted implementation, we integrate water governance into processes explored a practicable, advanced, green, and circular approach for steel slag treatment. jointly with all sectors of society. urban development, and thus promote sustainable urban development. 78 79 China Minmetals Corporation Eco-friendly Construction Facilitates Environmental Protection Eco-friendly Operation Saving Resources and Energy The green data center of Minmetals Plaza Guided by the concept of ecological and environmental protection, China Minmetals saves resources and energy, controls emissions of pollutants, implements the concept of green office, to minimize the negative Supported by technical methods, the data center of Minmetals Plaza has reduced Save up to 30 impacts on the environment. energy consumption and promoted the construction of a green data center. The % advanced water-cooled air-conditioning units of Minmetals Plaza save up to 30% of electricity compared to conventional AC fans. The UPS units adopt currentof electricity Establishing an To accelerate the incubation of energy-saving and environmental protection industries and seize opportunities for green development, China Minmetals has formulated the Implementation Plan for the mode IGBT rectification technology, which occupies a relatively small area while effectively reducing the energy consumption of the data center. In the design of compared to Environmental conventional AC Establishment of an Energy-saving and Environmental Protection Industry Platform with clear ideas, principles the data center, the airflow organization and design are considered to improve the fans Protection and options. The Corporation has also put forth options of implementation plans and paths, key concerns, utilization rate of precision air conditioning and enhance the cooling effect. technical requirements, and follow-up work. Platform Improving the recycling rate of iron through technological R&D Promoting We adhere to green development, continue to increase investments in environmental protection management, upgrade the level of environmental protection equipment, and solidly promote energy In order to further improve the recycling rate of iron, Luzhong Mining carried out more than 20 Energy Saving conservation management. Through a series of energy-saving optimization programs, we have made experimental research projects. Thus, the company accumulated a wealth of data to achieve the best and Emission targeted efforts to adjust our production methods and energy mix, realized efficient recycling and matching of parameters. The recycling rate of iron used in wet iron operations was up to 84.55%, which utilization of resources and energy, and increased comprehensive benefits. In such endeavors, we means that the company can recycle 78,000 tons more of iron concentrate year on year, creating a profit of Reduction have achieved up-to-standard discharge of Wastewater and waste gases, continued to improve the environmental protection work of subsidiaries of China Minmetals, and gone all out to fight pollution. more than RMB 55 million. The recycling rate of Recycling Creating a profit of more 78,000 iron used in wet iron than RMB 55 operations was up to 84.55 % tons more of iron concentrate year on year million Energy saving and emission reduction measures of Minmetals Rare Earth Using water sealing devices to Keeping heat inside the tank prevent organic gases in the from getting out with thermal tank from diffusing, reducing insulation cotton and boards to material losses, and improving make it easy to clean. the environment. Replacing transmission parts Using frequenc y conversion with synchronizers to effectively devices to realize the soft start reduces noise and equipment of tank facilities to significantly wear. prolong the life of the equipment. The Wuxi Sewage Treatment Project site of Minmetals Capital Company Limited 80 81 China Minmetals Corporation Eco-friendly Construction Facilitates Environmental Protection Utilization of water resources in MMG Reducing We have promoted low emission retrofit in key sectors, We have improved production processes, reduced emissions In strict compliance with national laws and regulations, the “Three such as iron & steel to achieve at the source, strengthened we have introduced various Wastes” ultra-low emissions, and the treatment and reuse technical means to handle solid rectified disordered emissions o f w a s t e w a t e r, e s p e c i a l l y waste, and urged subordinate Developed the “triggered in the entire production process wastewater containing by heavy enterprises to carry out action response plan” and all mines and construction metals, and comprehensively investigation and management ( TA R P ) f o r w a t e r sites, vigorously boosting the promoted the regulation of of pollution risks. In addition management in response reduction of coal consumption rainwater and sewage diversion. to meeting the requirements to each mine’s risks and by using more alternatives. While enhancing enterprises’ of various environmental management issues s e w a g e t re a t m e n t a b i l i t y, protection standards, we have we have also improved the worked hard to realize the efficiency of water resource reduction, recycling, and safe utilization and further reduced disposal of solid waste. Completed the review of the amount of wastewater. Established a water the water management balance model and plan and star ted the updated all models established upgrade Management of waste rock of tailings ponds of MMG plan Creating the only zero-emission mine in the industry Developed standards Set up an independent Conducted independent Checked all dams at for determining NAF dam audit committee third-party inspections, the end of the year (non-acid foaming) and made engineering including inspections of Changsha Research Institute has undertaken the “demonstration project of building the southern mine waste rock and PAF records major repairs to tailings of the tin ore into a zero-emission green mine” of Hsikwang Shan Twinkling Star Co., Ltd., and conducted (potentially acidfacilities research, design, and construction work targeting prominent historical problems of the southern mine forming) waste rock of the tin ore, such as the risk of collapse faced by goaves, lack of space for emissions of tailings ponds to be closed, and wastewater and environmental pollution in tailings ponds. After completed, the project will be able to produce qualified dehydrated tailings, realize a daily production capacity of 400 tons of tailings, and become the only zero-emission green mine in the antimony sector. The project completely solves environmental protection problems and insufficient storage space of tailings ponds, becoming a comprehensive environmental management demonstration project of the antimony industry. Developing integrated ore melting – extraction technology The integrated ore melting – extraction technology developed by Minmetals Rare Earth can significantly reduce acid consumption in the extraction and separation of rare earth, purify the mixed rare earth feed liquid, and reduce the generation of waste residue. It can produce significant economic and environmental benefits, and will be first applied in the production processes of the Yunnan separation plant project. Green Office We integrate the concept of green development into daily work and strengthen energy saving and consumption reduction management in every little detail. We carry out in-depth publicity and education Full view of the mine Promotion activities to contribute to clean development and environmental protection. 82 83 China Minmetals Corporation Eco-friendly Construction Facilitates Environmental Protection Biodiversity Conservation Biodiversity is the basis for human society to survive and develop. Adhering to the philosophy of “cherishing limited resources and pursuing sustainable development”, China Minmetals, has carried out MMG’s By implementing integrated methods, MMG develops plans for Improved the environmental protection and ecological restoration work in line with strict standards, and regarded Management the closure and transfer of mines, internal procedure of Mine biodiversity conservation as the critical content in engineering construction management, striving to and integrate mine closure and and revised the protect habitats and promote the harmonious coexistence of humans and nature. transfer into the entire lifecycle of Mine Closure Closure and the mine. Through the formulation of the Gradual Reclamation and Standard Biodiversity management of MMG Reclamation Closure Standard and the relevant Developed core Work Quality Requirements, MMG Developed skills of internal staff has developed unified methods guidelines for to enable them to Used environmental Avoided risks by Developing a self-sustaining mine closure due for the closure of mines and manage the planning assessments and regional implementing the ecosystem on the basis of diligence for the gr a dual lan d re clamatio n . Fo r and budgeting of strategic assessments to hierarchical risk mitigation vegetation restoration when M&A process min es that have alrea d y b e en mine closure determine potential impacts mechanism while cleaning conducting mine closure reclaimed gradually or included on biodiversity before the up mines planning i n p i l o t r e c l a m at i o n p r oj e c t s , Improved the launching of mining or framework for MMG monitors the effectiveness disturbance activities mine closure of reclamation and adjusts the governance and reclamation plan based on the guarantee monitoring result, so as to ensure that reclaimed land can be used Creating an eco-homeland through comprehensive improvement appropriately after mining. In the process of promoting the comprehensive improvement of the Yanyang Lake water system, China Metallurgical Group Corporation repaired the earthwork around four high-pressure tower foundations and planted aquatic plants on it to form four ecological islands, which created a new ecological habitat Backfilling and afforesting barren mountains and hills for wild birds. The project not only helps maintain the original landform, but also avoids a huge amount of pollution caused by the relocation of the electric tower foundations, creating an urban waterfront with local characteristics for local citizens that can help control floods, improve local ecology, create beautiful Luzhong Mining has accelerated the transformation of mining techniques, actively backfilled and landscapes, attract tourists, and provide a place of leisure. regreened subsidence areas, updated the reclamation plan based on the actual situation, and continued to regreen tailings dams. With continued efforts in promoting the construction of green mines, Luzhong Mining provides animals with a habitat to survive and beautifies the barren mountains and ridges. 84 85 China Minmetals Corporation Openness and Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit In 2019 10 2 06 a total of 27 projects won the National projects won the China Construction Engineering projects were awarded the Tien-yow Jeme Civil Quality Engineering Award Luban Prize Engineering Prize Openness and All tenders concerning the MCC Huatian, the only central SOE under China company’s headquarters Minmetals, was selected as one of the third batches were handled in a transparent of enterprises for smart health and elderly care and digital manner. application pilot demonstration projects. Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit As a mining company with diversified businesses, we fully leverage our own advantages, and provide all-round services for all sectors of society. We have been constantly exploring the path to common prosperity through win-win cooperation. Working together with all stakeholders, we are creating a better life and ushering in a better future. 86 87 China Minmetals Corporation Openness and Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit Contributing to a Better Life Planning the internet town with agricultural characteristics Smart City China Minmetals is committed to sustainable economic development, a stable and harmonious society, and a sustainable natural environment. The Corporation provides comprehensive smart city solutions for smart MCC-CISDI participates in the consultation project of the agricultural Internet town in Meizhou, Guangdong Province, contributing to China’s Rural Revitalization Planning. The project focus on local Solutions industrial parks, smart campuses, smart neighborhoods, smart buildings, smart energy, smart tourism, and agricultural products, such as grapefruit planted in eastern Guangdong, accompanied by thematic smart government services, in terms of planning and design, investment and financing, integrated general agricultural tourism, health care, agricultural financial services, agricultural big data, cold chain logistics contracting services, project construction and delivery, project operation, etc. for local agriculture products, deep processing and other related characteristic industries. With the adoption of internet thinking, we integrate the modern information technology such as big data and the internet of things into the local industries development to build the Internet agricultural town Smart and eco-friendly characterized by production supervision, safety supervision, price formation, information exchange, R&D, large steel mills and parks convention and exhibition centers, logistics distribution, and brand building. Upgrade of the Jiulongdong Scenic Area in Tongren, Guizhou Province The smart energy Smart underground system covering electric p owe r, h e at e n e rg y, The upgrade project of the Jiulongdong Scenic Area located in Tongren, Guizhou, is the first scenic area space and building distributed energy and construction project carried out by SBC-MCC. The project, which has realized the transformation of the scenic space new energy area’s business to ecological and garden landscaping, was carried out in an EPC model covering scenic area planning, research and design, and construction. Its engineering process involves civil engineering, steel structure, electromechanical installation, interior and exterior decoration, scenic area smart system, etc. Smart transport and parking Beautiful China Minmetals actively participates in the construction of beautiful villages in response to national strategies for targeted poverty alleviation and rural revitalization. The Research Institute for Beautiful Village Villages and the Smart City of MCC develops industrial and economic development modes for villages according to their resource reserves, customizes development and construction modes, and provides “county-townvillage” integrated one-stop beautiful village services (covering investment, planning, design, construction and operation), so as to build a “beautiful village industry integration platform”. CISDI’s business model for the building of beautiful villages The model of “1+X+Y” “ C o u n t y t o w n on industry alliance for village” integrated investment in beautiful one -stop beautiful villages, X for product village services investors, Y for product (covering investment, operators, 1 for a service planning, design, platform which is jointly construction and built by X and Y. operation). 88 89 China Minmetals Corporation Openness and Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit Underground Promoting Win-win Cooperation China Minmetals has actively invested in the construction of utility tunnels and contributed to the improvement of urban infrastructure. As of the end of 2019, MCC had won the bids for 111 PPP and Utility Tunnels EPC utility tunnel projects with a total length of 1,227.9 kilometers, undertaken the underground utility tunnel project in urban Hengqin New Area, Zhuhai, the first Utility Tunnels winning China Construction Engineering Luban Prize and a national demonstration of Ministry of Housing and Urban-rural Development, as well as the 255.63-km Xi’an utility tunnel project, a winner of the first prize of China Only through opening up and cooperation could the road become wider and wider. Insisting on seeking Construction Engineering BIM Excellent Project. development through cooperation and pursuing a win-win situation in development, China Minmetals has pooled strengths and resources from all sides to continuously expand new areas and new spaces for foreign cooperation, and draw a blueprint for mutual benefit. MCC had won the bids for 111 Phase-I project of the smart utility tunnel of Yunnan Dianzhong New Area Building a Nowadays, the sustainable supply chain is the core competitiveness for corporate development. Integrating the concept of social responsibility into the whole process of supply chain construction, we continue PPP and EPC utility tunnel projects CERI has completed the phase-I project of the smart utility tunnel Sustainable to improve procurement management, optimize supplier management, and work with upstream and Supply Chain downstream partners to achieve mutual benefit and win-win. of Yunnan Dianzhong New Area, which supports visual management, automated maintenance inspection, intelligent emergency response, standardized data, overall analysis, a n d p re c i s e m a n a g e m e nt a n d control. The project features m o re i nte l l i g e nt a n d e f f i c i e nt management and operation, and is the first smar t utility tunnel demonstration project of China, setting a model for similar projects nationwide. Health and As the Healthy China initiative is being further promoted and population aging keeps accelerating, the health and elderly care industry has ushered in a period of major development opportunities. We The plant of Guangxi Huayin Aluminium Co., Ltd. Elderly Care organized subordinate enterprises of China Minmetals to apply for 2019 national technological innovation Industry demonstration enterprise and the third batch of smart health and elderly care pilot demonstration enterprises of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, in which MCC Huatian was selected as Procurement management the only central SOE subsidiary to be selected as one of the third batches of smart health and elderly care pilot demonstration enterprises. Two 100% indicators By continuously improving our procurement platforms, standardizing bidding-related businesses, and in bidding-related tapping the value of data and information, we aim to save procurement costs and increase procurement businesses of the efficiency continuously. Through strengthened performance assessment and evaluation of suppliers, we headquarters seek to work with our suppliers on the path towards sustainable development. MCC has three health and elderly care industrialization research bases Improving the procurement management system 100 % Magang Hotel and Standardized procurement at the headquarters Data analysis decision-making Rizhao Intelligent MaSteel Yellow Health and Electronic bidding Ma’anshan Jiangdong Mountain Health and We have fully implemented electronic and We have launched the “Procurement Data Elderly Care Town Yiyang Care Centre Elderly Care Center 100 Industrialization open bidding, and conducted centralized Registration System.” Based on statistical Industrialization % Research Base management of bids for major investment analyses of the system, we determine the Research Base projects. trend of prices, implement cost reductions, Open bidding and conduct strategic procurement, thus continuously improving procurement management. 90 91 China Minmetals Corporation Openness and Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit Optimizing supplier management Providing Attaching significance to quality management, China Minmetals earnestly improves the quality of products and projects, and provides customers with high-quality and considerate services to meet customer Quality demand while seeking common growth of corporate value and customer value. The improved supplier management regulation integrates management processes and procurement platforms, and realizes the regulation of registration, access, use, control, assessment, and exit of suppliers. Services Leveraging e-commerce platforms, we continue to implement information management in the full lifecycle of supplier management, including supplier sourcing, access, evaluation, and exit. At the same time, we In 2019 Quality Management further promote the unified centralized and full-coverage management of suppliers, so as to restrict and standardize the management of suppliers by various subsidiaries. a total of Based on an improved quality management system, we provide customers with high-quality products 27 that meet the diversified needs of customers in different regions. We earnestly carry out project quality supervision, promote standardization of excellent projects and project management, and create highquality projects for customers. projects won the National MMG grows together with local suppliers Quality Engineering Award MMG is committed to helping local suppliers build sustainable business models and providing supply services to mines as well as local and global customers. While selecting suppliers, MMG comprehensively evaluates suppliers’ competences in aspects related to business, society, quality, and technology, as well 10 projects won the China Helping customers reduce costs and increase efficiency as their health and safety management performance, environmental management, local training, social Construction Engineering CERI successfully applied the enterprise-level smart grid management and control platform in Fengnan contributions, and commitments to local employment. Luban Prize Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. affiliated to Hebei Zongheng Iron & Steel Group Co., Ltd. Through comprehensive 2 intelligent management and control of substations at all levels, the platform realizes unattended operations Whenever possible, MMG chooses the products and services of local suppliers that meet relevant and unified monitoring, management, operation, maintenance and dispatching of subsystems. The project standards. When local products and services fall short of related standards, MMG help enhance local enables unattended operations of 13 110kV substations, which cuts the number of on-duty operators suppliers’ capabilities and enable local suppliers to seize opportunities. This will not only strengthen MMG, projects were awarded by 117, saves tens of millions RMB of operating costs, electricity costs, investments in network systems, but help more customers of MMG grow stronger. the Tien-yow Jeme Civil reduces operation and maintenance costs by over 50%, and significantly shortens accident analysis time. Engineering Prize Quality Services Always being customer-centric, we deeply understand customers’ needs and expectations for our products, provide targeted and quality services, and provide customers with personalized solutions elaborately developed. By continuously innovating in our service models, enriching service content, and promoting the construction of a global marketing service network, we endeavor to enhance our comprehensive customer service capabilities. We also attach great importance to the safety of customer information, and inform customers of the fields and scope where their information will be used, thus avoiding leakage of customer information. 37℃ daily-life service Adhering to the mission of co-creating a happy life with customers, Minmetals Property Company actively explored and created a 37oC living service in the new era. Through the system, the company aims to provide customers with value-added services covering home affairs, home repair, assets, health and early education, thus creating a colorful life, providing warmhearted services, and creating a warm living atmosphere of “peace of mind is our home” for customers. Through the endeavors, we strive to lead a new way of life with high-quality services, upgrade customer services, and guarantee high satisfaction and Communication with a local supplier loyalty of customers. 92 93 China Minmetals Corporation Openness and Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit Enhancing To further deepen strategic cooperation with external partners, we have formulated the China Minmetals Work Plan for Further Deepening Strategic Cooperation with External Partners. Based on our own business China Minmetals hosts the Third International Seabed Authority Contractor Conference Communication development needs, we jointly promote major strategic cooperation projects with the government, enterprises, universities and other stakeholders. Besides, we work hard to promote our presence in key On October 11, 2019, the Third regional markets with the aim to achieve shared growth and integrated development. International Seabed Authority Contractor Conference hosted by China International cooperation Government-enterprise cooperation Minmetals and organized by Changsha Research Institute, was held in Changsha. China Minmetals carries out extensive and inBy communicating and negotiating actively with The conference is the first International depth cooperation with Brazil, Pakistan, Chile and Heilongjiang Province, Guangdong Province, other countries in the fields of metal mining, steel Guangzhou City, and Sanya City, China Minmetals Seabed Authority Contractor Conference metallurgy, and infrastructure construction. For has created favorable conditions for business hosted by a Chinese company, which example, Changsha Research Institute has made a development in key regions and the implementation further deepened and expanded the series of breakthroughs during the implementation of major projects. Corporation’s international influence. of the Belt and Road initiative, launched technical It promoted deepened cooperation in exchanges with more than 30 mines in Australia, Peru, Czech Republic, and Germany, and signed eight the development of deep-sea mineral University-enterprise cooperation contracts with overseas mines with a total amount resources as well as R&D of engineering over RMB 100 million. We have signed strategic cooperation agreements equipment and technologies, further with Central South University, Beijing University of Science and Technology, Northeastern University and enhancing China Minmetals’ influence in other universities, and strengthened cooperation with exploring new deep-sea strategic regions. Enterprise-enterprise cooperation well-known domestic scientific research institutes and universities, such as Chinese Academy of Sciences and China Minmetals has established strategic Central South University, to apply for national research cooperation with China Life Insurance, China projects, make breakthroughs in key technologies, Three Gorges and so on. By pooling the strengths and realize the transformation of technological Supporting high-quality development through financial cooperation and service capabilities of all partners in the fields achievements. Minmetals Rare Earth participated in of mineral resource development, infrastructure the formation of the National Rare Earth Functional investment, supply chain finance, and financial Material Innovation Strategic Alliance, and established China Minmetals has signed a strategic leasing, China Minmetals strive to deepen financial close ties with Changchun Institute, Shenyang cooperation framework agreement with reforms and innovations, and promote the integration Institute, Ningbo Institute, and Dalian Institute of of industry and finance. Chemical Policies of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. Based as well as the Ansteel Beijing Research Institute. on the agreement, the two sides will work to build multi-dimensional, multilevel, prolonged, and mutually beneficial partnerships based on their own needs In 2019 in development and planning. Their partnerships will focus on the capital Changsha Research operation of listed subsidiaries of China Institute signed Minmetals, cultivation of companies 8 contracts with a total preparing for listing, expansion of multichannel financing, cooperation with integrated industry-finance platforms, amount of over RMB training and consulting on capital 100 operation and planning. million Integrating internal and external resources and carrying out collaborative innovation To address bottleneck problems caused by rare resources, rare earth, and rarely scattered resources, China Minmetals conducted technological exchanges with Dalian Institute of Chemical Policies of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang Institute of Metal Research of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science to jointly discuss the basic application and research of antimony, bismuth and other rare earth, and rarely scattered resources in the iron & steel industry (such as silicon steel, free cutting steel, and weathering steel), so as to broaden and deepen the application of such rare resources, rare earth, and rarely scattered Changsha Research Institute participates in the Belt and Road CEO Conference and signs contracts with Europe on resources in the iron & steel industry. cooperation in the manganese sector 94 95 China Minmetals Corporation Openness and Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit A Good Neighbor to the Community Participating in the Volunteer Day theme activity On the occasion of the 34th International Volunteer Day, members of the Youth League of China MCC International Economic and Trade Co., Ltd. participated in the volunteer activity themed “Responsible In 2019 Deeply aware that corporate development Practice, Volunteer First” Yuepu Town “International Volunteer Day” of 2019. Volunteers wearing service is inseparable from the support of all social vests provided by the Civilization Office of the CPC Central Committee enthusiastically participated in the forces, China Minmetals takes the initiative cleaning of streets, which significantly improved the environment of local communities. the Corporation invested a total of RMB to engage in community development and 8.837 strengthen exchanges with communities. We have organized various social welfare activities to create positive energy for million in public welfare society with practical action and show our donations (excluding love to the community. poverty alleviation input) Nanjing Minmetals Grace Home Property Management Co., Ltd. organizes the public welfare activity “Journey of Love.” Engaging in We have actively engaged in community development and established ties with all sides to seek common prosperity by organizing SOE Open Day campaigns and planning all kinds of themed activities. We have Community been deeply concerned about society, carried out all types of public welfare activities, and fulfilled the Development “Spirit of Lei Feng” with practical actions. Through such practices, we aim to deliver our care to others, and become a front-runner and pace-setter to contribute to social development. Organizing the SOE Open Day campaign On May 22, Changsha Research Institute invited more than 50 teachers and students from the School Caring autistic children of Materials Science and Engineering of Central South University to participate in the SOE Open Day campaign themed Central South University Students Enter the Changsha Research Institute of Mining and The 23rd Metallurgical Construction Group Co., Ltd. of Minmetals organized the “Light up the Stars, Live Metallurgy. The event was one of the series of activities of “Officials of SOEs Giving Lectures 100 Open with Love” public welfare activity for caring autistic children at Changsha Aimeng Rehabilitation Center Classes for SOEs, and Key Staff of SOEs Serving as Off-campus Tutors” launched by China Minmetals and for exceptional children, and donated supplies such as drinking fountains, school supplies, and toys to the Central South University, with the purposes to make all sectors of community gain a better understanding Center. The volunteers also prepared school bags and small gifts for the children in advance and interacted of the development plan of the new-energy materials demonstration base for mass entrepreneurship and with them in artistic performances and games to bring warmth and concern to the children. innovation of China Minmetals, and facilitate deeper university-enterprise cooperation. 96 97 China Minmetals Corporation Openness and Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit Overseas We have joined hands with all sides to promote Belt and Road international partnerships. Sticking to responsible community building, we share our development fruits with local The Community Radio Station “Radio Surphuy” of Las Bambas Copper Mine Community communities, which injects strong impetus for realizing the common prosperity of all Development countries and contributes to a good and responsible image of the Corporation in the About Radio Surphuy is a community radio station established in 2010 by Las Bambas Copper Mine, with an aim at 80 international community. % education and publicity & promotion of local culture. About 80% of radio programs of the radio station are broadcast in local language Quechua, covering local news, health care, agriculture, safety, activity forecast, festivals, and other programs supported by Las Bambas Copper Mine. The community members, local of radio programs of organizations and staff of Las Bambas Copper Mine are allowed to dial the hotline to share the local news the radio station are broadcast in local with the audience. In February 2019, Radio Surphuy launched its new website to assist in broadcasting local language Quechua news and activities in Cotabambas Province. MCC Tongsin Resources Limited holds a National Day reception party themed the “Celebration of the 70th Founding Anniversary of the PRC & the 30th Anniversary of the Development of the Saindak Copper-zinc Project”, and invites relevant departments of the local government of Baluchistan Province, frontier force regiment of Pakistan, and elders of the surrounding tribes to attend the grand event Strengthening cultural exchange and communication to promote mutual understanding and friendship M i n m e t a l s J a p a n Co r p o rat i o n , a s a vice chairman member of China Enterprises Association in Japan, has actively participated in all kinds of activities organized by the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in Japan and China Enterprises Association in Japan. In May 2019, Minmetals Japan Building the demonstration agricultural project Corporation participated in the “Visit of Elderly Care Centers in Japan” to convey The Andean Crops Project at Las Bambas Copper Mine was launched in 2016 to support traditional the sincere care and kindness of Chinese agriculture in the local area, help local residents improve food safety, create reliable sources of family people to Akasaka Sunshine Senior incomes, create job opportunities, and contribute to sustainable development. Since 2016, the project has Care and Kids Activity Center in Tokyo attracted 1,655 families from 17 communities and 45% are female participants. It covers 120 hectares of Prefecture. On September 21, Minmetals cultivated land, with a yield growth per hectare of 100%. It has been recognized by the Peruvian Mining Japan Corporation participated in the Association as a demonstration agricultural project , becoming a model of the harmonious co-existence “Chinese Festival of 2019” sponsored by between mining and agriculture. the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in Japan. The event, serving Minmetals Germany GmbH, as a chairman member of the Chinese Enterprises Association in as a tie between China and Japan NRW, launched a series of foreign affairs activities over the past years, including disaster relief 45 The project % It covers With a yield growth for inheriting traditional culture, has operations and supporting the construction of the first Chinese-German bilingual kindergarten 120 has attracted per hectare of 1,655 100 become a window for all sectors of the in Germany. It also actively participated in activities organized by embassies and consulates % community in Japan to learn about the established in the locality, maintained friendly and close communication and interaction with are female development and changes of China in local government organizations, and fulfilled the corporate social responsibility, thus winning a participants hectares of the new era. sound reputation in the local community. families cultivated land 98 99 China Minmetals Corporation Openness and Cooperation Promotes Mutual Benefit Providing student aid Launching the sewing workshop programme Education is one of the The sewing team now The Kinsevere Mine launched its sewing workshop programme four years ago. The workshop employed investment priorities of all mines consists of professional tailors to train the first 14 participants, provided sewing machines, workbenches, cloth 15 operated by MMG. Through the materials, and other stuff, and renovated an office into a sewing workshop. In addition to making uniforms Kinsevere scholarship program for MMG employees, the Kinsevere sewing workshop now makes school uniforms for schools of local and cooperation with local villages and protective supplies for contractors. female workers N G O s, R é s e a u d e s O e u v re s 4 Maman Marguerite and Waza “I am now able to support my family. Some young people in the village also want to be a tailor like me.” Alliance, MMG covered tuition ——Theodore Mufunga, a participant in the sewing workshop programme fees of students, offered teaching support to illiterate parents, male workers provided tutors for students, 2 contacted with administrators of schools, attended school m e e t i n g s, a n d re p o r te d to of whom are physically parents. MMG also carried out challenged follow-up work throughout the academic year to ensure that all students in the program could finish school successfully. Among the students granted scholarships, around 50% were girls. Improving the health status Las Bambas Copper Mine continues to work closely with health care providers to improve health indicators of the community. We have reached a resettlement agreement with the surrounding Fuerabamba community to finance the construction of the Nueva Fuerabamba Health Center, provide complete medical equipment and supplies, and continue to support the maintenance of the hospital and the medical care of all residents in the community. From 2016 to 2019 There was a There was a 12.7 16 % % decline in chronic malnutrition among reduction in anemia among children in children under the age of five grades 1-3 of primary school 100 101 China Minmetals Corporation Outlook 2020 Outlook 2020 Review 2019 Outlook 2020 Review 2019 Outlook 2020 Achieved sustainable growth in production and operation Drive the operation optimization of all mines in Optimized the salary structure and promoted the effect of Promote the strategy of strengthening the enterprise for four consecutive years production, prioritize expansion and reconstruction, incentives for talented people through talented people to develop in depth and breadth and promote the resource substitution Realized the stable operation while maintaining good I nt ro d u ce d a fo u rd i m e n s i o n a l h u m a n re s o u rce s Promote the building of a basic human resources momentum for resource development Target at downstream high-end materials, and management plan to provide two-way development management system strengthen the competitiveness and influence in the opportunities for talented people Maintained robust growth of metallurgy engineering Explore to establish a multi-optional career development High-quality projects new material industry and market Focused on the scientific allocation of human resources and path for talented people Development Improve the leading role of metallurgical construction Staff Team activated the in-house talent market Boosts Accelerated the transformation of business models through Launch the youth talent training program trade logistics Enhance the influence of trade logistics Seeks Better Promoted exchanges of officials with external stakeholders Remarkable Improve the incentive and constraint mechanisms Growth and optimized the growth path of talented people Achievements Maintained solid growth of the financial real estate sector Promote the steady development of diversified businesses in a coordinated manner Organized abundant activities for the work-life balance of Enhanced the strength of the new energy material sector employees and strengthened support for employees in need Strengthened strategic and systematic planning of Make concentrated effor ts in tackling generic Promoted environmental governance in key areas for Build an energy saving and environmental protection technological innovations technologies and key technologies the clean production processes of mining and smelting industry platform operations Made breakthroughs in a batch of key technologies for cost Accelerate the commercialization of technological Strengthen precise management and ensure the cutting and efficiency improvement achievements Put an accountability system in place for the fulfillment standardization of environmental protec tion in of annual targets of energy conservation and emission construction Innovative Accelerated the commercialization of key technological Fu l l y s t i m u l a t e t h e v i t a l i t y o f s c i e n t i f i c a n d reduction Models achievements technological staff Fulfill the main responsibilities of pollution prevention and Eco-friendly Enhances Established platforms for communication and cooperation control, comprehensively investigate potential pollution Made national and provincial-level scientific research Further promote the system reform Construction on energy saving and environmental protection issues hazards and prevent major pollution accidents Vitality project management and control systems more effective Facilitates Promoted green construction Improve the comprehensive utilization rate of energy to Completed the special task of streamlining businesses Environmental realize energy saving and consumption reduction Protection Developed green businesses Vigorously promote environmental protection businesses and explore the development path of a circular economy Firmly implemented the “one-vote veto” system in work Strengthen precise management and improve safety Conserve biodiversity safety management Withdrew work safety funds in full and used the funds in Identify and eliminate safety hazards in an all-round line with relevant rules way, resolutely guarantee work safety Improved the product-service system Improve product quality and create quality service Continued the in-depth investigation and rectification of Review and investigate major accidents, identify Carried out technical cooperation with external institutions Consolidate the cooperation results, expand the space Wholesafety hazards and realized regular self-examination and the persons responsible for the accidents, and take for cooperation, and achieve win-win and coordinated reporting of hazards corresponding rectification measures process Strengthened communication and exchanges, and development in more areas Safe and Carried out the Work Safety Month campaign, fulfilled increased areas of cooperation Stable safety responsibilities, raised safety awareness Openness and Built a sustainable supply chain and conducted supplier Innovate in the poverty alleviation model and make Operation Cooperation management constant efforts in targeted poverty alleviation Built an intelligent workplace, and promoted safe technology to cover key areas of work safety Promotes Engage in community building Organized public welfare donations, volunteer services, and Mutual Benefit other public welfare activities Improve occupational health management 102 103 China Minmetals Corporation Appendix Appendix Sustainability Performance Economic Performance 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Social Performance 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating income 2,004 4,355 4,934 5,297 6,104 Number of employees 143,517 192,023 196,609 186,258 199,141 (RMB 100 million) Operating income Number of female 77.86 184.36 182.26 200.31 224.11 22,324 45,200 40,977 39,828 (RMB 100 million) employees R&D investment Work safety investment 33 38 59 79 120 39,308 189,093 299,058 404,000 559,395 (RMB 100 million) (RMB 10,000) Number of new patents 198 3,148 3,709 4,641 4,278 Number of fatalities 3 3 16* 18* 24* Number of employee 149,153 263,087 317,713 355,441 421,655 training participants Proportion of contracts 100 100 100 100 100 executed (%) Environmental Performance 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Year-on-year decline in energy * Including construction personnel of labor outsourcing 24.01 2.00 2.50 10.8 9.5 consumption (%) Year-on-year decline in SO2 11.15 5.70 4.40 40.7 62.0 emissions (%) Number of environmental 4 267 817 1,637 9,003 training sessions Number of environmental 1,770 13,670 38,160 94,696 250,000 training participants 104 105 China Minmetals Corporation Appendix Assurance Statement 106 107 China Minmetals Corporation Appendix Content Index GRI Content Index Chapters GRI Index Chapters GRI Index About This Report 102-3, 102-46, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 Innovative Models Enhances Vitality Message from the Chairman 102-14, 102-15 Making Technological Advances 203-2 Message from the President 102-14, 102-15 Deepening Management Innovation 103-2 About Us Whole-process Safe and Stable Operation Company Profile 102-1, 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-16 Strengthening Safety Management 103-2 Organizational Structure 102-18 Deepening Risk Prevention 103-2, 416-1 Business System 102-2, 102-6 Optimizing the Production Environment 416-1, 416-2 Corporate Governance 102-18 Building Safety Culture 410-1 Party Building Staff Team Seeks Better Growth Anti-corruption and Integrity 103-2, 205-2 Respecting Labor and Creations 401-1, 405-1 Sustainability Context 102-29 Employee Training and Development 404-1 Sustainability Management 102-29 Employee Care 103-2, 405-1, 401-2 New Sustainability Model 102-29, 102-31 Eco-friendly Construction Facilitates CSR Communication 102-37 Environmental Protection Environmental Protection Strategy 103-2, 302-1 CSR Dissemination 102-37 Analysis of Material Topics 102-21, 102-33, 102-34 Development of Green Industries 103-2, 301-2 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Eco-friendly Operation 103-2, 302-4, 302-5 Benchmarking Against the 2030 Agenda Biodiversity Conservation 304-1, 304-2, 304-3 103-1, 103-2 for Sustainable Development Openness and Cooperation Promotes Feature 1: Splendid 70 Years of Development Mutual Benefit and Greater Progress for a New Era 201-1, 203-1 Contributing to a Better Life 203-1, 413-1 Feature 2: Securing a Complete and Decisive 415-1 Promoting Win-win Cooperation 102-9, 206-1, 205-1, 205-2 Victory in the Battle Against Poverty High-quality Development Boosts A Good Neighbor to the Community 103-2, 413-1, 414-1 Remarkable Achievements Outlook 2020 101-1.8, 102-15, 102-47 Stable Resource Development with Good 103-1, 103-2, 201-1 Momentum Sustainability Performance 101-1.8, 404-2, 404-1, 302-4, 304-2, 304-3, 305-5, 305-7 Robust Growth of Metallurgy Engineering 103-1, 103-2, 201-1 Projects Assurance Statement 102-56 Transformation and Development of Trade Content Index 102-55 103-1, 103-2, 201-1 and Logistics Feedback Sheet 102-56 Making Significant Contributions with 103-1, 103-2, 201-1 Diversified Businesses Constant Efforts in Emerging Sectors 103-1, 103-2, 201-1 108 109 China Minmetals Corporation Feedback Sheet Dear readers: Thank you for reading the report. Any constructive suggestions to improve our CSR program and the quality of our sustainability reports are welcomed. Thank you for your support. 1.To China Minmetals, you are a/an: customer government agency employee supplier (in its broad sense, including contractor) environmental protection organization/NGO charity media The public others 2.Your overall impression of the sustainability report: Very good Good Fair Poor Very Poor 3. What do you think of this report? Very good Good Fair Poor Very Poor Information quality Structure Layout and design Readability 4.What are the most important issues to you? 5.If you have any comments or suggestions on our CSR program and sustainability report, please specify. 110
