THE CREON WAY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT AND COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / April 17 2020 FROM THE FOREST OF SMÅLAND, SWEDEN, WITH SUSTAINBILITY IN OUR HEART Creon is an industry leading outsourcing partner of branded items. By letting Creon manage the whole value chain from product development to end distribution, large sized corporations save resources, gain control and strengthen their brand communication to their stakeholders and the public. pricing towards our customers in order to ensure THIS IS the survival of our business. That is our challenge. CREON So far, we have been successful in this endeavor and were awarded Best in Sustainability by our branch organization in Sweden, twice. The award had several effects. For us, we were happy to prove that business growth was possible to achieve while adhering to very high sustainability principles. For our competitors, they realized that Creon was pointing the way forward. For our customers, a Companies in the business of branded items Best in Sustainability award meant that when contribute greatly to the welfare of communities they sourced their branded items from Creon, around the world by providing manufacturing they knew they were getting quality items, and administrative employment. This can lead responsibly made. to improved general health, higher educational standards and the possibility of social mobility among people in communities where manufacturing takes place. Creon takes its social and environmental responsibility very seriously. We are constantly striving to CREON IS A SMALL COMPANY, BUT ensure that the manufacture and transport of our OUR AMBITIONS ARE BIG. WE ARE products is carried out responsibly and in line with PROUD OF OUR ACHIEVEMENTS. the United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles. At the same time, we must be competitive in our STATE to our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Creon Promotion AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United MENT Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this year’s Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of of continued the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit support to always share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. to Global 2016 we took our business model one step further when we introduced a sustainability rating system Compact to our products. Starting with the assortment for our largest customer, we set sustainablity goals for each product as well as making sure that our suppliers adhered to the customer business Code of Practice regarding society and the environment. During 2019 we have initiated this way of rating products for our second client. Even if all our client don’t have the rating system yet we In this annual Communication on Progress, can this year, 2020, see that the amount of sustainable we describe our actions to continually products is rising for all of our clients and that we are working closer with our producers towards our sustainimprove the integration of the Global Compact able goals. We utilize our tried and tested responsible and its principles into our business strategy, manufacturing facilities to a greater degree because culture and daily operations. We also commit they have the capacity and certification required by to always share this information with our Creon. stakeholders using our primary channels Yours sincerely of communication. Camilla Simonsson / CEO CREON’S Creon’s operations are taking place in regions where functioning social safety nets are lackAPPROACH ing. The majority of all products we supply to our clients are produced in countries with high risk of human rights abuses. As buyers, TO THE 10 we have an important role to set requirements of social accountability, follow them up in PRINCIPLES practice and influence business partners to positive change. Our work with integrating the 10 principles is therefore to the largest part devoted to maximizing our positive impact on downstream suppliers that are active in regions with high risk. Our work with becoming a socially responsible business partner to our clients and suppliers started in 2007. Instead of taking the easy path forward and limit WHERE IT our practical actions to our operations in Sweden, we realize that our business can be utilized for REALLY much more value if we leave the comfort zone. By applying our efforts and resources where it really MATTERS matters, we are convinced that our business can have a positive impact on people and planet. communication on progress COMMUNI Creon offers a very wide product portfolio covering branded items that large corporations CATION ON need to represent their own organizations, internally and externally. PROGRESS From the very start we made this possible through our business model the Profile Store. This requires Creon to have a wide network of sourcing channels (suppliers, agents, producers and service providers) in order to fulfill the demands. THIS COMPLEX SOURCING ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE OPERATE REQUIRES ESTABLISHED PROCESSES TO FOLLOW AND CLEAR COMMUNICATION OF HOW THE PRINCIPLES SHOULD BE SAFEGUARDED. GOING FROM We will launch a sustainability journey beginning 2020. We have worked on improving the rating levels for it to be an even better instrument in rating GOOD TO GREAT items considering different environmental aspects. Taking the Profile Store SUSTAINABILITY RATING LEVEL to the next level 1. Exceeding industry standards Manufacturers are chosen based on their commitment to high sustainability and ethical standards. BY APPLYING A SUSTAINABILITY RATING 2. Improved procedures TO OUR PRODUCTS OUR AIM IS TO Extra measures have been taken to reBECOME EVEN MORE AWARE OF HOW duce environmental impact or increase overall community benefit (for examle WE CAN ENHANCE OUR CUSTOMERS Fairtrade certified products). BRANDS BY BEING REALLY TRUE TO 3. Certifications THEIR CORE VALUES. Maximum CSR and environmental standards achieved and certified (for When purchasing branded items and workwear examle GOTS certified products). from the Profile Store the customer actively support ours as well as their own sustainable productivity goals. Every item from the Profile Store is then stored and transported climate neutral. NO PRODUCT IS ACCEPTED TO THE ASSORTMENT IF THE BASIC LABEL By doing this we are aiming to make an even more direct impact to all 10 principals. ISN’T REACHED. GOING FROM Creon scoring system The Creon sustainability model has three rating levels. Each level is based on criteria’s defined by GOOD TO GREAT us and serves to provide a basis for sustainability assessment. How to rate the During the year Creon has developed the system for how the three rating levels are to be assessed products after Creon’s and added more aspects, as well as making a better scoring system. The criteria’s are now scoring system based on three parts; material, life cycle and social responsibility (CSR), where each part is scored 1-5. By multiplying these three parts with each a total amount will be given, which sets the level for the sustainable rating for the product. RATING LEVELS During the year, Creon introduced the rating system to a second client and hopefully it will 1. Exceeding industry standards be introduced for more clients during the year. Points 1-16 2. Improved procedures Points 17-44 3. Certifications Points 45-125 (Level 3 is the best rating) FORMULA MATERIAL X LIFE X CSR = POINTS GOING FROM The criteria’s Material GOOD TO GREAT 1 Basic material approved according to reach 2 Produced by best options availabe (if 3-5 not is applicable) How to rate the 3 Produced energy-efficient and with renewable material (PLA-plastic, bamboo etc.) products after Creon’s 4 Recycled to some part (less then 100 %) alternative organic material scoring system 5 100% recycled material Life cycle perspective 1 Basic and has a life cycle on max 1 year and is consumed fast 2 Ends when you have used it but will last longer then a year and is consumed over a longer time. 3 Can be used over and over again with a longer life cycle but will not last forever. We have increased items judged with 4 Lifecycle forever (more then 10 years), ex steel Sustainability rating 1 from 138 to 191 items 5 Can be recycled or reused We have increased Sustainability rating 2 from CSR and social standards 43 to 90 items based on the addition of some 1 (3 points is the lowest level) form of environmental certification such as 2 (3 points is the lowest level) Fair Trade, Recycled PET, FSC certified paper, 3 Manufacturers are chosen based on their OEKO TEX. commitment to high sustainability and ethical standards. We have increased the amount of items with 4 Produced in Scandinavia or within EU Sustainability rating 3 from 12 to 28 due to GOTS 5 Certified products such as GOTS, FSC, or BlueSign certification. Fairtrade, Öko-tex assessment, Policy and Goals HUMAN The risk of human rights abuses and poor work place conditions in the sourcing environment RIGHTS is high. It is therefore of utmost importance for Creon to have well established relationships AND with all partners that have influence in the sourcing phase. LABOUR CREON’S POLICY IS TO ONLY CONTRACT PARTNERS THAT SHARE PRINCIPLES OUR AMBITIONS AND MAKE SURE PRODUCTS ARE PRODUCED UNDER HIGHLY ETHICAL CIRCUMSTANCES. Our code of conduct and supplier agreements emphasize the expectations we have on our partners our ambition is always to: OUR Know where, and by whom each product we purchase are produced. AMBITION Make sure that 100% of all suppliers understand, IS ALWAYS TO: sign and follow our code of conduct. Conduct risk assessments on all new producers Make sure third party Social Audits are carried out at all production facilities that are perceived as “high risk” in our risk assessment. If they are already certified according to SA8000, Amfori (minimum level C), GOTS or similar, our social audit process can be adjusted. Initiate improvement dialogues with each supplier where deviations have been detected in a Social Audit. Utilize our room for negotiation to steer positive development Affect industry colleagues to address human rights issues in their own supply chains and actively support initiatives such as Amfori memberships or ONLY CONTRACT SA 8000 certification. SUPPLIERS WITH HIGH ETHICAL AWARENESS. Contribute to raise the maturity of our industry in regard to Social and Environmental Responsibility AUDITING FORMAT: ALL SOCIAL AUDITS SHOULD BE IMPLE BASED ON SA8000 STANDARD. SA8000 ADDRESSES THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1-6. MENT There are several perspectives of supplier ATION sourcing to balance together with financial aspects. Awareness training is the foundation of sound decisions. Training of all personnel working with operational purchasing should be conducted continuously in our organization. All this in compliance with our ISO 9001 certification. We conduct CSR-related risk assessments for Our Code of Conduct is revised annually, every new supplier that is contracted by us. The it is guided by the principles of the risk assessment focus on product category, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, sourcing country and supplier due diligence. the UN Global Compact and the conventions issued by the International Labour Even if a product we bring in to the assortOrganization (ILO) as well as the OECD ment is managed and sourced by a European guidelines for multinational enterprises. supplier, we shall if deemed necessary in our Each new supplier shall receive, underrisk assessment, carry out a third party Social stand and sign it. Audit at the first tier manufacturer. We make sure to follow-up the progress of During 2019 our sourcing criteria factory social compliance for repeat orders. has continued to develop even further. We continued to select We share the responsibility among multiple factories to a higher degree that employees in order to create a broad dediare already certified according cation to our CSR-program. All with the to required standards such as responsibility and authority to make sure SA 8000, Amfori, ICTI and GOTS. we put our promises into practice. We also made sure all employees or partners responsible for sourcWe highlight the risk aspects in our industry ing understand and follow our to all stakeholders and we shall contribute to sourcing criteria. bring to the attention of industry colleagues to actively assess and monitor human rights aspects in their own supply chains. Over the past year, we have increased our efforts in knowledge sharing and addressed the THE SUSTAINABILITY RATING need of more Supply Chain transparency PROGRAM IS UP AND RUNNING in our industry. FOR OUR LARGEST CUSTOMER. OUT THIS YEAR WE HAVE ACCOMPLISHED THE FOLLOWING: COME Our CSR group has continued their work towards more sustainable relationships with suppliers, 2019 both in terms of compliance and environmental aspects. Improved cooperation with already assessed manufacturing facilities. According to our internal Sourcing NEW SUPPLIER EVALUATION Guidelines, we need to carry out a new WHERE WE EVALUATE AND social audit every third year. This has also been done during 2019. Creon views this as RANK OUR SUPPLIERS IN strong evidence that we have succeeded TERMS OF ENVIRONMENTAL, in our aim to first control the quality of SOCIAL ASPECTS AND WORK promise of our manufacturing partners and PRINCIPLES. then to increase the quality and efficiency of our cooperation activities. Creon has also taken a decision to decrease the amount of suppliers to work with, to make a closer cooperation and the production process more transparent and easy to monitor. TARGETS FOR THE COMING YEAR To improve our compliance framework enabling better possibilities to measure and follow-up CSR data. Develop the supplier evaluation process and make sure that Creon’s preferred suppliers are the “leader of the industry” when it comes to social, environmental and legal aspect. Our goal in 2020 is, through our CSR-group, to develop our risk assessment of suppliers. We hope by addressing questions regarding process and routines that we will be able to get an even better overview of our suppliers. By having a scoring system for the suppliers based on the addressed question we will see which supplier that carries greater risks over others and where we based on our findings should have more focus on controlling suppliers with higher risk. During 2020 we will also try to implement our “from good to great” set up for all of our customers. This is a set up where we try to get the products that has the best impact on the environment for our customers, meaning that Creon will continue to increase the number of ECO/CSR friendly products as a whole We will continue to increase the number of SA 8000, Amfori (minimum level C) , ICTI or other equivalent certified factories throughout our supply chain. ENVI RON assessment, policy and goals MEN Our Environmental policy is described in our ISO 14001 management system. The policy, TAL in general terms, is to integrate environmental consideration in everything we do. We strive to minimize our environmental impact with PRIN precautionary actions and influence sourcing channels towards better environmental manufacturing processes. CIPLES Our two areas of environmental focus correspond to the most significant impact of our operations. These are “Production” and “Transport”. Our two areas of environmental focus correspond to the most significant impact of our operations. These are “Production” and “Transport”.. PRODUCTION Creon does not operate or control production facilities directly. However, by using our leverage for producers where we have the biggest purchase volumes, we shall promote and influence producers to adapt to more environmentally friendly processes. It is important for Creon that we adhere to increasing regulatory standards regarding the use of harmful chemicals and other harmful substances in manufacturing. Therefore, we aim to only cooperate with manufacturing organizations and production facilities that have documented qualification, and that have processes in place to monitor and minimize the use of harmful substances. We have identified textile apparel as the product group with the most negative environmental impact. Therefore, we strive to have as much of our textile IN MARCH 2016 WE BECAME assortment eco labeled. THE FIRST GOTS COMPANY IN OUR LINE OF BUSINESS. There are good environmental initiatives available at the market. Creon is working actively together with our clients and suppliers to replace and develop the assortments to include these alternatives for the We have identified textile apparel present year. as the product group with the most negative environmental impact. A proof of that work is that Creon In March 2016 Therefore, we strive to have as much became the first GOTS company in our line of of our textile assortment eco labeled. business. To learn more about GOTS, please read: www.global-standard.org TRANSPORT Efficient packing and wrapping is an important environmental factor. Creon shall work actively with minimizing innerand outer packing material of our OUR BUSINESS MODEL IS HEAVILY products in order to avoid shipping air pockets. DEPENDENT ON TRANSPORTS IN We will therefore follow up the average density OUR EXPORT OPERATIONS WITH of our outbound shipments for all modes of transports combined. FREQUENT AIR SHIPMENTS. The goal is to reach 185 KG of density net product weight per shipped cubic meter with a minimum of 150 kg. implementation We shall always conduct a transportation benchmark favoring the most environmental friendly alternative. Our customers are the ones that ultimately decide what mode of transport that should be used. We have an important task to affect a “greener” purchase behavior among our clients. By proactively analyzing our clients’ purchase patterns and suggesting alternative ways of transporting goods, we have been able to THE GOAL IS TO HAVE 100% OF combine shipments and replace several smaller air shipments in to bulk orders shipped by sea. THE OUTBOUND DELIVERIES TO BE CLIMATE NEUTRAL. Creon Promotion entered the Go Green climate program and started to compensate for Co2 emissions caused by our outbound shipments. measurements of outcome 100% OF OUR Offset for 2019 a total of 581.397 kg/t CO2e with INTERNAL GoGreen Climate Neutral services. Deutsche Post DHL Group offset the greenhouse ENERGY gas emissions generated by transportation and logistics through climate protection projects: CONSUMPTION Efficient Stoves, Lesotho (VER, GS 913) STEMS FROM Renewable Energy Bundled Project, Ceará, Brazil (VER, GS 1042) RENEWABLE Water filtration and improved Cook-stoves, Guatemala (VER, GS 1321) ENERGY Landfill Project, Santa Marta, Chile (VER, GS 3976) SOURCES Borehole Rehabilitation Project, Eritrea (VER, GS 1247) WATER Wind Power Project, Andhra Pradesh, India (VER, GS 4603) Biogas Program, Vietnam In this report we choose to present (VER, GS 1083) our contribution to the overall decrease Hydro Power Project, Nam Long, Laos in fossil fuel usage and environmental (VER, GS 2707) initiatives due to our activities and support. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES All auditors contracted by Creon Promotion AB are working for accredited agencies who in their turn are being audited. The highest risk of corruption is in the sourcing phase. As a company holding large corporate accounts, Creon and its personnel are desired platforms for sub supplier’s ambitions to reach the market. The key issue for Creon is to maintain its integrity and make sure we have methods of making decisions in an objective manner. THE POLICY IS FOLLOWED UP AND REVISED ONCE EVERY YEAR. Internal policies for representation and During the past year, internal policies for receiving of gifts from suppliers have representation and receiving of gifts from been implemented. suppliers have been implemented True CSR work pays off. In previous years As further evidence that dedicated CSR Creon has received awards from our branch activities can have a positive effect on business where the motivation was that Creon has we are proud to announce that during 2019 we shown that the reputation of the business have signed agreements with several major area of branded items has been enhanced by corporations that place the highest demands our efforts regarding CSR and sustainability. on their suppliers in regard to CSR and susWe are very proud that, despite being a small tainability – Ambea, Caverion. We would not company, we have succeeded in having a have acquired these important customers positive environmental effect on an entire without our association with Global Compact business area that, in Sweden alone, has an and a clear CSR agenda that we adhere to in annual turnover of 600 – 700 M EURO. everything we do. © 2020 Creon Promotion AB | Sweden | +46 470 700 540 contact@creon.se. All rights reserved
