UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 3 Contents 4 Our philosophy 5 Our responsibility 7 Our mission statement 9 Our Corporate Social Responsibility priorities 11 Incorporating sustainability within the company 17 Messe Frankfurt as an employer 21 Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood 25 Sustainability at our events 33 The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles 4 Our philosophy In an increasingly complex, interconnected and volatile world, communication, cooperation and interaction are keys to successful business relationships. This will apply all the more once the coronavirus crisis is behind We will need to be flexible and rise to the challenges. A sense of us. More than ever, we are convinced of the relevance of our responsibility and foresight has accompanied us throughout our business model with its focus on personal encounters. How­ever, 800-year history. Respect and fairness in our dealings with our the proven business model of personal encounters also depends customers, with our service providers, with our shareholders to a large extent on the freedom of movement and freedom to and with our employees are embedded in Messe Frankfurt’s travel of our customers, as well as that of their customers in turn. corporate identity. Since the beginning of the year, we have all – not only in the exhibition industry – had to grapple hard with a completely This year, both the UN Global Compact and the German Global unknown challenge. Compact Network are celebrating their 20th anniversary. Our warmest congratulations on reaching this milestone. As the first In nearly all corners of the world, the coronavirus is turning and only exhibition corporation to date, Messe Frankfurt has so­ciety and the economy completely upside down, with hardly been part of the UN Global Network since 2010. The principles any sector of the economy that is not feeling the effects. of sustainable business practices and our commitment to social Since March, we have been forced to either postpone or cancel responsibility are our benchmark. We implement our CSR ­a large number of events at our worldwide event venues. ­measures in line with the principles of the UN Global Compact. The entire economy has been hit by the consequences of the We have committed ourselves to its Ten Principles of good virus. However, the well-being of society and the health of our practice in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environ­customers and employees must take precedence over all eco­ mental protection and anti-corruption. We feel it is our duty to nomic interests at all times. The situation remains volatile. uphold these principles. At our flagship fairs, innovation and sustainability go hand in hand, for example when it comes to addressing major topics such as mobility, smart cities and nutrition. In the textile sector, too, we are convinced that a shift towards a more sustainable value chain is only possible through innovation and collaboration. Within the scope of our textile expertise – Texpertise ­Network – we are therefore all the more pleased about the partnership and collaboration with the UN Conscious Fashion ­Campaign and the United Nations Office for Partnership (UNOP). This will allow us to further promote the UN’s sustainable ­development objectives at Messe Frankfurt’s 60 or so textile events in a targeted manner. Best regards, Wolfgang Marzin President and Chief Executive Officer Messe Frankfurt © Messe Frankfurt — Pietro Sutera 5 Our responsibility Creating value for business and society Messe Frankfurt is the world’s largest trade fair organiser with its own exhibition grounds. In the business segments Fairs & Events, Locations and Services, we specifically support the interests of our customers and organise successful encounters with services from a single source. Trade fairs and events under the umbrella of Messe Frankfurt International subsidiaries More than 50* sales partners in around 190* countries Our responsibility 6 In line with its strategic objectives, the group is systematically nevertheless has strong economic and cultural roots at its expanding its expertise in defined sectors. These are: Building home venue in Frankfurt and the Rhine-Main region. This also Technologies, Safety, Security & Fire, Environmental Technolocomes as a result of the rewarding collaboration with our sharegies, Textile Care, Cleaning & Cleanroom Technologies, Food holders, the City of Frankfurt and the Federal State of Hesse. Technologies, Electronics & Automation Technologies and They enable our group to develop its entrepreneurial potential. Manufacturing Technologies & Components, Consumer Goods, We cooperate with many public institutions and create valuable Textiles & Textile Technologies, Mobility & Logistics as well as mutual synergies. Events under the umbrella of Messe FrankEntertainment, Media & Creative Industries. furt generate annual purchasing power in Germany to the tune of 3.6 billion euros, and also secure more than 33,000 jobs Messe Frankfurt’s corporate mission is to leverage its global across Germany. industry expertise and establish itself as the first choice for its customers. Trade fairs have been held in Frankfurt for around We take our social responsibility seriously and support social 800 years. We have a tried and tested business model that proinstitutions and initiatives in our immediate neighbourhood vides a solid foundation for supply, continued evolution and in the fields of education, music, visual arts, sport and social growth going forward. While a global player, the company affairs. And also in our subsidiaries around the globe our em­­ployees are involved in many community projects. Exhibition grounds: 11 halls, 2 congress centres, Festhalle multifunctional hall, Operation & Security Center, over 90 congress and conference rooms and much more besides The group is publicly owned, the shareholders are the City of Frankfurt with 60 percent and the State of Hesse with 40 percent. Around 2,600* employees worldwide * preliminary key figures for 2019. 7 Our mission statement Messe Frankfurt sees itself as a year-round marketing and service partner for its customers. Our actions and our strategic decisions are based on the group’s long-term success and are geared to the needs of our customers. As a trade fair organiser, the group develops formats and innovative concepts on an international basis, which are scaled according to the needs of the respective industries and thus play a key role in the positive economic development and success of the sectors served. With our worldwide events, we establish global interfaces At its home venue in Frankfurt, it provides a platform for between industry and trade, between politics, services and up to 250 guest events a year, from trade fairs and congresses consumption. As a partner to our customers, it is our core to functions and shows. mission to flexibly accompany the changes taking place in the various sectors with individual and industry-specific formats The many encounters between people from all nations at the and to implement them at our events for the practical benefit Frankfurt exhibition centre show that our exhibition venue is of our customers. The sustainable development of our brands an ideal event location. A wide variety of different formats, creates trust and gives us the opportunity to respond appro­ parallel events and a high degree of flexibility are requirements priately to the current challenges in the different industry that our premises have to meet. Safety regulations with regard sectors. We combine analogue and digital worlds to ensure to architecture, infrastructure, the provision of medical care that customers gain even more added value from their personal and the implementation of events have also increased in recent encounters by underpinning them with digital business and years. Accordingly, we are continually investing in our home digital services. venue and the multifunctionality of our exhibition grounds. Messe Frankfurt is connected with its customers worldwide at around 150 group-own events held around the globe. © Messe Frankfurt — Pietro Sutera 150 At around 150 group-own events, we create touchpoints between supply and demand, between trends and markets, at real and digital marketplaces, worldwide. Our mission statement 8 Compliance – the commitment Partnerships of each individual counts and cooperation The guiding principle of our successful business operations Messe Frankfurt is committed to long-term and sustainable is based on our tradition as a reliable company. Statutory and partnerships and cooperation, both with respect to its worldvoluntary obligations, guidelines and best practices are the wide events and its CSR pledge. Intensive networking within cornerstones of this system. Clear, binding purchasing rules the national and international business community as well as and the efficient design of internal regulations and procedures with central associations, specialist and development institutes ensure reliable prevention in the fight against corruption and benefits the quality of our events and therefore our customers. other rule violations. In addition to training our employees, Not least, this also allows us to help shape the trade fair industry the personal commitment of each individual makes a decisive on a sustainable basis. We demonstrate our CSR commitment contribution to ensuring that compliance is an integral part of through our participation in the United Nations Global Compact, our corporate code of conduct. to which we signed up in 2010. We support the “fairpflichtet – right and fair” industry code for sustainable organisation and The increasing globalisation of our corporate group and the implementation of events and participate in the Charter of growing importance of foreign business as a result are just one Diversity initiative. of the reasons why establishing and optimising globally coordinated systems and structures is important. This is also happening against the background of tougher guidelines on governance and data protection, as well as generally applicable legal stipulations and regulations. © Messe Frankfurt — Pietro Sutera Promoting an international exchange of knowledge and expertise: Messe Frankfurt fosters long-term partnerships and cooperation. 9 Our Corporate Social Responsibility priorities We group our wide-ranging CSR activities relating to sustainable development into four areas of activity: Environment/Sustainability, Social ­Responsibility, Commitment to Culture and Sport and Education/Science. By designating our activities in these areas with the “simply sustainable” claim and a special logo, we are able to further increase the focus on sus­tainability while also raising awareness for this issue. In all our initiatives we attach great importance to long-term impact, transparency and credibility. Commitment to culture and sport Education/ Science © Aleksandar Savić Through our cooperation with the Frankfurt University of Applied Sciences, we sponsor 54 places in the Bachelor study programmes “Real Estate and Facility Management” and “Real Estate and Integral As a corporate citizen, Messe Frankfurt makes a valuable Building Technology”. contribution to enhancing the cultural and sporting attractiveness of the Rhine-Main region through long-term partnerships. And every two years, the Luminale joint project is a unique festival of light and urban design that builds a bridge between the city and the exhibition centre. Our Corporate Social Responsiblity priorities 10 Environment/Sustainability Commitment to Culture and Sport In the field of Environment/Sustainability we are implementing Commitment to Culture at Messe Frankfurt is expressed numerous measures to conserve resources and protect our in cooperation and support for cultural institutions and events. environment, such as systematic energy management and the Our focus is on the fields of art and music. For many years, resource-saving development of our exhibition grounds. we have sponsored the Schirn Kunsthalle in Frankfurt as well as the Rheingau Music Festival. Every year, the Mainova Social Responsibility Frankfurt Marathon, one of the most popular races in Germany, ends in the Festhalle on our exhibition grounds as part of For Messe Frankfurt, Social Responsibility begins at home. a long-standing, strong partnership. Messe Frankfurt is the We see ourselves as a reliable partner – around the world main sponsor of this event. and on our own doorstep. We support social institutions at our business locations and offer better-than-average working Education/Science conditions. Education/Science is an area in which Messe Frankfurt has been taking specific, long-term steps – for example with its endowment of the Bachelor study programmes “Real Estate and Facility Management” and “Real Estate and Integral Building Technology” at Frankfurt University of Applied Sciences (Frankfurt UAS). 100% © Aleksandar Savić Environment/ Sustainability In the field of Environment/Sustainability we are implementing numerous measures Social Responsibility to conserve resources and protect our environment. For example, we operate three solar power systems and the ex­­­­­hi­ bition grounds is supplied with 100 percent Through a series of measures, we are committed to green power. improving the quality of life of people and communities worldwide. These include projects with the children’s aid organisation Children for a Better World e.V. in Frankfurt and various charity organisations in Argentina, China, India and the UK. 11 Incorporating sustainability within the company Energy management 2020 – action plan enters the next round In 2007, Messe Frankfurt began to systematically record and Announced last year, since 1 January a reality: the Frankfurt analyse the consumption data for the exhibition grounds within exhibition venue now obtains 100 percent of its power the scope of its energy management. This was the first of many supply from renewable energy sources, thus saving around additional steps directed at comprehensively analysing the 19,000 tonnes of CO2 annually. Our photovoltaic systems also energy requirements of the exhibition grounds in a transparent produce climate-friendly energy from solar power. During the manner and introducing targeted measures to sustainably past financial year, we harvested around two GWh of solar practise and further develop energy management. Since 2014, electricity at our exhibition grounds. our energy team – made up of the Executive Board, Vice Presidents and Heads of Department – has defined Messe Frankfurt’s We are consistently pursuing our goal to sustainably reduce energy goals. This policy is further developed by our energy the base load at the exhibition grounds by ten percent. In manager, whose job it is to effectively implement these measaddition to optimising the energy efficiency of our facilities ures company-wide. and their operation, we are planning in a next step to introduce an energy-saving campaign aimed at further increasing awareness among all colleagues and service providers for the issue of energy efficiency. “Every percent of power that we use responsibly and based on our needs is reflected positively in our ecological footprint and financial performance. Thanks to the untiring and at the same time meticulous efforts of the energy management © Messe Frankfurt — Pietro Sutera team, paired with the growing amount of energy we produce ourselves, Messe Frankfurt has reduced its annual energy consumption by four GWh.” Uwe Behm member of Messe Frankfurt’s Executive Board Incorporating sustainability within the company 12 Networking for the benefit of the Successful recycling management climate and energy efficiency In keeping with the concept of the circular economy, waste Messe Frankfurt is a member of the Business Energy Efficiency materials from the Frankfurt exhibition grounds are recycled Network. For us, meeting with other companies from the region or energetically recovered. Messe Frankfurt recycles up to is an important platform for exchanging information on topics 90 percent of its waste. Waste consultants are on hand at our related to energy efficiency. The network was initiated by events to give advice on waste avoidance and disposal during ­Mainova AG together with the Frankfurt Chamber of Industry stand construction times. All of our exhibitors pay an environand Commerce, and the platform was established in 2017 by mental impact fee linked to the amount of square meterage they Hesse’s Minister of Economics Tarek Al Wazir. It currently occupy. counts 14 renowned corporates from the Rhine-Main region as its members. These companies have all committed to driving Messe Frankfurt has had an efficient waste management the success of the energy transition through optimised pro­ ­system in place since the early 1990s. This early commitment cesses and projects. The German Energy Agency (dena) selected was revolutionary in the German exhibition sector back then. the Business Energy Efficiency Network from among all nationIn 1991, Messe Frankfurt entrusted its waste disposal operations wide energy efficiency networks and presents it in a brochure as to a private waste disposal company with a state-of-the-art sorta best practice example. ing plant, Meinhardt Städtereinigung GmbH & Co. KG, which remains its partner to this day. The company is certified in accordance with Germany’s Ordinance on Specialised Waste Management Companies (“Entsorgungsfachbetriebeverordnung“) and DIN EN ISO 9001:2015. In addition, the company is subject to control by the Darmstadt Regional Administrative Council (“Regierungspräsidium”). A further partner is Frankfurter Ent­sorgungsund Service GmbH (FES) municipal waste disposal company. © shutterstock.com Messe Frankfurt has set itself the goal of helping to achieve the climate targets through optimised 19,000 t processes and projects. By obtaining our power supply from renewable energy sources, we save around 19,000 tonnes of CO2 annually. Our photovoltaic systems also produce climate-friendly energy from solar power. Incorporating sustainability within the company 13 E-waste collection drive on Sustainable onboarding World Environment Day For our colleagues at our British subsidiary Messe Frankfurt UK, 5 June 2019 was Global Exhibition Day and World Environment environmentally responsible behaviour plays a massively imporDay, reason enough for our colleagues at Messe Frankfurt India tant role not only in their day-to-day business activities, but to raise awareness with a campaign that helps industries and also for the organisation of events such as Automechanika individuals take a greener approach to their CO2 emissions. As in ­Birmingham. For example, the issue of sustainability is already part of this initiative, during the campaign week they collected anchored in the onboarding process for new employees. In electronic waste that was beyond repair and made sure that the ­addition to responsible procurement of products and materials, old parts were disposed of at authorised collection points for the subsidiary’s sustainability policy includes recycling managerecycling and further processing. Many people are unaware ment, e-mobility and a range of local social initiatives. The of the enormous damage scrap electronic equipment can cause ­ col­leagues regularly meet up in order to add further improveto people and nature if not disposed of properly. ments or new initiatives to their action plan. © Messe Frankfurt Setting a good example of how to dispose of electronic scrap properly. For a week, our colleagues from the subsidiary in India collected electronic waste. Incorporating sustainability within the company 14 Everything’s green, flowering and buzzing – With the sleeping trees, the diversity of the 890 or so trees ecosystem diversity at our exhibition grounds at the Frankfurt exhibition grounds has become even greater. In addition to chestnuts, red oaks, lime trees, robinias, hornIn their sixth year at the exhibition grounds, our bees feel right beams, plane trees, wild pears and pines, there are also tulip at home. The 12 bee colonies survived the winter well and are trees and catalpa, as well as pagoda tress and dawn redwoods. now busy collecting pollen on the exhibition grounds and in the surrounding neighbourhood and reproducing. The selection There aren’t many cities in Germany that can boast their own of plants for them to feed on has grown somewhat, with our vineyard within the city limits. As a small nod to the “Lohrberger colleagues who are responsible for cultivating the grounds never Hang” or “Lohrberg Slope” in the city district of Seckbach, tiring of finding a spot to plant something new. For example, which belongs to the famous Rheingau wine-growing region, eight Persian silk trees, or “sleeping trees” (Albizia julibrissin) our colleagues have planted 244 vines on the exhibition now enrich the variety of trees found at the Frankfurt exhibition grounds. The saplings have been planted in the Agora open grounds. The sleeping tree belongs to the Mimosa family and space; to the west of the Torhaus and along the fences at is native to south-western and eastern Asia. It gets its name from the South Entrance, the 14 stately old vines are already bearing its special characteristics: to protect itself, it rolls up its leaves fruit. Varietals were chosen that are easy to cultivate and not only at night, but also in dry weather conditions and thus do not have to be sprayed. adopts a kind of “sleeping position”. We are confident that the flowering trees with their colourful blossoms will flourish in the increasingly warm and dry summers in Frankfurt. 12 © Messe Frankfurt There are 12 bee colonies on the exhibition grounds. The selection of plants for them to feed on has grown somewhat, with our colleagues who are responsible for cultivating the grounds never tiring of finding a spot to plant something new. Incorporating sustainability within the company 15 Speedy and environmentally friendly Messe Frankfurt promotes electromobility access to every event across the entire exhibition grounds The Frankfurt exhibition centre lies right in the heart of the city 22 recharging points for electric vehicles are available at the and is easily accessible via all major traffic routes. The Messe exhibition grounds and the car parks. There are plans to install suburban railway (S-Bahn) station in the middle of the exhi­ a further 34 recharging points by 2022. bition grounds, the underground (U-Bahn) and tram stops at the City Entrance / Festhalle and the proximity to Frankfurt Messe Frankfurt’s in-house fleet relies on a mix of different Central Station take the strain off private transport and provide energy sources, with the first electric service car being con­venient and environmentally friendly transport links to and acquired­in 2011. At our Accente subsidiary, a good 25 percent from the exhibition grounds for our customers and guests. of the fleet of 60 vehicles now have green credentials. With up to 300 events a year, this means that many delivery trips for The combined admission ticket to our own events at the services such as stand catering, gastronomy or rental equip­Frankfurt venue includes admission to the trade fair and free ment can be made across the exhibition grounds environmenuse of local public transport within the entire tariff zone. tally soundly and with a small CO2 footprint. The combined admission ticket was introduced in 2002. 2,694,311 km Since 2007, Messe Frankfurt customers have also been able to travel emission-free with Deutsche Bahn. In 2019, guests who took advantage of the DB event ticket clocked up 2,694,311 passenger kilometres with 100 percent green electricity. recharging points are available for customers and Messe Frankfurt service vehicles. Incorporating sustainability within the company 16 A certified bicycle-friendly company Climate-neutral travel For many of our colleagues, cycling to work not only contribSince 2019, our colleagues from Messe Frankfurt Istanbul have utes to protecting the climate, but also helps them to keep fit. been flying carbon-neutrally on their business trips. The CO2 As an employer, Messe Frankfurt encourages this and provides emissions are offset by planting trees. 338 saplings were the necessary resources at the exhibition grounds. For this planted in 2019. It is planned to continue the initiative indefiini­tiative, it received the bike + business award in 2017. The nitely. Bicycle working group founded by employees promotes the further development of the bicycle-friendly infrastructure at the exhibition grounds. Last autumn, Messe Frankfurt organised a round table with certified bicycle-friendly companies from Frankfurt and the region, making it the first company in Hesse to actively host an event promoting cycling mobility. Seven renowned companies from the region, which between them represent tens of thousands of potential cyclists among their employees, accepted the invitation. Further companies are to be included in the network going forward. The cross-company working group initiative was also welcomed by the German Bicycle Club ADFC Hessen (Allgemeiner Deutscher Fahrrad-Club Frankfurt am Main e.V.). © Aleksandar Savić Messe Frankfurt initiated a first meeting with certified bicycle-friendly companies from the Rhine-Main region. 17 Messe Frankfurt as an employer – diversity and teamwork Messe Frankfurt is regularly rated among Germany’s top To improve the compatibility of work and family life, we cooperemployers (independent survey conducted by the national ate with a family service that provides our employees with current affairs magazine Focus). Over the past ten years, our competent assistance. In emergencies, employees are offered workforce has grown from over 1,600 to around 2,600 worldback-up care (emergency care and/or holiday programme, wide today. Diversity plays an important role in our company, a total of 15 days a year). The company also offers support at our events and among our employees. At our headquarters when family care time is taken up. in Frankfurt alone, our workforce is made up of 28 nationalities. This cultural and linguistic diversity, coupled with value-driven Friday is Family Day at practices across the corporate group, are major strengths for Messe Frankfurt’s long-term success. Messe Frankfurt Korea Ltd. Every Friday our Korean colleagues can start into the weekend By offering better-than-average working conditions and a good and go home to their family and friends two hours earlier. The work-life balance, Messe Frankfurt hopes its employees choose Family Day was introduced in 2017 in order to further improve to stay with the group for the long term. Job security, overtime work-life balance. Initially, the Family Day was limited to once pay, flexible working hours and working time models such as a month, which was extended to twice a month in 2018. part-time work and working from home, as well as a company Despite the reduced working hours, efficiency has increased pension plan, are part of an extensive benefits scheme. Messe during the past three years and job satisfaction is significantly Frankfurt will continue to develop this agile working concept. higher. So in September of last year our Korean subsidiary decided that, going forward, Fridays would always be Family Our remuneration system is transparent; fair pay when it comes Day. to salary is a given. As well as additional pay-scale benefits, we offer our workforce a number of voluntary fringe benefits. One that has become firmly established is an employee assistance programme, an external advisory service that offers individual counselling and support with professional and personal matters, as well as in problem and crisis situations. Top employer Better-than-average working conditions and a good work-life balance characterise Messe Frankfurt as an employer. Messe Frankfurt as an employer 18 More women in management positions Competence-based at the Frankfurt home venue training management Top-tier management positions at Messe Frankfurt are increasAs the major game changer of our century, digitalisation is ingly being filled by women. As at 31 October 2019, the proportransforming the economy and society and does not stop at tion of women at the top level below the Executive Board was qualification requirements in job profiles and at the workplace. 20 percent, at Vice President level 29.4 percent. Thus the targets set by the Executive Board for management level II As an employer, Messe Frankfurt responds to rapidly changing (senior management and III (Vice President), of 17 and 15 percustomer and business requirements and places the focus on cent respectively, were exceeded. individual and needs-based staff qualification. The company has also implemented competence-based training management for Overall, the proportion of women in management positions employees and management staff – known as Messe Frankfurt at the Frankfurt venue stands at 37 percent (2019). Dialogue. Each employee receives targeted and continuous in-service training in line with their respective area of responsiThe 20 percent target for the Supervisory Board of Messe bility and thus gains additional or completely new qualifications. Frankfurt was reached on 31 October 2019. This professional and personal support contributes to the business success of the company and also strengthens the corporate identity of the group. The fluctuation rate in the company has been extremely low for many years and currently stands at around four percent. This is a sign that our employees feel comfortable in their working environment. With the new Learning and Development Center, Messe Frankfurt invested in two new large training rooms directly on site last year. Modern and functionally equipped, some 300 square metres of space provides ideal conditions for different formats, from seminars and workshops to team development. A large foyer, a kitchenette and work islands ensure a comfortable ambience. © Messe Frankfurt – Petra Welzel 37 percent The proportion of women in management positions at the Frankfurt venue stands at 37 percent (2019). Messe Frankfurt as an employer 19 Today’s trainees are tomorrow’s specialists University studies paired with As a company that hires trainees, Messe Frankfurt offers young hands-on professional experience people a wide choice of development options. We offer vocaAt Messe Frankfurt, students in the fields of construction mantional training in six different professions and dual courses of agement and IT management can deepen their theoretical study. We currently have 29 young trainees. Towards the end knowledge through hands-on practical experience. Employing of the summer, they will be joined by around ten more. Almost student trainees is a great way of promoting qualified young 100 percent of our trainees are subsequently hired on a permatalent from within our own ranks. This enables us to counter nent basis. the acute shortage of specialised staff and show students from both study areas that Messe Frankfurt also presents interesting We have also committed to the training code of the event job opportunities for technically-oriented students. Conversely, industry https://100pro.org/, which advocates concrete quality our company also benefits from the current scientific insights standards for companies and universities and makes the correof our student trainees. sponding quality of training transparent and visible. Since the winter semester 2018/2019 we have also cooperated New dual course of study in the area of finance with a university at our home venue. With an endowment With the Bachelor of Arts “RSW – Accounting & Controlling” sum totalling a quarter of a million euros, Messe Frankfurt spona new study option has been on offer at Messe Frankfurt since sors 54 study places on the Bachelor study programmes “Real last autumn. This aims to attract specialised junior staff for all Estate and Facility Management” and “Real Estate and Integral departments in the finance sector. Building Technology” at Frankfurt University of Applied Sciences (Frankfurt UAS). In addition to the tried and tested Bachelor of Arts degree course with a specialisation in trade fair, congress and event management and a Bachelor of Science degree, we also provide training in business information systems with a speciali­ sation in application management. © Messe Frankfurt — Marc Jacquemin As a company that hires trainees, we offer young people a wide choice of development options. Almost all trainees are hired permanently. Messe Frankfurt as an employer 20 Frontdays – As in the past 15 years, Messe Frankfurt’s Messe Vital occu­ through the eyes of our service providers pational health programme helped to promote a healthy lifestyle through tried and tested and new measures in the year Frontdays took place for the fourth time within the scope of the under review. For the first time, employees were given the Ambiente consumer fair. During major events at the Frankfurt opportunity to participate in a workshop on the topic of “visual exhibition centre, our colleagues can slip into the role of our cognitive training”. The professional Corporate Running workservice partners. For a day or a few hours, they perform one of out programme was continued, with colleagues taking part in around 15 jobs provided by our service providers, for example the JP Morgan Run and the Mainova Frankfurt Marathon. waste consultant, cloakroom attendant, stand constructor, ­traffic officer, security patrol, at the information desk or in the uniform store. A new addition this year are activities in our Campaigns with the German Red Cross ­Operation & Security Center. The change of perspective gives Through a regular blood donation campaign we can all help colleagues an opportunity to assess how we can optimise work to save lives. Once again, this was organised at our first aid processes and structures or even compensate for any defects. post in the Operation & Security Center in cooperation with Their appraisals are collected, analysed and the findings are the German Red Cross and with the active participation of our used to further optimise our customer service at the Frankfurt colleagues. venue. Frontdays are part of a wide-ranging catalogue of mea­ sures that form part of our “Heartaffairs” initiative established Training courses for company first responders are also offered in 2008 with the aim to continuously improve Messe Frankunder the guidance of the German Red Cross. 162 first re­spondfurt’s customer friendliness. ers are registered at Messe Frankfurt GmbH. That is a higher rate than is required by the law, which stipulates that only ten Promoting healthcare percent of the employees on site must be qualified as first responders. For Messe Frankfurt, with around 986 (2019) Occupational health and safety are key elements of our health employees at the Frankfurt venue, this would equate to 90 em­­ management. Messe Frankfurt creates the conditions for ployees. The fees for the course are borne by the employer’s a healthy workplace with a wide range of measures. For examliability insurance association, however only up to the legally ple, we offer employees regular Health Days, free flu vaccinastipulated quota. All costs over and above that are assumed tions as well as colorectal cancer screening. Colleagues who by our company. are unfit to work for a longer period of time receive support through the company’s occupational rehabilitation programme. Messe Vital First responder courses © Messe Frankfurt Health Day Promoting healthcare Donating blood During major events at the Frontdays: Frankfurt exhibition centre, our swapping roles colleagues can slip into the role Corporate Running of our service partners. For a day or a few hours during Frontdays, they perform one of around Healthy work – 15 jobs provided by our service mindfulness providers, for example waste in the workplace consultant, cloakroom attendant, stand con­structor or traffic officer. 21 Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood With children. For children! Running for a good cause Within the scope of our partnership with Children for a Better 41 of our 100 colleagues in Mumbai took part in the TATA World e.V., Messe Frankfurt supports socially disadvantaged Mumbai Marathon on 19 January in support of the initiative children and teenagers. We sponsor a participating facility in of Habitat for Humanity India. The non-profit organisation, the immediate vicinity of the exhibition grounds through an a member of Habitat for Humanity International, supports annual donation. In the multi-generational house, there low-income families and assists them with affordable housing is a free daily lunch followed by homework supervision. And and sanitary facilities. It supports families in Karjat, Raigad in the run-up to Christmas, our colleagues dip into their own District of Maharashtra, that belong to the Katkari people. pockets to fulfil the wishes of the 40 or so children cared for at the childcare facility. Messe Frankfurt has partnered the children’s aid organisation for ten years now. Children for a Better World e.V. was founded in 1994 under the motto “With children. For children!”. It supports around 250 projects annually, reaching more than 10,000 children and young people worldwide. © Messe Frankfurt © Messe Frankfurt Within the scope of our partnership with Children for a Better World e.V., we support socially disadvantaged children and teenagers at a facility in the immediate vicinity of the exhibition grounds. Our Indian colleagues support of the initiative of Habitat for Humanity India by taking part in the TATA Mumbai Marathon. Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood 22 Mastering the future through education Small aids with a big impact Education is the key to a better life. That’s why Messe Frankfurt NASEOH India, National Society For Equal Opportunities For India is providing financial assistance for the schooling of chilthe Handicapped, has given itself the task of helping people dren from the Spark-A-Change Foundation (Lokhandwala and with disabilities to integrate into society by providing extensive Oshiwara Center) for the years 2019/2020. The Spark-A-Change opportunities for rehabilitation. Thanks to the financial support Foundation (SAC) is based in Mumbai. It was born out of the of our Indian colleagues, an additional 200 mobility aids, such conviction that meaningful literacy enables every child, regardas walking sticks, wheelchairs, prostheses, etc. were provided less of socio-economic strata, to access quality education and for people with disabilities. The aids are produced directly at to realise and maximise their potential. NASEOH by people with physical impairments, thus promoting employment and independence at the same time. © Aleksandar Savić Our subsidiary in India sponsors organi­ sations that offer local communities new long-term perspectives through targeted measures. Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood 23 A Christmas Eve for all The “Mochi” project The solidarity project “Nochebuena para Todos” (Christmas A school satchel that is crammed with everything children need Eve for all) has a special significance. It was initiated by the and also gives a great deal of pleasure – thanks to the “Mochi” non-governmental organisation (NGO) of the same name and project. The initiative was launched in 2016 with the aim to prohas been cooperating for many years with Caritas. At Christvide children from low-income families with all the materials mas, the initiative delivers food, clothing and other gifts to they need for their respective grade at the beginning of the families in extreme poverty, some of whom also live in remote school year. The satchels are passed on anonymously to the regions. parents by the social workers of the districts. The children are For our colleagues in the Argentine subsidiary, this involvement not aware that they have been donated. Colleagues from in the initiative is a beautiful way to revive the original spirit Messe Frankfurt Argentina participated in this campaign for the of the Christmas celebration. first time. © Mochi © Messe Frankfurt © Messe Frankfurt Help that reaches people: our Argentine colleagues help in many ways to improve the lives of disadvantaged people. Nochebuena para Todos (Christmas Eve for all) Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood 24 Charity bike ride: peddle and collect Small packages, big effect With a length of 160 kilometres, the Prudential RideLondon At Christmas, our colleagues from the British subsidiary through the British capital and Surrey Hills is quite gruelling. brought joy to elderly people, above all those on their own. In August of last year, three colleagues from our British sub­ Filled with useful everyday items, the lovingly packed C­ hristmas sidiary, along with around another 25,000 amateur cyclists, boxes were delivered to local retirement and care homes. took on this sporting challenge. The cycling team’s goal was to The campaign is an initiative of all the employees in the comraise money for the Mind mental health charity organisation. plex where our subsidiary has its offices. Having raised a total of 2,000 pounds, the colleagues from Messe Frankfurt UK now have the motivation they need to take Support for Hong Kong’s new art and culture on the next 300 km challenge. festival Prudential RideLondon is the biggest cycling festival in the In November of last year Tai Kwun, Centre for Heritage and world, attracting more than 100,000 cyclists. Apart from the Arts, hosted “Projekt Berlin”, Hong Kong’s new art and culture world’s top pro racing bikers, many amateur cyclists also festival. Visitors were offered unique insights into the diverse take part, spurred on by the additional incentive of collecting spectrum of Berlin’s cultural landscape through classical and money for a good cause. According to the organiser, the contemporary art froms. Messe Frankfurt was happy to sponsor event has raised more than 66 million pounds since 2013. the project, not least because our Messe Frankfurt H. K. celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2019 and like this was able to underscore its commitment to the socio-economic development of the greater Chinese region. © Messe Frankfurt pounds was raised through © Messe Frankfurt the charity bike ride. 2,000 The gifts are packed and waiting to be distributed to retirement and care homes. 25 Sustainability at our events Efficiency and security for tomorrow’s urban spaces By 2030 – according to estimates by the United Nations – five The use of digital technologies makes cities safer and more billion people will be living in more than 40 metropolitan secure, more efficient and more sustainable and enables agglomerations and newly emerging mega-cities. In Europe, far-reaching and energy-efficient innovations for facility planthe urban population is predicted to increase to around 80 perning, equipment and maintenance. Knowledge about and intercent by 2050. Urbanisation in the context of climate change connectivity with these forward-looking technologies is also and a shortage of space and resources are presenting new becoming increasingly relevant in the development, operation challenges for urban planners and developers. Innovative techand marketing of real estate. Representing the interests of its nological and interconnected building services technology will cus­tomers, Messe Frankfurt maintains a network of strong partplay a decisive role in the urban living space with its horizontal nerships with associations and other enterprises and builds and vertical movements. One solution to the urbanisation probnew ones, such as the new strategic partnership with Builtlem is the smart city concept. Intelligent building automation, world, an initiative for a European platform of companies and for example, can save up to 20 to 30 percent of the energy experts from the construction and real estate industry. This has requirement and, as a consequence, CO2 emissions. When it set ­itself the goal to drive innovation in the real estate sector comes to implementing the climate targets, smart lighting and and actively shape the built world of tomorrow. smart mobility play an important role. Flagship trade fairs showcasing smart building automation, intelligent energy management and networked security technology offer their global industries and experts important platforms for discussing global challenges and converting them into marketable solutions. The leading international trade fairs ISH and Light + Building are two of the most important events in this sector. © Messe Frankfurt — Jens Liebchen © Messe Frankfurt — Jens Liebchen Constant innovation is an integral part of building technology. Sustainability at our events 26 Cost-effective solar power Environmental management and support In many parts of the globe, photovoltaics is the most cost-effor a civil society organisation fective way of generating electricity and as an added bonus it’s Within the scope of the Argentina Oil & Gas Expo, one of climate-friendly, too. Above all in Africa the demand for power, Argentina’s largest events, the colleagues from our Argentine and for solar power in particular, is growing at a rapid pace. subsidiary once again supported the “La Rural Recicla” recy­ Forecasts predict that by 2030 nearly 30 percent of the electric cling project. After the close of the fair, and with the help of power in countries south of the Sahara will be generated using the exhibiting companies, 18.5 tonnes of recyclable material solar energy, corresponding to around 30 gigawatts. The Afriand items of furniture made from iron, wood, carpeting, glass can Development Bank (AfDB) recently presented a new financand metals were collected. The material was donated to the ing programme for small plants for energy production from Compromiso Foundation. From the recycled materials, the renewable sources. institute “13 de Julio”, the technical high school no. 10 “Fray Luis Beltrán” and the organisation “Sol y Verde” create didacIn partnership with the international event organisers SNEC PV tic toys and furniture, among other items.. Power Expo and Solar Power Events, Messe Frankfurt is this year for the first time organising Solar Power Africa. The twoday event focuses on creating an environment where leading experts and solution providers can exchange ideas, knowledge and expertise for furthering solar power and renewable energy development in Africa. Solar Power Africa is one of five events altogether in Messe Frankfurt’s Environmental Technology portfolio. With our environmental trade fairs and congress formats, we promote international networking between producers, users and public authorities. . In many parts of the globe, climate-friendly photovoltaics is the most cost-effective way of generating electricity. Sustainability at our events 27 Together we are strong – greater sustainability Neonyt – hub for sustainable fashion in the textile industry The Sustainable Development Goals were introduced for the Within the scope of its Texpertise Network, Messe Frankfurt first time last year at the leading international platform for supports the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. The Sussustainable fashion, Neonyt, where the Conscious Fashion tainable Development Goals are to be presented successively Campaign was presented. The initiative, in collaboration with at the approximately 60 textile events in order to highlight the the United Nations Office for Partnerships, engages global most urgent challenges facing the textile and fashion industry industry events to commit to the achievement of the Sustain­ worldwide. Messe Frankfurt’s global textile network provides able Development Goals. Messe Frankfurt has been consistthe ideal platforms to generate awareness for greater sustainaently developing Neonyt as an international hub for fashion, bility in the textile industry. Our events cover the entire value sustain­ability and innovation for more than ten years. Today, chain of the textile industry and attract more than 23,000 comthe event is not just Europe’s biggest platform for sustainable panies and 600,000 trade visitors every year. Discussion fashion. Flanked by the Fashionsustain conference, it combines rounds, talks, interactive information stands, exhibition tours the paradigms technology and innovation with sustainability and the inclusion of special actions in the trade fair proand interprets the innovation process in the fashion industry grammes are just some of the activities planned. Within the from a holistic perspective. Like this, it creates a common basis scope of the Texpertise Network, Messe Frankfurt has cooperfor all stakeholders and decision makers from trade and indusated since 2019 with the Conscious Fashion Campaign and try, science and politics. In some 50 keynote addresses, panel the United Nations Office for Partnerships. discussions and masterclasses, the Neonyt Fashionsustain conference in January focused on the central theme of “Air”. Neonyt’s comprehensive sustainability concept runs like a green thread throughout the entire event, from the exhibited brands and fashion labels, through to waste avoidance and sustainable catering. For the past year or so, waste materials have been sorted and recycled by our cooperation partner. Thus the winter edition of Neonyt 2020 alone, held at the former Tempelhof Airport, distributed 1.4 tonnes of material to Berlin initiatives in the areas of social engagement, art, culture and sustainability. By the way: the Fashionsustain conference is going global. It took place last year with additional spin-offs within the scope of the LA Fashion Festival in Los Angeles, in Shanghai at Intertextile Shanghai Apparel Fabrics and as part of Futures Modaportugal. Fashionsustain also made a first guest appearance at ISPO in Munich. This cooperation between the leading trade fairs in their respective areas is a first and a strong signal to continue promoting sustainability topics in their various sectors. © Messe Frankfurt — Pietro Sutera “Digitalisation and sustainability are currently having a significant impact on the global textile industry. We have been following this development under the umbrella of our Texpertise Network for over ten years. It is therefore only logical that we should actively integrate the Sustainable Development Goals into our textile events and by doing so raise awareness for greater sustainability Detlef Braun in the textile industry.” member of Messe Frankfurt’s Executive Board Sustainability at our events 28 Beyond the actual event itself, the Neonyt team is campaigning Guest of honour at Heimtextil in January was Lucie Brigham, for change in the fashion industry. Within the scope of Fashion Chief of Office, United Nations Office for Partnerships, who Revolution Week, one of the largest international movements explained about the Sustainable Development Goals and the for a fairer fashion industry, the colleagues from the Neonyt collaboration with Heimtextil. The topics sustainable developtrade fair team participated in the online campaign, in line with ment and strategies in trade and industry were also addressed the Neonyt motto “The Change of Fashion is now”. in lectures and panel discussions with UN participation. Sustainable production and action Silkworm breeding – becomes a constant continued support for the initiative Sustainable products and durability are also becoming increas“Proyecto Seda” is a Latin American initiative aimed at promotingly relevant for products in the home furnishing and textiles ing silkworm breeding (production and breeding of the Bombyx segment. As the leading trade fair for this sector, Heimtextil is mori silk moth) through a sustainable approach and with local increasing the industry’s commitment to sustainability through added value. At our Emitex textile trade fair, colleagues from a number of measures. In its tenth edition published in January, our Messe Frankfurt Argentina subsidiary dedicated a special the Green Directory listed more sustainably producing exhi­ show space to the initiative, giving it an opportunity to present bitors at Heimtextil than ever before. In this respect, Heimtextil its work and the various stages of silkworm breeding, through has always been and still is a step ahead of the industry. The to finished products, to a broad specialist audience. This artipoint of contact for innovations and changes throughout the sanal activity can be carried out in family businesses and does value chain at the leading international trade fair is the Green not require specialised skills, large cultivation areas or special Village sustainability area. Through intelligent material choices, technology. the Heimtextil Trend Space also demonstrated how it is possible to create an immersive space with a minimal ecological footprint. Just as progressively sustainable within this space was the approach of the new Future Materials Library, where visitors were able to explore the nature and production methods of innovative materials, for example featuring natural elements such as cultivated mycelium, algae and nettles. © Messe Frankfurt — Jean Luc Valentin © Messe Frankfurt — Jean Luc Valentin Green Tour Heimtextil The Sustainable Development Goals are to be presented successively at the approximately 60 textile events in order to highlight the most urgent challenges facing the textile and fashion industry worldwide. Sustainability at our events 29 In Argentina there are in the meantime around 50 silk producers In 2020, as many as 314 exhibitors from 49 countries showspread across the entire Pampas, Misiones, Jujuy and Buenos cased products manufactured in accordance with fair and Aires regions. The related income is around 60,000 dollars per socially acceptable criteria, an increase of 66 over the previous season. year. Proyecto Seda was set up in 2016 by the Argentine INTI At Ambiente the collaboration was continued with the global (National Institute for Industrial Technology) with the support of initiative of the United Nations High Commissioner for ­Refugees the EU in order to foster cooperation in a spirit of partnership. (UNHCR), which teams up with business partners to help refuThe project aims to promote economic growth and improve the gee artisans establish a future-proof new livelihood. Handcrafted quality of life in rural and suburban areas of a number of Latin home decorations and fashion items were presented to a broad American and Caribbean countries. Six countries and eight international audience at the MADE 51 special show. Latin American institutions are participating in the project. A UNHCR panel discussion about the initiative was held in the According to INTI, the EU will continue to sponsor the initiative context of the Ambiente Academy, at which eligible projects with 500,000 euros in 2020. from around the world were able to present their products to the press. Consumer goods with a focus At the stand of the World Fair Trade Organization (WFTO),­ on sustainability v­ isitors were able to inform themselves about the work of the Responsible and fair has long become more than just a trend ­ global community at first hand. The organisation promotes fair in the consumer goods sector. Consumers are becoming more trade worldwide by developing alternative business models. aware and critical of what they are buying and are scrutinising the value chain. At Ambiente, the leading international trade fair for the consumer goods industry, exhibiting companies that manufacture in accordance with ecological and socially compatible criteria are listed in a separate booklet, the Ethical Style Guide. This has proven to be a valuable instrument for the zeitgeistand future-oriented retail sector. Clearly defined benchmarks for retailers include environmentally friendly material, resource-saving manufacture, fair and socially acceptable production, recycling or upcycling design, artisanal crafts and ­sustainable innovation. Which companies and products are included is decided by a jury of independent experts. © Messe Frankfurt — Jean Luc Valentin © Messe Frankfurt — Petra Welzel 314/49 + 66 Exhibitors at Ambiente included 314 com­ panies from 49 countries that manufacture in accordance with clearly defined ecological and socially compatible criteria. This was 66 more than the previous year. Sustainability at our events 30 In focus: the green office Creativeworld exhibitors make donations Resource-saving processing and recycled products, together to the Frankfurt Children’s Office with ecologically sound action, are core topics in the paper, Creativeworld, the leading international trade fair for hobby, office supplies and stationery sector. As a reflection of the arts and crafts supplies, together with Paperworld and Christindustry, Paperworld, the leading international trade fair for masworld, is the international meeting place for the respective paper, office supplies and stationery, is increasingly focusing on industries in January. For the past 12 years, Creativeworld and sustainable and environmentally friendly products. Exhibitors the Frankfurt Children’s Office have been encouraging exhibiwith a good track record in this area are listed in the Green tors to donate craft and creative products at the end of the Directory. The Sustainable Office Day, with its specialist lecevent. 111 national and international exhibitors again took part tures, is dedicated to sustainable products and environmentally in this year’s “Creative Aid” campaign and donated paints, conscious purchasing. The Paperworld team is supported by canvasses, easels, paper, pens and glue. Messe Frankfurt made B.A.U.M. e.V. (German Environmental Management Association) a stand at Creativeworld available to the Frankfurt Children’s as a long-standing cooperation partner. Ecology in the workOffice free of charge, allowing it to make direct contact with place is an issue for the future because it not only serves to exhibitors. At the beginning of March, the donations were protect and preserve the environment, but also goes hand in ­distributed to more than 50 institutions across Frankfurt. The hand with economic considerations. campaign benefits more than 3,000 Frankfurt children and young people from socially disadvantaged neighbourhoods At Paperworld, the Agency for Renewable Resources (Fach­ annually. Each year, the donated materials are transformed into agentur Nachwachsende Rohstoffe e.V. – FNR), the lead partner pictures, collages and objects that are exhibited in the Children’s of the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture, explained the Art exhibition. These small works of art are put on display at the connection between product selection and climate. The Forest Frankfurt Children’s Office and can be purchased for a donaStewardship Council (FSC) informs companies about the requiretion. Children’s Art 2020 focuses on Article 24 of the UN ments for FSC certification for paper products and sustainable Children’s Rights Convention, which states that healthcare for packaging. children and young people should be as good as possible. Children’s Art 2021, which will arise from this year’s donations, will focus on Articles 28 and 29 of the UN Children’s Rights Convention. Article 28 deal with the right to education and vocational training and Article 29 deals with the goals of education and educational institutions. © Messe Frankfurt — Jens Liebchen © Messe Frankfurt Retailers and manufacturers from all segments of the paper, office supplies and stationery sector are increasingly 3,000 focusing on sustainable and environmentally friendly products. More than 3,000 children and young people from socially disadvantaged neighbourhoods benefit from the campaign for donations annually. In 2020, their small and larger works of art have as a motto “Children’s health”. Sustainability at our events 31 Support for Macau charity organisation Hypermotion – pioneering role In the context of the three trade fairs Toy & Edu China, in protecting the climate Baby & Stroller China and Licensing China, our colleagues from Together, all modes of transport account for nearly 20 percent our Hong Kong subsidiary supported a charity organisation in of global CO2 emissions, making them responsible for a fifth Macau. In partnership with the Nam Kwong Culture and Creaof all emissions of greenhouse gases. Mobility and logistics tivity Industry, laptops, children’s tricycles, towels and bags are each key factors for meeting the challenges of the future. were do­nated to the Macau Tung Sin Tong Charitable Society, ­Technology drivers and experts came together for the third time which was founded in 1892. As well as providing medical at Hypermotion in order to promote the cross-modal mobility services and medicines, the society is involved among other transition and set new standards. The event in November de­mon­ things in promoting free education, childcare facilities and strated its pioneering role in protecting the climate in very practiactivity centres for older citizens. It organises an annual donacal terms. Not only is it the first trade fair in its industry to achieve tion campaign. climate-neutral status, but also the first Messe Frankfurt event. Auditors from the independent CLIMATE EXTENDER agency carried out an in-depth analysis of all relevant aspects of the event to determine its impact on the climate and calculate its CO2 footprint. To compensate for operational CO2 emissions amounting to approx. 380 tonnes, certificates have been ob­­tained from Gold Standard-certified climate protection projects aimed at achieving a sustainable reduction in greenhouse gases. © Messe Frankfurt — Jens Liebchen Ideas and solutions for mobility of tomorrow – Hypermotion networking event. Sustainability at our events 32 Small footprint Planting trees and promoting development Our colleagues from Messe Frankfurt Istanbul are supporting Again in 2019, colleagues from our subsidiary in Shanghai sustainable business activities through their “Climate-neutral ­organised a tree-planting event ahead of CAPAS, international Flying” and “Climate-neutral Exhibition” projects. At Motobike trade fair for automotive parts and aftermarket services. The Istanbul, customers’ carbon footprint was calculated on behalf CAPAS Arbour Day was organised jointly by the China Council of all exhibitors and visitors and seedlings subsequently planted for the Promotion of International Trade, the Automotive to offset the operational CO2 emissions. The calculations were ­Sub-Council (CCPIT-Auto), Messe Frankfurt Shanghai Co. Ltd. carried out by the Aegean Forest Foundation, a voluntary founand the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade, dation established with the goal of saving the forests. The founSichuan Council (CCPIT-Sichuan) and sponsored by Sichuan dation was represented with a stand at Motobike Istanbul 2020. Province. It was launched in order to promote the province’s cultural and ecological development. Road safety for children Under the umbrella of its Automechanika brand, Messe Frankfurt “Music warms the heart” – supports the charity TEILEn e.V. as a member. More than 60 charitable project in support of autism renowned companies from the independent aftermarket (IAM), During Music China 2019 last October, our colleagues – as in which includes vehicle parts manufacturers and dealers as well the previous year – organised a project for the autistic commuas independent repair shops, have set themselves the goal of nity as a way of helping people with autism. Together with proimproving road safety for children in a wide variety of projects. fessionals from the music industry and members of the autistic These include, for example, partnering with the child accident community, they put on a series of inspiring instrumental and assistance organisation Kinder-Unfallhilfe e.V. as well as with dance performances. 11 exhibiting companies donated musical the Peter Maffay Stiftung (foundation), which offers recuperative instruments, while further donations amounting to around aftercare. Established in 2000, the foundation provides thera50,000 RMB were collected at the dedicated “Love Coffee” shop peutic accident aftercare for up to 1,200 children a year at its in the exhibition grounds. shelters. © Messe Frankfurt Making music together with professionals from the music industry and members of the autistic community as a way of raising public awareness and helping people with autism. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Human rights Labour 1 the Businesses should support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Environment occupation. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Anti-corruption 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Messe Frankfurt GmbH Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Responsibility for content under German press law: Phone +49 69 7575-0 Iris Jeglitza-Moshage Editor: Claudia Lehning-Berge csr@messefrankfurt.de www.messefrankfurt.de Design and layout: one/one, Bremen/Amsterdam Illustration: Aleksandar Savi ć
