EY Global Review 2020 How will we reframe our future? Contents EY Global Chairman and CEO’s letter...................................... 03 Supporting the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals............................ 05 Creating long-term value for clients........................................ 06 Creating long-term value for people....................................... 16 The importance of Diversity and Inclusiveness ........................ 20 Creating long-term value for society....................................... 25 Amplifying our social impact through EY Ripples..................... 31 EY facts and figures.............................................................. 37 Leadership and locations....................................................... 45 EY Global Review 2020 | 2 EY Global Looking ahead, EY will continue to make large investments in digitization and technology – crucial in a COVID-19 Chairman and environment – in order to better serve clients. For EY people, creating long-term value means first and CEO’s letter foremost ensuring their safety. In early 2020 we swiftly activated travel restrictions and have since put in place comprehensive guidance around meetings, events and a safe return to EY offices. A year ago, we launched NextWave: the EY strategy and At the same time, we remain committed to enabling all ambition to create long-term value for clients, people and EY people to build the exceptional experiences they need society. Back then, nobody knew how dramatically the to succeed. world would change in 2020, with the COVID-19 pandemic and the sharpest global recession in a century creating A particular highlight this year was the launch of the EY Tech MBA by Hult International Business School — the first unprecedented challenges for individuals and society. ever fully accredited virtual corporate MBA, which is open Yet in these challenging times, NextWave has put us in to all EY people. a strong position to adapt and innovate, and our purpose We also remain committed to providing stable, high-quality of Building a Better Working World has never been jobs. Despite the disruption caused by COVID-19, this more relevant. year EY welcomed more than 76,000 new colleagues and honored our long-standing commitment to 15,000 interns Creating long-term value for stakeholders around the world. For EY clients, we create long-term value by bringing For society, EY creates long-term value through the work the whole of the EY organization to help them navigate we do every day — fostering confidence and trust in the extreme volatility. world’s capital markets, and having a positive impact on This year we developed the COVID-19 Enterprise communities and the planet. Resilience Framework, a tool to help clients evaluate their EY people also create long-term value by using EY risks and levels of preparedness to deal with the pandemic. experience, services and influence to help solve some of The Framework acts as a map not only to what businesses the world’s toughest problems. This year that included need to do now to address immediate pressures, but also organizing the world’s largest-ever hackathon to solve what they need to do next – and beyond – to help reframe a range of COVID-19-related challenges, and helping their future. the World Health Organization to coordinate supplies of Through the crisis EY teams worked across borders and personal protective equipment – for which EY’s efforts service lines to re-route clients’ supply chains, manage were recognized during Global Citizen’s ‘Together at Home’ liquidity, guide them through government stimulus concert in April. packages, and advise on the impact on stakeholders. I’m also proud that EY is the first global multi-disciplinary Now we’re holding deeper conversations with clients, professional services organization to commit to becoming around helping them innovate and build resilience for carbon neutral by the end of 2020, and that we have the financial, societal and regulatory challenges, and reaffirmed our commitment to the Ten Principles of the opportunities, beyond the pandemic. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This year, we continued to support impact entrepreneurs and young people – in many cases virtually – through the EY Ripples corporate responsibility program. As a result, we positively impacted the lives of more than 15m people. 3 | EY Global Review 2020 Looking to the future Building a better working world Like many other organizations around the world, The world will not emerge from the COVID-19 crisis the life at EY this year changed dramatically. But we were same as it entered. Yet as we start to look beyond it, well prepared. I am optimistic. The ability to look ahead, adapt and transform at speed, Over the past year EY people have demonstrated our are critical characteristics for all organizations, including values, our purpose and our culture of compassion and EY. And through NextWave, we are also responding to teaming more than ever before. I am humbled by the the current situation, planning for what’s next for EY and countless positive actions, big and small, that EY people reframing our own future. have taken to help each other, clients and society tackle the crisis. We are making bold investments in the EY organization: we have created new Technology Consultancy capabilities; The crisis has also helped more and more organizations we are expanding EY-Parthenon, which already comprises understand the broader role that they play in society, the world’s fifth-largest strategy consultancy; and and to look to what they can do to address pressing issues industrializing how we capture and scale the innovations such as environmental sustainability and taking place every day across EY locations. economic inequality. As a result of our focus on our stakeholders, EY had As we look beyond the pandemic, I believe that we can another year of strong growth with total headcount do better than returning to normal — I am confident that up to nearly 300,000 people and global revenue up 4.1% working together, we can build a better working world. to US$37.2b. Carmine Di Sibio EY Global Chairman and CEO EY Global Review 2020 | 4 Supporting the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals EY strives to adhere to the highest ethical standards, Indicative of this commitment to integrating the including in relation to protecting human rights, upholding United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles and international labor standards, protecting the environment, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) into EY and opposing bribery and corruption in all its forms. strategy, culture and operations, this year’s Global Review also doubles as the EY UNGC communication on progress. UNGC principle Report section SDG impact Human rights 1. Businesses should support Creating long-term value for and respect the protection of people internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit The importance of Diversity and in human rights abuses Inclusiveness Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Operating responsibly human bargaining; rights and labor 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a Amplifying our social impact precautionary approach to through EY Ripples environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote Operating responsibly – greater environmental responsibility; environmental sustainability and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work against Operating responsibly – corruption in all its forms, including anti-corruption corruption extortion and bribery. 5 | EY Global Review 2020 01 Creating long-term value for clients EY Global Review 2020 | 6 EY clients operate in a complex and fast-moving business environment, where they are not only addressing the changing demands of their customers, employees and other stakeholders, but also facing disruption brought on by geopolitics, trade disputes, new technologies and business models, and, this year, a global pandemic. In response to a year when things changed so much for clients, EY adapted, providing targeted solutions such as the new COVID-19 Enterprise Resilience Framework – a diagnostic tool designed to provide a methodical approach to crisis management, recovery and reinvention. We believe that as governments cautiously relax lockdown measures, leaders must look to what comes next, and be prepared to transform their organizations to the world beyond the pandemic. The COVID-19 Enterprise Resilience Framework identifies nine areas – from employee health and well-being to insurance and legal disputes – that not only support business continuity now, but help reframe an organization’s future. The Framework’s broad approach reflects EY’s commitment to bringing the whole of the EY organization to meet clients’ changing needs – providing assurance services; helping them grow and transform; and operating components of their businesses on their behalf efficiently and effectively – wherever they may be located. To continue to do this effectively EY is are developing a broader, more holistic range of services than ever before; investing in technology and data; expanding our ecosystem; industrializing how we capture and scale the innovations taking place every day across our locations; and using EY sector knowledge to deliver tailored solutions. At EY, serving clients is our passion — NextWave is helping us to do that better than ever and deliver long-term value to clients in a rapidly changing world. 7 | EY Global Review 2020 This combination of strategy, execution and operation in one organization is a unique and compelling proposition that provides clients with continuity and confidence through their transformations. This year we also launched EY Private, a new approach to providing even better service to privatelyowned businesses, entrepreneurs and their sources of private capital. How we are It brings together the full depth and breadth of experience of the EY organization via a globally connected advisor helping clients who understands the unique challenges of a privatelyowned business, and builds on EY’s legacy of advising the combat COVID-19 world’s most successful entrepreneurs, and addressing the needs of private equity, family enterprises and IPObound companies. Building new capabilities at scale Supporting EY clients’ transformations We know that beyond COVID-19, every company will need COVID-19 enterprise resilience to transform and reposition for growth and resiliency. We want to be the world’s leading transformation consultants. The EY Strategy consulting teams, This year we developed the EY-Parthenon, are already the fifth largest providers in EY Enterprise Resilience Framework to help the world with combined revenues of more than US$2b, clients prioritize what matters most for their and we will continue to grow them to help clients not just business. The framework identifies nine areas develop their strategic visions but to see them through to businesses can address to build a structured strategy execution. and comprehensive approach to crisis In many cases EY services can also help operate critical management and business resilience. functions through EY Managed Services — all part of the EY commitment to provide end-to-end services and solutions for clients. EY Global Review 2020 | 8 Creating world-class technology services Bringing together the best in technology Can digital help We want to be the world’s leading transformation one event deliver consultants. And because these days every transformation has important technology elements to it, we have launched 240 million human world-class Technology Consulting services. experiences? This will support clients’ transformation plans, through globally connected and coordinated services that bring Watch how EY India helped transform the together the best in technology from across our ecosystem world’s largest event, Kumbh Mela 2019 in of alliances and our own in-house capabilities. India, by implementing new technologies and digital interventions. We are already delivering ground-breaking blockchain projects, and we are proud that EY was ranked first among the Big Four for blockchain services by HFS, a technology analyst firm, in its annual Top 10 Enterprise Blockchain Services report. We are also recognized by analysts in areas including Risk, Cyber, Digital, Innovation and more. Analyst relations We are also using AI to analyze data — EY is one of the largest collectors of business data in the world; We are proud of the many independent EY Helix has analyzed more than 580 billion lines of client evaluations from analysts — for example, journal entry data in the past year on more than 58,000 this year IDC MarketScape named EY as a engagements across 150 countries. leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Cloud Professional Services 2020 Vendor In the past EY often used technology to do things better Assessment (doc #US45439120, April 2020). or faster. Today we are reaping the rewards of a two-year Find out more about how EY is recognized US$1b investment program in client-facing technology and by analysts, as well as the full list of using technology to do entirely new things for EY clients in independent evaluations. a rapidly changing world. 9 | EY Global Review 2020 Transformation through Innovating at scale and speed Managed Services From big bets to impactful ideas Reimagining core functions To better meet clients’ changing needs, EY must be able to innovate at greater scale and speed than ever. One of the challenges that EY clients face as they transform their businesses is running their non-core but To ensure a coordinated and consolidated approach, we board-critical functions more efficiently and effectively. are creating a Transformation Zone that will bring together teams from across EY to drive a cohesive, strategic focus We are scaling EY Managed Services significantly to on innovation for all of EY. meet demand. The portfolio of projects under this single remit range EY Managed Services combines core domain expertise from large, forward-looking bets to smaller, impactful in areas such as tax, finance, risk and compliance with ideas that are quick to implement and require relatively innovative technology to run clients’ non-core but low investment. board-critical functions, efficiently and effectively. Using EY people, technology and processes gives companies the Making big bets on future services as well as increasing the freedom and confidence to focus their time and energy on ability to capture and replicate the innovation that occurs growing their businesses and competing in the market. daily in EY’s engagement teams is fundamental to clients’, and EY’s, success. Working as part of an ecosystem Bringing different skills together to create value Today’s business world is so complex and the pace of change so fast that no single organization can provide the best solution to every client problem. That’s why EY works as part of ecosystems — where different organizations How telehealth is bring their specific skills and knowledge together to create more value as a group than any of them could separately. helping address Being part of ecosystems helps us bring better solutions the challenges of to clients. We have more than 30 ecosystem relationships that include technology alliances, intellectual property COVID-19 relationships and service-delivery relationships, in Digital innovation is helping a leading US order to bring diverse teams of different subject-matter professionals to help create client value. healthcare network cope with the challenges of social distancing. EY Global Review 2020 | 10 Sharing sector know-how Whether analyzing the future of cities’ central business districts or the role of renewable energy in a post COVID-19 world, EY identifies the sector, market and geopolitical-specific implications, today and tomorrow, for clients’ businesses. And as the COVID-19 crisis develops, looking beyond the horizon and traditional competitors is crucial for clients’ long-term success. EY Megatrends does just that. The 2020 report examines how root causes of disruption – technology, globalization, demographics and environment – interact to create new megatrends, and how these megatrends in turn are reshaping the political and economic landscape. Proactively staying connected, providing support and sharing related insights, experiences and solutions will help EY clients prepare for what lies ahead and challenge assumptions about sector structures, where competition will come from, and where growth will be found. Ongoing investment in EY’s sector knowledge Ensuring a ‘whole’ EY approach How a new technology Clients rightly demand deep sector knowledge and platform is helping banks go digital solutions delivered by teams drawn from across service lines and alliance partners. To meet clients’ needs – particularly in the new The EY Impresto platform is a mobile-first, Strategy and Technology practices where deep sector AI-optimized tool for addressing some of banks’ knowledge is a prerequisite – we are investing in biggest challenges. sector-specific solutions, enhancing leaders’ roles to ensure we always take a ‘whole of EY’ (including alliance relationships) approach, and enabling EY leaders to make investment decisions that deliver long-term value and growth for clients. 11 | EY Global Review 2020 EY service lines We bring the whole of the EY organization to clients, helping to assure, grow, transform and operate. Assurance EY Assurance services — comprising Audit, Financial Accounting Advisory Services (FAAS) and Forensic & Integrity Services (Forensics) — address risk and complexity while identifying opportunities to enhance trust and confidence in business and the capital markets. EY Audit furthers the public interest by proactively addressing stakeholders’ needs for trust and confidence in the capital markets. This is accomplished through a data-first approach enabled by analytics and digitallyempowered teams who are committed to independence, integrity, objectivity and professional skepticism. FAAS and Forensics’ teams help protect and restore enterprise and financial reputations, support the finance function in enhancing decision-making and efficiency, and address the risks and opportunities arising from climate change and sustainability issues. Together, EY Assurance services protect and promote sustainable, long-term value for stakeholders. Clients require greater insight from the services provided, while regulators and the capital markets want greater assurance over a wider range of measures and a deeper sense of trust across the business world. And EY people want more varied experiences and opportunities to add greater value. To meet these expectations, EY Assurance’s aim is to be the pre-eminent and most trusted global Assurance service providers by focusing on three areas. First, it is continuing to develop the audit of the future, delivering greater insight, assurance and value to clients and the capital markets through ever more sophisticated data analytics. In the past seven years Assurance has invested more than US$700m in digitalization and technology. As a result, EY Canvas is now the leading global audit technology platform connecting more than 145,000 EY audit teams and 280,000 client users and is deployed on all audit engagements. EY Global Review 2020 | 12 Consulting And EY Helix has analyzed more than 580 billion lines EY Advisory is already world leading in business of client journal entry data in the past year on more consultancy. It has been ranked number one in Business than 58,000 engagements across 150 countries. Consulting by analysts and named a leader in Risk, Furthermore, EY today is the leader in providing trust and Cybersecurity, People Advisory Services, Digital, confidence to blockchain ecosystems through the Innovation, Robotic Process Automation (RPA), Finance EY Blockchain Analyzer. and Supply Chain, and Operations. Second, Assurance is continuing to respond to the The aim is to become the world’s leading transformation growing need of companies to interpret, communicate consultants. To reflect this ambition, EY Advisory has and shape their strategy around financial and nonfinancial changed its name to Consulting; ‘Consulting’ is more information. Assurance sits at the heart of the widely used in the market and more closely describes multidisciplinary EY model and Assurance professionals what we do. work with teams from other service lines daily to deliver Transformation is not a new concept; consulting firms long-term value to clients. have long aspired to wholly transform their clients’ Third, EY Assurance people are the greatest asset in organizations to set them up for greater success. delivering quality and value and building trust. We are What is new is the sense of urgency many clients now feel, elevating their experiences, using data and technology, so the need for continual reinvention while meeting shortthey can spend more time addressing risks and exercising term financial expectations, the pace of change and the professional judgement. Enabled by technology, EY levels of uncertainty that now prevail in many markets. EY Assurance is continuing to build on our multidisciplinary believes all these factors are reinvigorating demand for model to deliver more value and insights. transformation and creating new conditions for success. Looking ahead, as data become even more central to To help clients generate long-term value, Transformation everything EY does, EY Assurance will continue to increase Realized is the lens through which EY brings together the value it brings to clients. EY Assurance will also be the transformative capabilities, skills, solutions and tools best place for people in applying cutting-edge technologies to create impact throughout clients’ enterprises and and sophisticated data analytics — all while serving broader ecosystem. We put humans at the center, deliver the public interest and feeling a strong sense of their technology at speed and enable innovation at scale. contribution to Building a better working world. Technology is a vital component in every client’s transformation. To that end, we are creating world-class Technology Consulting services within Consulting which will bring the best technology to clients to achieve their objectives — from across the EY ecosystem of alliances and using the in-house capabilities of the 40,000+ specialist technologists who work at EY. 13 | EY Global Review 2020 Strategy and Transactions Tax The challenges that EY clients face today, and tomorrow, More than ever before, in this era of unprecedented require a more connected suite of solutions. economic uncertainty fuelled by the global pandemic, clients see EY Tax as a trusted business advisor on the It’s why EY Strategy and Transactions (formerly known front line of strategic and transformational decisions that as EY Transaction Advisory Services) developed the improve their organizations’ resilience and long-term value. Connected Capital Solutions (CCS): Strategy, Corporate In this dynamic environment, we are building a better Finance, Buy and Integrate, Sell and Separate, and working world by enabling business decisions through Reshaping Results. The CCS help clients to unlock their insights on government policy, regulatory obligations Capital Agendas, develop their strategic vision and convert and operations. it into concrete plans. Then, leveraging the global reach and depth of EY services, clients can execute those plans, We continue to provide the market with leading crosstransform their businesses and reach their full potential. border tax and legal advice. Many companies are faced with challenging supply chain decisions given the changing To deliver this unique proposition, Strategy and geopolitical dynamics and shortages caused by the global Transactions brings together world-class strategy services pandemic. We have been providing them with real-time tax in EY-Parthenon (already the fifth-largest strategy and legal advice, enabled by leading-edge technology and consulting providers in the world with revenues of more modelling tools, to empower sound decision making. than US$2b), with teams with experience in Transactions and Corporate Finance and the experience of International Increasingly, businesses are turning to co-sourcing Tax and Transaction Services professionals. their tax and finance and legal functions to maximize their own capabilities, build a strong, adaptable organization The CCS are supported by Connected Capital Technologies and fortify their bottom line. In a recent survey, 5 out of 10 — an integrated suite of technologies that uses AI, organizations said they would choose to work with EY Tax, automation and advanced analytics to bring deeper which includes 65,000 highly skilled professionals located analysis and faster insights to enable better decisionin 145 jurisdictions around the globe who are deeply making and a more seamless delivery. knowledgeable in tax, law and talent-related issues. Bringing clients the full spectrum of EY strategy and The EY Tax and Finance Operate solution and a growing transactions capabilities helps them define their strategic number of other EY Tax Managed Services offerings, direction, drive actionable plans and deliver against their including Legal Managed Services and Payroll Operate, transformation strategies. are driven by the EY Tax Platform (GTP), which runs on It also means that Strategy and Transactions teams can be Microsoft Azure. GTP is the first cloud-enabled technology even more agile in how their capabilities, know-how and of its kind among the Big Four with global scope, and experience are brought together. It puts clients at the heart capability enhancements continue to be added to this of every engagement, and it opens exciting opportunities market-leading platform. The 2020 Microsoft Partner of for EY people to accelerate their careers and realize their the Year Awards specifically recognized the GTP full potential in an inclusive, high-growth environment. among EY teams’ global capabilities, services and solutions that combine innovation, robust skills and Microsoft technologies. With the acquisitions of EY Riverview Law and Pangea 3 in FY19, EY became the first provider to offer global legal advisory, legal function consulting and a robust, industryleading legal managed services (LMS) solution. Upon integrating these deals this year, EY Law was recognized EY Global Review 2020 | 14 by the Financial Times as a disruptor in the legal services space and named the leader in Acritas’ Global Alternative Legal Services Provider brand index. In June 2020, an agreement was finalized to technologyenable EY global trade services and expand the EY global trade managed services offering through a transaction with software and content solution provider GTKonnect. Connected to GTP, this technology and the talent behind it will greatly strengthen our credentials across many aspects of global trade. The technological and operational transformations many organizations are now undertaking also require strategic workforce transformations to ensure their success. EY People Advisory Services (PAS) teams continue to help clients address complex workforce issues, including remote working resulting from the pandemic and physical-return transitions. Our Global Physical Return and Work Reimagined (PRWR) framework helps clients focus on short-term physical-return related issues as they simultaneously explore longer-term opportunities to transform their work environments and business operations for a seamless shift towards the “next normal.” Even as we look to the future, EY teams are helping clients navigate the present as governments around the world take action to support businesses and stimulate their economies. The EY COVID-19 Stimulus Response Tool empowers clients by monitoring developments, determining their critical needs, prioritizing a plan and then tailoring actions for continued stabilization. The tool works in tandem with nearly a dozen regularly updated response trackers to display incentives relevant to a client, costs and benefits of a given incentive and the status of any application made. Over the past fiscal year, we launched the first EY directto-consumer service with the enhanced and expanded EY TaxChat™. EY’s award-winning, on-demand mobile tax preparation app offers personalized service from a licensed EY professional. Designed to handle the growing complexities of tax filing, it appeals to time-pressed, massaffluent individual taxpayers. The EY TaxChat mobile app is currently available in the US, UK and Brazil, with expansion into Australia and the Netherlands underway. 15 | EY Global Review 2020 02 Creating long-term value for people EY Global Review 2020 | 16 This year, more than ever, has demonstrated the importance of enabling our people to help solve the world’s toughest problems, support the creation of long-term value and bring out the best in themselves and others. We also prioritized the health and safety of EY people, clients and communities by swiftly implementing guidance for travel, meetings and events, as well as a safe return to EY offices and client sites. Ongoing EY investments in technology, combined with a strong existing culture of flexible working, meant we also quickly adapted to a fully remote work environment for nearly 300,000 EY people. We were also particularly aware of the need to be even more intentional about what EY people need to support their well-being. From the outset, additional resources and benefits for EY people were developed, based on local needs, including increases in childcare provision, and mental and physical health resources. At the same time, we remain focused on ensuring that EY people can continue to build the exceptional experiences they need to thrive, in a very fluid environment. EY is investing to empower people with the right mindsets and skill sets to navigate what’s next. This will help create agile and engaged teams who deliver exceptional service, and create longterm value to clients and society. One of the important ways we’re doing that is by updating the promise we make to EY people. We have long said that people have an exceptional experience at EY. That is as true today as ever, but it doesn’t just happen — EY people need to make it happen. EY provides the opportunities and EY people build their own exceptional experience. To better reflect this, ‘The exceptional EY experience — it’s yours to build’ is the new promise to EY people. Sharpening the skills of current EY people is crucial; we also know, that as clients’ needs become more complex, we need people from a broader range of backgrounds than ever before. That means attracting, recruiting and retaining people with diverse perspectives and aspirations, who want different experiences. Today EY has more than 40,000 specialist technologists — AI specialists, mathematicians, data scientists, software engineers, product managers and UX designers — working alongside people with backgrounds in strategy, consulting, accounting, finance, law and tax. We know that to serve clients today we want the best ideas from the broadest group of people; and we need to value differences and team inclusively to build safety and trust. 17 | EY Global Review 2020 #BetterTogether The MBA builds on the EY Badges program, which gives EY people future-focused skills. There are now more than 100 EY Badges to choose from, covering topics such as As we continue to navigate COVID-19 around technology, sustainability and leadership. the world, we are proud of EY people’s efforts, big and small, to bring hope, inspire action and EY people have already earned more than 70,000 Badges make an impact. The EY culture of compassion with more than 100,000 Badges underway, with Data and teaming was displayed through a global Visualization and Digital the most popular. campaign, #BetterTogether, in which EY people In today’s quickly changing world, ideas of leadership are shared stories and recognized those helping changing fast too. That is why EY has also developed a new each other, clients and society tackle COVID-19 Transformative Leadership model that brings together EY’s pandemic challenges and build an even better purpose, values and the leadership behaviors the world working world. needs right now. The model is designed to help everyone at EY build a ‘better me’, a ‘better us’ and a better working world for EY clients and society. We are also focused on offering ‘multi-track’ career paths, supporting increasingly diverse career journeys, empowering EY people to build careers that are as unique as they are, and to proactively seek out the experiences that will help them go further. As the world undergoes unprecedented change it’s more important than ever for EY people to never stop learning. Indeed, clients’ ability to innovate depends on it. Developing EY people to navigate what’s next Giving training and support for increasingly diverse career paths In FY20, before the pandemic, EY completed the global roll-out of a state-of-the-art learning platform which positioned EY to rapidly ramp up delivery of virtual learning. During the pandemic, virtual learning increased from 31% of total hours in FY19 to 55% in FY20, as EY people made use of the opportunity to develop their skills while they are working from home. In FY20, EY invested over $450 million in formal learning – spend decreased from FY19 because of a reduction in travel when classes were cancelled mid-year due to COVID-19 – and delivered more Talent Acquisition and Attraction than 16 million hours of learning. goes virtual This year also saw the launch of a new EY Tech MBA Interns rise to online and in-person opportunities by Hult International Business School. One of EY’s This year all Talent Acquisition and Attraction and most anticipated and ambitious learning programs, the onboarding activity — interviews, career fairs and collaboration makes EY the first organization to offer recruiting events — were converted almost overnight an entirely virtual MBA for free, for all EY people to a virtual experience in order to continue to support in 150 countries. recruiting needs in EY. EY Global Review 2020 | 18 In FY20 more than 76,000 client-serving people One million strong — EY alumni from among 2 million applicants were welcomed to Helping connect EY people past and present the EY family. Strong relationships are key to EY — it’s what underpins Long-standing commitments to internships were honored, high-performing teams delivering exceptional service for despite the disruption caused by COVID-19. EY offered clients. And EY alumni are amongst the most important 15,000 internships this year, with more than half relationships we have. delivered virtually. Our interns took to social media to share their experiences, through Instagram Takeovers The EY Alumni network is active in more than 75 countries and Stories, and even posting ‘day in the life’ content and helps connect EY people, past and present, to friends, from their homes, complete with guest appearances opportunities, resources and networks. from pets, roommates and children. EY Talent Attraction Today EY alumni — more than one million people around and Acquisition teams worked hard to be able to provide the world — are in every sector: as entrepreneurs, a valuable experience, with interns contributing to live academics, corporate leaders and working in charitable projects and delivering meaningful work even if they organizations and government agencies. were working from home, and ensured that interns felt supported by the EY culture and inspired by our purpose. We proudly celebrate our alumni relationships and EY ambassadors in many ways — one of which is celebrating Capturing insights and feedback to EY Alumni Week. Each year we take a moment to recognize our alumni, our extended EY family and the contributions make better decisions they are making to help us build a better working world. Transforming ways of working over the long-term In addition to empowering EY people to pursue meaningful skills and experiences and supporting them to personalize their careers at EY, proactive, authentic and empathetic two-way communication is crucial. That’s why we use a range of listening tools, including surveys and a single-question ‘mood tracker’ that leverage integrated technology and data, to regularly capture and respond to what EY people are experiencing. This was particularly important as the COVID-19 crisis developed. Ongoing feedback and conversations during this time meant we were able to be even more intentional about what EY people needed, whether that’s additional training — one of the most popular online courses this year was ‘how to run virtual meetings effectively’ — or additional childcare benefits. EY people’s insights and feedback help create better experiences. They also help teams to collaborate better, support each other more effectively, and foster a greater sense of belonging. Throughout the year new ways to team and learn were found, and we are looking at how these experiences can inform different, more agile ways of working in the future. 19 | EY Global Review 2020 EY awards and EY people, our clients and external stakeholders expect more inclusive workplaces; and we also expect more from accolades ourselves: more accountability and more transparency. EY’s inclusive values underpin our actions and guide us daily. EY people work hard every day to help build a better working world. It is a matter of pride The EY Global Executive, EY’s highest leadership body, when respected organizations recognize has made a visible commitment to EY people and to the these efforts. market to accelerate D&I at EY through signing the Global Executive Diversity & Inclusion Statement. Not only does this reinforce that D&I is a key business lever, it ensures that we hold ourselves accountable for progress, starting The importance of Diversity with the tone at the top. and Inclusiveness A further step up to enable greater accountability across Greater diversity and inclusive environments drive better the EY organization is the launch of the Global D&I Tracker decision-making, stimulate innovation and increase which helps us track progress with consistent diversity organizational agility — crucial to helping our stakeholders and inclusiveness metrics and reporting across the respond to the now, prepare for the next and reframe organization globally. their future. We generate more progress, faster and more consistently Diversity and inclusiveness (D&I) are core to who we are around the world in alignment with the D&I Roadmap and how we work. To help EY clients tackle their toughest and Culture Change Continuum, EY’s approach and challenges we need the best ideas from the broadest methodology for D&I that sets out our journey. group of people, who in turn, should feel that they belong, that their unique contributions are valued and their voices The roadmap is brought to life across EY by the EY Global are heard. Diversity and Inclusiveness Steering Committee (GDISC), co-chaired by EY Global Chairman and CEO, Carmine Di At EY we have been on our D&I journey for decades. And Sibio, and EY Global Vice Chair – Diversity & Inclusiveness, while we have made substantial progress, under our global Karyn Twaronite. Its members, drawn from across the NextWave strategy and ambition we have committed to organization, are charged with bringing the roadmap to life increasing D&I progress throughout the organization. across EY by exploring challenges, surfacing successful practices and collaborating on solutions to Including varying points of view in decision-making, accelerate positive progress. In 2020, EY was again named operations and actions is fundamental to establishing longthe top organization for Executive Diversity Councils by term value for EY people, as well as long-term client, social DiversityInc magazine. and financial value. This helps us to fulfill the EY purpose of Building a Better Working World and enables all EY people to have exceptional experiences. EY Global Review 2020 | 20 Defining D&I at EY Diversity is about differences. At EY we think broadly about differences, such as nationality, language, education and gender, identity/expression, sexual orientation, generation, age, socioeconomic background, working and thinking styles, religious background, abilities and disabilities, experiences, career paths, technical skills and identity dimensions defined and constructed by some societies in ethnic, color, cultural, or racial terms. There are also differences according to Inclusive leadership in times of crisis geography, service line, sector and function. Strengthening inclusive leadership behaviors is key Inclusiveness is about leveraging these differences to Inclusive leadership amplifies the positive impact of create an environment where all EY people feel, and are, our connections with one another, and is essential valued for who they are, have a sense of belonging, to cultivating a sense of safety, trust and belonging, and are inspired to contribute their personal best in especially during challenging times. every encounter. The world has experienced unprecedented events this past year, including the pandemic and the global resonance of tragic violence in the US, signaling that the broader issues of inequity and racism are not unique to a single country or EY’s commitment group. Through these difficult times, EY leaders have come together to actively listen to the stories and needs of those to address impacted to affirm connectedness, solidarity, and support for EY people in a time of stress, anxiety and uncertainty. discrimination and Inputs from these sessions will mobilize action plans and support EY’s global commitment to act as stewards of advance social equity change against injustice and discrimination, and to strive for equity across the EY organization. Carmine Di Sibio, EY Global Chairman and CEO, has As we navigate together through times of global crisis pledged to make sure at EY our actions match our and help EY clients do the same, strengthening inclusive words both internally and in our communities. As tragic leadership behaviors is key — from role modeling and violence in the US sparked protests and demonstrations holding others accountable, to equitable decision-making, around the world, it highlighted a long history of injustice to checking-in and building connections with empathy across societies. Recognizing that EY have the power to and curiosity. be stewards of change and do more to advance justice, inclusion and equity, we have made commitments across The importance of the EY organization to drive strategic change within EY and the communities where we work. To support these commitments for further progress, we’ve also stood up the Global Social Equity TaskForce belonging (GSET). This group will help accelerate EY’s commitment Cultivating a sense of belonging at work is and prioritize cohesive global actions specifically the key ingredient to increase engagement, addressing inequity and discrimination, including racism. productivity and innovation. When employees It includes a cross-section of EY leaders spanning feel like they belong, they feel valued, geographies, service lines, functions and representing a understood and seen — that their differences wide range of backgrounds and perspectives. are strengths and their contributions matter. As two country examples of our broader global response, Learn more about belonging. see EY’s commitments to anti-racism actions in both the US and the UK. 21 | EY Global Review 2020 Supporting inclusion across differences 25 years of advancing LGBT+ Driving positive change workplace inclusion EY people are made up of diverse talent and perspectives. Many lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT+) We recognize all differences through raising awareness, people around the world still face social exclusion and building understanding and sparking conversations discrimination, just for being themselves. In a time of internally with EY leaders and people, and externally with uncertainty and potential isolation, this can be amplified. clients about inclusion in the workplace. This year EY continued to champion and support the We are proud of our progress and know these are ongoing LGBT+ community around the world and advance LGBT+ conversations. Below are a few examples of our actions. inclusion through marking 25 years of Unity, EY’s LGBT+ network. How can embracing disabilities expand our capabilities? Founded in 1995, the network was one of the first of its kind in the private sector in the UK and was the EY co-founder Arthur Young trained as a lawyer. After first employee-led network at EY. There are now 4,750 losing much of his eyesight and becoming deaf, he could no members in more than 70 countries and territories around longer practice courtroom law. He turned to the emerging the world. profession of accounting, which offered opportunities to use his skills in new ways. His disability drove him Through Unity and other global advocacy efforts, the to innovation and entrepreneurship, which remain ambition is to serve as an example to EY clients and other cornerstones of the EY organization today. organizations who are looking to increase their LGBT+ inclusion efforts and to offer guidance to others. Today, more than one billion people around the world are living with a disability, including EY people and To support this work, EY has sponsored and co-developed clients. Eighty percent of people with a disability acquire research to show the impact of advancing LGBT+ inclusion, it between the ages of 18 and 64 — their prime working including Opening up the World, Out in the World, Making years. We have a responsibility to promote a dialogue It Real Globally, and Out Leadership’s Ally Up: Ally is a Verb — within EY and with other organizations — about how research, launched in June 2020. disability inclusion leads to better business outcomes and This research and history of convening gives the EY greater feelings of belonging and inclusion. organization a unique opportunity as a founding sponsor In 2019, EY signed on to the Valuable 500, a global in the Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality (PGLE) and campaign calling for 500 of the most influential businesses original signatory of the United Nations Standards of to ignite systemic change by unlocking the business, social Conduct for Business to elevate visibility of the impact of and economic value of the one billion people living with LGBT+ inclusion. disabilities globally. We committed to put disability inclusion on our leadership agenda to ignite change and unlock business value. We also united for a Global Disability Inclusion campaign and proudly recognized the International Day of Persons with Disabilities (IDPWD) on 3 December 2019, to signify our solidarity and commitment to disability inclusion. More than 30 local events around the world took place, from Toronto to Madrid to Tokyo. Amplified by EY leaders’ around the world, the campaign also generated discussion on how organizations can advance disability inclusion. Around the world, local disability inclusion efforts include our focus on dyslexia, our Neurodiversity Centers of Excellence and partnering with disability inclusion organizations in Hong Kong and Singapore to recruit and hire talent with disabilities. EY Global Review 2020 | 22 Focus on allyship Supporting LGBT+ As a part of EY’s LGBT+ inclusion efforts, we also focus on professionals and authentic and powerful conversations with allies within and outside of EY. families • In the GDS practice in India, a webinar series used In the US, EY’s progressive policies support a more storytelling to bring focus on allyship and creating safe inclusive working world, such as our Pathways to Transition spaces for LGBT+ employees. Stories shared ranged program which offers assistance with gender affirmation from colleagues with gay children to family members medical care, and our Pathways to Parenthood program, who are proud allies as well as workplace allies leading which offers support with surrogacy and family leave for inclusion efforts at clients, and more. all. Watch Joe Matuszewski, an EY US partner, share his family’s story of adoption. • Patrick Winter, EY Asia-Pacific Area Managing Partner, joined Unity leaders for a ‘Breaking the silence’ webcast to share and hear personal stories within EY about how we are speaking out and standing up to discrimination and harassment. • In the Americas, more than 100 EY professionals have participated in the online Ally2Advocate program, a self-directed interactive tool that allows participants to expand their allyship skills and self-identify as LGBT+ allies. Unity also hosted a global webcast on Bi+ inclusion to raise awareness and build allyship for bisexual communities. • And across EMEIA, a network of LGBT+ allies has been Accelerating women’s equality created to affect the culture change needed to support A critical component of EY’s D&I agenda concerns the LGBT+ people in being themselves at work. More than advancement of women. • 2,000 allies have registered from across EMEIA, and Based on our experience and the momentum of our an allies’ website holds a directory of members and Women Fast forward (WFF) platform, EY is guiding how additional materials to help EY people be effective every person — women, men, trans women, non-binary LGBT+ allies. and gender non-conforming people — and organization — corporations, non-profits, governments, schools and others — across the world recognize and advance women through specific commitments designed to accelerate change. Three pillars make up the WFF platform: • Women entrepreneurs, including EY Entrepreneurial Winning Women, a global community of nearly 600 members in 43 countries, including women founders who are working on everything from cures for Alzheimer’s to protecting companies from cyber threats. • Women in business, including the EY Women Athletes EY’s 2019 WorldPride campaign unified our Business Network, which supports and celebrates the people around the globe for the first time to unique leadership skills of female athletes. Since 2016, celebrate LGBT+ inclusion and drive discussions EY has hired 19 Olympians and elite athletes. Learn how in new places. winning on the playing field can translate to success in the boardroom. 23 | EY Global Review 2020 • Women and technology, including the Women in Accelerating equality is an economic imperative that Technology program (WiT) program which focuses on creates higher growth, increased prosperity and stronger closing the gender gap in technology and creating an communities. This acceleration is key to building a better environment where girls and women are encouraged to working world and helping EY stakeholders to challenge: enter, remain and thrive in the sector. what more can they do to ensure that #SheBelongs? Everyday #SheBelongs hashtag — it’s a reminder that today more than ever, women belong at all levels of decisionEY calls on all EY people and networks to making. We are proud to take an active role in make sure that #SheBelongs. We believe that advocating for women and leading by example so gender equality is not a problem to solve; rather that #SheBelongs. gender equality is the solution to business and society’s most complex challenges. This year we celebrated one of these special days, International Women’s Day, externally and across the EY organization globally — to drive awareness of the importance of gender equality. By thinking differently, acting differently and engaging differently we can all help ensure that #SheBelongs. #SheBelongs is more than a 2018 2019 2020 Leadership groups by gender Total Women/men Total Women/men Total Women/men Global Executive 19 26%/74% 16 31%/69% 18 33%/67% Global Practice Group 122 22%/78% 116 24%/76% 112 27%/73% Global Governance Council 39 33%/67% 41 25%/75% 40 28%/72% Global Client Service Partner* 301 12%/88% 300 13%/87% 298 13%/87% Partners/Principals/Exec 2018 2019 2020 Directors/Directors by gender Total Women/men Total Women/men Total Women/men Ptrs/Principals 11,870 20%/80% 12,309 21%/79% 12,496 22%/78% Ptrs/Principals/Exec Directors/ 18,093 24%/76% 18,868 25%/75% 19,663 26%/74% Directors Total people 261,559 48%/52% 284,018 48%/52% 298,965 48%/52% Promotions FY18 FY19 FY20 Total promotions 33,888 41,336 43,800 Promotions to partner 747 758 600 % of women among new partners 29% 28% 33% % of promoted partners from Emerging Markets 32% 35% 37% EY Global Review 2020 | 24 03 Creating long-term value for society 25 | EY Global Review 2020 At EY we strongly believe that the things we do every day go a long way toward creating long-term value for society. For example, EY Assurance services help to foster confidence in the capital markets by delivering high-quality audits, and all EY services help to build trust, whether directly through the work EY teams do or indirectly through what that work allows others to achieve. That is why across the four service lines there is significant investment in recruiting, training and retaining highly qualified people in their respective disciplines. EY people also make positive contributions to the public interest by playing important roles across business and in their communities as members of professional associations, by working with standard setters and participating on boards. In addition to what we do every day, we also believe that business has a role to play to help tackle some of the world’s toughest challenges particularly in a year when millions of people have had their livelihoods severely disrupted, or their careers and education put on hold. EY Global Review 2020 | 26 Serving the public interest The IFIAR has issued a new challenge to the global audit Focus on quality networks, calling for another 25% reduction in deficient audits by 2023 for listed public interest entities across 25 The role of EY auditors is to serve the public interest and countries. EY is currently on track to meet that reduction. provide confidence to the capital markets by providing However, that metric is a point in time measurement and high-quality audits. The Sustainable Audit Quality (SAQ) outcomes could change. program is EY’s commitment to conducting globally consistent, high-quality audits sustained over time. Internal Inspections SAQ demonstrates EY’s determination to keep audit quality Internal inspections are also performed on engagements as a primary focus. It is the single most important factor each year. EY leadership conducts the annual Audit in EY decision-making, and the key measure on which EY’s Quality Review (AQR) program as an important element professional reputation stands. of assessing the system of quality control at the member firm, regional and global levels. The results of the AQR EY is a strong believer in the multidisciplinary model — the process are summarized globally (including for Areas and skills and knowledge of EY people in other service lines Regions), along with any key areas where the results tell us provide the breadth and depth of technical skills and that continued improvements are required. industry experience necessary to deliver high-quality, complex audits. It also gives EY the scale and resources to Below are our results: invest in cutting-edge technologies that are reshaping the way information is gathered and analyzed. Internal inspection results of audits in IFIAR-regulated Part of the EY NextWave ambition is to create countries 2017 2018 2019 long-term value as the world’s most trusted, distinctive professional services organization. As such, our goal is to Compliant engagements 73% 75% 77% be the most trusted auditor. Compliant engagements with 21% 19% 17% We will measure this based on external inspections rates immaterial findings* from IFIAR regulated countries, which include the Global Total compliant Audit Quality (GAQ) working group (currently composed 94% 94% 94% engagements of 10 country regulators: Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Singapore Switzerland, US Deficient engagements** 6% 6% 6% and the UK). Internal inspection of The external inspection rates are based on deficiency all audits 2017 2018 2019 rates, as defined by the respective regulator, based on the most recently completed inspections as some Compliant engagements 71% 72% 75% regulators have different inspection cycles, for public Compliant engagements with interest entities. We recognize that much of audit remains 21% 21% 19% immaterial findings* a human endeavor and, therefore, has an inherent risk of mistakes. Our ambition, however, is for EY audits to have Total compliant engagements 92% 93% 94% no significant deficiencies. Deficient engagements** 8% 7% 6% External inspections * Such findings may result in the need for additional audit procedures or documentation. However, given their nature, these matters would not be In 2015, the International Forum of Independent Audit expected to have a significant impact to the overall audit conclusion. Regulators (IFIAR) issued a challenge to the global audit ** Findings in procedures or documentation that are material to the networks, calling on them to achieve a 25% reduction financial statements or auditor’s reports, or were not performed in in ‘deficient audits’ — audits with at least one significant accordance with EY policies. inspection finding — by 2019 for listed public interest entities. EY achieved this goal in 2019. 27 | EY Global Review 2020 An essential way in which EY manages risks and serve Human rights and labor the public interest is to work continuously to improve the quality of all EY services. This includes and goes beyond All EY services play an important role in serving the public the SAQ program. interest, promoting transparency, managing regulatory responsibilities and supporting investor confidence and Across the service lines, there is investment in recruiting, long-term, sustainable economic growth. training and retaining highly qualified people in their respective disciplines. There is also investment in strong Specifically, EY Sustainability and supply chain advisory Quality functions and Professional Practice functions teams help organizations respond to modern slavery and across geographies to advise, support and enable human rights risks wherever they operate. Services such EY people, and to implement quality initiatives to a as EY Forensic & Integrity Services also use the latest consistently high standard around the world. developments in machine learning, natural language processing and robotic process automation to help These functions advise on client engagements in realclients detect and investigate instances of fraud, misuse, time, and operate EY global quality review program, which corruption and other forms of noncompliance. evaluates engagements for quality as well as compliance with EY policies and professional standards. Findings EY reports — such as the Global Integrity Report 2020 — from the quality review program are reported to the Risk give valuable insights on the risks relating to business Management function and the Global Executive. ethics, personal conduct, third-party management and data integrity and how to tackle them. Quality is a fundamental strategic objective for the entire EY organization — it’s embedded as one of the six global Internally, the EY Global Code of Conduct is a clear set of performance metrics for all partners across all EY services standards for business conduct and applies to everyone and member firms. We regularly meet with regulators and at EY, regardless of individual role, position or practice. It standard-setters across the world to discuss EY business, reflects our culture based on the EY values and purpose. emerging trends and opportunities to advance the quality EY cannot and will not tolerate behavior that is in violation of the audit profession, and EY auditors’ role in it. of its professional standards or inconsistent with the EY Global Code of Conduct. Examples of such behaviors include discrimination, unethical practices, financial misconduct, deliberately jeopardizing quality of work or failing to adhere to EY policies. The Code was recently revised to reflect advancements in technology and how we use them, to reinforce the importance of upholding the Code, and to update the resources available to EY people to support decision-making. At EY we also recognize that our commitment to the UNGC Ten Principles and to advancing the SDGs extends to the suppliers we work with. Operating responsibly Just as the EY Global Code of Conduct sets out the Adhering to the highest ethical standards standards of ethical behavior expected of every EY person, the EY Supplier Code of Conduct does the same for EY strives to adhere to the highest ethical standards, EY suppliers. including in relation to protecting human rights, upholding international labor standards, protecting the environment, The EY Global Supplier Code of Conduct outlines and opposing bribery and corruption in all its forms. We expectations around issues including human rights, are committed to integrating the United Nations Global modern slavery and child labor, and suppliers are asked to Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable verify their adherence and standards at the RFP stage (and Development Goals (SDGs) into EY strategy, culture reaffirming at the time of contract execution). and operations. EY Global Review 2020 | 28 In addition to this, to monitor supplier performance a Environmental sustainability Supplier Portal provides EY procurement professionals with enhanced visibility of the capabilities of current and Protecting and regenerating the environment is an potential suppliers, including in relation to social and important issue for all EY stakeholders and essential to environmental policies, practices and certifications. sustaining long-term value creation. That’s why we’re proud to be the first global multi-disciplinary professional The EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services services organization to commit to carbon neutrality. While (CCaSS) team has developed an Environmental, Social we continue to make our most valuable contribution as and Governance Risk Tool that provides an indicated a leading provider of climate change and sustainability risk across elements of sustainability including modern services to clients, the commitment to becoming carbon slavery and child labor for sub-categories of Procurement neutral by the end of 2020 is an important milestone in and suppliers. This is used to understand the level of due our own sustainability journey. diligence that should be applied to a supplier and will be used to influence the questions asked of them. CCaSS is Managing our own footprint also using this data-driven tool to build the EY ‘Sustainable As an organization that spans more than 150 countries, Sourcing Framework’, which will act as a practical each with varying climate-related challenges and sustainable sourcing guide for Procurement. opportunities, achieving carbon neutrality requires a clear Suppliers complete a self-assessment questionnaire strategic framework. EY focuses on four interconnected containing questions that cover their environmental, social pathways: reducing organic emissions, investing in and governance policies and projects; modern slavery; carbon reduction and sequestration projects, purchasing if they are ISO 14001 certified; and if they monitor renewable energy, and offsetting what cannot otherwise standards in their supply chain. be avoided. In addition to our focus on supplier due diligence, The urgency of the climate crisis and the need to negate Procurement, Global Corporate Responsibility and Climate negative impacts as quickly as possible means that the Change and Sustainability Services collaborate on a Human use of offsets is inevitable in the short term. However, EY Rights and Modern Slavery Working Group to enhance is committed to pursuing organic and systemic emissions EY’s work in this space. The group’s remit includes the reductions that can reduce our reliance on offsets over development of modern slavery KPIs. time, as well as making sure that any offsets we do purchase meet high standards. EY Procurement teams are proactive in furthering social and environmental sustainability in the supply chain In terms of organic reductions, our global carbon footprint and have a dedicated Environmental Social Governance shows that progress continues to be made. For example, Services (ESGS) team that runs a cross-category as well as maintaining the downward trend in emissions Sustainability Network and Inclusiveness Network. from office energy consumption, an increasing proportion of that energy is also coming from renewables. This is a EY’s commitment to promoting the principles of result not only of purchasing renewable electricity, but inclusiveness, sustainability and responsibility also also supporting development of local renewable energy extends beyond our own organization to include the EY markets, such as through a Virtual Power Purchase supply chain. Agreement (VPPA) in the US. We actively encourage small and diverse owned Emissions from business travel have also reduced businesses to become registered suppliers, through our sharply – by 34% vs. FY19 – leading to a similarly Environmental Social Governance Services portal. Working significant reduction in overall footprint and emissions per with advocacy organizations, EY provided over 17,161 employee. Clearly this is largely due to COVID-19 travel hours of learning for 3,700 diverse supplier attendees in restrictions. However, having illustrated a capacity to 2020 year-to-date to help them scale. provide exceptional client service, even in the face of these limitations, EY is committed to seizing this opportunity to rethink service provision so that air travel does not rebound to pre-pandemic levels. 29 | EY Global Review 2020 Also in FY20, EY completed a WRI Aqueduct water risk A steadfast commitment to tackling corruption is not only assessment across 32 countries, representing 83% of the embedded in our policies and practices but also in the global organization. Of that sample, 65 offices, or 39% services we offer EY clients. of the total, were deemed to be in high or extremely high For example, EY Assurance teams help clients strengthen water risks areas. The most prevalent risks identified were their integrity and compliance frameworks; throughout baseline water stress, untreated connected wastewater, EY we have invested in analytics solutions to help clients and limited sanitation services. As a result of the quickly sift millions of lines of data in order to highlight assessment, 19 potential water management actions were anomalies. And EY blockchain solutions help transfer data, identified for implementation. EY teams are currently currency and other assets in an efficient, trustworthy, implementing a management system that will help enable transparent and secure way. in subsequent years the reporting of mega liters of water withdrawn, mega liters of water consumed, and the Risk Management percentage of each in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress. Internally, EY risk management teams work across the organization to help identify, monitor and manage risk, Helping EY clients become more sustainable and enable EY professionals to meet their compliance obligations efficiently and effectively. Alongside efforts to reduce our own footprint, EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services (CCaSS) teams They also give EY people the processes, tools and continue to help organizations assess, respond to, and knowledge to take on the right opportunities; pull together measure and report on the most significant resource and the right teams; and offer EY clients the broadest range environmental challenges they face. of services, in accordance with EY’s commitment to objectivity and independence. In particular, CCaSS teams have assisted clients in the areas of climate risk and adaptation, the circular economy, Risk management underpins sustainable business renewable energy, and water and waste management. practices and relationships and ultimately helps clients Building on the legacy of the Embankment Project for innovate and build value and trust with their stakeholders Inclusive Capitalism (EPIC) report, which identified the through EY services. value drivers important for sustainable and inclusive growth, CCaSS also continue to play a vital role in helping An important element of risk mitigation and management clients to generate and measure long-term value. in EY is data protection and information security framework. We protect information assets, personal data Additionally, EY continues to contribute to the broader and client information, through their creation, transmission sustainability dialogue, including sharing global viewpoints and storage, in accordance with the requirement of on why COVID-19 could boost ESG performance and applicable laws, regulations and professional standards. stakeholder capitalism, and how the EU Green Deal might redefine sustainable growth globally, accelerating Independence is also an integral part of the EY Global Code transition toward a circular economy. of Conduct. Each of us is responsible for our own personal independence and the independence of EY. We are mindful Anti-corruption of our own personal financial interests and EY relationships with clients. EY is committed to the fight against corruption in all forms and to affirm this has established a Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption policy accompanied by an anti-corruption compliance program. Integral to the program is training, and all EY member firm partners and employees are required to complete anti-bribery training. In line with EY’s commitment to a culture of compliance, including playing its role within the profession to combat corruption and other forms of financial crime, EY continues to take a seat at the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) and has recently been appointed as the knowledge partner to the B20’s Transparency and Anti-Corruption working group. EY Global Review 2020 | 30 Amplifying our social impact through Supporting the next EY Ripples generation workforce Developing the mindsets and skills to thrive in the EY people help create long-term value by using our future of work experience, services and influence to help solve some of the world’s toughest challenges, which have been With education systems disrupted by COVID-19, supporting particularly heightened this year. COVID-19 threatens the next generation has never been more important. While to push more than one billion people into poverty, and our focus has remained constant — helping young and millions of people have had their education, or their underserved groups to develop the mindsets and skills careers put on hold. We are committed to harnessing needed to adapt and thrive in the future of work — the EY’s knowledge and convening power to help people emphasis this year shifted toward scaling virtual learning. everywhere rebuild and reset. This year this included: The EY Corporate Responsibility program, EY Ripples, is anchored in a long-term goal to positively impact one • Supporting almost 5,000 students across 10 billion lives by 2030, by focusing the skills and experience countries through in-person and virtual provision of of thousands of EY employees in three areas: EY Future Skills workshops spanning topics such as environmental literacy, emerging technology, financial • Supporting the next generation workforce: supporting literacy and entrepreneurship. young and underserved people to develop the mindsets and skills they’ll need to find and sustain • Providing virtual workshops on technology skills to meaningful work. support Junior Achievement (JA) students in Italy, as well helping JA Central Ontario to develop a suite of • Working with impact entrepreneurs: helping scale free digital programs on financial literacy, work small and growing businesses that purposefully drive readiness and entrepreneurship that young people can progress toward the SDGs. access from home. • Accelerating environmental sustainability: driving • Entering into a new collaboration with 100mentors, adoption of behaviors, technologies and business whereby EY mentors enhance students’ learning by models that protect and regenerate the environment providing 100-second personalized video answers to while unlocking economic opportunity. their questions on economics, business management and the future of work via a mobile app. • EY leadership in South Africa taking a compensation reduction to help fund laptops and tuition in maths, accounting, science and English for EY NextGen learners so they don’t fall behind. 31 | EY Global Review 2020 Helping Australian students turn challenges into opportunities The Australian Business and Community Network (ABCN) is a nonprofit organization dedicated to working collaboratively with businesses and schools to improve the educational and career outcomes of underserved young Australians. As one of more than 40 member businesses, the EY member firm in Australia supports multiple mentoring programs, designed to help students develop critical skills. Among them is Future Thinkers – one of ABCN’s newest As featured in the joint report with the Toilet Board programs, developed with EY support. Based around the Coalition, Make way for the future of sanitation principles of design thinking, the program focuses on (pdf), 3S is repurposing old city buses as sanitation fostering students’ innovation and problem-solving skills kiosks, complete with toilets, shower cubicles, as they work with mentors to practice turning challenges diaper changing stations and sanitary pad vending into opportunities. machines. These provide a safe, clean and familiar sanitation experience for low-income urban women in Following a successful pilot in 2018, the program has since Pune, India. Photo courtesy of 3S. been rolled out across the country and has proven a hit with students. With COVID lockdowns potentially denying students the opportunity to benefit from this interactive, Working with impact entrepreneurs collaborative and fun approach, an EY team worked with Tailored skills, development and coaching ABCN to virtualize the program. Impact entrepreneurs deliver essential services to Rose Downie, Rey Takeshima and Tamarin Carter – all communities. In our work with them this year we continue Consulting Seniors from EY Australia – drew on their to provide wide-ranging support, whether that’s tackling experience of running human-centered design sessions the challenges of business resiliency and continuity, market virtually to advise ABCN on how they could do it changes, cash and risk management, or tailored skills effectively, particularly managing participant engagement development and coaching. and input. Tamarin and Rose then ran a specialized This year we pivoted to virtual support where necessary coaching session for ABCN’s Digital Transformation team to and improving access to digital tools specifically designed demonstrate the interactive collaborative tool, Mural, and to help these impact enterprises not just survive the share how this could be employed to build engagement. pandemic but emerge stronger. This year this included: “I am always drawn to the opportunity to work with ABCN, as their work has such an immediate and obvious • Supporting Jeeon — an impact enterprise whose efforts benefits for young people, especially those experiencing to digitally connect pharmacies to training, technology, disadvantage,” says Rose. “’Future thinking’ skills are products and services has been pivotal to the COVID-19 needed now more than ever and it’s been great to help response in Bangladesh — with financial modeling and ABCN continue to provide such an impactful program.” business planning. “EY was instrumental in supporting us to develop and • Providing virtual group and one-to-one sessions on the deliver our face-to-face design thinking workshop, so it was EY 7 Drivers of Growth for entrepreneurs on the Social fantastic to tap into their expertise again when it came to Impact Hub’s ‘Scaling impact’ accelerator program reimagining the program in a digital format,” says ABCN’s in Australia. Program Development Manager, Peta Magick. “Rose, Rey • Publishing a joint study with the Toilet Board Coalition and Tamarin were all very generous with their time and on the potential for innovative business models talent. We’re so grateful to able to call on EY’s digital experts to accelerate development of a multi-billion-dollar to support us with our ambitious program transformation!” sanitation economy — one that safely captures, treats Learn more about how EY supports the next and transforms waste into valuable resources. generation workforce EY Global Review 2020 | 32 • Making the EY Finance Navigator tool available to small “This good karma won’t go to waste and nor will Benjamin’s and growing enterprises free of charge, to help them work,” he adds. “It’s given us a better understanding better manage their finances and cash flow. of what we need to do to achieve profitability, a more compelling value proposition to share with our supporters, • Developing and sharing toolkits to support and a clear plan for scaling our services and impact.” COVID-19 enterprise resilience, including through collaboration with Unilever and the UK Department for Benjamin is equally appreciative of the opportunity to have International Development on the TRANSFORM “Survive worked with Rubayat and Jeeon, albeit only having the and Thrive” platform. chance to spend two weeks on the ground in Bangladesh before returning home to complete the project virtually. Helping Jeeon improve access to “Working virtually on a project like this isn’t without its quality health care in Bangladesh challenges, but the rewards of helping a business like Jeeon are so much greater,” he says. “It’s an honor and Pharmacies account for two-thirds of healthcare visits a privilege to work with someone like Rubayat. Not only and expenditures in Bangladesh, yet access to a reliable is he incredibly smart, his optimism is infectious, and the pharmacy remains a huge challenge for more than 100m experience has left me with a renewed sense of hope that people in rural communities. business can be part of helping solve some of the world’s Through its JeeonConnect digital platform, Jeeon already toughest challenges.” connects a network of more than 2,000 micro-pharmacies Learn more about how EY supports impact entrepreneurs to training, technologies, products and services to help grow their businesses and support quality health care provision for 4m underserved patients. Community investment With a vision of extending digital connectivity to every Community investment FY18 FY19 FY20 pharmacy and informal drug store in Bangladesh by Hours invested by EY 2021, Benjamin Rojsuontikul, an EY manager from the 739 745 790 people (000s) US, was engaged to help Jeeon strengthen its financial and operational modeling, and develop a business plan Value of time contributions 51 48 52 for scale — a project that only gained in significance, as (US$m) COVID-19 struck. Cash investments (US$m) 61 64 74 Recognizing the risk of pharmacies becoming transmission Total (US$m) 112 113 126 super-nodes, Jeeon swiftly repurposed half its team to COVID-19 response efforts, including helping the government to build a symptom checker and national case surveillance system, as well as embedding the symptom checker in its e-commerce app to help and encourage pharmacists to test risk of exposure before physically interacting with patients. While the pandemic may have curtailed immediate plans to expand its pharmacy network, Jeeon CEO, Rubayat Khan, remains optimistic about the future. “The way we’ve risen to meet the needs of the moment, I feel we’re fulfilling the promises we made to ourselves and our supporters,” he says. “I’ve no doubt the strong bonds and camaraderie we’ve forged during this time will persist and yield longterm results for our business.” 33 | EY Global Review 2020 Accelerating environmental • Helping Engineers Without Borders (Norway) to optimize an innovative approach to winterizing refugee camps sustainability in Turkey, using ‘Polyfloss’ technology — refugees Protecting and regenerating the environment can manufacture their own insulation materials from In addition to EY’s own sustainability efforts, through EY waste thermoplastics, thereby tackling the ‘triple Ripples we continue to develop new ways to empower EY threat’ of poor protection against harsh winters, poor people to make more sustainable choices, and, channel opportunities for productive employment, and a living their skills and knowledge towards projects that not only environment rife with plastic waste. protect and regenerate the environment, but also unlock • Continuing to expand the ‘eco-innovator’ network — a the economic opportunities inherent in a net positive, grassroots network of EY people dedicated to sharing circular economy. This year this included: ideas and leading practices for tackling the climate • Supporting Earthwatch with virtual secondments crisis. This includes running regular events to educate, centered on financial and cash flow forecasting, and inform and inspire EY people with practical tips for human resources strategy and planning. These projects sustainable living. have helped Earthwatch improve resilience: not only • Launching an EY Badge on climate change and helping it weather disruption to operations and sustainability to further all EY people’s understanding revenue, but also to prepare to rebound strongly from of the climate crisis, the impact of climate change on the pandemic. EY clients and sectors, and how individual and collective action can make a difference. Greenhouse gas emissions* FY18 FY19 FY20 Total emissions (tCO2e) 1,095,000 1,119,000 769,000 Emissions per employee (tCO2e/FTE) 4.3 4.0 2.6 Scope 1/2 GHG protocol (tCO2e) 178,000 167,000 141,000 Scope 3 GHG protocol (tCO2e) 917,000 952,000 628,000 Emissions per dollar of revenue (kgCO2e/US$000) 0.0314 0.0307 0.0207 *This carbon footprint is calculated in line with the EY global carbon footprint methodology. This is based on the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), using its “location-based” approach to reporting. Emissions calculations use 2020 conversion factors published by the UK Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy or locally published factors where appropriate. Conversion factors used to calculate emissions from air travel include the impact of “radiative forcing.” In 2019, the methodology for calculating air travel emissions was updated to provide more accurate classification of domestic, short and long-haul flights, based on distance travelled. As different emissions factors apply to different haul types, the reclassification of flights has contributed to a decrease in Scope 3 emissions. For year-on-year comparison purposes, FY18 figures have been restated using the same methodology. Emissions from air travel are estimated using distance data that represents 90% of global spend on air travel. Emissions from office energy consumption are estimated using activity data representing 70% of the global office portfolio. EY Global Review 2020 | 34 Helping Earthwatch remain resilient the liquidity constraints from COVID-19 travel restrictions and relief from federal financial aid packages. The during the pandemic other, carried out by Christine Sciarrino, an Executive Since its founding in 1971, Earthwatch has been taking Recruiter from the Americas Talent team, was to help action to address climate change through citizen science the organization navigate complex decisions around HR and community engagement. By pairing volunteers strategy and planning. from all sectors of society with researchers around the “Ruby provided us with a flexible tool, which we will use on world, Earthwatch teams have helped to safeguard an ongoing basis to manage cash through the COVID-19 critical habitats, conserve biodiversity and promote the crisis,” says Larry Staub, Controller at Earthwatch. “She sustainable use of natural resources. quickly assessed our needs and I was really impressed by EY has been collaborating with Earthwatch for more than how easy she was to work with, especially considering our a decade through EY-Earthwatch Ambassadors, a program office was closed and we were working entirely via Zoom in the US that sends high-performing, early-career and email.” professionals on week-long expeditions to Mexico or Peru “It’s hard to see how I would have made it through these to engage in field research and provide pro-bono services challenging times without Christine’s help,” adds Director to local entrepreneurs. of Operations, Stacey Monty. “We’ve been able to make With those expeditions on hold because of the COVID-19 better decisions, thanks to her help in researching different pandemic, EY pivoted its support to help Earthwatch staffing options, and she’s also provided great support respond to its own challenges. With operations and in updating our HR policies, and creating educational revenues severely disrupted by the pandemic, two projects resources and tools for our people.” have helped Earthwatch work through multiple scenarios “The urge to make myself useful during this challenging and strategies, not only to weather the immediate storm, time was absolutely what drew me to this project,” says but also to rebound strongly on the other side. Christine. “To be part of coming up with creative solutions One, undertaken by Ruby Zhou, an Advisory Manager that help Earthwatch take the least painful path feels from the US, was to help develop a COVID-19 cash flow incredibly rewarding.” forecasting model, including three economy reopening Learn more about EY-Earthwatch Ambassadors scenarios to assist Earthwatch executives in understanding 35 | EY Global Review 2020 Impacting a billion lives for the better Measuring our impact Last year EY announced the bold ambition to positively impact the lives of 250m people by 2025 and 1b people by 2030. In keeping with that goal, and the ability to reliably measure progress toward it, we are moving from inputbased metrics to an outcomes-based measure of social impact initiatives. While we will continue to report community investment figures using metrics such as hours invested in community volunteering, and the monetary value of those contributions, these metrics don’t speak to the impact those endeavors create. Therefore, we are now reporting on ‘lives impacted’ based on a rigorous methodology developed over the past year. ‘Lives impacted’ figures encompass evaluation of both direct and indirect beneficiaries of EY Ripples initiatives – for example, both the leaders of impact enterprises and the customer base they serve – and are weighted according to the depth and breadth of impact that can be attributed to EY support. The impact of each initiative is also mapped to the most relevant SDG, based on ultimate impact. Since the inception of our social impact programs working with impact entrepreneurs and supporting the next generation, we have positively impacted more than 34 million people, including over 15 million people in FY20. Achieving our ambition requires innovation and collaboration at scale across the public, private and nonprofit sectors. While we recognize we still have a long way to go to achieve our 2025 and 2030 impact targets, we have made strong progress over a short period of time and these figures show that we are on track. SDG Lives Impacted SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic 8,998,329 Growth SDG 5: Gender Equality 1,649,507 SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy 1,594,374 SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals 1,146,688 SDG 1: No Poverty 779,617 Other 1,350,942 Total 15,519,458 EY Global Review 2020 | 36 04 EY facts and figures 37 | EY Global Review 2020 In 2017 EY worked on an initiative called The Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism. The aim was to help companies show how they create value for a full range of stakeholders: employees, supply chains, communities and society at large, as well as their shareholders. The resulting EY long-term value framework — built on four value dimensions: human/people value; consumer/client value; social value; and financial value — is how we have aligned the elements of our NextWave ambition. More recently EY also contributed to a collaborative effort convened by The World Economic Forum’s International Business Council (IBC). This initiative brought together 120 CEOs of the world’s largest companies, to agree on a core set of metrics to help standardize disclosures around ESG and long-term value creation. The initiative was designed to bring a collective, private sector voice to the importance of ESG disclosure and a way forward that would contribute to bringing consistency and comparability to these important emerging drivers of value. The proposed disclosures consider a company’s impact along four pillars aligned with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals: planet, people, prosperity, and principles of governance. In this Annual Review we therefore begin to measure ourselves against the metrics as defined in the World Economic Forum IBC proposal, and, have set out how our purpose and ambition is aligned with the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. EY Global Review 2020 | 38 People We support EY people to build their own exceptional experiences that are as unique as they are. We track EY people’s perceptions and experiences of EY through our Global People Survey. At EY we think of ‘engagement’ as a combination of factors — pride, advocacy, commitment and satisfaction — and combine these into an ‘engagement index’. Global People Survey results FY17 FY18 FY19 Total participants 193,000 203,000 216,586 %age of headcount 81% 82% 81% Overall engagement 73% 73% 73% Would recommend EY 74% 73% 75% Satisfied with EY 68% 67% 69% Committed to EY 67% 67% 63% Proud to work for EY 84% 84% 82% We monitor our ‘attractiveness’ through a range of external benchmarks such as Universum’s World’s Most Attractive Employer (amongst business students and science/engineering students) and the Great Place to Work (GPTW) Institute. Universum WMAE ranking business students 2017 2018 2019 Among Big Four 1 1 1 Overall 4 3 2 Universum WMAE ranking science/engineering students 2017 2018 2019 Among Big Four 2 2 2 Overall 49 37 43 GPTW institute 25 best multinational workplaces 2017 2018 2019 Overall 17 19 7 Global recruits and applicants FY18 FY19 FY20 Job applicants 1,831,174 2,227,404 1,985,000 Hiring — client service 62,405 69,698 76,720 39 | EY Global Review 2020 Attrition rate overall and by gender FY18 FY19 FY20 Women 21.2% 20.4% 17.6% Men 20.9% 21.0% 18.8% Overall 21.0% 20.7% 18.2% We provide the support, experiences, skills and opportunities for people to build their career at EY and beyond. Promotions FY18 FY19 FY20 Total promotions 33,888 41,336 43,800 Promotions to partner 747 758 600 % of women among new partners 29% 28% 33% % of promoted partners from Emerging Markets 32% 35% 37% Formal learning FY18 FY19 FY20 Learning hours delivered 13m 14m 16m Learning hours per person 51 54 54 Total investment in training (US$m) $500m $530m $450m* *FY20 spend in training decreased from FY19 because of a reduction in travel when classes were cancelled mid-year due to COVID-19. An important part of our diversity and inclusiveness agenda is related to the advancement of women, and on a global basis gender balance is the most straightforward to measure and report. Leadership groups 2018 2019 2020 by gender Total Women/men Total Women/men Total Women/men Global Executive 19 26%/74% 16 31%/69% 18 33%/67% Global Practice Group 122 22%/78% 116 24%/76% 112 27%/73% Global Governance Council 39 33%/67% 41 25%/75% 40 28%/72% Global Client Service 301 12%/88% 300 13%/87% 298 13%/87% Partner* * Lead client service coordinators on the largest EY clients across the globe EY Global Review 2020 | 40 Partners/Principals/Exec 2018 2019 2020 Directors/Directors by gender Total Women/men Total Women/men Total Women/men Ptrs/Principals 11,870 20%/80% 12,309 21%/79% 12,496 22%/78% Ptrs/Principals/Exec 18,093 24%/76% 18,868 25%/75% 19,663 26%/74% Directors/Directors Total people 261,559 48%/52% 284,018 48%/52% 298,965 48%/52% Collectively the EY organization is a major global employer, providing stable, high-quality jobs to a combined number of more than 298,000 people in more than 150 countries – helping more clients, in more places, than ever before. People by Service FY17 vs FY18 FY18 FY18 vs FY19 FY19 FY19 vs FY20 FY20 Line Assurance 2.6% 88,849 6.0% 94,220 5.3% 99,239 Advisory 11.7% 59,794 12.8% 67,477 6.3% 71,748 Tax 7.3% 53,008 12.4% 59,577 6.6% 63,484 TAS 11.7% 15,246 14.5% 17,461 7.2% 18,721 Practice support 0.5% 44,662 1.4% 45,283 1.1% 45,773 Total 5.7% 261,559 8.6% 284,018 5.3% 298,965 * On 1 July 2020 Advisory changed its name to Consulting, and TAS (Transaction Advisory Services) changed its name to SaT (Strategy and Transactions). The FY18 June headcount includes a reclassification of 1,208 people who have been reclassified from Practice Support to Tax SL. This enables a more like v like comparison to FY19, as the equivalent headcount for June FY19 is also classified in Tax SL. Equivalent reclassification from Practice Support to Tax is also reflected in the table above for FY17. People by Area FY17 vs FY18 FY18 FY18 vs FY19 FY19 FY19 vs FY20 FY20 Americas 4.9% 70,341 6.8% 75,117 1.1% 75,951 Asia-Pacific* 3.6% 51,546 9.1% 56,253 4.8% 58,960 EMEIA 5.9% 106,775 7.0% 114,266 2.7% 117,306 GDS** Client 15.7% 18,793 21.9% 22,914 41.6% 32,446 Service GDS Enablement 2.7% 7,397 21.5% 8,988 -18.2% 7,354 Exec services and 3.6% 6,707 -3.4% 6,480 7.2% 6,948 functions Total 5.7% 261,559 8.6% 284,018 5.3% 298,965 * Japan joined the Asia-Pacific Area on 1 July 2019. We have therefore combined Asia-Pacific with Japan for the current year, as well as for prior years. ** Global Delivery Services (GDS) is the EY internal shared services organization, consisting of legal entities ultimately owned by a number of EY member firms. GDS entities support EY member firms across the world by providing support capabilities to their client-serving account teams as well as internal enablement support services. 41 | EY Global Review 2020 Clients We bring the whole of the EY organization to meet EY clients’ needs. Today there are more EY clients across more markets and industries than ever before. Fortune Global 500 percentage of companies in index served FY18 FY19 FY20 Audit client 21% 23% 23% Non-audit client 61% 61% 61% All other companies 18% 16% 16% Total 100% 100% 100% Forbes Global 2000 percentage of companies in index served FY18 FY19 FY20 Audit client 26% 27% 27% Non-audit client 44% 45% 46% All other companies 30% 28% 27% Total 100% 100% 100% EY audit market share of IPOs (global) 2018 2019 2020 EY ranking by deal numbers 1 1 1 EY ranking by proceeds 3 4 3 Our Global Brand Survey tracks our ambition to be the #1 brand among professional services organizations as measured by favorability and distinctiveness across clients and non-clients. Brand favorability 2015 2017 2019 EY global ranking 2 Tied 1 Tied 1 12 (25% of 28 9 (38% of 24 Best brand in EY Regions 7 Regions) Regions) EY Global Review 2020 | 42 Society We are committed to building trust in the capital markets and having a positive impact on communities and the planet. Under our ambition to create long-term for society we measure the trust and confidence we are building among stakeholders, including regulators. Internal inspection results of audits in IFIAR-regulated countries 2017 2018 2019 Compliant engagements 73% 75% 77% Compliant engagements with immaterial findings* 21% 19% 17% Total compliant engagements 94% 94% 94% Deficient engagements** 6% 6% 6% Internal inspection of all audits 2018 2019 2020 Compliant engagements 71% 72% 75% Compliant engagements with immaterial findings* 21% 21% 19% Total compliant engagements 92% 93% 94% Deficient engagements** 8% 7% 6% * Such findings may result in the need for additional audit procedures or documentation. However, given their nature, these matters would not be expected to have a significant impact to the overall audit conclusion. ** Findings in procedures or documentation that are material to the financial statements or auditor’s reports, or were not performed in accordance with EY policies. Under our ambition to create long-term for society we measure our community investment. Community investment FY18 FY19 FY20 Hours invested by EY people (000's) 739 745 790 Value of time contributions (US$m) 51 48 52 Cash investments (US$m) 61 64 74 Total (US$m) 112 113 126 43 | EY Global Review 2020 Under our ambition to create long-term for society we measure our environmental impact. Greenhouse gas emissions* FY18 FY19 FY20 Total emissions (tCO2e) 1,095,000 1,119,000 769,000 Emissions per employee (tCO2e/FTE) 4.3 4.0 2.6 Scope 1/2 GHG protocol (tCO2e) 178,000 167,000 141,000 Scope 3 GHG protocol (tCO2e) 917,000 952,000 628,000 Emissions per dollar of revenue (kgCO2e/US$000) 0.0314 0.0307 0.0207 *This carbon footprint is calculated in line with the EY global carbon footprint methodology. This is based on the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), using its “location-based” approach to reporting. Emissions calculations use 2020 conversion factors published by the UK Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy or locally published factors where appropriate. Conversion factors used to calculate emissions from air travel include the impact of “radiative forcing.” In 2019, the methodology for calculating air travel emissions was updated to provide more accurate classification of domestic, short and long-haul flights, based on distance travelled. As different emissions factors apply to different haul types, the reclassification of flights has contributed to a decrease in Scope 3 emissions. For year-on-year comparison purposes, FY18 figures have been restated using the same methodology. Emissions from air travel are estimated using distance data that represents 90% of global spend on air travel. Emissions from office energy consumption are estimated using activity data representing 70% of the global office portfolio. EY Global Review 2020 | 44 Revenue and growth Our ability to achieve our ambition and fulfil our purpose depends on our sustained and sustainable financial success. Our financial ambition is to be the profession’s long-term growth leader and to adapt and find new ways to grow in our ever-evolving landscape. Revenue Revenue by Service Line (US$b) FY17 vs FY18 FY18 FY18 vs FY19 FY19 FY19 vs FY20 FY20 Assurance 4.4% 12.6 4.4% 12.6 3.1% 12.8 Advisory 10.1% 9.6 9.2% 10.2 4.9% 10.5 Tax 6.4% 9.0 8.6% 9.5 5.1% 9.8 TAS 13.9% 3.6 15.5% 4.1 2.8% 4.1 Total 7.4% 34.8 8.0% 36.4 4.1% 37.2 * On 1 July 2020 Advisory changed its name to Consulting, and TAS (Transaction Advisory Services) changed its name to SaT (Strategy and Transactions). Revenue by Area (US$b) FY17 vs FY18 FY18 FY18 vs FY19 FY19 FY19 vs FY20 FY20 Americas 7.4% 15.6 8.5% 16.7 3.4% 17.2 Asia-Pacific* 8.8% 5.3 8.8% 5.5 8.2% 5.8 EMEIA 6.9% 13.9 7.1% 14.2 3.4% 14.2 Total 7.4% 34.8 8.0% 36.4 4.1% 37.2 *Japan joined the Asia-Pacific Area on 1 July 2019. We have therefore combined Asia-Pacific with Japan for the current year, as well as for prior years. 7-year CAGR 7.7% The emerging markets play an important role at EY in driving revenue growth and innovation. Revenue growth by market type FY18 FY19 FY20 Emerging markets 10.0% 10.7% 6.0% Developed markets 6.9% 7.4% 3.7% Total 7.4% 8.0% 4.1% Revenue from emerging markets (US$m) FY18 % of total FY19 % of total FY20 % of total 6,061 17.4% 6,239 17.1% 6,358 17.1% 45 | EY Global Review 2020 05 Leadership team EY Global Review 2020 | 46 The EY Global Executive is our highest body, focusing on strategy, execution and operations. Its membership brings together all the elements of our global organization, including the leaders of our geographic Areas and service lines. Carmine Di Sibio Kelly Grier EY Global Chairman and Chief Executive Officer EY Americas Area Managing Partner Andy Baldwin Patrick Winter EY Global Managing Partner — Client Service EY Asia-Pacific Area Managing Partner Steve Krouskos Julie Teigland EY Global Managing Partner — Business Enablement EY EMEIA (Europe, Middle East, India and Africa) Area Managing Partner Trent Henry EY Global Vice Chair — Talent Alice Chan Chair of the Global Accounts Committee Jay Nibbe EY Global Vice Chair — Markets Rajiv Memani Chair of the Emerging Markets Committee Marie-Laure Delarue EY Global Vice Chair — Assurance Jack Chan Emerging Market Committee Member Errol Gardner EY Global Vice Chair — Consulting Nicola Morini Bianzino EY Global Chief Client Technology Officer Kate Barton EY Global Vice Chair — Tax Hank Prybylski EY Global Vice Chair — Transformation Andrea Guerzoni EY Global Vice Chair — Jessie Qin Strategy and Transactions (SaT) Member firm partner on rotation EY Global Review 2020 | 47 EY Global Review 2020 | 47 Area and Regional Managing Partners To be efficient and effective, we have organized EY legal entities into similarly-sized — in terms of both people and revenues — business units called Regions. These Regions, led by Regional Managing Partners, are grouped into three geographic Areas: Americas; EMEIA; and Asia-Pacific. Americas Kelly Grier Frank Mahoney Ronen Barel EY Americas Area Managing Partner USA — West Israel Julie Boland Janet Truncale Manuel Solano USA — Central Financial Services Organization Latin America — North Rich Jeanneret Jad Shimaly Ted Acosta USA — East Canada Latin America — South Asia-Pacific Patrick Winter Jack Chan Yong Keun Park EY Asia-Pacific Area Managing Partner Greater China Korea Nam Soon Liew Koichi Tsuji Tony Johnson Asean Japan Oceania Gary Hwa Financial Services Organization EMEIA Julie Teigland Marcel van Loo Abdulaziz Al-Sowailim EY EMEIA Area Managing Partner Financial Services Organization MENA Ute Benzel Jesper Almstrom Ajen Sita Germany, Switzerland, Austria Nordics Africa Rajiv Memani Hywel Ball Jacek Kedzior India UK & Ireland Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe & Central Asia Massimo Antonelli Alain Perroux Mediterranean Western Europe Maghreb EY Global Review 2020 | 48 EY Global Review 2020 | 48 Industries Our sector focus means EY teams can help clients better anticipate market trends, identify the implications for their businesses, and deliver sector-specific solutions. It is part of our commitment to exceptional client service. Shaun Crawford, as EY Global Vice Chair — Industry, oversees the work that EY teams do across our industry sectors. Shaun Crawford Greg Cudahy George Atalla EY Global Vice Chair — Industry Technology, Media & Telecoms Smart Infrastructure Serge Colle Kristina Rogers Andres Saenz Energy Consumer Private Equity Randall J. Miller Gary Hwa Advanced Manufacturing & Mobility Financial Services Pamela Spence Health Sciences & Wellness EY Global Review 2020 | 49 Global Governance Council The Global Governance Council consists of senior client-serving partner-ranked professionals drawn from member firms across EY and currently four (of possible six) independent non-executive members. These senior EY professionals who otherwise do not hold senior management roles, are elected by their peers. They advise EY on policies and strategies and the approval of the Global Governance Council is required for a number of significant matters that affect the organization as a whole. Americas Regions Americas FSO East Latin America — South Udanda Clark Becky Carey Gustavo Rousseaux Laura Giovacco Gaurav Gupta West Canada Israel Beth Carr Glenn Parkinson Chen Shein Marney MacKenna Central Latin America — North National Practices Malcomb Coley Carlos Rochin Anan Roy Andrew Lee Barak Ravid Asia-Pacific Regions Asean Greater China Korea Susanti Susanti Vincent Chan Dong Chul Kim Vincent Toong Japan Oceania Asia-Pacific FSO Koji Fujima Trent van Veen (Presiding Partner) Warrick Gard Seiko Sugimoto EMEIA Regions Africa India UK and Ireland Shailen Ramgoolam Jayesh Sanghvi Alison Duncan John Higgins CESA Med Natalia Starygina Francisco Javier Sanchez Ramos WEM Marc Cosaert EMEIA FSO MENA Pierre Jouanne Paul Nijssen Yasmeen Muhtaseb Aidan Walsh Nordics GSA Bengt Nyholm Ole Halfpap Helen Pelzmann Global Independent Non-Executives CK Chow Jurgen Kluge Atsushi Saito David Thorburn EY Global Review 2020 | 50 Areas EY member firms are organized into Regions that are grouped into three geographic Areas: Americas; EMEIA; and Asia-Pacific. Americas Canada Latin America — North USA — Central Financial Services Organization Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Aruba, Barbados, Jamaica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Curacao, Puerto Rico, Saint Lucia, Bahamas, Bermuda, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Trinidad and Tobago British Virgin Islands, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Cayman Islands, United States Venezuela USA — East Israel Latin America — South USA — West Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay EMEIA Africa Financial Services Organization Nordics Angola, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Gibraltar Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Norway, Sweden Germany, Switzerland & Austria Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Austria, Germany, Rwanda, Seychelles, South Africa, UK & Ireland Liechtenstein, Switzerland Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe Republic of Ireland, United Kingdom India Central, Eastern and Southeastern Bangladesh, India Western Europe Maghreb Europe & Central Asia Algeria, Belgium, Cameroon, Chad, Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Mediterranean Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Italy, Portugal, Spain Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Luxembourg, Estonia, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Middle East and North Africa Monaco, Morocco, Senegal, The Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Krygyz Republic, Afghanistan, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Netherlands, Tunisia Latvia, Lithuania, FYR of Macedonia, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Oman, Pakistan, Palestinian Authority, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, United Arab Slovenia, Turkey, Ukraine, Uzbekistan Emirates Asia-Pacific Asean Financial Services Organization Japan Brunei, Cambodia, Guam, Greater China Korea Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives, Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Myanmar, N. Mariana Islands, Oceania Taiwan, Mongolia Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Australia, Fiji, New Zealand, Thailand, Vietnam Papua New Guinea EY Global Review 2020 | 51 EY | Assurance | Tax | Strategy Transactions and |Transactions Advisory | Consulting About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, strategy, transaction and consulting services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. Information about how EY collects and uses personal data and a description of the rights individuals have under data protection legislation are available via ey.com/privacy. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2020 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. 006209-20Gbl ED None In line with EY’s commitment to minimize its impact on the environment, this document has been printed on paper with a high recycled content. This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. ey.com 52 | EY Global Review 2020
