United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Communication of progress August 2020 2 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP António Guterres Grant Thornton UK LLP Secretary-General 30 Finsbury Square United Nations London New York EC2P 2YU NY 10017 USA www.grantthornton.co.uk 14 August 2020 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, At Grant Thornton UK LLP, being a socially responsible business remains key to working with clients who value what we do while attracting and retaining the best talent. And we will continue to speak out on issues that impact our clients, our people and our industry. However, the environment in which we operate has changed dramatically. While continuing to help our clients respond to the current uncertainty, we recognise the need to adapt. For us, this includes reflecting upon the sort of firm we want to be with a view to articulating our collective purpose later this year. This is about unearthing what’s already there. A firm where every one of us has an opportunity to share our views and our ideas are listened to. A firm where our best thinking will be done together, where our leaders are open and transparent, where everyone is actively involved in creating a culture which is genuinely inclusive each and every day in every interaction, while striving to achieve long-term, sustainable business performance. All of our people are empowered to take responsibility for bringing our purpose to life, delivering exceptional client service and making this a distinctive firm we can all be proud to work for. One where we’re all looking forward with confidence. Therefore, I am pleased to confirm that Grant Thornton supports and actively promotes the adoption of The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In our fourth annual Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to integrate The Ten Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations and how we may look to continually improve our adoption in future years through our engagement in collaborative projects. Yours sincerely, David Dunckley Chief Executive, Grant Thornton UK LLP United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 3 Contents Section Page What makes us different – our purpose 05 Human rights 08 Labour 12 Environment 16 Anti-corruption 20 4 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP What makes us different Rethinking normal Over the past 18 months, and particularly in 2020, we have experienced significant change in the market and within our firm. To ensure we can continue to effectively adapt to this and deliver long-term, profitable growth and consistently excellent client service, we have worked hard to lay strong foundations upon which to create a stable platform for success. So we’re now in the process of taking stock of what sort of firm We’ve already started this work, using surveys, Strategic we want to be. The outcome of this process, expected later in Leadership Team (SLT) office visits and focus groups to give us a 2020, will be a clear articulation of why we choose to come to broad idea about how our people are finding things right now: work every day; in other words, what our collective purpose is. what we’re great at, what we need to be better at and how our experiences of working here differ across the firm. We’re also However this isn’t about creating a purpose, it’s about talking to each of our partners in order to unite the leadership unearthing what’s already there. We’re evolving the thinking team behind what we’re trying to achieve. that’s been done over recent years while not losing sight of what’s already embedded in how we work and why we choose We’re now using this information to decide what our firm needs to work here. to focus on in the future. Doing this now will help us to make real progress towards tackling many of the challenges we face, in particular around attracting and retaining the best people, improving our culture and becoming a more successful business – which in turn means our clients continue to get a fantastic experience when they work with us. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 5 What makes us different In the meantime... …we’re still focused on delivering a great service for our clients and making Grant Thornton a firm its people are proud of. Happy clients We want our clients to be delighted with the service they get from us, which is why we put our clients at the centre of all we do. Whether it’s regular catch ups, insightful thinking or just taking the time to take a step back and think about the wider context of what it is we’re doing, our people take pride in the quality of their client relationships. How do we know this works? Our clients tell us in annual service reviews that we’re doing a great job. This has been confirmed independently by Meridian West Ltd – their ‘Business Buyers Barometer 2020’, survey of 1,003 senior professional services buyers in the UK and Ireland, rated us as “excellent” across a range of service attributes, confirming we outperform the market on eight of nine key service delivery aspects. How Meridian West rated our client service compared to our competitors Understanding needs and objectives Proactively Sector sharing insights understanding Clear and Oﬀering creative appropriate solutions fee structure Managing Technical matters well competence Responsive Commercial communication insight Grant Thornton Market average 6 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Happy us We know our greatest asset is our people. So making sure they’re happy and have access to the tools and resources they need to do their job well is essential. We’re under no illusions that the calibre, and type, of organisations we work with, together with our values and our culture is a major draw when attracting great candidates into the business and retaining them in the longer term. How do we know this works? SPONSORED BY 2019 THE TRI COMPANY AWARD FOR DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION UK Social Mobility Awards 2018 GRANT THORNTON UK Organisation of the year 2019 Financial Times’ Diversity Leaders Rankings Leaders in Diversity #8 Top 75 UK Employers United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 7 Human rights At Grant Thornton we respect and support the internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure the firm is not complicit in human rights abuses. Where possible and applicable, the firm adopts ‘human rights’ principles in line with current legislation and various employment best practices and values of the firm; some of which include respecting others, valuing diversity both in the workplace and in the supply chain and maintaining a workplace that is free from discrimination, harassment and bullying. Grant Thornton advocates the fundamental rights and freedoms that everyone in the UK is entitled to. 8 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Principle 1. We as a firm are dedicated in upholding human rights and creating an Businesses should support and respect the inclusive and diverse working environment for all our people. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: and In a fast paced, changing world Grant Thornton is committed to making sure all firm policies remain fit for purpose, are inclusive and aligned to Principle 2. best practice. Through regular reviews we make every effort to ensure Make sure that they are not complicit in we are compliant with all current regulation and legislation. human rights abuses. Our culture provides us with the opportunity to explore new ideas and firm wide goals together, allowing us to continually review and develop the practices, processes and policies we have in place, ensuring the firm’s ongoing support and commitment to our people in relation to human rights. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 9 Human rights Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principles through various initiatives and policies. Here are some of the ways we are doing this: Firm value implementation Training implementation Our CLEARR values: Collaboration, Leadership, Excellence, As part of standard training, managers are issued with a copy of Agility, Respect, and Responsibility underpin our culture and the Equality Act 2010 – Guidelines for Managers. Ongoing training influence how we conduct business. They are embedded in this area includes various up skilling and refresher workshops throughout our business and set the parameters for how for our people managers. We have embedded sessions exploring we expect people to behave with their colleagues, clients diversity and inclusion and our obligations in this area, particularly and the world at large. We seek to treat everyone fairly and when dealing with day-to-day people issues such as managing consistently, creating a workplace and business environment sickness absence, underperformance and general grievances. that is open, transparent and trusted. This includes inclusive decision-making training which has been Policy implementation run for our Strategic Leadership Team around the impact of We are committed to continually developing and implementing unconscious bias in decision-making both in terms of progression the various practices, processes and policies that fully of talent and selecting individuals for certain jobs. We also ran support and abide by current UK employment legislation and this workshop for those responsible for the firm’s recruitment and regulation, supporting the eradication of discrimination in promotion decisions (for example the partner selection panels), our respect of employment and occupation. own People and Culture team, our Inclusion Allies and the firm’s Inclusion working group. A selection of policies that support the elimination of workplace discrimination are highlighted below: We have also developed an online programme to further encourage • Bullying and harassment policy our managers to think about inclusive decision making. We are • Capability policy continually looking for ways to improve our established ways of working and further remove barriers to success. • Disciplinary policy • Grievance policy Modern Slavery policy and Third Party Code of Conduct • Inclusion policy implementation Our policy is to assess and address the risks of violations • Redundancy policy of anti-human trafficking and anti-modern slavery laws. We • Remuneration policy adopt procedures that contribute to ensuring modern slavery • Sickness absence policy does not occur in our business or supply chains and we expect • Transitioning at work policy organisations with whom we do business to adopt and enforce policies to comply with the legislation. We actively consider To improve our understanding of our workforce and to identify how we support or conduct business with organisations potential barriers to success, we track the demographics involved in slavery, human trafficking, forced or child labour of our people to compare with external benchmarks and to and we have our firm’s Third Party Code of Conduct to assist. monitor progression internally. The firm maintains records of this data solely for this purpose. The diversity details of any Please click here to read the firm’s Modern Slavery Statement. member of the firm will not be shared internally or externally without their permission. We also support leading academic research to further our collective understanding of wider diversity and inclusion trends in the workplace. 10 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Measures and outputs As a result of the various human rights policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Procurement All our entry level roles are advertised openly and formally on Our procurement policies integrate human rights into the way the careers section of the Grant Thornton website. We actively we do business throughout our supply chain, so we create partner with third party advertising providers who can provide value, preserve natural resources and respect the interests of reach across all spectrums of society. We work with Milkround the communities we serve and from whom we procure goods specifically to target students via e-marketing channels who go and services. to ‘new’ universities which have a much more diverse student population. We work with specialist providers such as Pure Through our Responsible Purchasing Policy and Third Party Potential and Pathway CTM, to target students of school age Code of Conduct, we expect our suppliers to keep to all laws from less advantageous backgrounds. All new advertising relating to their business, as well as the principles of the United partnerships and providers have to be able to demonstrate National Global Compact, the United Nations Declaration of that their breadth of reach encompasses students from all Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation. backgrounds before we embark upon any advertising with them. Social mobility Employee assistance helpline Grant Thornton has previously been awarded Social Mobility To help employees better prepare for and cope with life Business Compact “Champion” status by the Department for events – including the things that could potentially cause Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS), one of only 12 firms, for anxiety and stress – Grant Thornton provides access to a demonstrating leadership and exemplary practice in the field free and confidential service offering expert advice, valuable of social mobility. As a Champion, the firm have been working information, specialist counselling and support. with BIS to deliver approximately 30 commitments across the areas of: outreach; work placements; recruitment; monitoring and evaluation; and leading, championing and communicating “By many standards, I do not fit the typical best practice. image of a corporate employee in the UK. Education I’m a female, an ethnic minority, from a We are involved in Access Accountancy, a one-week placement to provide those from less privileged backgrounds the low income, deprived area. Statistically opportunity to develop critical skills and develop a professional speaking, it’s much more likely that I network. We have an annual commitment of at least 1% of would be unemployed or even in the our headcount to be placed on the programme and we also support participants progressing to our school leaver scheme prison system in the UK than working for or talent pool them for future opportunities. a professional services firm. I’m now a mature student, and an associate on a 12 Since 2013, we have had flexible academic entry requirements for all our graduate, school leaver/apprentice, internship, month placement with Grant Thornton. This placement and work experience programmes. We do not year, I will more than likely be the highest stipulate any minimum grade requirements and use a earner in my immediate family. If that balanced screening scorecard to assess potential across a range of areas. isn’t exemplary of Grant Thornton’s social mobility agenda, I don’t know what is.” Audit Associate, Birmingham office United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 11 Labour Grant Thornton is committed to upholding the UN Global Compact Principles in relation to labour. The firm is dedicated to ensuring that all labour standards are an active component of our people’s daily working environment and experience and implement policies and practices that encourage the adoption of such standards. 12 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Labour Assessment, policy and goals Principle 3. The firm recognise we are responsible for the health, safety and welfare Business should uphold the freedom of at work of all our people, whether that be on the firm’s premises or association and the effective recognition carrying out the firm’s business elsewhere. of the right to collective bargaining Notwithstanding the firm’s legal responsibilities to comply with Principle 4. legislation, the firm is committed to keeping the workplace, our clients The elimination of all forms of forced and and suppliers, and the local community safe from any adverse compulsory labour consequences of our work activity and ensuring all efforts are made to remove or reduce the risks of any potential impact. Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and As a firm we have various processes and policies in place that support the UN Labour Principles highlighted opposite. These policies are Principle 6. frequently reviewed and updated so as to reflect any changes in UK The elimination of discrimination in respect law and legalisation. of employment and occupation. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 13 Labour Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Labour Principles through various initiatives and policies. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below: Policy implementation Modern Slavery policy and Responsible Purchasing We are committed to continually developing and implementing policy implementation the various practices, processes and policies that fully As per referenced in Human Rights, our policy is to assess and support and abide by current UK employment legislation and address the risks of violations of anti-human trafficking and regulation, supporting the eradication of discrimination in anti-modern slavery laws. respect of employment and occupation. Our Responsible Purchasing Policy reflects our overall business A selection of policies that support the elimination of workplace purpose and in so doing seeks through the application of a discrimination are highlighted below: rigorous procurement process to not only purchase goods and • Bullying and harassment policy services at best value for money but to take into account the • Capability policy ethical, social, environmental, economic and legal impacts of the supply chain. This means making purchasing decisions • Grievance policy which reflect not only the best price in total cost terms over the • Inclusion policy lifetime of a contract but also require suppliers to: • Redundancy policy • comply with all applicable UK and European laws and • Remuneration policy regulation, and • Transitioning at work policy • reflect the firm’s ethical, social and environmental standards. Health and Safety implementation All suppliers will be required to comply with, or work towards As a responsible employer, Grant Thornton knows that compliance with, the requirements of our Third Party Code health and safety management is key to shaping a positive, of Conduct. The Code sets out the minimum standards of successful and vibrant culture. We are committed to protecting behaviour expected of our suppliers so that they act in a way the health and safety of all our people, as well as any visitors that is corporately responsible and sustainable and aims or general public on our premises. to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We only expect our suppliers to maintain standards that we We aim to: ourselves adhere to. • Identify and act upon any health and safety risks which are identified Living Wage We are proud to be a Living Wage employer – meaning all our • Prevent accidents in the work place and when travelling own people and our third party contracted employees are • Mitigate work related to ill health and support attendance paid the Living Wage, helping to tackle in work poverty. The at work real Living Wage is based on the cost of living and is voluntarily • Provide adequate control of any health and safety risks paid by over 6,000 UK employers who believe a hard day’s arising from work activities both on our premises, or for our work deserves a fair day’s pay. It is good for business, good for people carrying out business elsewhere the individual and good for society. To do this we will: Employee Survey implementation • Comply with all relevant health and safety legislation We conduct company-wide employee surveys to get a • Ensure our people receive sufficient information, training better understanding of employee morale, satisfaction, and and supervision to enable them to carry out their duties engagement at Grant Thornton. The results of these surveys safely and effectively are used to improve the firm’s culture and performance. • Ensure our premises are safe and well maintained • Engage and consult with our people on day to day health and safety requirement conditions 14 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Measures and outputs As a result of the various labour policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Health and Safety (H&S) We work with and are members of the Business Disability Premises inspections – the Health and Safety Officer (HSO) is Forum. required to ensure regular reviews of the workplace are carried out using the safety inspection checklist. The inspection will We have support available for individuals with disabilities, with cover all areas of the workplace which are the responsibility of a disability defined as a physical or mental impairment which the firm. A quarterly review will be undertaken in conjunction has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on a person’s with our co-sourced facilities partners and recorded in the ability to carry out normal day to day activities. Health and Safety (H&S) document schedule. We are disability confident level two and introduced a positive Annual Practice Leader sign off is the overall responsibility of action interview scheme that guarantees an interview for the Practice Leader. The local HSO completes and submits anyone with a disability. We are actively working towards a the annual H&S compliance confirmation/H&S compliance plan to gain disability confident level three. documents, which the Practice Leader reviews to ensure We take mental health seriously and have 70 mental health compliance with the firm’s H&S procedures. first aiders trained in the business to support our people with Social Mobility mental health concerns, as well as being champions in our Grant Thornton was ranked number one in the first ever Social offices focusing on awareness and preventative measures to Mobility Employer Index, and we are currently number eight, support people with mental health issues. grading UK businesses on their openness to accessing talent We have completed an equal pay review for all our people from all backgrounds. We actively share best practices to and have actively taken steps to rectify any equal pay issues other organisations to encourage industry wide access to the related to gender. We support the progression of our female accountancy profession, for those of lower socio economic talent through our female only coaching programme, European backgrounds. We also won the Queen’s award for services to mentoring programmes and ensuring our family leave policies social mobility and won organisation of the year in 2018. are diverse. In July 2017, Grant Thornton won the “Working To improve our understanding of our workforce, and to identify Families – Allen & Overy innovation award” for our flexible potential barriers to progression, we track the demographics approach to family pay. This award means we are standing out of our people to compare with external benchmarks and to in the market for our unique approaches to tackling the root monitor progression internally. The firm maintains records of cause problems of progressing healthy diversity and inclusion this data solely for this purpose. The diversity details of any in our people experience. member of the firm will not be shared internally or externally Continuing Professional Development without their permission. We also support leading academic Our culture is one that encourages the continued development research to further our collective understanding of wider of all our professional people both in terms of their technical diversity and inclusion trends in the workplace. expertise and their up-to-date knowledge and understanding Diversity and Inclusion of our market place. This is underpinned by our firm-wide We have signed the Race at Work charter and published our Continued Professional Development policy which is rigorously BAME pay gaps as a public declaration of our commitment implemented and monitored. to encourage the recruitment and progression of all people regardless of ethnic background. We are part of the Stonewall Index that measures our progress for LGBT+ people and we are proactively working to improve our position in this index through leadership commitment and internal storytelling. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 15 Environment As a purpose-led firm, we care about the work we do for our clients, the way we treat our people and the impact we have on our society and environment. We wholeheartedly support the UN Global Compact Environment Principles and are committed to the protection of the world around us, including playing our part in limiting global warming, preventing pollution and minimising our environmental impacts. We continually review and change the way we work so we can make a positive difference in the world around us through: • the efficient use of resources and systems • encouraging our people to complement our corporate activity with their efforts • sustainable procurement. 16 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Environment Assessment, policy and goals Principle 7. At Grant Thornton we are committed to the protection of the environment and to reducing Business should support a carbon emissions to slow down anthropogenic climate change. We use our purchasing power precautionary approach to to manage and minimise the negative ethical, social and environmental impacts of our supply environmental challenges chain to make a positive contribution to ethical business practices, quality of life in society and to protection of the environment. Principle 8. Undertake initiatives The firm’s environmental policy focuses on the following: to promote greater • meeting or exceeding our improvement targets environmental • complying with ISO14001 and its verification responsibility; and • adhering to all compliance obligations and keeping up to date with new legislation Principle 9. • promoting our targets, performance and further actions to our people Encourage the development • engaging our people in managing our environment impact and diffusion of • ensuring our policy is visible to our people, clients and communities. environmentally friendly technologies. To ensure we contribute to achieving the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recommended goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C, we have set science-based targets verified and published by the Science Based Targets initiative. Our science-based carbon targets are: • to reduce absolute Scopes 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 21% by 2023 from a 2018 base year • to reduce absolute Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 21% by 2023 from a 2018 base year. We have joined We Mean Business, a coalition of the world’s most influential businesses who are working together to take action on climate change and catalyse business leadership to drive policy ambition and accelerate the transition to a zero-carbon economy. We have embedded responsibility for achieving our emission reduction goals within the firm’s Strategic Leadership Team. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 17 Environment Implementation The firm looks to encourage and support the UN Global Compact Environment Principles through various initiatives and policies. Here are some of the ways we do this: At Grant Thornton we are constantly seeking ways to improve the environmental performance of our buildings and operations, focusing on energy efficiency, incorporating circular economy principles, managing business travel and engagement across all offices. Our ISO 14001 Environmental Management System informs our annual objectives, related targets and agreed actions. Over the past year we have undertaken the following activities to implement environmental policies and reduce environmental impact. Area Action Energy • Procured ROC certified 100% renewable electricity contracts for all of our suppliers • Monitored electricity consumption • Improved access to accurate supplier data • Used profiling to identify energy savings opportunities • Increased employee awareness through environmental campaigns, e.g. switch-off campaign called Goodbye Standby • Increased agile working and hotdesking across our offices • Made significant reductions in gas consumption for heating through improved building management • Further virtualisation of our data centre with the aim of total virtualisation in future Travel • Reported monthly rolling cumulative annual carbon emissions from travel to incentivise employees to increase virtual meetings and lower carbon travel modes • Set up a working group to tackle water monitoring, water consumption and conservation opportunities • Initiated working group to target air travel reductions through alternative travel, virtual meetings and reduction in nonessential flying • Facilitated sessions to increase the uptake of technology as an alternative to travelling and using paper while communicating environmental benefit Paper • Further reduced printing by 2% year on year Waste • Continued rollout of our waste and recycling strategy across the UK, continuing to expand waste streams to include organic waste collection • Conducted waste awareness and waste training days, including employee surveys • Engaged employees with recycling lunch and learn events • Achieved national recycling rate of 77% of all waste • Replaced single-use cups with reusable cups, and ensured reuse of stationery within offices to avoid waste • Improved accuracy of monitoring • Improved employee awareness through improved signage Communication • A significant increase in our Environmental Champions network has helped create fluid and regular communications between offices, departments and the Sustainability team • Presented our Science Based Targets journey at a live event in central London attended by a diverse range of likeminded companies • Spoke at a United Nations webinar about our Science Based Targets experience, including expanding our greenhouse gas emissions inventory to cover all 15 scope 3 categories • Enhanced usage of internal social media platforms • Communicated internally and externally through film screenings, our environmental champions network and celebrated World Environment Day 2020 • Disclose annually through the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire Procurement • Collaborated with suppliers to reduce their own carbon emissions and enhance sustainability across our supply chain • Further engaged our suppliers on sustainability performance • Installed system that replaces the need to use chemicals for office cleaning and avoiding associated packaging • Rolled out Responsible Purchasing Policy and Third Party Code of Conduct 18 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Measures and outputs As a result of the various environment policies and processes the firm has in place, we note some of the following measures and outputs: Our environmental management system across the UK is UKAS certified to ISO 14001 and is audited annually. It focuses on objectives and actions on areas that will have the most significant environmental impact both in the short and long term. We undertook energy audits as part of the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Phase II in 2019 and report to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) annually. Over the past 12 months we have: Reduced paper consumption by “As a responsible business, we believe that bold climate action is necessary to 2% safeguard the future of our planet and to ensure it can be enjoyed by future generations. Reduced Scope 1 and 2 emissions by We are proud to be the UK’s first accountancy firm to sign up to 31% Science Based Targets prior to the pandemic and remain fully committed to achieving Net Zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Reduced total waste produced by Philippa Hill, Partner, London office 8% Remained on renewable electricity contracts at our owned sites, resulting in a 94% saving in electricity Scope 2 emissions United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 19 Anti-corruption Grant Thornton does not tolerate any forms of corruption, either by our people or others who are associated with us. Compliance with our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy is mandatory for all of our people. We expect our Third Parties to comply with relevant laws relating to bribery and corruption in accordance with our Third Party Code of Conduct. The firm is fully committed to upholding the tenth UN Global Compact Principle of Anti-corruption. 20 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Principle 10. Grant Thornton has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption. We are Businesses should work against subject to the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, and potentially other anti-bribery corruption in all its forms, including legislation as a result of our operations in countries outside the UK. extortion and bribery. Our anti-bribery and corruption policy is based on UK law and sets the minimum requirements. Where the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions impose a higher standard, these must be followed where applicable. Grant Thornton is also subject to regulation for its compliance with anti-money laundering legislation. This includes undertaking risk-based due diligence on all of our clients. Our Customer Due Diligence (CDD) procedures take in consideration risk factors relevant to corruption and money laundering risk such as: clients’ source of wealth and source of funds; the risks associated with unusually or excessively complex ownership and control structures; jurisdictions or industry sectors which pose a higher risk of corruption and money laundering; the client being a politically exposed person (PEP) or a family member or known close associate of a PEP (RCA); and adverse media and other information related to financial crime risk. Our CDD procedures are designed to identify corruption risks, alongside other Financial Crime risks, and prevent our services being used to facilitate the corrupt, or wider criminal, activities of others. The firm is also subject to ethical and independence standards set by the UK’s Financial Reporting Council, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), and the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Grant Thornton is committed to working against corruption in all forms and implementing the necessary policies, processes and controls. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 21 Anti-corruption Implementation The firm supports the UN Global Compact Anti-corruption principle through leadership, policy and training. We highlight some areas of firm involvement below. We recognise the impact of our individual and collective • Particularly care and advice from the Financial Crime behaviours on our reputation. We help our people to Team is required where a charity is connected to a client, understand their anti-corruption responsibilities by providing a supplier, or a public official and charitable donations are clear policies and procedures, a strong culture of support and requested. Due diligence must be undertaken to mitigate consultation, training and awareness programmes. any bribery related risks. All charitable donations must be in line with the firm’s approach to charitable donations and Governance and Leadership fundraising. The firm’s Strategic Leadership Team (SLT) is responsible for • With regards to recruitment, the policy provides that no the oversight of policies, procedures and controls relating roles (including paid or unpaid work experience) should be to bribery and corruption risk. One SLT member has been created specifically for clients or known contacts of clients assigned responsibility for Financial Crime Risk management (including those of other Grant Thornton member firms). and is supported by the firm’s Money Laundering Reporting Similarly, creation of roles specifically for close friends or Officer and Head of Financial Crime and their team. Oversight relatives of Grant Thornton employees is also prohibited. of the firm’s Financial Crime Risk management programme, which include bribery and corruption, is achieved through the • Risk-based due diligence must be applied to all Third Parties Oversight Committee on Financial Crime Risk. with the aim to ensure all third parties we engage with comply with relevant laws related to financial crime risk, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Implementation and are prohibited through contractual agreements from Grant Thornton takes the risks associated with bribery and engaging in bribery or corruption on the firm’s behalf. corruption extremely seriously and is bound by the legislation contained in the Bribery Act 2010. We do not tolerate any Whistleblowing forms of bribery or corruption, either by our people or others Employees can report potentially corrupt practices to the who are associated with us. Grant Thornton’s Anti-Bribery head of their service line or use the confidential whistleblowing and Corruption (ABC) policy is based on UK law and sets the helpline. Our Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblowing) Policy minimum requirements. Where the laws and regulations of enables Grant Thornton to act quickly against any potential other jurisdictions impose a higher standard, these must be malpractice, including bribery and corruption, to ensure it followed where applicable. conducts its business with the highest standards of integrity and honesty at all times. The policy also provides a clear Our ABC Policy is implemented as follows: framework to encourage individuals to inform management • All gifts and hospitality must be transparently declared, and of concerns about malpractice so that this can be treated when certain limits exceeded, prior approval sought. Our seriously. policy ensures any gifts and hospitality are appropriate from a bribery risk perspective. An annual report of the audit of key risk areas is prepared and presented to the firm’s senior management, who then take • In relation to public officials, all at Grant Thornton must action as appropriate. Any changes are approved by the board not offer any advantage to them in order to influence them at regular meetings, however due to confidentiality we are in their official role (whether that would be considered unable to disclose details of these. improper or not). This includes not making facilitation payments, unless there is a genuine risk to life or wellbeing, Training Programmes even where such payments may be permitted by local or On joining the firm, all partners and employees are provided other laws in the country in which the payment is requested. with the Code of Conduct and anti-bribery and corruption is • We do not lobby government on behalf of individual one of the mandatory online training courses. The course is clients. We operate a strict policy of not providing financial designed to raise awareness of bribery and corruption risks donations to political parties or individual politicians. and requirements within the firm’s policies to comply with the Grant Thornton is politically neutral. Bribery Act. 22 United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP Measures and outputs Ensuring appropriate anti-bribery and corruption measures are in place is vital for maintaining our reputation and protecting our business. Monitoring Code of Conduct We take steps to monitor our people’s compliance with policies Our Code of Conduct provides a clear set of standards for our and procedures relating to bribery and corruption risks in the business while creating an ethical and behavioural framework following ways: for how we apply our values to guide our people’s response to • Our ABC policy is monitored by the firm’s second and third the decisions they are required to make each day. line monitoring processes, involving the Financial Crime Our Third Party Code of Conduct sets out the expectations Team (second line) and Internal Audit (third line), which for all our Third Parties to comply with relevant laws relating to include analysis of data on gifts and hospitality, expenses bribery and corruption, alongside other expectations. and Third Party payments. • Any instances of bribery or corruption are reported to the Quality Financial Crime Team, or via the firm’s Whistleblowing We continuously invest in processes and infrastructure that Hotline. Reports of the hotline’s activity are formally reviewed drive efficiency and compliance while providing direction and quarterly by the Risk and Audit Committee. support to our people. The policies and procedures which drive • Annually all of our people are required to confirm in the our internal quality control systems are embedded in every part firm’s Annual Regulatory Statements and Declarations of our business. process that they understand and have complied with the firm’s policies relating to anti-bribery and corruption, independence, gifts and hospitality, and whistleblowing. United Nations Global Compact and Grant Thornton UK LLP 23 © 2020 Grant Thornton UK LLP. All rights reserved. ‘Grant Thornton’ refers to the brand under which the Grant Thornton member firms provide assurance, tax and advisory services to their clients and/or refers to one or more member firms, as the context requires. Grant Thornton UK LLP is a member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. GTIL and each member firm is a separate legal entity. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL does not provide services to clients. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not obligate, one another and are not liable for one another’s acts or omissions. This publication has been prepared only as a guide. No responsibility can be accepted by us for loss occasioned to any person acting or refraining from acting as a result of any material in this publication. grantthornton.co.uk DS934
