ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2019 STOCK CODE 1299 Contents ABOUT 02 2019 Sustainability ABOUT DOING BUSINESS THIS REPORT at-a-Glance DOING THIS REPORT IN THE RIGHT WAY BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY 03 Chairman’s Statement THE RIGHT PEOPLE 07 Who We Are 12 ESG Governance CONTRIBUTING 05 Statement from 08 Our Material Issues 13 Effective Risk Management TO OUR COMMUNITIES 09 Our Approach to ESG 14 Responsible Business Group Chief Executive Practices OPERATING 11 Our Approach to and President ESG Reporting RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index THE RIGHT CONTRIBUTING OPERATING PEOPLE TO OUR COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLY 19 Culture and Employee 31 Our Products 44 Our TCFD Report Engagement 37 Innovation 48 Metrics and Targets 21 Developing Our People 38 Sustainable Investment 50 Pollution 23 Recognising and 40 Corporate Social Responsibility 51 Resource Usage Rewarding Our People and Community Wellness 52 Sustainable Infrastructure 25 Diversity and Inclusion 27 Modernising the Way We Work 27 Workplace Safety 28 Agency Learning and Development 54 Feedback 55 Global Reporting Initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content Index Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 01 2019 Sustainability at-a-Glance PROTECTION ABOUT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THIS REPORT Serve the holders of AIA Group Limited Board DOING BUSINESS IN THE MORE THAN AND OVER OVER and Committees composed RIGHT WAY 36 16 14 almost entirely of independent non-executive THE RIGHT directors PEOPLE MILLION Quarterly meetings of the CONTRIBUTING MILLION MILLION BENEFIT PAYMENTS Group ESG Committee and TO OUR COMMUNITIES individual policies participating members of were made during 2019, helping bi-annual presentations to the Group Board OPERATING group insurance schemes customers and their families to RESPONSIBLY cope with challenges at different life stages Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content INVESTMENTS IN COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS KEY ESG MEMBERSHIPS Index HEALTHCARE CARE IN INFRASTRUCTURE AND SIGNATORIES As at 31 December over As at 31 December 2019 2019 US$ BILLION 3.3 US$ MILLION 8 US$ BILLION 30 contributed to our invested in infrastructure-related communities reaching sectors such transportation and over 500,000 people telecommunications ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY KEY INDEX INCLUSIONS PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE AND RATINGS Total carbon Energy use of emissions of 59,749 3,827 2018-2019 TONNES kWh 2.6 TONNES per employee per employee Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 02 Chairman’s Statement I am delighted to present AIA Group’s Environmental, Social ABOUT THIS REPORT and Governance (ESG) Report for 2019. DOING BUSINESS IN THE The principles underpinning ethical and sustainable business RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT practices are a clear priority for our stakeholders – and for AIA. PEOPLE Our stated Vision is to be the world’s pre-eminent life insurance CONTRIBUTING TO OUR provider. As such, we have a responsibility to drive positive COMMUNITIES OPERATING change, anticipate the impacts of ESG issues on our business RESPONSIBLY and proactively address these sustainability challenges. Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index We believe that AIA’s strategic focus on health and well-being for all. To achieve sustainability and our ability to manage this, we continue our shift towards being a associated risks creates tangible value lifelong partner to our customers, moving for our business and for the communities beyond the traditional insurance model we serve over the long term. That is why of paying claims to focus on helping our sustainability is built into every action AIA customers achieve our brand promise of takes. It guides our approach to customer Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. and employee relationships, products, We are proud that our commitment to partnerships, operations, innovation and ESG is being recognised internationally. investments. By making sustainability In 2019, AIA was included in the top central to how AIA does business, we are 1 per cent of companies for ESG risk building solid foundations for continued management by the rating agency growth and ensuring that the Group Sustainalytics, which ranked the Group carries on fulfilling our Purpose of playing second out of 253 companies in the a leadership role in driving economic and insurance industry. We were also included social development across the region. in the FTSE4Good Index Series for a Our ambitions are directly aligned with third consecutive year and joined the global sustainability priorities, particularly Climate Action 100+, an investor initiative the United Nations’ Sustainable to ensure the world’s largest corporate Development Goal of promoting good emitters of greenhouse gases take the necessary action on climate change. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 03 ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index Incorporating ESG considerations into the also working hard to support our wider Group’s governance is also a critical factor communities at this time. Across the in enabling AIA to manage sustainability region, we have been offering enhanced challenges. The Board’s approach to benefits and expedited claims procedures effective governance is reflected in AIA’s as well as practical support on the commitment across the organisation ground. to ensuring that it has the right culture In 2020, we will strive to extend our and processes to manage risk, including leadership position, contributing to a sustainability risks, in an increasingly better and more sustainable future for all complex environment. This includes of our stakeholders and the communities receiving frequent input from key internal and region we serve. and external stakeholders on issues related to climate change, public health, data privacy, cybersecurity and ethical business practices. For us, managing these risks is intrinsic to the sustainable growth of our markets and, in turn, our Group. Edmund Sze-Wing Tse Today, communities across the world Independent Non-executive Chairman face uncertainty as COVID-19 spreads. 13 March 2020 Our priority continues to be the wellbeing of our staff and agents, and we are Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 04 Statement from Group Chief Executive and President AIA’s Centennial Year in 2019 was a memorable opportunity to celebrate what we ABOUT THIS REPORT have achieved over the past 100 years, and importantly, to look to our future. The DOING BUSINESS IN THE strong domestic drivers of demand and major demographic trends in Asia provide RIGHT WAY positive structural support for long-term economic growth across the region. THE RIGHT PEOPLE However, one of the main challenges is how to ensure this growth is sustainable: for CONTRIBUTING TO OUR the long-term benefit of our communities and the environment. AIA is committed to COMMUNITIES being part of an effective response to this challenge in the Asia-Pacific region. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index Rapid economic growth has delivered In the face of these risks, Asia remains rising incomes and improved living significantly underinsured in terms of standards for hundreds of millions of life protection, health insurance, and people across the region. At the same retirement savings. This creates a clear time, greater prosperity has brought responsibility for the life insurance dramatic increases in the incidence of industry to address these challenges. lifestyle-related diseases and increased It can support people through times of pollution levels that affect the longillness and financial adversity as well term well-being of our communities. as provide an efficient means of pooling Urbanisation and ageing populations savings and funding retirement incomes. also require social welfare programmes The industry also plays a vital role in the and levels of fiscal support that are development of the region by mobilising often unavailable at the required scale. savings and promoting investment in Furthermore, Asia is expected to be one productive and sustainable economic of the regions most impacted by the sectors. consequences of climate change. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 05 AIA is a long-term partner to our December 2019, an increase of 42 We recognise that our stakeholders ABOUT communities in helping them to meet per cent since the end of 2018. AIA expect us to be transparent in how THIS REPORT their risks and challenges. Our products Vitality members recorded over 800,000 we operate, reporting on our own DOING provide protection to millions but, as the workouts per day and received 6.6 million environmental and social impact, as well BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY largest independent publicly-listed panhealth assessments in 2019. as how we create value, and improve the quality of lives for people across our THE RIGHT Asian life insurance group, our ambition PEOPLE Managing US$284 billion, AIA is is to go much further than simply communities. This corresponds with our committed to making investments that CONTRIBUTING providing cover and paying claims. We own commitment to have sustainability TO OUR help deliver sustainable growth for COMMUNITIES are committed to enabling our customers at the heart of our business. We will our communities: AIA’s investments in to live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives by continue to maintain our dialogue with OPERATING infrastructure grew to US$30 billion RESPONSIBLY supporting their health and wellness at AIA’s stakeholders about how we are in 2019 and our holdings of green every stage of their lives – and we believe meeting their expectations. Feedback bonds rose to a total of US$916 million. that delivering on this commitment AIA joined the Task Force on ClimateAs I approach my retirement later this can make a positive difference to the GRI & HKEx related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”), year, I am proud of the progress AIA has Guide Content sustainable development of our markets Index a global initiative that seeks to develop made towards fulfilling its commitment throughout the region. voluntary and consistent disclosure of to sustainability during my time as Group We continue to innovate to ensure climate change impacts, in 2018. We Chief Executive and President and the that we deliver on this promise to deepened our commitment to the TCFD benefits this has delivered to all our more customers, including those in recommendations in 2019 by engaging stakeholders. I am very pleased to pass traditionally underserved segments. with more than 1,400 companies across the role of Group Chief Executive and In 2019, we launched first-in-market our investment portfolio, as well as over President on to Lee Yuan Siong, and I mental health coverage in Malaysia and 30 external investment managers, in am confident that AIA will continue to strengthened our critical illness cover seeking to better understand how they make a meaningful contribution to Asia’s in Singapore, providing coverage to a manage climate change risks and address sustainable development under his number of mental health conditions. We their climate impacts. leadership. also strengthened our partnerships in Our commitment to sustainability includes 2019, agreeing an exclusive Asia-Pacific supporting our people. We believe regional partnership with Medix that gives that fostering the right culture, caring our customers across the region access for our employees and helping them to Personal Medical Case Management develop their careers is vital to achieving Services when they are diagnosed with a sustainable success over the long term. serious health condition. In 2019, 97 per cent of our employees Ng Keng Hooi AIA Vitality, our comprehensive, scienceresponded to the annual Gallup Q12 Group Chief Executive and President backed wellness programme, is central to Survey, which helps us monitor their 13 March 2020 our commitments. AIA Vitality launched engagement, and our scores placed in New Zealand last year, meaning we us in the top quartile of Gallup’s global now offer comprehensive wellness financial services and insurance industry programmes in 12 markets. Overall benchmark for the third consecutive year. membership of these programmes AIA was also recognised in the Forbes exceeded 1.7 million at the end of Global 2000 – World’s Best Employer 2019 list and named a constituent of the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for the third year in a row. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 06 About This ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE Report RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index AIA Group Limited (the “Company”) is pleased to present its ESG Report 2019 (the “Report”), which sets out in detail our ESG priorities and commitment toward our promise of enabling Healthier, Longer, Better Lives across the Asia-Pacific region. This Report describes how we address material sustainability issues and contains cross references to information in the Who We Are Company’s Annual Report 2019. Who We Are The Company and its subsidiaries on life insurance premiums and holds (collectively “AIA” or the “Group”) leading positions across the majority comprise the largest independent of its markets. It had total assets of publicly listed pan-Asian life US$284 billion as of 31 December insurance group. It has a presence in 2019. 18 markets in Asia-Pacific – whollyowned branches and subsidiaries in AIA meets the long-term savings Hong Kong Special Administrative and protection needs of individuals Region (“Hong Kong”), Thailand, by offering a range of products and Singapore, Malaysia, Mainland services including life insurance, China, South Korea, the Philippines, accident and health insurance Australia, Indonesia, Taiwan (China), and savings plans. The Group also Vietnam, New Zealand, Macau Special provides employee benefits, credit Administrative Region (“Macau”), life and pension services to corporate Brunei, Cambodia, Myanmar, a 99 per clients. Through an extensive network cent subsidiary in Sri Lanka and a 49 of agents, partners and employees per cent joint venture in India. across Asia-Pacific, AIA serves the holders of more than 36 million The business that is now AIA was first individual policies and over 16 million established in Shanghai a century ago participating members of group in 1919. It is a market leader in the insurance schemes. Asia-Pacific region (ex-Japan) based Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 07 Our Material Issues For 100 years, AIA has provided protection to individuals and How We Identify The role of the ESG Committee is discussed in detail in the Governance ABOUT THIS REPORT families when they have needed Material ESG Issues section of this Report. DOING BUSINESS IN THE it most. As a market leader, AIA is RIGHT WAY AIA’s Environmental, Social In 2018, the ESG Committee focused on the sustainability of our and Governance Committee identified the following five issues THE RIGHT financial results. We also take the PEOPLE (“ESG Committee”) oversees the that have been and will continue to initiative to understand the risks and development of ESG strategies and be central to our efforts to operate in CONTRIBUTING opportunities posed to our business TO OUR initiatives at the Company. The ESG a sustainable way while supporting COMMUNITIES from sustainability challenges Committee is comprised of members our communities. These social across our markets. This focus OPERATING of the Group Executive Committee and environmental issues remain RESPONSIBLY on sustainability is integral to our and considers feedback from the unchanged in their priority as key long-term growth and the inclusive Feedback Group’s stakeholders, including structural drivers of our growth. development of our communities. investors, employees, customers, • THE GROWING PROTECTION GAP GRI & HKEx and regulators. The Committee also Guide Content • LIFESTYLE-RELATED DISEASE Index considers research, commissioned • AGEING POPULATIONS internally and published by academic • URBANISATION institutions. • POLLUTION Other material ESG issues that pose both risks and opportunities to our business more broadly are outlined below and discussed in sections of this Report. CLIMATE CHANGE CYBERSECURITY DATA PROTECTION DIGITALISATION DIVERSITY & INCLUSION EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RECRUITMENT & RETENTION RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS STAFF DEVELOPMENT WORKFORCE PRACTICES & TRAINING WELLNESS Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 08 Our Approach to ESG Core to all our ESG efforts is our our Operating Philosophy of “Doing ABOUT purpose-led brand promise to help the Right Thing, in the Right Way, with THIS REPORT our customers lead Healthier, Longer, the Right People... the Right Results DOING Better Lives, and our commitment to will come”. BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY SUSTAINABLE OUR THE RIGHT Feedback INFRASTRUCTURE PRODUCTS PEOPLE GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index RESOURCE SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE USAGE INVESTMENT BUSINESS PRACTICES ENERGY & C SR & COMMUNITY EFFECTIVE RISK EMISSIONS WELLNESS MANAGEMENT OPERATING CONTRIBUTING DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY TO OUR COMMUNITIES THE RIGHT WAY We aim to address the sustainability AIA’s ESG Approach, which challenges faced across our markets, incorporates feedback from the to operate responsibly by mitigating ESG Committee and stakeholders, our environmental impact, and to highlights core areas and aspects of ensure that we always do business our business that allow us to address in the right way by adhering to the our material issues and manage key highest ethical standards. areas of our operational impact. Each of these items is discussed in detail in sections of the Report and includes supporting statistics, metrics and examples. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 09 Our Approach to ESG The Role of the Life and 15 MILLION ABOUT Deteriorating health associated with THIS REPORT lifestyle factors and pollution has resulted Health Insurance Industry in an increase of non-communicable DOING BUSINESS IN THE diseases (“NCDs”), which account for over in Addressing ESG issues of these deaths are premature, affecting RIGHT WAY 70% people between the ages of 30 and 69. THE RIGHT While rapid economic development Lowand middle-income countries face PEOPLE has brought significant improvements the greatest risk, further compromising CONTRIBUTING poverty reduction and development TO OUR in the standard of living across Asiaof all deaths globally1. efforts. COMMUNITIES Pacific, the region continues to face significant social and environmental OPERATING By 2050, urbanisation It is projected that more than RESPONSIBLY challenges. 25% coupled with the overall Feedback The insurance industry has growth of the world’s population could add traditionally played an important 2.5 BILLION GRI & HKEx role in contributing to the social Guide Content of the population in Asia-Pacific Index and economic development of will be over the age of 60 by 2050, local communities. Life and health straining economic growth and insurance provide people with more people to urban areas2. increasing demand for public services3. peace of mind knowing that they are protecting themselves, their AIA provides protection to people across the region with total sum assured of 1.74 TRILLION employees and their families against life’s uncertainties. Our policies protect millions of people and US$ businesses, both Small and Medium size Enterprises (“SMEs”) and large corporations. We Are Evolving to Meet lives. To AIA, our brand promise of Healthier, Longer, Better Lives is about While rapid urbanisation and These Challenges not only protection but partnering economic development in the region with our customers to help them live have brought affluence, lifestyle AIA aims to engage with our long, active and meaningful lives. changes have also disrupted the customers and address the health and wellness challenges they face. AIA Insurance also helps to mobilise traditional family networks that has made a promise – to help millions savings. The premiums paid from people have historically relied upon of people across Asia-Pacific to live policies that we sell are reinvested in for security and support. These shifts Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. productive sectors and businesses have exacerbated the protection gap across Asia. As an asset owner, for many in our communities. AIA will continue to respond to our significant investments in Life and health insurance and our customers’ needs, devising infrastructure, healthcare and other savings options help to address the products and services for changing industries are discussed in sections protection gaps from these societal demographics, while working with of this Report. Our commitments shifts, reducing the burden on families partners who can bring new expertise to sustainable investment support and national healthcare systems, and add value to our services. the growth and development of while providing people with a range Through our wellness programmes, capital markets and provide valuable of options in accessing medical we incentivise people to both capital for infrastructure, economic treatment. understand and act to improve their growth and thereby the development health and well-being. of the region. We are also taking Throughout this Report, you will steps to engage with companies find examples of how we work to in our investment portfolio on help predict, prevent and improve their sustainability awareness and diagnosis of diseases while performance, while encouraging supporting the treatment and action to build and enhance a more rehabilitation of customers. We aim to climate resilient future. make a positive difference in people’s Environmental, Social 1 WHO 2018 and Governance Report 2 UN 2014 2019 3 UN 2016 10 Our Approach to ESG Reporting AIA has a responsibility to be transparent and accountable to all Our Reporting Boundary The Sustainable ABOUT THIS REPORT our stakeholders, which includes To provide a comprehensive review Development Goals DOING BUSINESS IN THE reporting on how we make a of our impact and performance, this Developed by the United Nations RIGHT WAY difference in our communities, Report includes data from all business units where we maintain majority (“UN”), the Sustainable Development THE RIGHT address sustainability challenges, and PEOPLE operational control, and excludes data Goals (“SDGs”) are 17 overarching make a lasting and meaningful impact goals that provide a global CONTRIBUTING within our markets. from Tata AIA Life where we own a 49 TO OUR per cent interest in a joint venture. framework for peace and prosperity COMMUNITIES Our key stakeholders include our in consideration of the environment. OPERATING investors, customers, regulators, For easy reference to our reporting Adopted in 2015 by all Member RESPONSIBLY business partners, and our employees disclosures, the GRI Index, the UN States of the UN, they are strategically Feedback and agents. Global Compact, and the HKEx ESG important to governments across content index are provided at the end Asia-Pacific. This Report is produced in accordance GRI & HKEx of this Report. Additional information Guide Content with the “Core” option of the In 2018, AIA identified and reported Index relevant to our ESG performance, Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) on seven SDGs and their related including financial data and corporate Standards and Financial Services targets where our business has the governance matters, can be found in Sector Supplement, with reference greatest ability to drive change within our Annual Report 2019. AIA makes to the ESG Reporting Guide set out in our markets. This Report outlines every effort to ensure consistency Appendix 27 of the Rules Governing our support for related SDGs, with between the Chinese and English the Listing of Securities on The Stock examples and case studies to show versions of this Report. However, in Exchange of Hong Kong Limited how we do this. In 2019, we also the event of any inconsistency, the (“HKEx”). As a signatory to the United outlined our support for SDG 16 in English version shall prevail. Nations Global Compact (the “UN support of peace, justice and strong Global Compact”), AIA also reports on This Report was reviewed and institutions, through our commitment our progress toward the Ten Principles approved by the Company’s board of to responsible business practices. of the United Nations Global Compact. directors (the “Board”) on 11 March 2020. Our most significant contributions are to SDG 3, supporting Good Health and Well-being, through our purpose of enabling Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. AIA has also been a supporter of the UN Global Compact since 2016. This Report forms part of our annual submission on reporting to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 11 Doing Business in ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE the Right RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES Way OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index Strong corporate governance sets the foundation upon which This section outlines our we are able to grow our business, realise our Purpose, and make support of SDG 16 a positive difference in people’s lives. on peace, justice and strong institutions. Our approach to good governance, as Our approach is based on the Group’s Operating Philosophy of discussed in this section, is aligned “Doing the Right Thing, in the Right Way, with the Right People... with SDG Target 16.5 to substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all the Right Results will come.” This approach applies across their forms, and SDG Target 16.6 to all our operations and is embedded within our governance develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions. practices and culture programmes. ESG Governance ESG issues have the potential to All employees at AIA are responsible approach, environmental targets, impact business performance, for contributing to the realisation of submissions to sustainability indices, whether through regulation, our ESG priorities, whether through and in reviewing this Report. stakeholder perception, or by directly upholding our principles for good To receive third-party feedback affecting the health and well-being of governance or through ESG-focused on the Group’s performance, the our customers. roles. ESG Committee commissioned a AIA seeks to understand these ESG The AIA ESG Committee comprises consultant who completed an ESG issues, mitigate our impact on the members of our Group Executive benchmarking and gap analysis environment, and address the key Committee and is responsible for exercise in 2019. The Committee also health challenges facing our markets. overseeing governance around ESG, in considers the latest ESG research, This is core to who we are and how we addition to integrating and addressing feedback raised by key stakeholders operate. ESG issues within our business. and reports by rating agencies, in order to provide input on specific ESG The ESG Committee met four times issues relevant to the Group. in 2019, providing input on our ESG Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 12 Effective Risk Management Investors increasingly consider ESG We address ESG-related risks ESG risk areas, such as people ABOUT risks when making their investment according to the process outlined management, technology and data THIS REPORT decisions, with research showing that in the RMF and categorise them privacy, to provide assurance that the DOING companies with better capacity to based on the nature of the risk to appropriate controls are in place to BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY manage ESG-related risks produce our operations. Data protection, address these risks. THE RIGHT higher returns over the long term4. At cybersecurity, people management PEOPLE AIA recognises that long-term AIA, a comprehensive approach to risk and responsible business practices ESG risks, such as climate change, CONTRIBUTING management ensures that we have may have immediate operational TO OUR pollution and lifestyle related NCDs, COMMUNITIES the frameworks in place across our impacts and are therefore treated have far reaching impacts on our business to address relevant risks. as operational risks. Long-term OPERATING markets and require concerted RESPONSIBLY challenges such as pollution and The Board retains ultimate contributions from business, lifestyle risk factors impact the health Feedback responsibility for the oversight of the government and the general public and well-being of people across our Group’s risk management activities alike. AIA aims to address these markets, and are viewed as insurance GRI & HKEx and monitors material Group-wide issues through discussion within our Guide Content risks given the impact they may pose. Index risks, whether they are relevant to the ESG member organisations, and by Such emerging ESG issues may be industry or unique to the Group and playing a proactive role through our discussed by the BRC, eRC or the its businesses. The Board is supported business where we remain committed ESG Committee. by the Board Risk Committee (“BRC”) to enabling Healthier, Longer, Better and executive risk committees AIA conducts scenario testing and Lives across the region. (“eRC”), such as the Operational Risk business continuity analysis to Committee (“ORC”) and Financial ensure sufficient capital is earmarked Risk Committee (“FRC”), which are to provide protection to our comprised of our senior executives. policyholders and to ensure business continuity under stressed conditions. AIA’s Risk Management Framework For further details on our approach, (“RMF”) ensures that across our please refer to page 285 of the Annual Group, we have the capabilities Report 2019. and processes in place to identify, quantify, monitor and report risk. The Our internal audit team provides Board and business unit boards of independent assurance on the directors are responsible for reviewing effectiveness of our key controls and this framework to ensure that it is recommends control improvements sufficiently effective given local as necessary. The team’s efforts cover business environments and context. a number of current and emerging Risk Culture promise, are aligned with a strong and sustainable culture. A key element in the effective AIA’s Operating Philosophy and Code management of risk, including ESG risk, of Conduct (the “Code”) further outline is a strong and resilient culture, including expectations on professional conduct, how an organisation behaves as it identifying risk behaviours and channels encounters opportunity and manages for reporting on potential risks. Frequent risk. Strong risk awareness, as a part of training and internal communications AIA’s desired broader culture, is integral ensure that all employees and agents are to our RMF. Our Vision and Purpose, familiar with the appropriate reporting in particular, our purpose-led brand issues. Environmental, Social 4 MSCI 2019 and Governance Report 2019 13 Responsible Business Practices Our customers place a high degree of Each employee is expected to take the Policy. The Policy also outlines ABOUT trust in our business, and in our ability personal responsibility for observing the roles and responsibilities of THIS REPORT to provide protection and financial the highest standards of integrity and employees to ensure compliance. Our DOING security over time to millions across conduct and to report any violations. business units are responsible for BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY the region. We take pride in our long We believe that our environment and implementing processes and controls THE RIGHT history of successful operation and the processes that we have put in to reduce the risk of corruption PEOPLE value the reputation we have earned place empower employees to identify and ensure compliance with Group CONTRIBUTING of being a reliable and trustworthy and escalate issues without fear or standards, as well as all relevant local TO OUR company that acts with integrity hesitation. All non-compliance with laws and regulations. COMMUNITIES throughout our operations. the Code is subject to disciplinary OPERATING action, which can include dismissal RESPONSIBLY where appropriate. AIA’s business partners, including its agents, Preventing Fraud Feedback Code of Conduct distribution partners and suppliers AIA is committed to the high ethical GRI & HKEx At the heart of our approach to good are expected to apply similar standards outlined in the Code and Guide Content Index governance is our Code of Conduct. standards and to follow the same espouses a zero-tolerance approach The Code provides clear guidance responsible practices as towards fraud. AIA’s Anti-Fraud Policy on how we conduct business at all our employees. sets out standards for managing the times and applies to everyone who risk of fraud, including training as well For further works at AIA. It reflects our Operating details, we as preventive and detective measures. Philosophy, namely “Doing the Right invite you to read Our operating entities implement Thing, in the Right Way, with the our Code linked procedures to prevent and facilitate here. Right People… the Right Results will early detection of fraudulent practices come.” It also defines how we hold to protect customer interests and ourselves to the highest standards those of AIA, in line with this policy. of professionalism, which is key Incidents and allegations or to maintaining trust and building suspicions of fraud are assessed sustainable relationships with our and investigated. If allegations stakeholders – customers, agents, distribution partners, regulators and Preventing Bribery and or suspicions are substantiated, investors. Corruption AIA is committed to taking a fair and proportionate approach in Under our policies, employees and The Code has been translated into administering disciplinary actions. other persons representing AIA are six languages and on joining AIA, all Other actions may include the prohibited from offering, accepting, employees are required to undertake loss of employment-related paying or authorising any bribes or training to familiarise themselves benefits, reporting the fraud to any form of corruption in any business with the Code. All employees are law enforcement authorities for interaction that involves AIA and also required to complete an annual prosecution or seeking a legal remedy government officials, our customers, certification of familiarity and against the employee for the fraud or employees. compliance with the Code. Training that has been committed. on the Code is supplemented with an Our Group-wide Anti-Corruption ethical leadership programme, that Policy (“Policy”) sets a high standard equips AIA’s leaders with practical that is observed across our operations. tools to manage situations involving Anti-corruption training is compulsory ethical dilemmas. for all employees. Reviews and assessments are conducted from time to time to monitor compliance with Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 14 Responsible Business Practices Whistle-blower Policy Committee, who receive regular Data Protection and ABOUT THIS REPORT reports from Group Internal Audit and AIA provides channels for all of our Group Compliance on the number Cybersecurity Preparedness DOING stakeholders, including employees, BUSINESS IN THE and nature of issues raised and the In providing our products and distributors, customers and suppliers, RIGHT WAY progress of all material investigations. services, we ask our customers, to raise concerns about any violation THE RIGHT AIA’s Whistle-blower Protection employees and business partners PEOPLE of the Code or other Policy prohibits any form to trust us with a range of sensitive behaviour that falls CONTRIBUTING of retaliation against any information. To ensure we safeguard TO OUR short of the high COMMUNITIES employee providing a good that information, AIA has in place a standards demanded faith report of an actual or Group-wide Data Privacy Compliance OPERATING by the Group. RESPONSIBLY suspected violation of the Policy to ensure adequate safeguards To that end, AIA Code. for our customer and business data Feedback maintains a comprehensive Whistleas well as compliance with data blower Programme designed to protection legislation. This Policy is GRI & HKEx communicated via classroom sessions Guide Content handle reports of misconduct and inappropriate behaviour with multiple Our Approach To Anti-Money and e-learning to all employees and Index reporting channels, including a Laundering (“AML”) and agents when they join AIA, and are 24-hour, multi-lingual third-party Counter Terrorist Financing regularly reinforced through refresher administered compliance hotline training and awareness activities which permits (“CTF”) and Sanctions focusing on topics such as proper complete AIA is committed to a strict data handling, breach reporting and Further details anonymity. on our programme of compliance with phishing. All employees and agents ethical compliance all applicable AML/CTF laws and are required to safeguard customers’ All allegations hotline can be regulations to prevent the use of its personal information and are are assessed found here. products and services for money prohibited from disclosing customer and investigated. laundering and terrorist financing information to unauthorised parties. Reporting through purposes. internal channels (such as Human AIA is committed to protecting the Resources, Audit and Compliance) The Group AML/CTF Policy and interests of our customers, partners, accounted for 57 per cent of the Guidelines set out the detailed employees and stakeholders, ensuring reports received during the year. requirements of the Group AML/CTF high standards of information security. Issues raised via the ethics hotline are Programme. This programme includes AIA’s Group Information Security handled by AIA’s Group Compliance a risk-based approach to conducting Policy is aligned to industry leading team. The Whistle-blower Programme customer due diligence, ongoing standards to ensure that our systems, is overseen by the Board Audit monitoring, suspicious activity processes and information are reporting, training and record keeping. secured. AIA uses a comprehensive AML/CTF monitoring software or online tool Our Group Chief Technology and PROPORTION OF REPORTS RECEIVED to screen, risk profile and monitor Operations Officer and a dedicated IN 2019 BY REPORTING CHANNEL customer activity. information security team oversee the quality and consistency of All new employees are required to technology risk management and complete AML and CTF training. Tied cybersecurity across the Group. The agents are also required to receive team maintains a focus on protecting 57% 43% appropriate AML/CTF training. AIA from cyber threats by detecting In addition, our Group Economic any anomalies, effectively responding Sanctions Compliance Policy & to cybersecurity issues, enhancing Guidelines set out standards to defensive controls and investing in manage the risk of dealings with security analytics. We also partner INTERNAL EXTERNAL governments, individuals and entities with leading information security CHANNELS HOTLINE subject to sanctions programmes. services providers to provide further Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 15 Responsible Business Practices capability on ensuring a secure Appropriate data protection Supply Chain Management ABOUT THIS REPORT operational environment. AIA focuses controls are also integrated into We work with many different product on protecting our critical assets from relevant operational processes DOING and service providers across our BUSINESS IN THE cyber threats using classification and and are regularly tested by our RIGHT WAY business. Sustainability is a key threat modelling techniques. information security team. For element of our supply chain as THE RIGHT example, procedural controls and PEOPLE This includes focusing on our key summarised in our Supplier Code of information safeguards are built into systems that process our customer Conduct (“Supplier Code”). CONTRIBUTING our interactive Point of Sale (“iPoS”) TO OUR data as well as key supporting COMMUNITIES and interactive Mobile Office (“iMO”) The Supplier Code was developed to business processes, and software systems that have been adopted by complement the Code. It applies to OPERATING specifically designed to address cyber RESPONSIBLY our insurance agents in their sales all of our suppliers and references risk in this area. processes and broader day-to-day international conventions such as the Feedback operations. These safeguards include UN Declaration on Human Rights and user authentication and secure AIA’s ESG memberships. The Supplier GRI & HKEx Guide Content storage of customers’ data. Code encourages sound ESG practices Index among our suppliers and a general AIA reviews the data security culture of integrity in all matters and standards of our third-party ensures that these are considered vendors through our Third Party when suppliers are selected. Security Assessment process. This process regularly assesses a broad As a Group, we work with suppliers range of security controls of our that demonstrate sound practice in All cybersecurity issues are handled vendors, including data security and regard to their ESG performance. by the Director of Information Security encryption, against industry standards Dedicated due diligence processes who reports directly to the Head of such as ISO27001 and those by the form a part of our supply chain Group Technology Governance. AIA National Institute of Standards and management and monitoring system. believes that cybersecurity is the Technology of the United States This includes conducting supplier responsibility of every employee. (“NIST”). AIA also conducts privacy and third-party assessments where Therefore, we educate our employees impact assessments to avoid or necessary, as well as requesting about how to protect themselves minimise adverse impacts on data information on employment and and AIA from cyber threats through privacy and to ensure appropriate environmental practices from selected web-based awareness and readiness safeguards are in place. material suppliers through our training and conducting regular supplier registration process. cyber-defence assessments including All access to customer data is incident management drills. AIA also subject to appropriate approvals and AIA also encourages suppliers to took part in industry tests such as granted on a need to know basis, with minimise their energy consumption the Malaysia Capital Market Cyber recertification to confirm it remains and carbon footprint, and we promote Simulation 2019 in August, where AIA correct. the use of environmentally friendly was grouped in the Top 25 percentile. technology. Finally, AIA has also procured cyber AIA also continues to invest in insurance to provide further security Information Technology safeguards, to our business on any external cyber including in the areas of Cloud incidents. Security, Data Protection and Mobile Application Security, to ensure sufficient operational controls which meet our information security AIA’s Privacy objectives. For example, all cloud Policy Statement services providers we engage must is publicly available and can adhere to our Cryptography Standard. be viewed here. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 16 Responsible Business Practices Customer understanding and meeting the In recognition of our Voice of ABOUT THIS REPORT needs of SMEs, a critically important Customer programme and initiatives Engagement part of Hong Kong’s economy to enhance customer experience, DOING With more than 36 million individual and society. This has allowed us we were proud to be ranked number BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY policies and over 16 million to develop propositions to better one in terms of Net Promoter participating members of group THE RIGHT address customer needs across our Score in Mainland China in 2019, PEOPLE insurance schemes, the scale and communities. being benchmarked against key CONTRIBUTING footprint of our customer base competitors. TO OUR underscores our impact on our COMMUNITIES communities as we actively engage Listening to Our Customers OPERATING and nurture long-term relationships RESPONSIBLY To understand how we can enhance Handling of Customer Complaints with our customers. Feedback the customer experience at all stages AIA has consistent guidelines for the Achieving our promise of enabling of the customer journey, AIA runs a handling of customer complaints GRI & HKEx Healthier, Longer, Better Lives holistic Voice of Customer programme across our business units. This Guide Content requires that we engage in a with three key components: an includes clear procedures and Index meaningful way with our customers annual Customer Relationship Survey protocols for dealing with customer at each touchpoint in their journey, (“CRS”), an annual distributor survey issues, plus documentation related allowing us to develop a deep and an ongoing real-time closed loop to the handling of cases. Customers understanding of their unique needs customer feedback system. The realcan learn about the channels for and wants, in order to meet their time closed loop customer feedback submitting complaints through our requirements. system, which was featured in the websites as well as in our policy ESG report last year, provides us materials. We aim to handle all with customer feedback right after complaints and investigations in a Customer Segmentation their interactions with AIA at key prompt and efficient manner. touchpoints, so that we can continue Helping our customers improve Resources are in place to address the dialogue with customers and their health requires that we better complaints across our business units, make ongoing improvements to better understand their needs. To that end, including a dedicated person to serve their needs. Such systems have we conduct research to understand handle issues within an acceptable been launched in Mainland China and the needs of various customer timeframe. We also have in place a Malaysia. segments in order to customise our process for escalation to management products and services. In Hong Kong, Surveys help us to understand, from where required, including a line of our segmentation model provides a a customer perspective, potential communication to our Group Office. holistic view of different customers issues and their root-causes so that based on life stages, attitudes we can better address customer and behaviours. This research has needs throughout their journey with allowed us to develop digital sales us. From a distributor perspective, tools such as segmentation toolkits, we are also able to understand how which support our team and agents we may better support agents and in engaging with and meeting the bancassurance partners to provide genuine needs of our customers. better service throughout the customer journey. After completing An enhancement to this segmentation these surveys, cross-functional teams model in 2019 helped us to deepen review insights in order to develop an our understanding of five major action plan that addresses the issues professional sectors in Hong Kong: identified. Ultimately, these insights healthcare, civil service, education, help us to enhance the customer banking and finance. Separately, engagement experience, driving we have also invested in better levels of retention, repurchase and recommendation. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 17 The Right ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE People RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index AIA has always been a business built on its people. At AIA, equipping our employees for success is vital to serving our customers and enabling our communities to live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. Guided by our Operating Philosophy of “Doing the Right Thing, in the Right Way, with the Right People... the Right Results will come”, we focus on fostering a culture that promotes recruiting, developing and retaining high performing employees. Our Workforce at a Glance As at 31 December 2019, Our employees across Overview of our AIA had a total of our markets6 employee demographics 23,149 EMPLOYEES BY MARKETS 35% 12% BY GENDER BY AGE GROUP 8% 23% which included full-time and 17% 41% 59% part-time, as well as contract employees5. 18% 69% 12% 6% HONG KONG SINGAPORE FEMALE BELOW 30 MAINLAND THAILAND MALE 30-50 CHINA OTHER MARKETS OVER 50 MALAYSIA AIA’s workforce is also supported by tens of thousands of agents across Asia-Pacific. Environmental, Social 5 Includes employees on contracts, but excludes interns, agents of the Group and employees of Tata and Governance Report AIA Life. 2019 6 Percentage of total employees – figures for Hong Kong include Group Office employees, figures 18 for Mainland China and Malaysia include our employees in our shared services centres. Culture and Employee Engagement At AIA, we hold ourselves to the highest standards of professional To help foster AIA’s culture, all new employees are required to undergo Engaging Our People ABOUT THIS REPORT conduct and we pride ourselves on an orientation and complete a set of Continuing to build on our DOING staying true to the values that have e-learning modules centred on our collaborative and inclusive workplace, BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY underpinned our growth since we Code. An enterprise-wide learning and which prioritises employee engagement, remains a top priority THE RIGHT were founded more than 100 years development framework is in place PEOPLE ago. Trust is a core component of the across our business units to maintain for AIA. CONTRIBUTING products and services that we offer to consistency in our approach to talent TO OUR Each year for the past nine years COMMUNITIES our millions of customers throughout development and help shape our we have conducted the Gallup Q12 the Asia-Pacific region and it is at culture across the region. OPERATING survey to help us monitor levels of RESPONSIBLY the heart of all our interactions in the AIA is committed to creating employee engagement across our workplace, with our customers and Feedback and maintaining a positive work business units and functions. The with all other external stakeholders. environment that is free from bullying, survey provides meaningful input GRI & HKEx AIA’s Code of Conduct defines how discrimination and harassment. to allow for the development of Guide Content we maintain this trust and reflects our Employees are encouraged to strategies to address areas requiring Index Operating Philosophy of “Doing the resolve issues by talking to and improvement, with the goal of building Right Thing, in the Right Way, with working with their management and on our strong levels of engagement. the Right People... the Right Results human resources teams. In addition, In 2019, 97 per cent of our people will come”. The Code provides clear employees are encouraged to speak responded to the survey and the guidance on how to conduct business up and ask questions, raise concerns Group’s employee engagement at all times, by embedding ethics and or report instances of misconduct by scores placed us in the top quartile of strong risk management in all the contacting Compliance, or the 24/7 Gallup’s global financial services and decisions that AIA’s employees make. AIA Ethics Hotline. insurance industry benchmark for the third consecutive year. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 19 Culture And Employee Engagement Employer Recognition • AIA Thailand was awarded a “Top Employer Thailand” by the Top Employee turnover ABOUT THIS REPORT In 2019 we were recognised as an by gender Employers Institute. DOING employer of choice and received many BUSINESS IN THE • AIA Vietnam was recognised as a FEMALE RIGHT WAY 12.9% prestigious local, regional and global “Great Place to Work” by the Great THE RIGHT awards. Among these: PEOPLE Place to Work Institute. • AIA Group was recognised in the CONTRIBUTING • AIA Sri Lanka was recognised by TO OUR Forbes “Global 2000 – World’s Best COMMUNITIES Employers 2019” list. the Great Place to Work Institute MALE • For the third year in a row, the Company was named a constituent as one of the “Best Workplaces” in Sri Lanka and as one of the “Best Workplaces for Women” in Sri 14.5% OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback of the “Bloomberg Gender-Equality Lanka. Index”. The Company was also GRI & HKEx • AIA Malaysia was the insurance Guide Content included in the index for 2020. Index sector winner in “Malaysia’s 100 • In recognition of our excellence Leading Graduate Employers” by Employee turnover in leadership development GTI Media. by age group programmes the AIA Leadership • AIA Singapore was the insurance BELOW 30 20.9% Centre (described in more detail and risk management sector on page 22) was awarded the winner in “Singapore’s 100 Leading “Corporate Learning Improvement Graduate Employers” by GTI Media. Process” (CLIP) accreditation by European Foundation for 30-50 12.5% Management Development (EFMD). AIA is currently the only Employee Turnover life insurer in the world to hold this accreditation. Employee turnover across the Group 7 was 13.5 per cent in 20198, a decrease ABOVE 50 4.3% • AIA China, AIA Thailand and Tata when compared to 2018. This is a AIA Life each received the “Best reflection of our ability to retain high Employer” award with the Group performing employees. also receiving the regional “Best Employer” Asia Pacific award The Asia-Pacific region provides through the Kincentric Best many career opportunities with Employers programme (formerly increasing demand and competition known as Aon Best Employers for skilled talent. We actively Programme). monitor our turnover levels against industry benchmarks to help us • Philam Life, AIA Taiwan and AIA understand levels of employee Thailand were recognised by HR engagement, thereby ensuring that Asia as “Best Companies to Work the programmes and opportunities For in Asia”. we provide to our people do create an environment in which employees perform their best and grow with AIA. 7 Excludes Group employees on fixed-term contracts, involuntary turnover and employees of Environmental, Social Tata AIA Life. and Governance Report 8 AIA made minor amendments to our permanent voluntary turnover categorisation this year. On 2019 a comparable basis, permanent voluntary turnover decreased to 13.5 per cent in 2019 from 20 15.9 per cent in 2018. Developing Our People Employee Talent All employees at AIA receive mandatory training and are Average training hours ABOUT THIS REPORT by gender9 Development provided opportunities to learn. The DOING BUSINESS IN THE digitalisation of learning content FEMALE RIGHT WAY 15.4 Development of our employees is and delivery methods will continue a key strategic priority. We foster THE RIGHT to play an important role in learning PEOPLE a learning culture that supports the development of our people’s and development at AIA. Our existing HRS CONTRIBUTING platform, Catalyst, was used by Group TO OUR key capabilities. We believe that COMMUNITIES Office and several of our business MALE 15.5 this will both help them succeed units in 2019. With the roll-out of a OPERATING in their current roles and provide a RESPONSIBLY new Group-wide human resources platform for meaningful, long-term information system in 2019 and HRS Feedback careers with AIA. We practise a into 2020, our business units will be holistic approach to learning and able to utilise a new digital learning GRI & HKEx development, whereby knowledge Guide Content platform going forward. Index and skills are accumulated from on-the-job experiences, collaborative To ensure that our programmes Average training hours projects, classroom and digital deliver value for the business and by employee level learning, supported by activities such develop our people for the future, we JUNIOR STAFF 13.7 as mentoring and coaching. review feedback from our employees, the design of our courses and content In 2019, after reviewing our of our training materials on a regular existing enterprise-wide learning basis. HRS and development framework, we In 2019, we also took a major MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 20.5 introduced a refreshed Group-wide approach. Our updated framework is step in building on our approach designed to support our employees at to leadership development. We every stage of their career, drive a step introduced a new leadership HRS change in our approach to learning development programme for our most SENIOR MANAGEMENT 26.2 and development and support the senior leaders known as “SPARK”. This business by developing talent with new programme will be a cornerstone of our leadership development valuable and relevant skills. strategy and will shape other new HRS programmes that will be cascaded in 2020 and beyond. We also recently updated the framework for defining the desired Disclosure in this behaviours for people at every level section supports of our organisation by articulating SDG Target 4.4, and communicating our Leadership to increase the Essentials, intended to further embed levels of relevant skillsets, including and foster our culture and shape technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and long-term individual employee entrepreneurship. development. Environmental, Social 9 Training hours for employees of AIA Myanmar, Tata AIA Life, or transferred employees from and Governance Report CommInsure are not included. 2019 21 Developing Our People The AIA Leadership Centre a rigorous assessment of the ALC against its international standards, Employee Mentoring, ABOUT THIS REPORT In support of our talent development which included a review of our Coaching and Internships DOING BUSINESS IN THE strategies, we continue to provide strategic positioning, programmes, Mentoring and coaching RIGHT WAY best-in-class programmes at the ALC, faculty, marketing, suppliers, our world-class learning facility in arrangements are currently supported THE RIGHT innovation and the overall learning PEOPLE Bangkok, Thailand. With a clear focus at our Group Office and in many of our facilities. AIA is currently the only business units to allow our employees CONTRIBUTING on AIA’s strategic and governance life insurer in the world to hold this TO OUR priorities, the ALC continues to be to expand their networks, benefit from COMMUNITIES accreditation. a differentiator in the development guidance and foster communication OPERATING of our people by delivering bespoke across different departments and RESPONSIBLY development programmes to our seniorities. senior leaders, top agency leaders Succession and Across our business units, we Feedback and key partner executives. The ALC has now entered its fourth year of Organisation Planning provided development opportunities GRI & HKEx Guide Content to hundreds of interns in 2019. Index operation. In 2019 it hosted more than Committed to having a strong talent We run structured programmes 250 events and delivered more than pipeline, our comprehensive annual for seasonal interns and longer 25 customised learning events. Group-wide organisation people assignments at Group Office and in review process continues to identify several of our business units. Our In 2019, the ALC was awarded different talent segments to enable programmes provide interns with CLIP accreditation by EFMD in leaders to plan for the succession first-hand experience of what a career recognition of our excellence in talent of key roles. The success of our at AIA is like and an opportunity to development. EFMD is a globally approach to talent development and learn crucial skills in a fast-moving recognised accreditation body for our Group-wide succession planning and customer-focused environment. business schools and corporate can be found in the many examples Our programmes also provide us with universities and has a network of of internal promotions into key a great opportunity to identify future over 900 members in 91 countries leadership roles throughout the Group talents for our business. worldwide. Prior to awarding the in 2019, including at the most senior CLIP accreditation, EFMD undertook levels of the organisation. Internship Experience has been a great support throughout this programme, allowing me to play to at AIA my strengths and contribute to various projects. “This internship opportunity at AIA I was one of many interns from all over has been a dream come true. The the world working at AIA’s Group Office work culture at AIA is exhilarating. this summer and it gave me a chance I get to work under highly qualified to make new friends and learn more and experienced individuals, who are about other cultures. Through training extremely passionate about helping opportunities, I learnt the importance of millions of people across Asia-Pacific being a team player, how to articulate live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. my ideas and present them confidently, Mashiat Sharif Through this internship, I learned to and the important role AIA plays in Corporate Communications maximise communications across Intern through the Asian contributing to economies across Asiasponsorship activities and become more University for Women Pacific.” internship programme detail oriented. My boss and mentor Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 22 Recognising and Rewarding Our People Our total rewards programmes use a Our benefits and workforce well-being understand their health profile and ABOUT combination of market competitive programmes work together to help take steps to safeguard their THIS REPORT financial and non-financial rewards to our employees and their families live well-being. DOING attract, engage and retain employees Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. For BUSINESS IN THE We are also proud to provide our RIGHT WAY and motivate them to help AIA example, we continue to provide flexible employees with the opportunity to THE RIGHT execute its shortand long-term benefits in various business units to PEOPLE become AIA shareholders through business goals. provide our people with more choices. our Employee Share Purchase Plan CONTRIBUTING This year we piloted a new workforce TO OUR Our core rewards programmes (ESPP). In 2019, the percentage of COMMUNITIES well-being programme to all Group are tied to our performance eligible employees, and number of Office employees, which focused on OPERATING development dialogue programme, participants that enrolled into the RESPONSIBLY physical, mental and financial which is designed to enable people plan, grew to the highest levels since well-being. We continue to support Feedback managers to assess the performance the plan was adopted. our employees through programmes and behaviours of their staff and such as AIA Vitality memberships, team GRI & HKEx recommend development activities to Guide Content challenges and health check-ups. Index help meet defined career objectives. The performance development Flexible working, on-site gyms, dialogue focuses both on what discounted gym memberships, other employees have accomplished and, sporting and recreational facilities, just as importantly, how individuals and mothers’ rooms are offered achieve their goals. by some of our business units. We encourage employees to stay active, Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 23 Recognising and Rewarding Our People ABOUT THIS REPORT Group Office DOING BUSINESS IN THE Workforce Wellbeing RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE In April 2019, AIA Group Office commenced a year-long health and CONTRIBUTING TO OUR well-being programme for employees COMMUNITIES that addresses physical, mental, OPERATING and financial well-being issues. A RESPONSIBLY cross-functional team consisting of representatives from Human Resources, Feedback AIA Vitality, Strategy, Corporate Solutions and Healthcare, the team worked GRI & HKEx Guide Content together to create a range of activities Index that could help employees improve their physical, mental and financial wellbeing. At the same time, office wide on-site were given tailored, practical advice to The programme saw Group Office health checks and an online disease help improve sleep quality. employees participate in a mix of health risk assessment indicated that more checks and assessments, onsite health To encourage important conversations than 30 per cent of participants were talks, workshops, and digital health about mental well-being in our at risk of developing NCDs such as solutions, with internal communications workplace, we focussed on initiating diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and linking insights and feedback from dialogues and raising awareness. cancer. To address this along with the employees to actionable initiatives. Programmes included general mental prevalence of digestive disorders the health awareness training for all staff Surveys and data revealed that the most Workforce Wellbeing team launched a and line manager training sessions common health and well-being issues nutrition coaching initiative to encourage delivered by the City Mental Health affecting colleagues day-to-day were colleagues to the connection between Alliance Hong Kong. musculoskeletal disorders, digestive nutrition and health. A digital nutrition disorders, lack of sleep and workplace coaching mobile app was provided to The Workforce Wellbeing initiative related stress. Responding to this track and improve behaviour with the brought the AIA brand promise into information, the Workforce Wellbeing help of a virtual human coach. the heart of our workplace, and the team launched targeted programmes experience of Group Office colleagues’ Sleep is essential for both physical and tied in with the employee population efforts to live Healthier, Longer, Better mental well-being; however, the AIA needs through tailored communication. Lives will inform the roll-out of the Vitality Healthiest Workplace survey programme to all our business units and More than 83 per cent of respondents showed us that 20 per cent of colleagues has also helped inform our Workforce to the AIA Vitality Healthiest Workplace in Group Office do not average more than Wellbeing strategy for our corporate Survey reported musculoskeletal issues, seven hours of sleep during weeknights. clients. which prompted a series of interventions Activities and interventions to address to address the side effects of poor this sleep deficit included sleep science posture in the workplace. Professional workshops with a sleep physiologist and ergonomics training was provided along sleep coach. A two-week sleep challenge with advice shared via the intranet and also encouraged colleagues to start leaflets on easy stretching tips and making small changes to improve the ideal posture techniques. Other popular quality of their sleep and to get an extra activities included chair yoga classes and hour each night. Senior management the introduction of a monthly massage at AIA Central and AIA Hopewell Centre corner. received individual consultations and Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 24 Diversity and Inclusion 40% AIA believes in the power of diverse, on the Code, which all employees ABOUT talented people to create value are required to complete as part THIS REPORT and deliver on our customer and of their orientation upon joining DOING shareholder expectations. Diverse AIA. In addition, we have an antiBUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY perspectives and an inclusive harassment policy and e-learning of our senior management roles were represented THE RIGHT environment promote innovation, module for all employees, outlining PEOPLE by women better decision making, adaptability expected workplace conduct and CONTRIBUTING 60% and problem solving, all of which professionalism, including channels TO OUR enhance our role in driving economic for escalation in case of any nonCOMMUNITIES and social development across the compliance. OPERATING region and make AIA a great place to RESPONSIBLY With 59 per cent of employees 10 of our middle work. Feedback across the Group being women as at management and junior Fundamental to all our inclusion 31 December 2019, we are proud to roles were represented GRI & HKEx efforts is zero-tolerance for be an employer of choice to women by women Guide Content discrimination or harassment in any across the region and strive to provide Index form, across all aspects of diversity, an inclusive workplace. including race, colour, religion, sex, We are multi-generational and as nationality, age, disability, military at 31 December 2019, 64 per cent Disclosure in this service, marital status and sexual of our employees are Gen-Y and section aligns with orientation. SDG Target 5.5 on Gen-Z. We recognise the importance Our recruitment processes of understanding the different gender equality assess candidates based on their generational needs when shaping our for women, and in ensuring the full competencies and experience. policies and practices, and we strive and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all Employment, remuneration, promotion to ensure that we create an inclusive levels of decision-making in political, and termination are based on workplace for all generations. economic and public life. performance and conducted through AIA also understands the importance fair, transparent, and accountable of diverse perspectives in effective processes. governance and decision making Our approach to inclusion and and the Company’s Board represents non-discrimination is addressed in different nationalities and ethnicities, our mandatory e-learning training in addition to diversity in education, age and experience. Environmental, Social 10 Refers to Group employees on permanent and fixed term contracts, excluding TATA AIA Life and Governance Report employees. 2019 25 Diversity and Inclusion Employee Networks AIA’s intranet, and share stories about experiences and advocacy. ABOUT THIS REPORT Across the Group, we have local DOING For the third consecutive year, AIA has BUSINESS IN THE affinity networks that bring people been included in the 2019 Bloomberg RIGHT WAY together, help facilitate professional Gender-Equality Index – an index that THE RIGHT and personal development and help PEOPLE is released annually and distinguishes build an inclusive environment. companies committed to transparency CONTRIBUTING Evidence of our networks include TO OUR in gender reporting and advancing COMMUNITIES employee-led and executivewomen’s equality. OPERATING sponsored Women at Work RESPONSIBLY Amongst other local awards, AIA New committees that organise networking Zealand was named the Supreme Feedback events, professional development Winner at the 2019 White Camellia sessions and opportunities that awards, after winning three of the GRI & HKEx support and enable gender equality. Guide Content seven category awards, recognising Index In support of our locally-led networks our commitment to inclusion. The for women, AIA is a member of the White Camellia awards celebrate Hong Kong chapter of the Women in organisational commitment to Finance Asia Network and the 30% Women’s Empowerment Principles, Club, which aims to develop a diverse a UN Women and UN Global Compact pool of talents for all businesses to initiative which encourages gender enhance gender balance at all levels equality in the workplace. In the same of organisations. year, AIA New Zealand also received In 2019, AIA Australia launched the the Innovation and Wellbeing Award Pride Ally Network in collaboration at the Financial Services Council with the AIA Australia Social Club. Awards, for its diversity and inclusion Pride Allies meet for quarterly catch initiatives. ups, connect with colleagues through “At AIA Australia we promote a culture have launched the Pride Ally Network, of diversity and inclusion which gives a group of like-minded people who people permission to be themselves believe in diversity, equal rights and and flourish. I am really proud to work want to make a difference in the for an organisation that walks its community.” talk about inclusion and encourages people to be their true self at work, and I am passionate about creating an environment where people feel safe and Mitchell Whelan Senior Talent Acquisition Specialist, secure. This is why at AIA Australia we AIA Australia Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 26 Modernising the Way We Work In 2018, we embarked on a long-term 2020 they had transitioned to our ABOUT strategic initiative to deliver greater new system and global processes. THIS REPORT business insights and operational Through this initiative we will be DOING efficiencies through a new human able to provide a better and more BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY resources information system and personalised experience for our THE RIGHT global process design. Throughout employees and empower our people PEOPLE 2019 we worked closely with our managers. CONTRIBUTING business units11 and by the start of TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index Workplace Safety AIA is committed to offering a Air quality is a concern in cities in safe and secure environment for some of our markets, so we take all employees, agents and visiting measures to ensure our employees customers and we conduct fire drills operate in a healthy environment. at all premises. Our corporate security The offices of our Group Office and governance framework, which applies AIA Hong Kong have been certified to all business units, includes a set as having “Excellent Indoor Air of minimum standards relating to Quality”. We also monitor air quality business travel. We also share travel at our offices in Singapore, Malaysia, alerts and communicate relevant Indonesia and the Philippines. At travel information regularly with our Mainland China operations, we employees. provide air purifiers in various office areas. For details on AIA’s emission reduction initiatives, please refer to the Operating Responsibly chapter of this Report. Environmental, Social 11 Excluding AIA Myanmar and Tata AIA Life. and Governance Report 2019 27 Agency Learning and Development Since the launch of our Premier mobile devices within a paperless Insurance Agency Executive) ABOUT Agency strategy, AIA has focused on environment. Our extensive ePlatform programme for senior employees who THIS REPORT developing best-in-class agents that is accessible by our trainers across are responsible for helping lead our DOING enable us to differentiate ourselves in markets and includes training courses agency force. We have also developed BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY terms of the quality of advice we offer for both agents and agency leaders, to and formalised the training roadmap THE RIGHT customers and our ability to tailor help ensure that our best practices are for Agency Executives at Group PEOPLE solutions to their specific needs. appropriately shared and embedded Office, as well as within our business CONTRIBUTING across the Group. units through our Senior Agency TO OUR AIA employs innovative approaches COMMUNITIES Management Programme. to training and development through AIA Vitality is embedded into the OPERATING our digital classroom and mobile product training process for our This year, we also strengthened our RESPONSIBLY learning platforms, promoting agents, and we strongly encourage Quality Recruitment training content Feedback e-learning for agency training since our agents to engage with customers and infrastructure in Thailand, 2018. Structured courses allow us on how they are making tangible Malaysia, Vietnam, Indonesia and GRI & HKEx to encourage the right behaviours, improvements to their health and the Philippines by localising and Guide Content enabling our agents to be more well-being. customising the content to better Index effective. This includes a training fit into the individual markets’ In addition, we continued to work with roadmap, online assessments, study programme for first-year agents. specialised professional development materials and course evaluations, associations to enhance our agency all of which are accessible on leadership programmes, including the launch of the LIMRA CIAE (Chartered Sophanytil Thorn is an “Before I joined AIA Cambodia, I worked in the hotel industry for more than a better school. My work-life balance is also better than when I worked in AIA Life Planner in Cambodia. 10 years. I enjoyed the work, but it hospitality and the flexible working She talks to us about joining was a struggle to keep on top of bills, including house payments. I tried to stay hours mean I get to spend more time with my children. AIA and the impact that this positive and persistently sought out new Cambodia's economy is growing at decision has had on her life. opportunities for the sake of my family. a fast pace; I'm hopeful that it will Fortunately, I met an AIA Cambodia continue to prosper. Many people do business director who introduced not have insurance and are not aware me to my current position as an of the insurance options. I love my work, AIA Life Planner. I really enjoy not only because it helps support my the working environment at AIA. family but also because it offers me the Using advanced technology in my opportunity to help other people to plan daily work, world-class training, their futures and protect what matters and working with inspiring and most to them. People in Cambodia are encouraging colleagues, has all getting wealthier, but exercise levels helped to increase my confidence are quite low, and people don't eat and enjoyment in my work. I also as healthily as they used to. It means achieved a personal goal and a lot to me to be able to improve my became AIA Cambodia's first Million customers' well-being and help them Dollar Round Table member12. live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives.” Now, my family has a better life and a more secure future. We have a new home and my children go to Sophanytil Thorn (second from the left), with her family. Environmental, Social 12 MDRT is internationally recognised as the standard of excellence in the life insurance and and Governance Report financial services business. Its members are required to generate a certain level of premium, 2019 commission or income, and demonstrate professional knowledge, strict ethical conduct and 28 outstanding client service. Contributing ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY to Our THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES Communities OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index Non-communicable diseases including mental health issues pose the highest health risks; which can be attributed to 5 behaviour factors. 5 KEY RISKS 5 CHRONIC CONDITIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR AIA’s promise of PHYSICAL LUNG OVER 70% enabling Healthier, INACTIVITY DISEASE Longer, Better Lives is aligned directly with the aim of Sustainable UNHEALTHY Development Goal 3, to promote good DIET DIABETES health and well-being for all. This section outlines our contributions OF ALL DEATHS toward achieving this objective, in line SMOKING CANCER WORLDWIDE with the SDG Target 3.1: By 2030, reduce by one third* premature mortality from NCDs through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and EXCESS HEART well-being ALCOHOL DISEASE *Compared to 2015 levels AIR MENTAL POLLUTION HEALTH We are leading with purpose, while working to drive economic and social development across the region. This chapter outlines the many ways in which we deliver value to our customers. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 29 Our ability to sustain AIA’s success requires an ABOUT THIS REPORT understanding of the social challenges that our markets DOING face, identifying the impacts these issues have on our BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY communities and in turn on our business, and being able to THE RIGHT PEOPLE proactively address these in a manner that creates lasting CONTRIBUTING and meaningful shared value. This includes how we address TO OUR COMMUNITIES the significant risk factors associated with the increase OPERATING RESPONSIBLY in levels of NCDs and help meet the needs of diverse Feedback communities throughout the region. GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index AIA has continued to build on the We believe AIA is leading the relationships we have with our transformation of the life insurance customers, moving toward being a industry. We are leading with purpose, long-term partner throughout their while working to drive economic lives. We no longer only connect and social development across the with our customers when they pay region. This chapter outlines the many insurance premiums or receive a ways in which we deliver value to our payment in times of need, but instead customers. we look to engage with them at every phase of their life, with products and solutions that add value at each life stage. What is the protection gap? AIA serves the holders of more than 36 million individual policies and over 16 million members of group insurance The protection gap is the shortfall in schemes across the region. As the largest resources required to protect individuals pan-Asian Life and Health insurer, we and families against unforeseen are in a unique position to address these mortality and morbidity risks. challenges. Contributing to this gap are the rising Through our commitment to enabling cost and complexity of healthcare people to live Healthier, Longer, Better alongside the growth of lifestyleLives, AIA seeks not only to address the related disease, particularly diabetes, protection gap, but to also play a role in hypertension and high cholesterol. The mitigating the risk factors associated lack of sufficient protection cover for with diseases so that we are able to these diseases can have broader social make a meaningful and lasting impact in and economic consequences across the our communities. region, not to mention their potential impact on lives and families. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 30 Our Products AIA Wellness Programmes programmes, attending smoking cessation courses and getting more Fulfilling Our Promise ABOUT THIS REPORT AIA Vitality is our award-winning than seven hours’ sleep a night. To Through AIA Vitality we are DOING health and wellness programme incentivise members to undertake empowering and incentivising people BUSINESS IN THE to take control of their health and RIGHT WAY that encourages participants to these activities, through their Vitality make measurable improvements membership, they receive significant focus on the risks associated with THE RIGHT PEOPLE to their health. This science-based discounts on healthy food, gym increasing rates of NCDs, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease CONTRIBUTING programme builds on concepts of memberships and fitness devices, that TO OUR behavioural economics, incentivising can in turn assist them on their health and cancer. When members and COMMUNITIES members to understand and improve journey. employees achieve a meaningful OPERATING their well-being, while earning AIA change, this positively impacts their RESPONSIBLY Vitality Points entitling them to broader communities, thus supporting Feedback benefits and rewards in the process. our promise of helping people across Be Rewarded AIA Vitality helps members improve the region live Healthier, Longer, GRI & HKEx their well-being through the following When members take positive steps Better Lives. Guide Content Index key steps: to improve their health, they earn AIA To date we have captured 6.6 million Vitality Points that enable them to health assessments, 3.3 million progress across four Vitality status body mass index (“BMI”) readings levels, from Bronze to Platinum, Know Your Health and we are tracking more than earning better rewards for each tier. 800,000 workouts submitted via Starting with an AIA Vitality health In addition to incentives for healthy fitness trackers each day. In 2019, assessment, we encourage members living, the benefits also include we continued to monitor and report to understand the current state discounts of up to 15 per cent on our on the health impacts of the AIA of their health and identify areas insurance products and vouchers or Vitality Programme on our members for improvement. The assessment discounts on shopping, entertainment with verifiable health data, outlined includes fitness, nutritional and and travel purchases. below13: wellness evaluations. Members are further encouraged to complete 21% 53% health checks, screenings and A member’s AIA Vitality vaccinations with their healthcare Age is their actual age relative to a variety of providers. Each step they take to heath factors. Members complete their assessment and health improved their AIA Vitality of our members who of our members who checks earns them AIA Vitality Points. started with an unhealthy started with an unhealthy age by an average of 0.51 BMI range have moved to blood pressure range have a healthy range moved to a healthy range Improve Your Health YEARS AIA Vitality encourages members to set health goals, then awards AIA Vitality Points for steps taken towards achieving their goals. These steps 39% of our members who 77% of our members who since joining the programme. started with an unhealthy started with an unhealthy typically include increasing exercise cholesterol range have glucose range have moved and activity levels, making healthier moved to a healthy range to a healthy range meal choices, taking part in fitness 13 The sample represents the health data of AIA Vitality members across markets where it was Environmental, Social offered in 2019. Only health data that was verified and reported by medical practitioners was and Governance Report considered in this sample. Based on comparison between the first and most recent health 2019 checks (at least 3 months apart) conducted by members during their AIA Vitality membership 31 using data as of 31 December 2019. Our Products Overall membership of our wellness Malaysia, Australia, South Korea, ABOUT programmes across the Group Macau, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, THIS REPORT exceeded 1.7 million at the end of Vietnam, and New Zealand. DOING December 2019, an increase of 42 per BUSINESS IN THE AIA has also developed a wellness RIGHT WAY cent since the end of 2018. programme to meet the specific needs THE RIGHT AIA Vitality is currently offered in of our customers in Mainland China. PEOPLE Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback AIA Vitality Customer Six years on, Najib’s wellness transformation means his illnesses are Six years on, Najib’s Testimonial: Najib Sahari under control, his cholesterol level has GRI & HKEx improved, and his AIA Vitality age is 38 wellness transformation Guide Content Index When 35-year-old Najib Sahari found even though he is now 41 years old. means his illnesses out that he had diabetes, three blocked Najib also enjoys the rewards of being arteries and high blood pressure, he an AIA Vitality member, such as movie are under control, his became determined to improve his tickets, vouchers for healthy food and cholesterol level has health. My doctor advised me to change most of all lower airline fares. improved, and his AIA my lifestyle, so I decided to be a fighter, The rewards from AIA Vitality are great Vitality age is 38 even says Najib. but what I like the most is lower airfares While searching for a policy that would from AirAsia, he says. Najib has also though he is now 41 years provide insurance cover for him despite won prizes through joining in AIA Vitality old. his health issues, he found the AIA campaigns and contests, including Malaysia website and an AIA Life Planner meeting AIA's Global Ambassador, David who helped him sign up for A-Life Beckham. Cancer360 and AIA Vitality, giving Najib Najib continues to work hard to maintain an extra push to achieve his wellness his health and often recommends AIA goals. Vitality to others, I feel more motivated At his first AIA Vitality health assessment, and happier seeing that my friends and Najib learned that his AIA Vitality Age family members are now taking steps to was much higher than his actual age. So improve their health. Almost everyone he started making small changes to his from my family suffers from the same lifestyle and bought a wearable tracker condition, and I want them to have the device to monitor his fitness levels. best possible health. It's amazing that the programme has also helped my I wanted to fight my illness so badly that brother lose weight, from 115 kg to the thought of giving up never crossed 70 kg! he adds. my mind. Thankfully, the AIA Vitality programme made it even more possible My fitness level has improved year for me to achieve my mission. I take by year, and this motivates me to keep 10,000 steps daily during weekdays and going. AIA Vitality has been so rewarding go for 10 km walks over the weekends. and helpful in my quest to be healthier, Last weekend, I even walked 21 km! which is now part of my lifestyle. says Najib. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 32 Our Products Innovating to Address AIA Malaysia also enhanced its A-Plus Health medical plan to include target our top three claims conditions: musculoskeletal issues that cause ABOUT THIS REPORT Health Challenges insurance benefits for mental illness. chronic pain, mental illness and DOING BUSINESS IN THE All new and existing customers of cancer. AIA provides pain coaching to RIGHT WAY AIA continues to develop new A-Plus Health can use this benefit address musculoskeletal conditions products that provide care to our THE RIGHT without any increase in premiums or and is partnering with the University PEOPLE customers throughout their lives. This insurance charges, and will be able of South Australia to research the is through prevention, treatment, and CONTRIBUTING to claim psychiatric consultation fees effectiveness of this approach. TO OUR management of health outcomes. COMMUNITIES (up to the prescribed limit) when AIA Australia has also introduced visiting any private or government OPERATING Mind Coach, a programme for RESPONSIBLY hospitals. Addressing Mental customers experiencing anxiety or Feedback depression. The coaches use cognitive Health Needs behavioural therapy principles to help According to the World Health Well-being Coaching Programmes customers on a path to recovery and GRI & HKEx Guide Content Organization, one in four people will refer participants to health services or Index AIA continues to build an ecosystem be affected by mental or neurological of services and partners to help mental health well-being programmes disorders at some point in their lives, people on all steps of their health when needed. For customers with placing mental disorders among journey, getting involved in the cancer, AIA Australia has also the leading causes of ill-health and prediction, prevention, diagnosis, partnered with CancerAid to provide a disability worldwide14. With our treatment and recovery stages of an health coaching programme. commitment to help people live illness or condition. Our ultimate goal Healthier, Longer, Better Lives we is to improve overall well-being so are addressing the challenge of people can get the most from life. Supporting Women overcoming mental disorders and trying to change attitudes towards AIA Australia offers a tailored This year, AIA China introduced a mental health with innovative rehabilitation service for policyholders new product that provides women products. who have an injury, disability or with protection cover against cancer. mental health condition, to help them Care Lady includes cover for genetic In Singapore, a study by the Institute improve their wellness, return to work testing, health risk assessments, of Mental Health and Nanyang or seek new employment. outpatient services, coverage for Technological University revealed second opinions and psychological that of those Singaporeans who have To enhance recovery outcomes, AIA counselling. experienced a mental disorder in their Australia has developed RESTORE™, lifetime, the majority, about 75 per a suite of approaches to rehabilitation, The launch of this integrated singlecent, did not seek professional help. including RESTORE™ for mental disease product demonstrates AIA’s Studies have also shown that rates of health, RESTORE CaRe™ and commitment to be a partner to our depression in Singapore remain the CaRe Movement™ for cancer, and customers in preventative care, and highest across Asia15. RESTORE Active™ for musculoskeletal through all stages of an illness. Care conditions. These initiatives use Lady leverages the online and offline To fight the stigma surrounding “telehealth”, a mix of online wellness service capabilities of We Doctor mental health and encourage timely coaching video-sessions and phone Holdings (“WeDoctor”), Mainland and appropriate treatments, AIA calls that form part of rehabilitation China’s leading technology-enabled Singapore launched AIA Beyond services offered to assist customers healthcare solutions platform. Critical Care, which is the first critical with social wellness and personal illness insurance plan in the local AIA China and the China Population crisis support. market that covers mental illnesses. Welfare Foundation also set up an The policy provides coverage for Our well-being health coaching online donation platform to support five mental health conditions such programmes were rolled out to women with breast cancer, donating as major depressive disorders and Australian group insurance clients RMB10 to the fund for each Care Lady obsessive compulsive disorder. in 2019. The coaching programmes policy sold. 14 WHO 2019 Environmental, Social 15 WHO 2017 and Governance Report 2019 33 Our Products Strategic Partnerships Extending our partnership with Medix across more of our markets Hong Kong, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Thailand took part. Once participants ABOUT THIS REPORT Personal Medical Case enhances AIA's differentiated had completed the survey, they DOING proposition in health and well-being received a personal report detailing BUSINESS IN THE Management Service RIGHT WAY and demonstrates our pledge to their wellness profile. Employers also This year AIA entered into a landmark THE RIGHT go beyond the traditional, passive received advice on useful strategies PEOPLE partnership with Medix, a global insurance business model to become a to improve the workplace in support health management solutions CONTRIBUTING genuine partner with our customers by of employees achieving their healthy TO OUR provider, which provides AIA improving recovery outcomes so they living goals alongside improving COMMUNITIES customers with access to state-ofcan live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. company-wide productivity. OPERATING the-art guidance and support from RESPONSIBLY Medix's globally renowned team of The 2019 survey revealed that Feedback medical experts. stress levels were similar across all Our partnership means our customers Our Research participating markets, with half of GRI & HKEx the respondents saying they dealt Guide Content have access to a review of their The research we conduct allows us with one or more work-related Index individual medical circumstances to better understand the evolving stress factors. However, there by specialists drawn from Medix’s health challenges and concerns were discrepancies in workplace team of 300 in-house physicians faced by people across the region. productivity loss across markets, and its global network of more than This contributes to our development with employers in Sri Lanka reporting 3,000 world-leading, independent of new products and initiatives that the fewest days of absence and medical specialists. This holistic motivate people across Asia-Pacific to presenteeism (48 days), while those in medical assessment ensures our adopt healthier lifestyle habits. Hong Kong lost the most (77 days). policyholders have the tools to make the best decisions concerning their Research like this enables AIA to condition and their care, including Research into Healthy better understand the wellness needs access to a second opinion if desired. of employees in our key markets, Workplace Practices while at the same time encouraging It also helps ensure that they receive the best possible care wherever Understanding and improving the businesses to take proactive steps to they are in the world. By providing health and well-being of employees ensure a healthier workforce. our policyholders with personal is directly linked to reduced medical case management, AIA helps absenteeism, lower staff turnover and overcome local healthcare disparities higher levels of productivity. For and makes international expertise In 2019, we conducted the third further details locally available. on the research, annual Healthiest Workplace by AIA please AIA has been working with Medix in Vitality Survey. This comprehensive click here. Hong Kong and Singapore since 2016 survey is designed to help employers and last year AIA and Medix signed a better understand the health landmark partnership agreement that profiles and wellness needs of their expanded our regional partnership to employees. Over 26,000 employees Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia. from 426 organisations across a range of industry sectors in Australia, Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 34 Our Products Researching Attitudes deprivation as one of the key threats We actively engaged with the ABOUT to the quality of life and health community and partnered with THIS REPORT Toward Sleep across our markets. As part of our credible experts in the field to DOING commitment to helping people live show how sleep can have a positive BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY #OneMoreHour Healthier, Longer, Better Lives, we transformational effect on the health THE RIGHT have therefore decided to lead a and quality of people’s lives. AIA also PEOPLE Sleep deficiency is a global issue, and conversation about the importance of updated our wellness programme, AIA’s research in our markets revealed CONTRIBUTING better sleep. AIA Vitality, to encourage and reward TO OUR that many cities in Asia-Pacific rank healthier sleeping habits. COMMUNITIES lower for sleep sufficiency than others In order to drive behavioural change OPERATING worldwide. our #OneMoreHour campaign was Our movement to encourage sleep RESPONSIBLY rolled out in 2019 to encourage sufficiency will continue into 2020 Fewer than a third of respondents Feedback people to sleep an additional hour as part of our comprehensive effort said they felt good about how much a night. The campaign sought to to help people live Healthier, Longer, sleep they get. More than half of those GRI & HKEx highlight the important physical and Better Lives. Guide Content surveyed got six hours or less of sleep physiological benefits associated with Index a night, and over half of that group getting sufficient sleep. These include: indicated a desire for more sleep or reduced likelihood of suffering from concern about a lack of sleep. chronic disease, increased ability to These findings bolster the growing maintain a healthy weight, a stronger body of research that identifies sleep immune system, boosted mood and energy levels, and reduced stress and anxiety. ASIA IS SERIOUSLY SLEEP DEPRIVED In June, we surveyed 5,000 current and Lack of sleep is a Poor lifestyle behaviours are TOP 5 potential customers across Hong Kong, responsible for 76 Singapore, Mainland China, Malaysia and Thailand. % 54% HEALTH CONCERN in Asia and it’s OF ALL DEATHS THE #1 in the markets in which AIA operates. of those surveyed get 6SLEEPHRSA ORNIGHTLESS REPORTED HEALTH ISSUE with more than half wishing they could get in Mainland China, Indonesia and Thailand more. Less than a third feel good about how much sleep they get. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 35 Our Products Work with Small and employees. Our support of SMEs has already become a meaningful ABOUT THIS REPORT Medium Enterprises initiative in seven of our markets. DOING BUSINESS IN THE Through a dedicated suite of SME RIGHT WAY AIA is a major provider of group insurance products and solutions, AIA insurance, supporting businesses and THE RIGHT is able to build awareness of life and PEOPLE protecting their employees across the health protection among a broader region. CONTRIBUTING range of people without imposing a TO OUR back-breaking administrative burden COMMUNITIES More than half of the people in the Asia-Pacific labour force work on the SME owners. By introducing OPERATING more group members to AIA Vitality, RESPONSIBLY for SMEs, and as they grow, SMEs contribute significantly to the we are also able to introduce young Feedback development of local economies. people at the early stages of their career to tools and techniques that GRI & HKEx AIA makes protection affordable Guide Content can help them live Healthier, Longer, Index to SME business owners and their Better Lives. Our Global Ambassador: The film received millions of views and best-in-class results for digital media, David Beckham with significant brand recall and website visits. Campaign Asia recognised What's David Beckham has been AIA's Global Your Why? as a leading campaign for Ambassador since 2017 and plays a 2019 and this contributed to AIA being valuable role in promoting our promise named by them as the leading Insurance of Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. Brand in the region. David is also an inspiration to millions of David has also introduced Healthier, people across our markets as he shares Longer, Better Lives to several AIA his thoughts and advice on how to live markets in 2019, including visits to a healthier and better life through his Vietnam, where he also supported personal appearances and popular video our Centennial celebrations, and the As well as meaningful engagement campaigns. Philippines where he attended a football with thousands of employees, partners, clinic and supported the Live Better agents, customers and communities, This year, he continued to drive AIA's Expo, a wellness and protection summit. David’s visits generated substantial What's Your Why? campaign with a At the launch of our offices in Tianjin media value and digital reach, enabling new film featuring children from across and Shijiazhuang, he introduced new AIA to share our commitments with Asia-Pacific asking questions about their communities in Mainland China to our millions across the region. families' health and wellness challenges. brand promise. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 36 Innovation AIA’s future rests on our ability to Guardians Challenge” teams were rate and exercise to support seniors ABOUT continuously improve the way we do asked to demonstrate how the power and their families with advice on THIS REPORT business. Throughout our operations of data and artificial intelligence (“AI”) preventative action when necessary. DOING we encourage people to challenge could be harnessed to shape the The team’s app could work across BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY established ways of working, future of insurance. More than 130 multiple smart devices and use data THE RIGHT propose new ideas and take personal students from 20 universities in Hong to tailor insurance policies designed PEOPLE ownership of projects to improve Kong and Macau submitted their to support the unique needs of CONTRIBUTING what we do and how we do it. ideas. consumers in this age group who have TO OUR not been a traditional focus of the COMMUNITIES The top 17 teams took part in the insurance industry. OPERATING hackathon and developed solutions RESPONSIBLY AIA Hackathon with the guidance of mentors from Feedback AIA and other companies. At the end AIA challenged the brightest student of two days, the teams then pitched minds in Hong Kong and Macau to GRI & HKEx their ideas to senior management. Guide Content think about the future of insurance The winning team developed an Index by participating in a “hackathon”. application aimed at people over the Under the banner “AIANext100: The age of 65, to monitor nutrition, heart Underwriting Automation The automation is monitored by risk controllers and underwriters inAIA continues to explore the use of house. The ultimate goal is for the innovative technologies to improve automation to process 90 per cent of business processes and help people new business cases gradually through live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives. robust and tested “auto underwriting” automation technologies to effectively For example, in 2020 Philam Life handle larger volumes of cases that aims to streamline the underwriting expand the company’s reach. process to provide customers with certainty of coverage much more quickly through machine-learning enabled automation. Simple cases are automated while cases that require more in-depth analysis are passed to underwriters for manual processing. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 37 Sustainable Investment Through our investments, we are Consideration of ESG issues is ABOUT AIA had total assets of able to secure investment income consistently incorporated into our THIS REPORT to deliver on the savings and investment governance framework DOING protection needs of our customers, across the Group and underpinned BUSINESS IN THE 284 RIGHT WAY while also contributing to the social across the Group by a mandatory THE RIGHT and economic development of our ESG Standard. The ESG Standard US$ BILLION markets. was developed with detailed input PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING as at 31 December 2019 from our Group Office Investment TO OUR At AIA, we are aware of the impact COMMUNITIES leadership as well as the Chief that our investments have on people’s Investment Officers of our business OPERATING lives and the importance of taking RESPONSIBLY units. This leadership group has We invested a total of into consideration ESG factors in our ownership of our approach, including Feedback investment decisions to drive the appropriate documentation, as well creation of long-term value. as training and development of the 3.3 GRI & HKEx Guide Content portfolio managers and research Index US$ BILLION Our Approach analysts at business units. In each market, our experienced in the healthcare sector Research continues to show local fixed-income and equity that companies with good ESG research analysts are responsible performance can deliver higher for consideration of ESG matters 578 returns, demonstrate better risk in investment decisions. They management, and create sustainable monitor ESG issues relating to their US$ MILLION value over the long-term16. As investment portfolios and update our in water utilities an insurer, we are committed to portfolio managers using a variety the needs of our customers over of sources, including ESG reports, many years, and this requires research reports, news media, and investing in businesses that practice other publicly available information. 5.5 good governance in addition to AIA often engages with businesses understanding the impacts of social on ESG topics before an investment US$ BILLION and environmental factors on their operations. decision, and thereafter on any material concerns where they arise. in transportation infrastructure AIA’s ESG team continues to work Last year, AIA became the first Hong closely with Group Investment, Kong-headquartered business to sharing and seeking to apply become a signatory to the Principles industry knowledge and trends, as for Responsible Investment (“PRI”) well as devising, implementing and as an Asset Owner. This allows us augmenting specific investment to benefit from the resources of the practices and outcomes for certain PRI as we continue to integrate ESG topical areas. considerations into our process and demonstrate our commitment to sustainable investment. AIA’s first AIA’s approach submission to the PRI will be in 2021. to assessing and engaging with businesses on AIA also joined the Task Force on environmental issues, including Climate-related Financial Disclosures our TCFD Report, is discussed (“TCFD”) in 2018, and we continue in the Operating Responsibly to look at different approaches to Section of this Report. Details address climate risk in our investment include the total amount invested decisions. in green bonds and other environmental areas. Environmental, Social 16 MSCI 2019 and Governance Report 2019 38 Sustainable Investment Investment ESG in Investments Assessment Process ABOUT THIS REPORT Exclusions DOING BUSINESS IN THE AIA is committed to helping people ESG ESG ESG RIGHT WAY in Asia-Pacific live Healthier, Longer, DATA RESEARCH REPORT THE RIGHT PEOPLE Better Lives and is integrating this promise into all aspects of our CONTRIBUTING TO OUR business. COMMUNITIES In 2018 we took the significant OPERATING initiative of excluding tobacco RESEARCH RESPONSIBLY manufacturing from our investment ANALYST Feedback portfolio, divesting US$500 million in corporate equities and bonds. ENGAGEMENT GRI & HKEx ESG WITH ISSUER Guide Content Index We also exclude cluster munitions STANDARD from our investments. Cluster munitions are a controversial weapon that cause significant For further civilian casualties, with some of PORTFOLIO details on how we our markets signing treaties to ban Compliance MANAGER address ESG issues within our investments, their manufacture. AIA does not Check please refer to our invest in such businesses, and our Responsible Investment investment exclusion list reflects this Policy, linked here. commitment. All of our investment operations, CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT DECISION including assets managed by our external managers, are required to abide by AIA’s exclusion list. MONITORING OF ESG PERFORMANCE Our Investment Managers As an asset owner, we work with many investment managers who manage and invest money on behalf of AIA. We consider the ESG practices OUR APPROACH TO engage with companies across the palm oil value chain in support of more of investment managers during selection, reviewing their approach to THE PALM OIL SECTOR sustainable practices. We also assessed both ESG engagement with investee our exposure to palm oil producing companies and assessing ESG When grown sustainably, palm companies in our portfolio, across both oil can have social and economic fixed-income and equity asset classes, factors during investment decisions. benefits. However, unsustainable engaging with these businesses on AIA continues to monitor the ESG production has significant negative improving their sustainability practices practices of these external parties. both in their operations and supply social and environmental impacts, Our investment managers are also including deforestation, pollution and chains. required to abide by AIA’s investment biodiversity loss. exclusion list. AIA also developed additional internal In 2019, AIA joined the PRI Investor guidance for our research analysts Working Group on Sustainable Palm in engaging with and assessing the Oil, as part of our commitments to sustainability of a palm oil plantation or mill, regardless of asset class. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 39 Corporate Social Responsibility and Community Wellness Financial Inclusion AIA Public Takaful sponsored the University of Malaya Islamic Finance The Philippines has a low savings rate and many remain uninsured. To ABOUT THIS REPORT AIA is financially inclusive through and Economics challenge 2019 address this issue, the Foundation DOING our presence across multiple markets. as part of a branding and financial established the Philam Savings BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY As discussed through this Report, literacy programme for students. The Awareness and Values Education our products are always tailored to THE RIGHT initiative included a video competition, Sessions (“Philam SAVES”) initiative, PEOPLE the needs of our customers, and quizzes and career talks with more running programmes to teach the CONTRIBUTING we continue to innovate, expanding than 250 students from universities all principles of financial management to TO OUR coverage to previously underserved over Malaysia. Such initiatives allow students, their parents and teachers. COMMUNITIES segments, whether they are the us to better understand and address OPERATING Endorsed by the Philippine RESPONSIBLY elderly, young people, or those with gaps in Islamic financial knowledge Government’s Department of pre-existing conditions. within our communities. Feedback Education, during National Savings In 2017, Bank Negara, the central Consciousness Week the Foundation GRI & HKEx bank of Malaysia, set a target of organised the Philam SAVES Guide Content achieving a national life insurance Financial Education workshops for the second year Index penetration rate of at least 75 per cent running, reaching at least 6,000 by 2020. The current average rate Financial education is a fundamental individual savers across the country. of insurance penetration is at 54 per step in the development of local cent, however among the bumiputera communities, empowering people (ethnic Malays) this rate is much to make the right financial planning lower, exposing these communities decisions for both themselves and to risks from shortfalls in protection their families. cover. The Philam Life Foundation (the AIA aims to expand the range of “Foundation”) is the CSR arm of takaful products offered by AIA our business in the Philippines. The Public Takaful Bhd, and to hire more Foundation runs programmes to help Bumiputera Life Planners who can Filipinos achieve financial security connect with these underserved and enable people to live Healthier, communities. Longer, Better Lives, important ambitions in the development of any nation. Our commitments to financial inclusion align with SDG 10 and related target of 10.1 to empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status by 2030 Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 40 Corporate Social Responsibility and Community Wellness Disclosure in this Microinsurance Offerings enhancing productivity and economic growth. As a life and health insurer ABOUT THIS REPORT section supports Around the world, billions of people operating in 18 markets across AsiaDOING SDG Target 1.5 of lack any type of formal social security Pacific, AIA was able to share insights BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY building resilience protection. Microinsurance products into the factors that impact mental of the poor and those in vulnerable can help provide protection to health, and how we can contribute to THE RIGHT PEOPLE situations and reduce their exposure communities in rural areas who are improving psychological well-being and vulnerability to climate-related CONTRIBUTING unable to afford traditional insurance with the Productivity Commission. TO OUR extreme events and other economic, COMMUNITIES social and environmental shocks and solutions. AIA offers microinsurance For example, AIA and AIA Vitality disasters. products in India and the Philippines OPERATING have partnered with Quantium, a RESPONSIBLY for communities underserved by globally recognised leader in the traditional life and health insurers. Feedback development of data-driven insights. We also partner with microfinance Quantium’s research suggests that institutions in Cambodia, allowing us GRI & HKEx if the Australian population live Guide Content to expand protection cover to people Index their healthiest lives, the national across the country. depression incidence rate could reduce from 6.0 to 4.7 per cent. These figures translate into 300,000 fewer Engaging with Regulators incidences of depression, leading to 4.7 million working days recovered on Improving Healthy and saving the Australian economy around AU$3 billion per annum. AIA Living Outcomes also shared some high-level insights The Australian Government’s gained from working alongside Productivity Commission is government programmes designed investigating the role of mental health to support people living with mental in supporting economic participation, illness. SUPPORTING OUR Staff were on standby when customers, their family or loved ones affected by When news of the attacks broke, AIA Sri Lanka's distribution and operations COMMUNITIES DURING this tragedy reached out. The team teams came together and agreed on a TIMES OF NEED expedited trauma claims for employees and customers who were injured or fast claims process. They immediately started gathering information about traumatised by the shooting. affected customers. AIA staff ensured After a shooting in Christchurch in March that 14 claims totalling LKR 16.4 million 2019, AIA New Zealand set up dedicated In the aftermath of bombings on Easter (equivalent to US$93,983 at that time) support services for customers affected Sunday in April 2019, AIA Sri Lanka were ready to be paid 24 hours after the to provide timely assistance in the also worked hard to keep our promise incident, to make sure that survivors processing of claims. to customers to protect them and their did not have to deal with paperwork or families. financial difficulties in already trying times. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 41 ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index Community Initiatives Development team are based permanently in Asia-Pacific to help Our CSR Programmes Our teams across 18 local markets Tottenham Hotspur drive football development in the region. These qualified coaches pursue focused CSR programmes Football Club directed at needs relevant to their travel to AIA’s markets, sharing their Low levels of physical activity are a professional skills and knowledge local communities. contributing factor to the high rates with players of all levels at training In turn, at the Group level we work of NCDs across Asia-Pacific17. Yet camps and coaching clinics. Since the closely with our markets to assess for many people, getting sufficient coaches moved to Asia, over 55,000 relevant CSR opportunities and work exercise remains a challenge. children, staff and customers have to align them with our business AIA recognises the importance of attended coaching sessions across objectives to ensure shared value, sport and the role that it can play in the region. Through football, we and thereby, sustainability. AIA is also encouraging physical activity and encourage children and their parents focused on enabling people to make enabling Healthier, Longer, Better to pursue active, healthy lifestyles. the right financial decisions to achieve Lives. As well as bringing people In September 2019 alone, the financial security for themselves and together through a fun activity, sport Spurs coaches engaged with over their families through our outreach also conveys the positive values of 6,000 people from seven markets. initiatives. teamwork and discipline. AIA Myanmar hosted their firstWe have been working with English ever clinic, while South Korea had Premier League football club a successful football event across In 2019, we contributed over Tottenham Hotspur since 2013 three cities. The Spurs coaches have 8 to promote healthy living in Asia. also been involved with education In 2017, AIA became Tottenham programmes to train local coaches, and AIA provides equipment to Hotspur’s Global Principal Partner, communities that lack the sporting US$ MILLION and last year we extended the partnership until the end of the infrastructure to support regular 2026/27 football season. participation. For example, as part Our employees volunteered of our 2019 Centennial celebrations, Our partnership with Spurs goes AIA Cambodia’s 100 Football Fields well beyond our logo on their MORE THAN 36,000 initiative equipped 100 primary playing shirts. In fact, as part of our schools across Cambodia with partnership, three coaches from goalposts, A-boards, footballs, bibs the Spurs International Football and cones. HOURS Environmental, Social 17 WHO 2018 and Governance Report 2019 42 Corporate Social Responsibility and Community Wellness AIA’s Poson Safety ABOUT THIS REPORT Programme in Sri Lanka DOING Every year, thousands of pilgrims in BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY Sri Lanka travel to Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Dambulla for THE RIGHT PEOPLE Poson, an annual Buddhist festival. AIA, together with a number of local CONTRIBUTING TO OUR stakeholders in Sri Lanka, such as COMMUNITIES the Life Saving Association, work to OPERATING promote water safety and station RESPONSIBLY lifeguards at places where pilgrims Feedback swim and bathe. This year a total of 540 lifeguards GRI & HKEx Guide Content were deployed around 23 lakes and Index reservoirs, for three consecutive AIA Vietnam’s Bike Raising Funds for days. Lifeguards saved seven lives Donation Campaign Breast Cancer Awareness during Poson in 2019, and at least Many young students in Vietnam In Indonesia, about 1,500 participants 200 lives have been saved since the give up studying each year because joined a day of fitness activities at the programme’s inception 26 years ago. of the difficulties associated with Jakarta International Velodrome. As the distance they travel to attend part of the initiative, AIA donated IRD school. Since 2014, AIA in Vietnam 400 million to Lovepink, a charitable has run a successful effort to support foundation formed by breast cancer underprivileged children through survivors who dedicate their time to the provision of bicycles and free providing education on breast cancer life insurance. In 2019, with the awareness and assistance for those support of its employees, agents and diagnosed with the disease. customers, AIA donated over 3,000 bikes to children in 43 provinces across the country. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 43 Operating ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY Responsibly THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index The environment has a direct impact on the health This section outlines our and well-being of our customers, our employees support of SDG 13 on climate and our communities. It is therefore important that action, and Target 13.3 to improve we understand the effects on our own impact, and education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity where possible, influence positive environmental on climate change mitigation, practices amongst our business partners and within adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. our markets. Our TCFD Report In 2018, AIA became the first Hong Kong headquartered asset owner to In 2019, AIA produced join the Principles for Responsible 59,749 Investment (“PRI”), while also voicing our support for the recommendations of the TCFD. TONNES The TCFD provides a consistent of CO2e reporting framework for companies to disclose how they are addressing the This equates to risks and opportunities from climate 2.6 change. The section below outlines our contributions and progress against TONNES each of the four pillars of the TCFD of CO2e per employee recommendations. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 44 Our TCFD Report Governance We address ESG related risks according to the process outlined Company’s ESG strategy, policies and disclosure, including reporting ABOUT THIS REPORT Board Level Governance in the RMF and categorise them to the Board on a biannual basis. DOING based on the nature of the risk to our The Committee also considers ESG BUSINESS IN THE At AIA, the Board retains ultimate RIGHT WAY operations. The physical impacts of research, feedback raised by key responsibility for the oversight of the THE RIGHT climate change, including flooding, or stakeholders including institutional PEOPLE Group’s risk management activities damage to facilities have immediate shareholders and reports by rating and monitors material Group-wide CONTRIBUTING operational impacts and are treated agencies and provides input on TO OUR risks, whether they are common to COMMUNITIES as operational risks. Long-term material ESG issues relevant to the our industry or unique to the Group challenges, such as emerging ESG Group. OPERATING and its businesses. The Board is RESPONSIBLY issues, may be discussed by the supported by the BRC, comprised In 2019, feedback on climate change BRC, ORC, FRC, or the Group’s ESG Feedback of our Board members and chaired was discussed by the ESG Committee, Committee. by an Independent Non-executive with key outcomes formulated and GRI & HKEx Director, as well as the ORC and FRC raised to the Group Board. Guide Content Index which are comprised of our senior executives. AIA’s RMF ensures that we Management Level Governance The ESG Committee was also responsible for approving operational have the capabilities and processes in The Group’s ESG Committee provides emissions targets for the Group, and place to identify, quantify, underwrite effective governance for integrating commissioning an ESG benchmarking and manage and report risk. The and addressing ESG issues, including and gap analysis exercise to identify Board is responsible for reviewing climate change, within our business. gaps in both disclosure and policy this framework to ensure that it is The ESG Committee is comprised relative to best practice standards. sufficiently effective given the Group’s of members of the Group Executive business environment and context. Committee. The Committee meets on On a day-to-day basis, AIA’s ESG In addition, business unit boards at least a quarterly basis and plays team also works closely with the of directors play a similar role to an integral role in overseeing the Group Investment function, working ensure that the local risk framework to develop consistent and enhanced is appropriately tailored to the local approaches to addressing climate risk business and environment. issues with the Group’s analysts. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 45 Our TCFD Report Strategy region over the long term, affecting economic output and business achieve resilience against adverse health and weather-related climate ABOUT THIS REPORT Climate change risk forms part of our productivity. Rising temperatures outcomes. Our products continue to DOING overall insurance risk profile through and increased precipitation may also provide protection cover to people BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY its role in increasing the frequency result in a greater prevalence of vector in our communities against weather and intensity of certain diseases, THE RIGHT borne illnesses and increases in heat and heat-related disease, while we PEOPLE and the health and mortality impacts related morbidity and mortality. continue to explore opportunities CONTRIBUTING resulting from natural disasters. We to engage with companies in our TO OUR The transitional risks posed from COMMUNITIES assess the overall level of insurance portfolio, encouraging them to climate change includes increased risk by taking into consideration a develop climate resilience and reduce OPERATING regulation and related financial RESPONSIBLY range of diverse risk factors across their operational carbon footprint. obligations such as the imposition of the many categories in our product Feedback carbon taxes, increased disclosure, range. This diversity of risk combined and more stringent environmental with our reinsurance programme and In 2018, GRI & HKEx risk management that affect both our Guide Content broad geographic footprint helps us to we launched our Index business and those of the companies Climate Change Statement distribute risk and provide protection that we invest in. summarising how we against the impacts of short-term address climate change as climate change effects. As a life and health insurer, climate a strategic issue throughout change does not impact us in the our business. To view AIA’s The physical risks of climate change Climate Change Statement, same immediate and extreme manner please click here. can be far-reaching and affect the as it does in the property and casualty quality of life for communities across sector. However, as the physical the countries where we operate. impacts of climate change continue Research shows that storm surge to become apparent, we will have an and rising sea levels are likely to pose important role to play through our disruptions to communities across the insurance and investments solutions to help communities adapt and RESPONDING TO In February 2019, after floods in Queensland and bushfires in Tasmania, ENVIRONMENTAL AIA waived insurance premiums for CHALLENGES six months for eligible policyholders. Later in the year, we introduced the Bushfire Assistance Package to support When communities in Australia AIA Australia policyholders affected by faced extreme weather, AIA Australia the bushfires in Queensland and New supported affected policyholders to South Wales. Eligible policyholders were reduce the impact on their well-being entitled to premium waivers ranging and livelihoods. from two to six months and lost policy documents were replaced without cost. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 46 Our TCFD Report Risk Management AIA looks forward to further research and guidance from regulators on how them to address these in a transparent way, thereby contributing ABOUT THIS REPORT Climate Change Scenarios and such scenario analysis should be in the transition to a low carbon DOING meaningfully conducted. economy. We also monitor investment BUSINESS IN THE Our Insurance Operations RIGHT WAY opportunities across our markets in In 2017, research funded by the UK THE RIGHT the transition to a low carbon and PEOPLE Medical Research Council outlined Climate Impacts and Strategies climate resilient future, supporting CONTRIBUTING potential impacts to morbidity from our communities to achieve their climate change-related temperature within Our Investments TO OUR COMMUNITIES environmental targets and objectives. increases. The conclusions of the Increasing transitional and physical OPERATING research compared changes in risks are more likely to impact RESPONSIBLY mortality rate based on carbon companies in our investment Feedback emission projections under two portfolio, with research indicating In 2019, AIA also joined scenarios; a business-as-usual carbon far-reaching impacts from 1.5 and emission trajectory, and those in the Climate Action 100+, GRI & HKEx Guide Content 2 degree scenarios. As discussed in adherence to the Paris Agreement. the Sustainable Investment section supporting collective Index AIA continues to consider such of this Report, consideration of engagement with the world’s research and understands that climate climate change, in addition to other largest carbon emitters. impacts are likely to be far-reaching. ESG factors, is mandated within our Disruptions to our markets, whether investment process. from a rise in sea levels worldwide or AIA continues to engage with impacts to economic sectors such as businesses on raising awareness of agriculture or logistics, among others, these risk issues, and encouraging remain challenging to assess today. OPPORTUNITIES IN AIA monitors investment opportunities and developments in the field of green THE TRANSITION TO A finance, in consideration of our liabilities SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY and above all, in ensuring the financial security of our clients. Green bond issuance continues to grow Our investments in green in Asia, providing opportunities for investors to contribute to the transition bonds amounted to US$916 to cleaner energy and the climate million in 2019, an increase of resilience of communities. 59% compared to 2018. Climate Engagements climate change risks and take the AIA will continue to engage with Regulators across Asia continue to initiative to monitor and reduce their material sectors and companies in our raise awareness of climate change, environmental footprint. investment portfolio on their plans imposing disclosure requirements to transition and future-proof their To guide engagements, questionnaires in regard to carbon and energy businesses. were developed in line with the footprinting. However, there remain guidance of the Transition Pathway AIA also engaged with the Group’s gaps in understanding how such Initiative, a global, asset-owner led investment managers, to understand climate risks may impact a company’s initiative, which assesses companies’ their own engagement and operations, assets and profits. preparedness in addressing physical assessment practices in addressing In 2019, AIA engaged with more and transitional risks in the shift climate change risks in their managed than 1,400 companies in the Group’s toward a low carbon economy. AIA portfolios. investment portfolio, assessing is cognizant of, and devising ways to how these businesses address address and mitigate, risk of stranded assets in a low carbon economy. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 47 Metrics and Targets ABOUT TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY PER SCOPE THIS REPORT Total GHG Emissions per Scope (in tonnes of CO2e) (in tones of CO2e) DOING 3,640 C02e tonnes 2019 2018 2017 BUSINESS IN THE 10,846 RIGHT WAY Scope 118 3,640 4,149 4,935 Scope 1 THE RIGHT Scope 219 45,263 43,016 45,519 PEOPLE Scope 2 Scope 320 10,846 8,596 7,388 CONTRIBUTING Scope 3 TO OUR 45,263 Total GHG Emissions 59,749 55,761 57,842 COMMUNITIES Total GHG Emissions Intensity per employee 2.6 2.7 2.9 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index AIA has committed to a Total energy consumption across Assured Data the Group was 88,595,892 kWh, Emissions and energy data from our 25% amounting to 3,827 kWh per person. Group Office, AIA Singapore, Hong AIA has committed to a 25 per cent Kong, Thailand, Mainland China and emission reduction target per person Malaysia in this Report were assured emissions reduction target per by 2030 with 2017 as a base year. by an external auditor. Please refer to employee by 2030 with 2017 as The target applies to Scope 1 and the assurance statement on page 64 a base year. The target applies to Scope 2 emissions. In 2019, we of this Report for a further breakdown Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 of our operations from buildings in emission footprint per person by scope of this data assurance exercise. 16.6 per cent, compared to 2017 levels, from 2.5 tonnes per person to Total greenhouse gas emissions In 2019, we reduced (Scope 1, 2, 3) from these markets our emissions by 2.1 tonnes per person as a result of energy conservation measures across amounted to 26,745 tonnes of CO2e 16.6% select markets and increases in total or 45 per cent of our total emission headcount. footprint. The largest contributor to our Total assured energy use from these operational footprint is the electricity markets amounted to 43,171,321 kWh . toward our target. we use in our buildings, which Please refer to page 64 for the contributes to our Scope 2 emission Energy and Emissions footprint of 45,263 tonnes. Auditor’s Assurance Statement. In 2019, the Group produced 59,749 Other sources of emissions include tonnes of CO2e, or 2.6 tonnes per those from our corporate vehicle employee. The increase in our For fleet and business travel. Operating further details on overall footprint this year was due across 18 markets, business travel is how we address our to additional markets being able essential across our Group. operational footprint, to provide Scope 3 emissions data please refer to our AIA continues to utilise video Environmental Policy, from business travel, in addition linked here. to incorporation of data from new conferencing technology, where business units21. feasible, to reduce the need for this travel. 18 Emissions from the fuel burnt by our corporate vehicle fleet, private air travel, generators and corporate kitchens. Scope 1 emissions include all markets where AIA has operational control. 19 Emissions produced as a result of the electricity that we use. Scope 2 emissions include all AIA markets where AIA has operational control. Environmental, Social 20 Emissions produced indirectly from commercial business travel by airplane. and Governance Report 21 Please refer to the Global Reporting Initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Content 2019 Index on page 55 for further details on increases in our reporting scope. 48 Metrics and Targets Data Calculation Methodologies The Carbon Footprint of emissions relative to their sales, based on publicly available information, ABOUT THIS REPORT AIA calculates emissions according to the guidelines provided by the Our Investment Portfolio given their position in the overall DOING BUSINESS IN THE portfolio. RIGHT WAY Environmental Protection Department As an asset owner, our environmental of the Hong Kong SAR Government. influence also extends to our The weighted average of issuer THE RIGHT carbon intensity in AIA’s equity PEOPLE We identify emission factors on investment footprint and the diverse electricity consumption for each sectors that we invest in, primarily portfolio amounts to 301.8 tonnes CONTRIBUTING TO OUR operating region via the sustainability across Asia. AIA is committed to being of CO2e per million US dollar, COMMUNITIES reports of utility companies, or the transparent with our stakeholders which compares favourably against OPERATING Greenhouse Gas Protocol database. and focusing on areas of impact benchmarks such as the MSCI RESPONSIBLY AIA relies on third party data where in our ESG reporting. As such, we emerging market index at 328.7 Feedback this is available, with business travel, engaged a third-party consultant to tonnes of CO2e per million US dollar22. emissions data for Group Office and assist us in the significant initiative This carbon data will also be GRI & HKEx AIA Hong Kong provided directly by of carbon footprinting our investment Guide Content incorporated into our ESG assessment Index our travel agent. At our other markets portfolio. Results from this exercise process in investments, assisting where this data is not available, have provided us with a complete our research analysts with sectoral including AIA Malaysia and AIA emissions profile of our broader comparisons, and raising awareness Singapore, we refer to the Carbon impact and provide the foundation for of risks such as those posed from Neutral Calculator for Short – Medium any future reduction initiatives. potential carbon regulation in our haul flights by the United Kingdom’s markets. Information will also be used The weighted average carbon Department for Environment, Food, by research analysts in discussions of intensity of an equity portfolio and Rural Affairs (“DEFRA”) emission climate risk, and emissions mitigation. considers a portfolio company’s factors. Emissions from any private air travel are calculated according to the recommended practice of the International Air Transport Association (“IATA”). AIA also refers to the Fifth Assessment Report from the International Panel on Climate Change, in reference to any Global Warming Potential (“GWP”) factors used. Our Green Products and financial performance of companies are available to our MPF customers. AIA Company (Trustee) Limited has long In select markets, as part of our unit understood the importance of positive linked investment products, our environmental stewardship in generating customers are also able to choose financial return, and options that take options associated with renewable into account both environmental ratings energy and/or healthcare. Environmental, Social 22 Last reported by MSCI on 29 June 2018. and Governance Report 2019 49 Pollution As an organisation that has no AIA’s influence also lies in raising ABOUT manufacturing facilities, we do not awareness on the health impacts of Air pollution contributes to THIS REPORT the premature deaths of about produce material amounts of pollution pollution, and in exploring ways in DOING ourselves. which we can assist our customers BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY 7MILLION in reducing their exposure to specific Addressing pollution is a challenge THE RIGHT pollutants. Our solutions enable us to PEOPLE that goes beyond the influence of play a more active role in addressing a single business, and requires the CONTRIBUTING this risk factor and in enabling our TO OUR concerted effort and action of both people globally each year23 COMMUNITIES customers to live Healthier, Longer, the private and public sectors. AIA’s Better Lives. OPERATING memberships in ESG organisations RESPONSIBLY provide us with one such forum to Feedback discuss environmental issues with peers and other leading businesses. GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index Q: What are the major sources of air Q: How do pollutants affect our health? Dominic Spracklen pollution across Mainland China? Professor of A: PM2.5 affects the health of the lungs Biosphere-Atmosphere A: The burning of solid fuels by industrial and cardiovascular system – contributing Interactions, University of Leeds sources and in homes produces such to some of the most significant health particulate matter, which tend to stay burdens worldwide. Studies suggest in the air. Wind patterns do mean that links between high pollution levels and Our Research Southern China, including Hong Kong, is often affected by this pollution, which mood or mental health, showing that air pollution may have a wider impact than into Air Quality impacts health across the region. previously thought – this is not the most obvious impact when we think of air Q: Could you provide an update on your AIA is involved in a multi-year research pollution. ongoing research projects with AIA? project with the University of Leeds on air Taking proactive measures to reducing quality. The project aims to identify and A: We have two research projects with our exposure to these pollutants, communicate realistic and achievable air AIA examining both sources of pollution which includes monitoring air quality pollution mitigation options, providing and trends. We have focused on the and staying away from pollution hot clear recommendations for translating impacts of particulate matter, known as spots, such as roadside areas during policy into action. This includes PM2.5, which is the primary type of air particularly bad days, can help to reduce identifying recent trends and sources of pollution in the Asia-Pacific region. risks to health. pollution in Mainland China. We have seen levels of PM2.5 Ultimately, improving air quality requires Dominic Spracklen, Professor of decreasing across Mainland China, the concerted effort of government, Biosphere-Atmosphere Interactions which is positive news! This also impacts business and individuals. We can all at the University of Leeds in the UK, air quality in Hong Kong SAR. However, do our bit to help reduce air pollution is responsible for this research, he levels of ozone tend to be rising which reducing our electricity consumption, provided our ESG team with an update is somewhat concerning. In addition to using public transport or low-emission to his research and discussed some of affecting respiratory health, ozone can vehicles, and eating less meat are all the health impacts posed from specific also damage forests and reduce crop ways we can contribute to cleaner air. pollutants. yields, resulting in broader social and economic impacts. Environmental, Social 23 WHO 2018 and Governance Report 2019 50 Resource Usage Paper Usage better service options and to reduce the amount of paper we consume. As AIA Singapore’s ABOUT THIS REPORT While insurance has traditionally been of the end of the year, more than 80 Go Green Initiative DOING BUSINESS IN THE known for its forms and paperwork, per cent of our buy, service and claims In 2019, AIA Singapore carried through RIGHT WAY AIA is working hard to change this. related interactions with customers We have prioritised addressing paper a deliberate strategy to advance on THE RIGHT can be done via digital devices. PEOPLE wastage and continue to explore paperless communications, digitalising We now use digital methods for 44 key areas of the operations ecosystem CONTRIBUTING ways to digitalise more aspects of our per cent of communications with TO OUR operations and to reduce our reliance to enhance the experience of our COMMUNITIES policyholders, which means we send on paper. customers, distribution and business fewer paper letters. OPERATING partners. RESPONSIBLY Building on a framework created Through sustained efforts to in 2018, we track our levels of My AIA SG is a mobile app that Feedback encourage our customers to use digitalisation and automation in provides policyholders with a single digital channels, rather than paper operations across all our markets. Our view of their coverage and access to GRI & HKEx forms, at least half of all service Guide Content main focus is on digitalising more of AIA Vitality. Using the app, customers Index requests and claims were submitted our customer interactions, to create can make service requests and digitally this year. view claims details via their digital device. Customers have responded positively, with 80 per cent of customers subscribed to electronic policy contracts and 65 per cent of policy correspondences delivered electronically via My AIA SG, saving 13.8 million sheets of paper. Paperless submission of post-sale service requests was also enabled for agents through POS EZ – a digital platform that helps them service their customers’ needs and obtain authentication from customers electronically. In 2019, close to 1 million transactions occurred digitally through My AIA SG and POS EZ. AIA Hong Kong’s Foundation to WWF-Hong Kong. This included customers who chose to receive Go Green Lifestyle Campaign e-copies of their insurance policies and downloaded then logged in to the AIA AIA Hong Kong’s Go Green Lifestyle Connect mobile app to manage their campaign used a donation initiative that insurance policies. supports environmental protection to This donation campaign enabled AIA and encourage policyholders to switch to its clients to create shared value for the digital platforms and enjoy an improved community at large and the environment customer experience. in general, through increased use During the campaign, AIA Hong Kong of digital platforms to manage their donated HK$8 for each policyholder insurance policies. who used digital platforms via the AIA Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 51 Sustainable Infrastructure Rapid urbanisation has brought region’s infrastructure needs, which ABOUT The following with it challenges such as increased includes costs to mitigate and adapt THIS REPORT section outlines air pollution, stress on existing to the impacts of climate change. DOING our support of infrastructure and unplanned urban BUSINESS IN THE As the largest pan-Asian life insurer, RIGHT WAY sustainable sprawl. This impacts the health and cities and communities, including AIA has been active in providing THE RIGHT well-being of our communities, but PEOPLE alignment with Target 11.3. to funding for many infrastructure also provides us with an opportunity enhance inclusive and sustainable projects. Out of our total fixed CONTRIBUTING urbanisation and capacity for to take a lead in investing in the TO OUR income and equity investments, COMMUNITIES participatory, integrated and sustainable development of our approximately US$30 billion is sustainable human settlement communities. The UN estimates that OPERATING invested in infrastructure-related RESPONSIBLY planning and management. urban areas will need to accommodate sectors, representing an increase an extra 2.5 billion people by 2050, Feedback of 25 per cent compared to 2018. with 90 per cent of this increase taking This has enabled us to play a role place in Asia and Africa. GRI & HKEx in contributing to the sustainable Guide Content Much of the investment needed to development of our communities in Index close the infrastructure and climate Asia, while also securing appropriate funding gap will be from the private returns that deliver on our customers’ sector. The Asian Development savings and protection needs. As in Bank estimates that US$26.2 trillion our TCFD report, we also continue is needed by 2030 to address the to engage with issuers on assessing climate risks and developing resilience. INVESTMENTS IN INFRASTRUCTURE As at 31 December 2019 US$ 30 BILLION Examples of these investments include: US$ BILLION 2.6 US$ MILLION 578 US$ BILLION 5.5 in road and rail in water utilities in transportation infrastructure infrastructure Our Community Donations Tuyintine village, Bagan has a population of 350 with 100 households, none of which has reliable electricity. As part of our promise to help people live Healthier, Longer, Better Lives, and to celebrate our 100th year anniversary, AIA Myanmar donated 100 solar panels to Tuyintine village. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 52 Sustainable Infrastructure Our Green Buildings while also enabling us to provide our markets with sustainable, energyOur portfolio of green buildings also continues to play an important role in ABOUT THIS REPORT Through our investments, we are able efficient low carbon tenancy options. reducing our environmental impact DOING to commit resources to acquire or AIA incorporates green standards and provide energy-efficient and low BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY develop green buildings, while also as a part of the design concept for carbon spaces to employees and continuing to retrofit and upgrade THE RIGHT all its real estate (re)development tenants. PEOPLE older buildings in our portfolio to projects, ensuring that environmental CONTRIBUTING higher green standards. This allows principles are “built in” and not TO OUR us to secure investment income, included as an afterthought. COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback Award Name Building Location Year Dual GOLD LEED certifications (New Construction + Existing AIA Capital Center Bangkok, Thailand 2018 GRI & HKEx Guide Content Buildings: Operations & Maintenance) Index LEED Platinum Rating in the category of Existing Buildings: Two AIA Financial Center Nanhai, China 2018 Operations & Maintenance LEED Platinum Rating in the category of Existing Buildings: One AIA Financial Center Nanhai, China 2017 Operations & Maintenance Pre-certification of LEED Silver Philam Life Center Cebu Cebu, Philippines 2017 Certificate of Green Building Design Label Two AIA Financial Center Nanhai, China 2015 The LEED Gold Certification AIA Sathorn Tower Bangkok, Thailand 2015 Best Commercial Development (Thailand), Best Green AIA Sathorn Tower Bangkok, Thailand 2015 Development, Best Office Development and Highly Commended Architectural Awards in Thailand Best Commercial Development in Thailand 2014 Award AIA Capital Center Bangkok, Thailand 2014 Best Commercial Development in South East Asia in 2014 AIA Capital Center Bangkok, Thailand 2014 LEED Silver Certification for Existing Buildings: Operations & AIA Central Hong Kong, China 2012 Maintenance Excellent Rating of the Hong Kong Building Environmental AIA Central Hong Kong, China 2005 Assessment Method HK-BEAM for New Office Designs At the Thailand Energy Awards 2019, AIA Capital Center in Bangkok received the Excellence Energy Conservation Award under the category of Energy Efficient Creative Building – Green Building. This award represents significant recognition of AIA’s commitment to operating responsibly. Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand Somkid Jatusripitak, and the President of the Thailand Energy Awards ceremony presented the award. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 53 Feedback ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content Index Thank you for your interest in this Report. Your feedback will help us to improve our overall ESG performance and disclosure. If you have any questions or feedback, please contact our ESG team at esg@aia.com or write to the address below: AIA Group Limited 35/F, AIA Central No. 1 Connaught Road Central Hong Kong Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 54 Global Reporting Initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange ABOUT Guide Content Index THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE This Report complies with the comply disclosures have been set out in the This Report also serves as our CONTRIBUTING or explain requirements of the Hong content index below in accordance 2019 communication regarding the TO OUR COMMUNITIES Kong Stock Exchange ESG Guide, and with the guidelines of the GRI, and to progress of our implementation of the the “Core” option of the GRI Standard allow for easy navigation to relevant Ten Principles of the United Nations OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Guide published in 2018. These sections of the Report. Global Compact, which have been outlined below. Feedback GRI & HKEx Guide Content GRI Standard HKEx ESG Disclosure Section Cross Reference, Index Disclosure Reporting Page and additional information Guide Including UNGC Reference GRI 102-1 -Name of organisation About this Report GRI 102-2 -Activities, brands, products, and services About this Report GRI 102-3 -Location of headquarters About this Report, Feedback on this Report GRI 102-4 -Location of operations About this Report GRI 102-5 -Nature of ownership and legal form About this Report GRI 102-6 -Markets served About this Report GRI 102-7 -Scale of the organisation About this Report, The Right People Please also refer to the Financial Statements of AIA’s Annual Report 2019 for details on net sales and total capitalisation. GRI 102-8 KPI B1.1 Information on employees and other workers The Right People GRI 102-9 GD B5 Supply chain description Doing Business in the Right Way GRI 102-10 -Significant changes to the organization and About this Report its supply chain In November 2019, AIA was granted a licence to operate a life insurance business in Myanmar through a 100% wholly-owned subsidiary On 1 November 2019, AIA took effective control of The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited (CMLA), following the entry into a contractual joint cooperation agreement between AIA Australia Limited, CBA and CMLA (acquisition of CMLA). GRI 102-11 -Report how the precautionary approach is Doing Business in the Right Way applied GRI 102-12 -External Initiatives The Right People, ESG Memberships GRI 102-13 -Membership of associations Memberships GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker Statement from Group Chief Executive and President GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of About this Report, Doing Business in the Right Way behaviour Please also refer to AIA’s Code of Conduct Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 55 GRI Standard HKEx ESG Disclosure Section Cross Reference, ABOUT Disclosure Reporting Page and additional information THIS REPORT Guide DOING Including UNGC Reference BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY GRI 102-18 -Governance structure of the organisation About this Report, Doing Business in the Right Way THE RIGHT Please refer to the Corporate Governance Section of PEOPLE Annual Report 2019 CONTRIBUTING Please also refer to information on our leadership TO OUR COMMUNITIES team, linked here. OPERATING GRI 102-40 -List of stakeholders engaged by the About this Report RESPONSIBLY organisation Feedback GRI 102-41 -Collective bargaining agreements Labour unions are present across a number of UNGC 3 AIA’s business units, however we do not track the GRI & HKEx percentage of employees covered under these Guide Content agreements. Index GRI 102-42 -Identifying and selecting stakeholders About this Report GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement The Group ESG Committee meets four times a year to discuss stakeholder feedback, including determining material ESG issues. Feedback is reported to the Group ESG Committee through existing stakeholder channels and is not limited to the Report preparation process. GRI 102-44 -Report any key topics and concerns raised by About this Report, Operating Responsibly stakeholders GRI 102-45 -Entities included in the consolidated financial About this Report statements Unless otherwise noted, all entities included in the Annual Report 2019 are included in the scope of this Report GRI 102-46 -Defining report content and topic boundaries About this Report GRI 102-47 -List of material topics About this Report GRI 102-48 -Restatements of information N/A GRI 102-49 -Changes in reporting As disclosed in GRI 102-10, the ESG Report 2019 includes information from AIA Myanmar and CMLA for the first time. GRI 102-50 -Reporting period About this Report GRI 102-51 -Date of most recent Report AIA’s ESG Report 2018 was published on 10 April 2019 GRI 102-52 -Reporting cycle AIA’s ESG Report is published annually GRI 102-53 -Contact point for questions regarding the Feedback on this Report report GRI 102-54 -Claims of reporting in accordance with the About this Report GRI Standards GRI 102-55 -GRI Content Index GRI and HKEx Content Index GRI 102-56 -External Assurance PwC Assurance Statement Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 56 Material Topic HKEx ESG Disclosure Section Cross Reference ABOUT Disclosure Reporting THIS REPORT Guide DOING Including UNGC Reference BUSINESS IN THE Principles RIGHT WAY Economic Performance THE RIGHT GRI 103-1, 103-2, KPI B8.2 Discussion of management approach and Please refer to the Financial and Operating Review PEOPLE 103-3 related policies Section of the Annual Report 2019 CONTRIBUTING TO OUR GRI 201-1 Direct Economic Value generated and Please refer to the Financial and Operating Review COMMUNITIES distributed Section of the Annual Report 2019 OPERATING GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Operating Responsibly – TCFD Report RESPONSIBLY opportunities due to climate change Please also refer to AIA’s Climate Change Statement Feedback linked here. Indirect Economic Impacts GRI & HKEx Guide Content GRI 103-1, 103-2, Discussion of management approach and Operating Responsibly Sustainable Infrastructure Index 103-3 related policies UNGC 7 UNGC 8 UNGC 9 GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Operating Responsibly Sustainable Infrastructure supported Anti-corruption GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD B7 Discussion of management approach and Doing Business in the Right Way Responsible 103-3 related policies Business Practices Section GRI 205-2 GD B7 Communication and training about antiDoing Business in the Right Way, AIA Code of corruption policies Conduct GD B7 Compliance with relevant laws and GRI & HKEx Commentary Table regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to bribery, extortion, fraud and money laundering. Energy GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD A2 Discussion of management approach and Operating Responsibly, TCFD Report 103-3 GD A3 related policies (Environmental policies) UNGC 7 Policies on minimising the issuer’s significant UNGC 8 impact on the environment and natural UNGC 9 resources GRI 302-1 KPI A2.1 Energy consumption within the organisation Operating Responsibly, Energy and Emissions KPI A2.3 Energy intensity per full-time employee Reduction of energy consumption GRI 302-3 KPI A3.1 Energy Intensity Operating Responsibly, Energy and Emissions GRI 302-4 KPI A3.1 Reduction of energy consumption Operating Responsibly, Energy and Emissions Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 57 Material Topic HKEx ESG Disclosure Section Cross Reference ABOUT Disclosure Reporting THIS REPORT Guide DOING Including UNGC Reference BUSINESS IN THE Principles RIGHT WAY Emissions THE RIGHT GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD A1 Discussion of management approach and Operating Responsibly PEOPLE 103-3 GD A3 related policies (Environmental policies) CONTRIBUTING TO OUR UNGC 7 COMMUNITIES UNGC 8 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY GRI 305-1, 305-2, GD A1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) Operating Responsibly, Energy and Emissions Feedback 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 KPI A1.1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) KPI A1.2 GRI & HKEx Guide Content KPI A1.5 Other greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Index (scope 3) Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Management Initiatives KPI A1.3 Total hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) GRI and HKEx Commentary Table and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility) KPI A1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced (in GRI and HKEx Commentary Table tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility) KPI A1.6 Description of how hazardous and nonGRI and HKEx Commentary Table hazardous wastes are handled, reduction initiatives and results achieved KPI A2.5 Total packaging material used for finished GRI and HKEx Commentary Table products (in tonnes) and, if applicable, with reference to per unit produced Environmental Compliance GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD A1 Discussion of management approach and Operating Responsibly 103-3 related policies (Environmental policies) UNGC 7 UNGC 8 307-1 GD A1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI & HKEx Commentary Table regulations UNGC 7 Water Consumption KPI A2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity GRI & HKEx Commentary Table KPI A2.4 Description of whether there is any issue in GRI & HKEx Commentary Table sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water efficiency initiatives and results achieved Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 58 Material Topic HKEx ESG Disclosure Section Cross Reference ABOUT Disclosure Reporting THIS REPORT Guide DOING Including UNGC Reference BUSINESS IN THE Principles RIGHT WAY Employment THE RIGHT GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD B1 Employment related policies and approaches The Right People, GRI & HKEx Commentary Table PEOPLE 103-3 CONTRIBUTING Compliance with relevant human resources TO OUR related laws and regulations that have a COMMUNITIES significant impact on the issuer OPERATING UNGC 6 GD B1 New employee hires and employee turnover The Right People, GRI & HKEx Commentary Table RESPONSIBLY KPI B1.2 Feedback GRI 401-1 Occupational Health and Safety GRI & HKEx GD B2 General Disclosure Information on policies The Right People, GRI & HKEx Commentary Table Guide Content Index and compliance with relevant laws and regulations relating to providing a safe working environment KPI B2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities GRI & HKEx Commentary Table KPI B2.2 Lost days due to work injury GRI & HKEx Commentary Table KPI B2.3 Description of occupational health and The Right People safety measures adopted, how they are implemented and monitored. Training and Education GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD B3 Employment related policies and approaches The Right People 103-3 on training and development. UNGC 6 Average hours of training per year per The Right People employee. GRI 404-1 KPI B3.2 The average training hours completed per The Right People employee by gender and employee category. GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular The Right People performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD B1 Employment related policies and approaches The Right People 103-3 related to inclusion and anti-discrimination. UNGC 6 KPI B1.1 Total workforce by gender, employment type, The Right People age group and geographical region. Human Rights GRI 103-1, 103-2, Businesses should uphold the freedom of The Right People, Doing Business in the Right Way, 103-3 association and the effective recognition of GRI & HKEx Commentary Table the right to collective bargaining. UNGC 3 UNGC 5 GD B4 Businesses should uphold the effective GRI & HKEx Commentary Table please refer to our abolition of child labour. Supplier Code of Conduct UNGC 4 GD B4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Please refer to our Supplier Code of Conduct all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 59 Material Topic HKEx ESG Disclosure Section Cross Reference ABOUT Disclosure Reporting THIS REPORT Guide DOING Including UNGC Reference BUSINESS IN THE Principles RIGHT WAY Local Communities THE RIGHT GD B8 Policies on community engagement to Contributing to our Communities PEOPLE understand the needs of the communities CONTRIBUTING where the issuer operates and to ensure TO OUR COMMUNITIES its activities take into consideration the communities’ interests OPERATING RESPONSIBLY UNGC 1 GD B8 Focus areas of community contribution Contributing to our Communities KPI B8.1 Feedback KPI B8.2 Resources contributed to the focus area Contributing to our Communities GRI & HKEx GRI FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial Contributing to our Communities Guide Content Index services for disadvantaged people Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD B4, B2, B1 Policies related to compliance within all social Doing Business in the Right Way, The Right People 103-3 and environmental areas, including human GD A1, A2, A3 resources. GRI 419-1 GD B4, B2, B1 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions GRI & HKEx Commentary Table for non-compliance with laws and regulations GD A1, A2, A3 in relation to social and economic areas Product Responsibility GRI 103-1, 103-2, GD B6 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by Contributing to our Communities, Corporate Social 103-3 type of beneficiary Responsibility and Community Wellness GD B6 Policies relating to health and safety, Doing Business in the Right Way advertising, labelling and privacy matters The Right People relating to products and services provided Please also refer to AIA’s Code of Conduct and methods of redress. GRI FS10, FS11 Percentage and number of companies held in Doing Business in the Right Way AIA’s portfolio with which AIA has interacted Please also refer to the Group on environmental or social issues. Responsible Investment Policy Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening GRI CRE 8 Type and number of sustainability Operating Responsibly, Sustainable Infrastructure certification, rating, and labelling schemes for new construction, management, occupation, and redevelopment. Data Protection and Privacy Data Protection KPI B6.5 Description of consumer data protection and Doing Business in the Right Way, Securing Customer and Cybersecurity privacy policies, how they are implemented Information measures and monitored. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 60 Global Reporting Initiative and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Guide Commentary Table ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT The GRI and ESG Guide disclosures that are not covered the following tables covers the twelve-month period ended PEOPLE in the above sections of the Report are explained in the 31 December 2019. CONTRIBUTING following commentary table. The information provided in TO OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Material Topic HKEx ESG Disclosure Supplementary Information Disclosure Reporting Feedback Guide Including UNGC Reference Principles GRI & HKEx Guide Content Energy Index GRI 302-1, 302-3, KPI A2.1 Energy consumption within the organisation • Direct energy consumption at AIA: 13,929,040 kWh 302-4 KPI A2.3 Energy intensity per full-time employees • Indirect energy consumption at AIA: 74,666,853 kWh KPI A3.1 Reduction of energy consumption • Total energy use at AIA: 88,595,892 kWh • Energy intensity per employee: 3,827 kWh • Direct energy consumption at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore, Mainland China, Thailand and Malaysia: 9,350,116 kWh • Indirect energy consumption at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore, Mainland China, Thailand and Malaysia : 33,821,205 kWh • Total energy use at Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Mainland China and Malaysia: 43,171,321 kWh Emissions GTI 305-1, 305-2, GD A1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) Total Scope 1 emissions for the Group: 3,640 tonnes 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 KPI A1.1 of CO2e Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) KPI A1.2 • Total Scope 2 emissions for the Group: 45,263 KPI A1.5 Other greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions tonnes of CO2e (scope 3) • Total Scope 3 emissions for the Group: 10,846 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity tonnes of CO2e Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) • Total emissions for the Group: 59,749 tonnes of emissions CO2e • Total emissions per employee: 2.6 tonnes of CO2e • Total Scope 1 emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Mainland China and Malaysia: 2,427 tonnes of CO2e • Total Scope 2 emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Mainland China and Malaysia: 18,923 tonnes of CO2e Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 61 Material Topic HKEx ESG Disclosure Supplementary Information ABOUT Disclosure Reporting THIS REPORT Guide DOING Including UNGC Reference BUSINESS IN THE Principles RIGHT WAY Emissions THE RIGHT • Total Scope 3 emissions for Group Office, Hong PEOPLE Kong, Thailand, Singapore and Malaysia: 5,395 CONTRIBUTING tonnes of CO2e TO OUR COMMUNITIES • Total emissions for Group Office, Hong Kong, OPERATING Singapore, Thailand, Mainland China and Malaysia: RESPONSIBLY 26,745 tonnes of CO2e Feedback Environmental Management Initiatives KPI A1.3 Total hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) As a life insurer, our policies do not require the input GRI & HKEx and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of any hazardous materials, nor do we produce any Guide Content Index of production volume, per facility) hazardous substances. As a result, the production of hazardous waste is not applicable to our operations. KPI A1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced AIA’s waste consists of food and office products such (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity as paper, which does not have a material impact at (e.g. per unit of production volume, per this time. facility) Going forward we will consider the need to measure our waste footprint. KPI A1.6 Description of how hazardous and nonNon-hazardous waste is sorted and recycled at select hazardous wastes are handled, reduction business units. initiatives and results achieved We continue to raise awareness on the importance of waste reduction through signage and internal communications. As a life insurer the production of hazardous waste is not applicable to our operations. KPI A2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity In 2019, AIA consumed 158,000 tonnes of water, amounting to 12.9 tonnes of water per employee, reported by 9 of our business units. AIA is unable to report on water usage in buildings where water meters are shared with other building tenants, or where it is included in total rental costs. KPI A2.4 Description of whether there is any issue in There is no material issue in sourcing or using water sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water that is fit for purpose. efficiency initiatives and results achieved KPI A2.5 Total packaging material used for finished Packaging material is not applicable to the nature of products (in tonnes) and, if applicable, with our operations as a life insurer. reference to per unit produced Compliance with ESG Regulation GRI 307-1 GD A1,GD B1, Monetary value of significant fines and total There were no significant fines or non-monetary GD B2, GD B4, number of non-monetary sanctions for sanctions for non-compliance with laws and UNGC 2 GD B6, GD B7 non-compliance with laws and regulations regulations during the reporting period. related to the HKEx ESG Subject Areas of KPI B7.1 There are no newly applicable or developing laws Emissions, Employment, Health and Safety, or regulations related to ESG areas that have had a Labour Standards, Product Responsibility significant impact on our business. and Anti-Corruption Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 62 Material Topic HKEx ESG Disclosure Supplementary Information ABOUT Disclosure Reporting THIS REPORT Guide DOING Including UNGC Reference BUSINESS IN THE Principles RIGHT WAY Employment THE RIGHT GD B1 Employment related policies and approaches Working hours are determined by AIA’s business PEOPLE toward working hours and rest periods. units, taking into account any local legislation CONTRIBUTING governing working hours and rest periods in the TO OUR COMMUNITIES jurisdictions where we operate. OPERATING As discussed in the Right People section of the RESPONSIBLY report, AIA also offers flexible working options at Feedback select business units. Human Rights GRI & HKEx UNGC 5 B4 Policies in place to prevent child and forced Child and forced labour are not ESG issues that are Guide Content Index labour material to our day to day operations in the financial services industry, where we require highly skilled and technical services. AIA prohibits the use of child labour within our supply chain, as outlined by our Supplier Code of Conduct. For further details please refer to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Occupational Health and Safety KPI B2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities This disclosure is immaterial to the nature of operations for life and health insurers. Our employees are not typically exposed to high risk activities that may cause any physical harm on a day to day basis. Please refer to the Right People section of this Report for details of our initiatives to foster a healthy and safe workplace. KPI B2.2 Lost days due to work injury Our employees are not typically exposed to high risk activities that may cause any physical harm and lost work days. This is immaterial to the nature of operations at life and health insurers. Please refer to the Right People section of this Report for details of our initiatives to foster a healthy and safe workplace. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 63 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report To the Board of Directors of AIA Group Limited ABOUT THIS REPORT DOING BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY THE RIGHT PEOPLE We have undertaken a limited assurance Selective quantitative data was provided for six of CONTRIBUTING engagement in respect of the selected sustainability the Company’s locations and related operations and TO OUR COMMUNITIES information of AlA Group Limited (the “Company”) these are the only locations included in the Identified Sustainability Information for the twelve-month period OPERATING listed below under the ‘Identified Sustainability RESPONSIBLY Information’ section and identified with a ✓ in the from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, namely: Feedback Company’s Environmental, Social and Governance • the Company’s Group Office operations in Hong (“ESG”) Report that covers the twelve-month period Kong conducted from its premises located at AlA GRI & HKEx from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 (“ESG Central (1 Connaught Road, Central), AlA Building Guide Content Report 2019). Index (1 Stubbs Road, Wan Chai) and Hopewell Centre Identified Sustainability Information (183 Queens Road East, Wan Chai); The Identified Sustainability Information for the • the operations of AlA Hong Kong conducted from twelve-month period from 1 January 2019 to 31 its premises located at AlA Hong Kong Tower (734 December 2019 is summarised below: King’s Road, Quarry Bay) and Kerry Building (683 Kings Road, Quarry Bay); • Electricity usage (indirect energy use) • the operations of AlA Singapore conducted from its • Energy consumption from use of fossil fuels and premises at AlA Alexandra (371 Alexandra Road), gas (direct energy use) AlA Tampines (3 Tampines Grande), AlA Tower (1 • Total energy consumption Robinson Road), and Telepark (5 Tampines Central 6); • Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) emissions (Note l) • the operations of AlA Malaysia conducted from its premises at AlA Menara (99, Jalan Ampang, 50450, • Scope 2 GHG emissions (Note2) Kuala Lumpur) and AlA Wisma (89, Jalan Ampang, • Scope 3 GHG emissions (Note 3) Kuala Lumpur); • Total GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) • the operations of AlA China conducted from its premises at One AlA Financial Center and Two AlA Note 1: Emissions produced directly from fossil fuel including unleaded petrol, diesel oil, Towngas, liquid petroleum Financial Center (No. 89 Zone Gui Cheng Street, gas and private jet fuel. Nanhai District Foshan City); and Note 2: Emissions produced indirectly from the consumption of electricity. • the operations of AlA Thailand conducted from Note 3: Emissions produced indirectly from commercial its premises at AlA Thailand Tower 1&2 (181 business travel by airplane, except from AlA Thailand and AlA China. Surawong Road, Bangkok). Data relating to the activities of the Company’s insurance agents has been excluded from the selective quantitative data provided to us. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 64 For the purposes of this limited assurance report, Our Independence and Quality Control ABOUT the selected quantitative data is defined above as THIS REPORT the “Identified Sustainability Information”. We have complied with the independence DOING and other ethical requirements of the Code of BUSINESS IN THE Our limited assurance report is in respect of the Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by RIGHT WAY twelve-month period from 1 January 2019 to 31 the International Ethics Standards Board for THE RIGHT December 2019 information for the Identified PEOPLE Accountants, which is founded on fundamental Sustainability Information of the locations principles of integrity, objectivity, professional CONTRIBUTING TO OUR mentioned above only and we have not performed competence and due care, confidentiality and COMMUNITIES any procedures with respect to earlier periods, other professional behaviour. OPERATING locations or any other elements included in the RESPONSIBLY ESG Report 2019 and, therefore, do not express any Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a Feedback conclusion thereon. comprehensive system of quality control including Criteria documented policies and procedures regarding GRI & HKEx Guide Content compliance with ethical requirements, professional Index The criteria used by the Company to prepare the standards and applicable legal and regulatory Identified Sustainability Information is set out requirements. in the ESG Report 2019 under the section “OUR APPROACH TO ESG REPORTING”. Our Responsibility The Company’s Responsibility for the Identified Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance Sustainability Information conclusion on the Identified Sustainability Information based on the procedures we have The Company is responsible for the preparation performed and the evidence we have obtained. of the Identified Sustainability Information in We conducted our limited assurance engagement accordance with the Criteria. This responsibility in accordance with the International Standard includes the design, implementation and on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised), maintenance of internal controls relevant to Assurance Engagements other than Audits or the preparation of the Identified Sustainability Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and, in Information that is free from material misstatement, respect of greenhouse gas emissions, International whether due to fraud or error. Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, Inherent Limitations Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the International Auditing The absence of a significant body of established and Assurance Standards Board. These standards practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure require that we plan and perform this engagement non-financial information allows for different, but to obtain limited assurance about whether the acceptable, measures and measurement techniques Identified Sustainability Information is free from and can affect comparability between entities. In material misstatement. addition, GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emission factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. The maintenance and integrity of the AIA Group Limited website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the assurance provider does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the assurance provider accepts no responsibility for any differences between the Identified Sustainability Information of AlA Group Limited on which the assurance report was issued or the assurance report that was issued and the information presented on the website. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 65 A limited assurance engagement involves The procedures performed in a limited assurance ABOUT assessing the suitability in the circumstances of engagement vary in nature and timing from, and THIS REPORT the Company’s use of the Criteria as the basis for are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance DOING the preparation of the Identified Sustainability engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance BUSINESS IN THE RIGHT WAY Information, assessing the risks of material obtained in a limited assurance engagement is THE RIGHT misstatement of the Identified Sustainability substantially lower than the assurance that would PEOPLE Information whether due to fraud or error, have been obtained had we performed a reasonable CONTRIBUTING responding to the assessed risks as necessary assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not TO OUR in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall express a reasonable assurance opinion about COMMUNITIES presentation of the Identified Sustainability whether the Company’s Identified Sustainability OPERATING Information has been prepared, in all material RESPONSIBLY Information. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable respects, in accordance with the Criteria. Feedback assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding Limited Assurance Conclusion GRI & HKEx Guide Content of internal control, and the procedures performed in Based on the procedures we have performed and Index response to the assessed risks. the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the The procedures we performed were based on our Company’s Identified Sustainability Information for professional judgement and included inquiries, the twelve-month period from 1 January 2019 to observation of processes performed, inspection of 31 December 2019 is not prepared, in all material documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the respects, in accordance with the Criteria. appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with Our report has been prepared for and only for the underlying records. Company to include in the ESG report and may not be suitable for another purpose. We do not assume Given the circumstances of the engagement, in responsibility towards or accept liability to any other performing the procedures listed above we: person for the contents of this report. • made inquiries of the persons responsible for the Identified Sustainability Information; • understood the process for collecting and reporting the Identified Sustainability Information; • performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Identified Sustainability Information to check that data had been appropriately recorded, calculated and reported; and PricewaterhouseCoopers • considered the disclosure and presentation of Certified Public Accountants the Identified Sustainability Information. Hong Kong 13 March 2020 The maintenance and integrity of the AIA Group Limited website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the assurance provider does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the assurance provider accepts no responsibility for any differences between the Identified Sustainability Information of AlA Group Limited on which the assurance report was issued or the assurance report that was issued and the information presented on the website. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 66
