ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INDEX 1.0 2.0 7.0 8.0 MESSAGE FROM COMPANY QUALITY OF LIFE CUMMUNITY INVOLVMENT OUR CEO PROFILE FOR EMPLOYEES AND SUPPORT 4 6 42 48 3.0 4.0 9.0 10.0 REPORT CORPORATE COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL PARAMETERS GOVERNANCE HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRAMMES 14 18 52 56 5.0 6.0 11.0 12.0 CODE OF ETHICS AND ANTIENVIRONMENTAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES APPENDIX CORRUPTION MEASURES RESPONSIBILITY AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 24 28 60 66 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 1.0 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO WELCOME TO ASUR’S ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. The year 2019 has been one of consolidation for The number of full-time employees in our Principal U.N. Sustainable Development Goals our company. For the first time in several years, airports increased in 2019 to 1,075, and we addressed in this report: no major infrastructure expansion projects again achieved an excellent health and safety came online during these twelve months. This record. Our community investments in 2019 has allowed us to focus on further developing were once again for a record sum, of 79.4 miprogrammes that we already have in place. llion pesos. This money was used to promote culture and the arts both nationally and at the GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING We have made further progress toward our goal local level, as well as for a wide range of comof sourcing renewable energy in our airports, munity projects mainly in the areas of health and have continued to improve and streamliand education. ne our processes for monitoring and reporting QUALITY EDUCATION carbon emissions. As part of our commitment Our vision is to create a lasting, mutually beto minimising the impact of our operations on neficial relationship with our local communithe climate, we have joined the Airport Carbon ties, the people that work at our airports, and Accreditation initiative organised by Airports the people that travel through them, for many Council International. years to come. DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Our newest terminal building—Terminal 4 at As always, the goal of this report is to create Cancún Airport—obtained LEED Gold certitransparency in ASUR’s operations and our refication from the U.S. Green Building Counlationships with our main stakeholders. If you INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE cil, and our company-wide energy-efficienhave any feedback on how we can improve our cy measures kept our increase in electricity reporting process, we would be happy to hear consumption at the low level of 1.4% yearfrom you (contactos@asur.com.mx). over-year, despite an annual increase of 2.8% REDUCED INEQUALITIES in passenger numbers. Meanwhile the company’s waste reduction, reuse and recycling programme, which has been up and running Adolfo Castro Rivas, for several years in Cancún Airport, has now Chief Executive Officer CLIMATE ACTION been strengthened throughout the Group. LIFE ON LAND 4 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 COMPANY PROFILE 2.0 COMPANY PROFILE AS OF THE 31ST OF DECEMBER 2019, ASUR DIRECTLY EMPLOYS A TOTAL OF 1,075 PEOPLE Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. operates a group of nine airports in the southeast region of Mexico under the brand name ASUR. These airports are located in the cities of Cancún, Cozumel, Huatulco, Mérida, Minatitlán, Oaxaca, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa. The company’s headquarters are located in IN 2019, A TOTAL OF Mexico City. In February of 2013, the concession for the operation of Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, was granted to Aerostar Airport Holdings, LLC, a company in which ASUR holds a 60% stake. Between 34 MILLION PASSENGERS PASSED THROUGH ASUR’S MEXICAN AIRPORTS October 2017 and May 2018, ASUR acquired 100% of the shares in Airplan, S.A., the company that holds the concessions to operate a group of six airports in Colombia, located in Rionegro, Medellín, Montería, Carepa, Quibdo, and Corozal. These are the only operations outside of Mexico in which ASUR currently has an interest. IN 2019, ASUR’S MEXICAN AIRPORTS HANDLED MORE THAN 335,000 FLIGHTS 6 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUA L SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 COMPANY PROFILE 2.1 BUSINESS ACTIVITIES The company’s core activity is to administer and maintain the infrastructure of its airports to ensure sufficient capacity for safe, efficient operations and a high standard of service. Basic infrastructure includes that required for aircraft takeoff and landing operations and for arriving and departing passenger flows, as well as facilities for the authorities involved in airport operations (air-traffic controllers, customs, immigration, etc.). In addition to the above, the company enters into agreements with external providers for a range of additional services, which may include complementary services for aircraft (such as baggage handling and ramp services) and commercial services for passengers (such as restaurants, shops and car rental, among other business lines). The company’s aeronautical, complementary and commercial activities represent its three revenue streams. Consequently, there are facilities and person2.2 2.3 nel that, while located at ASUR’s airports, are COMPANY SHAREHOLDER not under the direct operational control of the company. These include all those corresponHISTORY STRUCTURE ding to the government agencies, complementary service providers and commercial concesASUR’s nine Mexican airports are operated unIn June 2007, the strategic partner ITA reduced sion holders mentioned above, as well as the der 50-year concessions that were granted to its shareholding in the company from 15% to facilities and staff members of the various airlithe company in 1998, as part of the Mexican 7.65%. As of the 31st of December 2019, ITA is nes that operate out of the company’s airports. government’s plan to open up the country’s staowned by Fernando Chico Pardo, a Mexican inte-owned airport sector to private investment. vestor, who has a 50% stake in the company; FIGURE 1: and by Inversiones Productivas Kierke, S.A. de SUMMARY OF OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES, ASUR AIRPORTS Under the privatisation scheme, an initial C.V., a subsidiary of the Mexican bus transport stake of 15% in the company’s capital stock company Grupo ADO, S.A. de C.V., which also CONTROLLED DIRECTLY BY ASUR WHERE ASUR HAS NOT CONTROLLED BY ASUR (the BB series shares) was sold to a strategic has a stake of 50%. LIMITED INFLUENCE partner, Inversiones y Técnicas AeroportuaDirectly Employed Staff: rias, S.A. de C.V. (ITA), with expertise in MexiThe 92.35% of ASUR’s shares that are not held • General administrative • Car-park attendants can business operations and in the internatioby ITA are traded on the New York Stock Ex• Airport Rescue & Fire Fighting personnel Staff and Facilities of: Personal e instalaciones de: nal airport industry. The remaining 85% of the change (NYSE: ASR) and the Mexico City Bolsa • Hold-baggage-screening system operators • Airlines, including check-in and Staff and Facilities of: company’s shares (the B series) began trading (BMV: ASUR). As of the 31st of December 2019, • Surveillance-camera operators boarding staff • DGAC (Mexican civil-aviation authority) Subcontracted Staff: • Ground handlers and ramp-service • INM (immigration authority) on the stock exchanges of Mexico City and Fernando Chico Pardo directly or indirectly • Security guards providers, including baggage • Customs New York in two public offers in September owns a stake of 17.33% in ASUR (including the • Passenger-inspection personnel handlers, etc. • Law-enforcement agencies • Cleaning staff • Commercial concession holders, (airport police) 2000 and March 2005. ASUR is therefore a stake held via ITA); and Grupo ADO, S.A. de • Convenience-store staff including restaurants, shops, car rental • SENEAM (air-traffic controllers) one-hundred-per-cent privately owned comC.V. directly or indirectly owns a stake of 16.13% Facilities: companies, taxis, etc. • ASA (fuel services for aircraft) • Public-access areas in terminal buildings pany, subject to a series of national and interin ASUR (including the stake held via ITA). • Passenger-access areas in terminal buildings national regulatory frameworks. • Airside and airfield facilities • Car parks and roadways 8 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 COMPANY PROFILE 2.4 2.5 ORGANISATIONAL OPERATING AND STRUCTURE FINANCIAL DATA As of the 31st of December 2019, ASUR directly employs a total of 1,075 In 2019, a total of 34,161,842 passengers passed In 2019, ASUR’s nine Mexican airports handled Together, the nine airports of ASUR serve people. Our organisational structure may be summarised as follows: through ASUR’s Mexican airports (not inclua total of 335,464 air-traffic movements passengers arriving from every continent, each of the nine airports of ASUR is a subsidiary of the holding company, ding private aviation or transit passengers), of (landings and takeoffs), of which 84% were although a considerable majority of passengers Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. In addition, there are which 17,477,847 (51%) were international and commercial flights, 1% were charter flights, and arrive from North American destinations: in two subsidiary service companies, one that directly employs the Group’s 16,683,995 (49%) were domestic passengers. 15% were general aviation (private) flights. 2019, passengers from the United States of unionised staff (RH ASUR, S.A. de C.V.) and another that directly emAmerica and Canada accounted for 71% of ploys all the Group’s non-unionised staff (Servicios Aeroportuarios del The total passenger figure for 2019 increased FIGURE 4: international passengers. Sureste, S.A. de C.V.), as well as three other subsidiaries that provide a by 914,527 (2.8%) compared to the year 2018. BREAKDOWN OF AIR-TRAFFIC freight-handling and commercial services. The company’s largest airport is the one loMOVEMENTS BY AVIATION CATEGORY In 2019, the net income of the company cated at Cancún, which accounted for 75% of was 5.7 billion Mexican pesos (equivalent to FIGURE 2: total passenger traffic in 2019 (down slightly approximately 295 million US dollars). The Commercial aviation STRUCTURE, HOLDING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES from 76% in 2018). company ended the year with total assets General aviation worth 57.5 billion pesos (approximately 3.0 biCharter aviation ONE HOLDING COMPANY FIGURE 3: llion US dollars), total liabilities of 18.7 billion GRUPO AEROPORTUARIO DEL SURESTE, S.A.B. DE C.V. BREAKDOWN OF INTERNATIONAL AND pesos (approximately 973 million US dollars) DOMESTIC PASSENGER TRAFFIC 3.3 48.0 and total equity of 38.8 billion pesos (approxiCANCÚN AIRPORT SERVICES, S.A. DE C.V. (MILLION PASSENGERS; NOT INCLUDING GENERAL THOUSANDS THOUSANDS mately 2.0 billion US dollars).* AVIATION AND TRANSIT PASSENGERS) OPERATIONS OPERATIONS AEROPUERTO DE COZUMEL, S.A. DE C.V. * Figures in US dollars calculated at an exchange rate of International 19.26 Mexican pesos per dollar (2019 average). AEROPUERTO DE HUATULCO, S.A. DE C.V. Domestic 2017 277.5 THOUSANDS FIGURE 5: AEROPUERTO DE MÉRIDA, S.A. DE C.V. OPERATIONS SUMMARY OF P&L AND BALANCE SHEET (FIGURES STATED IN MILLIONS OF MEXICAN PESOS) AEROPUERTO DE MINATITLÁN, S.A. DE C.V. 14.3 16.7 MILLIONS 2017 MILLIONS 3.6 53.3 AEROPUERTO DE OAXACA, S.A. DE C.V. 2018 2019 PASSANGERS PASSANGERS THOUSANDS THOUSANDS 14 SUBSIDIARIES OPERATIONS OPERATIONS Assets 56,182 57,516 AEROPUERTO DE TAPACHULA, S.A. DE C.V. Liabilities 19,500 18,745 AEROPUERTO DE VERACRUZ, S.A. DE C.V. 2018 285.2 Equity 36,681 38,771 THOUSANDS AEROPUERTO DE VILLAHERMOSA, S.A. DE C.V. 15.8 17.4 OPERATIONS MILLIONS 2018 MILLIONS Revenues 15,410 16,822 RH ASUR, S.A. DE C.V. PASSANGERS PASSANGERS Operating costs 7,766 8,545 2.5 52.3 SERVICIOS AEROPORTUARIOS DEL SURESTE, S.A. DE C.V. THOUSANDS THOUSANDS Net income 5,120 5,684 OPERATIONS OPERATIONS CARGO RF, S.A. DE C.V. CARIBBEAN LOGISTICS, S.A. DE C.V. 16.7 17.5 280.6 MILLIONS 2019 MILLIONS 2019 THOUSANDS CANCÚN AIRPORT SERVICES, S.A. DE C.V. PASSANGERS PASSANGERS OPERATIONS 10 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 COMPANY PROFILE 2.6 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN OPERATIONS DURING REPORTING PERIOD In 2019, the most significant infrastructure projects under way in the company’s airports were remodelling and expansion works in the 2.8 terminal building and other facilities at MériDESCRIPTION OF da Airport, and the programmed expansion of Terminal 4 at Cancún Airport. Neither of theCOMPANY’S VALUE CHAIN se projects involved major expansions of the built-up surface areas or “footprint” of the airTo maintain the facilities at its airports and a high standard of passenports in question. ger service, ASUR contracts goods and services with a wide range of suppliers. Among the most important of these are: contractors hired The requisite environmental-impact assessto carry out construction work for the maintenance, extension or rements were carried out and authorisation was modelling of airport infrastructure; technical supervision services to obtained from the Mexican environmental ensure that construction work is completed on time and in accordance authorities before work began. For a more dewith specifications; suppliers of equipment for air-conditioning, secutailed discussion of mitigation measures for inrity and check-in systems, and so on; and the providers of certain servifrastructure expansion, please refer to section ces, such as cleaning, security and surveillance, passenger inspection, 6.2.1 of this report. and refuse collection. The vast majority of the companies in ASUR’s value chain are based in 2.7 CEMEFI bases its awards on self-assessments The certification in question represents offiMexico, with the notable exception of some suppliers of airport-specific equipment such as boarding bridges, specialised vehicles, and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AWARDS of internal practices and programmes carried cial confirmation by the Mexican environmenbaggage-handling equipment. All contractors and subcontractors are AND EXTERNAL PROGRAMMES out by the companies themselves, which are required to submit adequate documentation of tal authorities that the recipient has complied in full with all observations resulting from the required to adhere to ASUR’s Code of Ethics in their dealings with the company. Their employees have access to the company’s internal rethe corresponding activities. The assessments audits conducted by the authorities to enforporting system, and are encouraged to report any instances of unethiDuring 2019, ASUR maintained its status as monitor performance in four key areas: ce Mexican environmental legislation. The cal behaviour or violations of their fundamental rights. The company’s an active signatory of the United Nations Gloairports certified were Cancún, Mérida, MinaInternal Auditing Department also carries out random inspections to bal Compact (UNGC) by complying with the • Quality of life for company employees. titlán and Veracruz. Certificates are valid for ensure that subcontractors adhere to the provisions of Mexican labour UNGC’s reporting requirements. The Global • Business ethics and anti-corruption praca period of two years; the remaining airports legislation, especially with regard to payment of social security contriCompact is an initiative established by the tices. in the Group— Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, butions for their employees. United Nations to promote the values of social • Community support and relations. Tapachula and Villahermosa––are due for reresponsibility and respect for human rights in • Environmental protection. certification in 2020. During 2019, of the 20 biggest contracts for goods and services entered businesses around the world. into by the company, 15 were for construction services, four were for the In the reporting period, ASUR received EnvironAs of the 31st of December 2019, the environacquisition of equipment, and one was for general services (in this case Additionally, for the twelfth year running, we mental Quality Assurance certificates for four mental management systems in place in all of security services for Cancún Airport). were awarded recognition as a Socially Responof its airports from the Mexican Environmental ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certificasible Company by the Mexican Centre for PhiProtection Agency, Profepa. tion. The airports at Cozumel, Mérida, Minalanthropy, known by its Spanish initials CEMEFI. titlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa were recertified for the period 2017-2020, and those at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca were recertified for the period 2019-2022. 12 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 REPORT PARAME TERS 3.0 REPORT THIS REPORT WILL FOCUS IN PARTICULAR PARAMETERS ON SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS ASUR’S PRINCIPAL STAKEHOLDER GROUPS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED BASED ON INTERNAL ASSESSMENTS AND EXTERNAL GUIDANCE This Annual Sustainability Report relates to the company’s operations in the period between the 1st of January and the 31st of December 2019, and follows on from ASUR’s 2018 Annual Sustainability Report which can be consulted at www.asur.com.mx. Any queries relating to this report may be addressed to: Alistair McCreadie, tel. +52 55 5284 0488, e-mail: amccreadie@asur.com.mx. 14 ANNUAL SU STAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 REPORT PARAME TERS 3.1 3.2 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS AND IDENTIFICATION OF OF REPORT MATERIAL ASPECTS The engagement activities described above This report is intended to complement ASUR’s One of the fundamental decision-making have allowed us to identify a series of maAnnual Financial Statements for 2019, which tools used by ASUR is an assessment of the terial aspects to be reported on. In selecting contain in-depth information on the financial risks inherent to its operations. This analysis is the information to be included in this report, performance of ASUR during the period in prepared internally on an annual basis, and is ASUR has applied the four principles of maquestion. It will therefore focus in particular presented to the company’s Audit Committee. teriality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainaon social and environmental matters without Further details regarding the company’s risk bility context and completeness established including detailed financial data, except insoanalysis may be found in the reports submitted by the Global Reporting Initiative for defining far as they relate to the standard disclosures to the stock-market authorities in Mexico and report content. contained in the company profile (Section the United States. The assessment in question 2) and to economic performance indicators covers both risks for the company itself, and The material aspects identified, which are all (Section 8). those that might adversely affect stakeholder covered by this report, are listed in Figure 7 begroups. In accordance with the precautionary low. The boundaries, both within and outside The environmental performance indicators approach, one of the guiding principles for the the organisation, regarding how each aspect mentioned in Section 6 include data from the company’s operations is that it should avoid or Below is a summary of the main stakeholder-engagement activities cais reported on are discussed on a case-by-case Group’s nine airports in Mexico only. All other minimise any activities that have the potential rried out by ASUR during 2019: basis in the relevant sections: indicators refer to the nine airports, the comto negatively impact its own operations or the pany’s head offices in Mexico City and other wellbeing of its stakeholders. FIGURE 6: company subsidiaries in Mexico, as described STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGED AND ENGAGEMENT METHOD in Section 2.4. ASUR’s principal stakeholder groups have FIGURE 7: been identified based on internal assessments Stakeholder MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING The report covers operations performed directPrincipal Engagement Method and external guidance, such as that provided Group ly by the companies that form part of the ASUR by reporting frameworks, best practices, and Material Aspect Identified Refer to business group. At this time, mechanisms are Internal communications and campaigns; feedthe standards adopted by initiatives such as Company not in place to include the activities of clients, back and grievances received via internal reporEnvironment: the United Nations Global Compact and the employees suppliers or subcontractors within the parameting system Climate change; wildlife protection; use of reSection 6 Mexico Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. ters of this report, unless otherwise stated. sources ASUR’s internal stakeholders include the Identification of priority issues through direct company’s employees, shareholders, and the communications and in events organised by, Anticorruption: This report has been prepared on a consistent Community members of the company’s corporate goveramong others, UN Global Compact and MexiSystems in place to prevent corruption; combasis with ASUR’s Annual Sustainability Report groups Section 5 nance bodies, and its main external stakeholco stock exchange; interaction with community pany rules regarding facilitation payments and for 2018 in terms of measurement methods, ders are local residents and business commugroups at the local level bribes to government officials and contains no restatements or reinterpretanities, and the passengers that travel through tions of data contained in that report. At this Identification of priority issues through direct Working conditions: the airports. time, it is not company policy to seek external communications and in events organised by, Collective bargaining guarantees; occupational Section 7 Business groups assurance of our Annual Sustainability Report. among others, UN Global Compact and Mexisafety; quality of life in the workplace and associations co stock exchange; interaction with business Human rights: groups at the local level Gender equality; non-discrimination; human Section 9 Airport-service-quality surveys; feedback and trafficking involving minors Passengers grievances received via direct communications and internal reporting system 16 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.0 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASUR ADHERES TO A STRICT SET OF REGULATIONS IN ITS CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE PRACTICES As a company that is publicly traded on the stock markets of both Mexico City and New York, ASUR adheres to a strict set of regulations in its corporate-governance practices. Our Board of Directors is made up of a majority of independent members, our Audit Committee is made up entirely of independent members and our other ASUR’S SHAREHOLDERS corporate-governance bodies all have varying degrees of independent oversight. REPRESENT THE HIGHEST AUTHORITY The term “independent” is defined in accordance with the Mexican Securities Market IN THE COMPANY Law, and excludes any persons who are executive or non-executive employees of the company or its subsidiaries; shareholders that own a controlling share in the company; the company’s clients, service providers, suppliers, debtors, creditors and business partners, and their board members or employees; in general, any individuals who exert influence or authority over the company; and the relations by blood or marriage of any of the above. OUR AUDIT COMMITTEE IS MADE UP ENTIRELY OF INDEPENDENT MEMBERS 18 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.1 4.2 SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS DUTIES OF THE AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEES FIGURE 8: In accordance with Mexican law, ASUR’s sha4.2.1 4.2.2 OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF ASUR reholders represent the highest authority in AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS AND the company. Shareholders’ meetings are held COMPENSATIONS COMMITTEE on at least an annual basis, in order to vote on The Audit Committee is responsible for veCOMPANY SHAREHOLDERS the most important issues such as dividend rifying that the company has sufficient inThe Nominations and Compensations CommiULTIMATE AUTHORITY AT THE COMPANY payments and other matters that require shaternal controls to ensure accurate financial ttee is mainly responsible for issuing proposals reholder approval by law. In addition, accorreporting. It also supervises the company’s for the appointment of new Board and CommiResponsible for: • Decision-making at the highest level ding to the company’s bylaws, any shareholrisk-management activities: on a regular basis ttee members, as well as new executive officers • Due representation of minority shareholders der or group of shareholders representing at risk-mapping activities are carried out, covein the top level of management in the company. least 10% of the company’s capital stock has ring aspects such as risks relating to financial It also determines the level of compensation to the right to convene a shareholders’ meeting information, areas of the company that may be paid at these levels, based on performance BOARD OF DIRECTORS at any time. be vulnerable to fraud or other acts of corrupassessments and market rates, and approves Responsible for: tion, information technology, and environthe performance parameters that will be used • Strategic decision-making The Board of Directors reports to the commental and social issues. Once the company’s as the basis for assessment in the subsequent Number of members: 9 pany’s shareholders, and is in turn reported to risks have been mapped in detail, courses of 12-month period. Independent members: 5 by four different committees: the Audit Comaction are determined for them to be manamittee, the Nominations and Compensations ged and the information is presented to the 4.2.3 Committee, the Operations Committee and Audit Committee for discussion. OPERATIONS COMMITTEE AUDIT NOMINATIONS AND the Acquisitions and Contracts Committee. COMMITTEE COMPENSATIONS COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is also responsible for The Operations Committee oversees key Responsible for: Responsible for: The Board of Directors is responsible for maapproval of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which is aspects of ASUR’s day-to-day business acti• Oversight of operations to • Proposals for appointment of king strategic decisions regarding the comdiscussed in more detail in Section 5 of this vities, including compliance with the investensure appropriate standard of board members; approval of business ethics executive pay pany’s business operations. To do so, it receives report. Pursuant to the Code of Ethics, ASUR ments that the company is required to make reports from the company’s top management has an internal reporting system that may be by the Mexican federal government. It also Number of members: 3 Number of members: 3 Independent members: 3 Independent members: 1 and corporate governance committees regarused by anyone to flag instances of abuse or issues proposals and recommendations to the ding such matters as the company’s financial corruption, or to report grievances relating to Board of Directors in relation to such matters performance, passenger figures, operations, workplace matters. The system’s users have as the company’s budget, business plan, and OPERATIONS ACQUISITIONS AND compliance with investment commitments, the option to submit reports anonymously or dividends, among others. COMMITTEE CONTRACTS COMMITTEE and other important matters. On a yearly bato confirm their identity. All such reports are Responsible for: Responsible for: sis, the Board submits a report regarding its completely confidential and are received di• Compliance with investment • Oversight of acquisitions to own activities and performance for the evaluarectly by the Internal Auditing Department, commitments; proposals to ensure appropriate ethical Board for dividends, budget, standards tion of the company shareholders. which has the duty to investigate them and business plan, etc. to report to the Audit Committee. The Audit Number of members: 3 Number of members: 4 Independent members: 1 Committee ultimately reports to the Board Independent members: 2 of Directors and the company shareholders regarding the reports received and how the matters raised were resolved. 20 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.2.4 ACQUISITIONS AND CONTRACTS COMMITTEE The Acquisitions and Contracts Committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate standards Compensation payable to the company’s executive officers is also analysed and approved by the are adhered to in the process of acquiring the goods and services that the company needs to caNominations and Compensations Committee, subject to ratification by the independent Audit rry out its operations successfully. Specifically, approval is required from the Committee for any Committee. This includes both base salary and the annual performance bonus, which is linked to acquisition or contract with a total value in excess of 400,000 US dollars, in one or more years; a series of performance indicators, also determined annually by the Nominations and Compensafor extensions to existing contracts that represent an increase of more than 25% of the originally tions Committee in accordance with the process described in section 4.2.2 above. agreed timeframe or value; when a contract is put up for tender and a single bid is received, or when a contract is assigned directly and without tender to a given supplier, regardless of the conAt this time, there are no female members on either the company’s Board of Directors or any of tract value; and in cases when a contract is renewed with the same supplier on expiry. the corporate governance committees that report to it. 4.3 4.4 COMPOSITION OF CORPORATE FREQUENCY OF SESSIONS GOVERNANCE BODIES AND REMUNERATION AND ATTENDANCE RATE Board and Committee members are appointed in accordance with proAs mentioned above, shareholders’ meetings posals presented by the Nominations and Compensations Committee, are held on at least an annual basis. The Board whose job it is to identify potential candidates, analyse their qualifiof Directors and the committees that report cations and expertise in the relevant strategic areas, and verify that to it all hold four ordinary sessions per year, they do not have any conflicts of interest with the company. Once a with the exception of the Audit Committee, possible candidate has been identified for each vacant position, and which holds five, and the Nominations and this person has expressed his or her agreement to be appointed, the Compensations Committee, which holds two. proposal is submitted for approval by either the company shareholders The Board and committees may also hold an or the Board of Directors, as applicable. extraordinary sessions that are needed. All Board and Committee members are paid a fixed fee for each session In 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors they attend, which is proposed each year by the Nominations and Comheld four sessions, the Audit Committee held pensations Committee in line with market standards and is submitted five sessions, the Operations Committee held for the approval of the company shareholders. four sessions, the Acquisitions and Contracts Committee held four sessions, and the Nominations and Compensations Committee held two sessions. There was a 94% attendance rate at these meetings. 22 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 CODE OF E THICS AND ANTI-CURRUPTION MEASURES 5.0 CODE OF ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES THE COMPANY HAS AN INTERNAL REPORTING SYSTEM DURING 2019, 100% OF THE COMPANY’S EMPLOYEES WERE PROVIDED WITH TRAINING RELATING TO THE CODE OF ETHICS 24 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 CODE OF E THICS AND ANTI-CURRUPTION MEASURES 5.2 ANTICORRUPTION MEASURES As established in the Code of Ethics, the comAmong the other essential roles performed by pany has an internal reporting system through the Internal Auditing Department is the aswhich reports or complaints may be submitted sessment of the risks inherent in the company’s directly to the Internal Auditing Department operations, which are prioritised according to for investigation, by email or voicemail. Emplotheir potential impact and the likelihood that yees and other stakeholders are encouraged to they will occur. The Department then establiuse this system to report instances of corrupshes measures, such as increased frequency of 5.1 tion or abuse, and they may choose to submit reports anonymously or not. In the event that internal audits, to focus on those operations where a higher risk of corruption or fraud has CODE OF they do confirm their identity, it is guaranteed been identified, and reports all findings to the ETHICS that they will not be penalised in any way, even if the reports submitted prove to be baseless. Audit Committee. During 2019, 100% of the company’s emploASUR has a written Code of Ethics that sets The Internal Auditing Department reports diyees were provided with training relating to forth the ethical standards the company exrectly to the Audit Committee, which is comthe Code of Ethics. ASUR’s Internal Auditing pects its employees, executives and corporate posed entirely of independent members (that Department carried out audits in all nine airgovernance officials to adhere to. This Code is, people who are not shareholders or execuports in the Group, as well as the airports loof Ethics is provided to each new employee tive officers in the company, or their related cated in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Colombia, as part of the company’s induction proceduparties). As well as investigating all reports reand several commercial concession holders res. On an annual basis, awareness campaigceived, the Internal Auditing Department estaoperating at the airports. These audits resulted ns are carried out for all employees; together blishes a quarterly programme of audits to be in a total of 9 relevant observations. A total with the members of the company’s Board of carried out in different business units. The Auof 52 reports were submitted via the internal Directors and corporate governance commitdit Committee approves the work programme reporting system during the year, of which 22 tees, company employees are required to cerof the Internal Auditing Department and is inwere considered to be of critical importance, tify that they have not incurred any violations formed of the results of the audits performed. 18 were of medium importance and 12 were of of the Code. The Code of Ethics was most reminor importance. cently updated in November of 2017. Of the critical matters that came to the attention of the Internal Auditing Department during the year, most were related to internal procedural concerns and no disciplinary action was taken. However, one staff member was disciplined and two staff members were dismissed for failure to adhere to the company’s policies on ethical conduct. The company incurred no fines or penalties in relation to instances of corruption. 26 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 6.0 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Principal U.N. Sustainable Development Goals addressed in this section: THE ELECTRICITY USED IN THE COMPANY’S AIRPORTS CONSTITUTES OUR MAIN SOURCE OF CARBON EMISSIONS IN 2019, ASUR JOINED THE AIRPORT CARBON ACCREDITATION PROGRAMME ORGANISED BY AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL TERMINAL 4 IN CANCÚN AIRPORT OBTAINED LEED GOLD SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATION 28 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 6.1 6.2 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES AND OVERVIEW OF PRINCIPAL MANAGEMENT STRATEGY MITIGATION MEASURES ASUR has a written policy (see Appendix A) Within the company’s overall strategic 6.2.1 that expressly and formally sets forth the comapproach to environmental matters, each of MITIGATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE mitment of the company and its subsidiaries to the nine airports in the Group establishes its EXPANSION take positive action in relation to the environown specific goals in accordance with local ment. This policy contains the stated goals of conditions. These environmental objectives Large-scale infrastructure expansion at any of reducing the negative environmental effects are available for consultation in Appendix B of ASUR’s airports, which tend to be surrounded of the company’s operations and promoting this report. by undeveloped land, often necessitates the environmental protection, the economical use modification or destruction of natural habiof natural resources, and the reduction of the Responsibility for environmental issues within tats. For this reason, projects of this type are company’s carbon footprint. the organisation ultimately lies with our Chief only undertaken following careful consideraInfrastructure and Compliance Officer, one of tion and analysis of the mitigation measures Among the most significant environmental the six executive officers at the top level of that can be applied, and when it is determiissues identified by the company with the pomanagement in the company. This position has ned that there is ample justification, usually tential to impact our operations negatively are responsibility for the oversight of infrastructuto eliminate operational hazards or serious climate change, and the loss of natural habitats Any combination of the effects of climate change widely predicted by re management (including infrastructure expansion), as well as all matcapacity constraints, which in turn may have and biodiversity. the scientific community, including rises in sea levels with the corresters relating to the company’s compliance with the various regulations it negative consequences for local economies ponding loss of beaches, an increased risk of extreme weather events is subject to. ASUR’s Operational and Safety Compliance Manager works and the environment. ASUR is a company whose business depends such as hurricanes and flooding, and the disappearance of land and mabelow the Chief Infrastructure and Compliance Officer and manages a largely on the tourism industry: our airports at rine habitats such as mangroves and coral reefs, has the potential to team of environmental coordinators, with members based in each of the In 2019, there were no major infrastructuCancún, Cozumel and Huatulco serve primasignificantly impact the airports in ASUR’s group located in beach destiairports in the Group. re-expansion projects that involved signifirily tourist markets, and significant numbers nations, as well as those serving low-lying or flood-prone areas. cant extensions to the built-up surface areas of tourists also travel through our airports at Each of ASUR’s airports has an Environmental Management System that or “footprint” of the airports. During the Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz, and Villahermosa. ASUR has a series of initiatives to reduce carbon emissions, discussed establishes detailed guidelines and procedures for aspects such as traiyear, the recently constructed Terminal 4 in Together, these airports accounted for 98% of in more detail in Section 6.2.2 of this report. Additionally, the company ning, monitoring, emergency response, and the environmental requireCancún Airport obtained LEED sustainability our Mexican passenger traffic in 2019. Therefohas instituted programmes intended to ensure that the airports’ water ments for projects and contractors. Each airport’s Environmental Manacertification (gold level) under the standard re, it is clearly in the interests of the company consumption does not put excessive pressure on the water supplies for gement System is currently certified under the ISO 14001 programme. established by the U.S. Green Building Counto contribute to the preservation of the natural local habitats and populations; to protect and promote plant and animal In addition to ISO 14001 certification, ASUR’s airports have consistently cil (USGBC), which made Cancún Airport the beauty of these areas, in order for them to conbiodiversity in the undeveloped areas surrounding the airports; and to been awarded Environmental Quality Assurance certification, which refirst airport in Mexico to have certification of tinue to be attractive to visitors. ensure that the waste water discharged and storm water runoff do not presents official confirmation by the Mexican environmental authorities this nature for part of its infrastructure. constitute a source of pollution for local bodies of water. that the recipient has complied in full with all observations resulting from the audits conducted by the authorities to enforce Mexican enviSince ASUR’s business activities do not involve the manufacture or crearonmental legislation. tion of any kind of physical product, the company’s consumption of materials is relatively insignificant. The principal consumable required on a For additional information relating to key environmental issues, such as consistent basis for our airports’ day-to-day operations is fuel, which is performance against environmental objectives, specific risks and sysdiscussed in greater detail in Section 6.2.6 of this report. Similarly, due tems, and targeted strategies and procedures, please see the informato the nature of ASUR’s operations, the environmental aspects relating tion contained in Section 6.2 of this report. to products, services and transport are considered immaterial for the purposes of this report. 30 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 6.2.2 FIGURE 9: The company has also begun actively seeking ASUR does not generate any of the electricity MANAGEMENT OF SUMMARY OF CARBON EMISSIONS BY SOURCE cost-effective solutions to begin sourcing it consumes; one hundred per cent of the comCARBON EMISSIONS some of its electricity from renewable sources. pany’s electricity requirements are covered by CARBON EMISSIONS REPORT purchasing from the Federal Electricity ComIn 2015, in compliance with the Mexican Law ALL FIGURES EXPRESSED IN TONNES OF CO2 EQUIVALENT, ALL AIRPORTS The total amount of electricity consumed in all mission. According to figures published by the on Climate Change, ASUR began reporting its airports in the Group increased year-over-year International Energy Agency, in 2018 (the most carbon emissions to the National Emissions by 1.4% from 2018 to 2019, while per-passenrecent estimated data available), 86% of the 2018 2019 Register (Spanish initials RENE). As part of the ger consumption decreased by 0.9% over the electricity generated in Mexico was produced company’s commitment to reducing these emisScope 1 (Direct) Emissions same period1. from non-renewable sources (natural gas, oil, sions, ASUR has registered its nine Mexican Diesel 1,081.46 1,391.52 coal and nuclear energy) and 14% was produairports with the Airport Carbon Accreditation These figures state only the intermediate enerced from renewable sources (hydroelectric, initiative organised by Airports Council InterGasoline 557.76 600.18 gy produced by Mexico’s Federal Electricity geothermal, biomass and wind power)2. national. The first stage of this process, which Liquid Petroleum Gas 30.32 30.59 Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this began in 2019, is to ensure robust mechanisms time, data are not available that allow a calFIGURE 10: Refrigerants 4,398.52 4,566.96 are in place to accurately measure the carbon culation of the amount of direct energy from TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION footprint of the company’s operations. Total Scope 1 Emissions 6,068.06 6,589.25 primary sources consumed in order to produce VS. PASSENGER GROWTH this electricity. In 2019, ASUR’s nine Mexican airports produced a total of 63,814 tonnes of carbon dioxide Scope 2 (Indirect) Emissions (CO2) or the equivalent in other greenhouse Electricity Consumption 57,974.39 57,224.41 gases. Indirect GHG emissions resulting from Total Scope 2 Emissions 57,974.39 57,224.41 the airports’ electricity consumption constitu120 33 34 35 te by far the largest source of emissions: 57,224 31 tonnes of CO2 in 2019 representing 90% of 29 TOTAL EMISSIONS, ALL SOURCES 64,042.45 63,813.66 30 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (GWh) 100 total emissions. The company’s direct GHG 26 emissions were comparatively low; emissions 23 PASSENGERS (MILLIONS) 25 80 21 from facilities or equipment directly operated 19 17 18 20 by ASUR accounted for 6,589 tonnes of CO2, 6.2.3 60 112 113 or 10% of total emissions. The most significant ENERGY EFFICIENCY 99 GWh GWh 15 91 sources of direct GHG emissions in ASUR’s GWh GWh 40 74 77 airports are the refrigerants used in air-condiAs mentioned above in Section 6.2.2, the electricity used in the com68 69 61 62 GWh GWh 10 GWh GWh tioning systems and fuel for vehicles such as pany’s airports constitutes our main source of carbon emissions. Among GWh GWh 20 airside buses and utility vehicles. the most important measures that we implement to moderate electrici5 ty consumption are expanding infrastructure only when necessary from 0 0 an operational viewpoint; carrying out regular equipment maintenance and replacements, to ensure that all systems function optimally and effi2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ciently; and additional energy-saving measures like installing air-condiTotal electricity consumption tioning traps at the entrances to terminal buildings, using naturally cold Passengers water extracted from deep underground in air-conditioning chillers, and automatic power-down systems for equipment that is not in use. 1 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. 2 Source: International Energy Agency website, at: https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics?country=MEXICO&fuel=Electricity%20and%20heat&indicator=Electricity%20generation%20by%20source 32 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FIGURE 11: TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION VS. PASSENGER GROWTH 6.2.4 WATER MANAGEMENT 34 1,000,000 33 35 31 In addition to reducing the company’s carbon 900,000 29 30 footprint through energy efficiency, ASUR has 800,000 26 also been focusing on improving its systems 23 25 for managing both our water consumption and 700,000 WATER CONSUMPTION (m3) PASSENGERS (MILLIONS) 21 the waste water and other effluents produced 600,000 19 in the airports. 18 20 17 500,000 Eight of ASUR’s nine airports are equipped with 15 400,000 treatment plants that receive all waste water 555,939 596,197 701,660 717,969 909,949 927,038 870,931 825,475 755,612 797,217 from terminals and administrative buildings. In 300,000 10 the case of Cozumel Airport, which is located 200,000 on an island, waste water is sent to the munici5 pal drainage system and is treated at the muni100,000 cipal plant. The airports’ plants use biological, 0 0 mechanical, and chemical treatment processes 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 to purify waste water to a standard where it is clean enough to be either reused or discharGiven the weather conditions in the southeast Total water consumption ged without presenting a risk to other water region of Mexico, no de-icing or anti-icing fluids Passengers sources. The water that is recycled is mainly are used in any of the airports in the group. Furused for watering green areas, which helps to thermore, the company has equipment in place reduce the demands placed by the airports on on the aircraft aprons of each of our airports to local resources. Any water that cannot be stoensure that any spills of liquids such as fuels or red and used for this purpose is released into oil are appropriately eliminated before they can either the subsoil or into local wetlands, in acbe flushed into local water sources. cordance with the permits issued by Mexico’s National Water Commission (CONAGUA). Overall, in 2019 ASUR’s total water consumption in the nine airports increased by 5.5% ASUR also takes care to ensure that the quality from 755,612 to 797,217 cubic metres (m³). of the storm water that runs off our airport faciWater consumption on a per-passenger basis lities is in full compliance with local regulations. (measured in litres per passenger) increased by 3.1%. The amount of metered discharge increased by 9.5% in absolute terms (from 417,450 to 457,066 m³), and by 7.0% in litres per passenger.1 1 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. 34 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 6.2.5 Non-hazardous waste is handled in separate 6.2.6 WASTE MANAGEMENT facilities at ASUR’s airports to avoid cross-conFUEL CONSUMPTION tamination. Cancún Airport, which currentAn important aspect in ensuring that our opely generates approximately 90% of all the Petrol (gasoline) and diesel fuels are consumed rations do not damage local environments and non-hazardous waste in the Group, has a deto operate emergency electricity generators, as ecosystems is to make sure that all the waste dicated refuse-recycling plant, where materials well as a wide range of support vehicles, inclumaterials generated in our airports are approsuch as glass, PET plastic, cardboard and aluding shuttle buses for transporting passengers priately disposed of. Consequently, each airminium are sorted and sent for recycling. Altoto various parts of the airports, utility vehicles, port has waste management facilities for hagether, in 2019 Cancún Airport recycled 17% of and so on. The total amount of fuel consumed zardous and non-hazardous waste. the refuse it produced. All the other airports in by ASUR’s airports increased from 2018 to 2019 the Group have now established similar, smaby 23.2%, from 604,608 to 744,961 litres. This The waste materials that are classified as haller-scale recycling programmes. represented an increase on a per-passenger zardous under Mexican legislation include basis of 20.4%2. However, it is worth noting a series of toxic, inflammable and corrosive Overall, in 2019 the nine airports produced that fuel consumption is relatively insignifisubstances, as well as items of equipment 6,680 tonnes of non-hazardous waste, which cant in terms of the company’s overall carbon The measurements of fuel consumption in that have come into contact and are contamirepresented a decrease of 1.7% compared to footprint: even after this increase, the total ASUR’s airports include only the fuel used nated with these materials. In our airports, all 2018. Of this total amount, 1,119 tonnes (17%) amount of all fuels consumed in the airports in the facilities and the vehicles that are the substances and articles of this kind are safely was recycled and the rest was sent for final disrepresented just 3% of total carbon emissions. property of the airport company. They do not stored, appropriately labelled and eventuaposal at municipal waste-handling facilities.1 take into account fuel consumed by the airlly handed over to specialist waste disposal ports’ subcontractors, or that consumed by companies, in strict adherence to the appliaircraft for takeoff and landing procedures. cable regulations. The waste disposal compaWhile ASUR recognises that this information nies, which are required to be licenced by the may be of interest to our stakeholders, at this Mexican authorities, eliminate the hazardous time no systems are in place for us to obtain waste using methods that avoid pollution and these data. provide ASUR with waste disposal certificates stating the methods used. 1 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. 2 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. 36 ANNUAL SU STAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 6.2.7 The following tables provide an overview of the performance in all nine of ASUR’s airports with BIODIVERSITY ISSUES regard to some of the most relevant environmental parameters established by the System: ASUR has several programmes in place that FIGURE 12: are intended to promote and protect the rich SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR ALL AIRPORTS biodiversity in the areas that surround many of our airports. Local species of plants and animals that are vulnerable or endangered have Total Figures % been identified, along with natural habitats Unit change that are of special value. In recent years, the Parameter mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) company has implemented projects to relocate Total water consumption m 3 825,475 755,612 797,217 5.5% endangered plant species during construction Total water discharged m 3 422,323 417,450 457,066 9.5% work and to carry out reforestation projects Total electricity consumption kWh 98,843,472 111,744,821 113,315,672 1.4% with local species. GJ 355,836 402,281 407,936 1.4% The company also implements wildlife-ma6.3 Total hazardous waste produced kg 17,319 15,655 14,391 -8.1% nagement measures to reduce the risk of imENVIRONMENTAL Total non-hazardous waste produced t 6,450.6 6,796.3 6,679.9 -1.7% pacts between animals and aircraft at our airports, both on the ground and in the air. One MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Non-hazardous waste recycled 1,046.2 1,066.6 1,119.2 4.9% of the most significant risks is that of bird % non-hazardous waste recycled 16% 16% 17% strike, which may cause significant damage ASUR has an Environmental Management System that is applied in all Total fuel consumption l 570,733 604,608 744,961 23.2% to aircraft.1 ASUR counters this risk by using nine of the Mexican airports the company operates. The purpose of the trained hawks to scare away other species of system is to establish environmental objectives for each airport, as well birds and prevent them from nesting on airas a framework for the achievement of those objectives. The system port grounds; the method causes no damacreates a series of parameters that can be used to monitor and assess ge to the bird populations themselves, while each airport’s performance in relation to the environmental objectives Per-Passenger Basis % guaranteeing aviation safety. established, providing the company management with valuable inforUnit change mation for the decision-making process. Parameter mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 26.4 22.6 23.3 3.1% Environmental objectives are determined by each airport on an ad hoc Water discharged per passenger l/pax 13.5 12.5 13.4 7.0% basis, in order to ensure that local conditions are taken into consideraElectricity consumption per tion in ASUR’s environmental protection programme. The full details of kWh/pax 3.2 3.3 3.3 -0.9% passenger the environmental objectives established in 2019 for the nine airports MJ/pax 11.4 12.1 11.9 -0.9% in the Group, as well as performance against those objectives, can be Hazardous waste produced consulted in Appendix B. g/pax 0.6 0.5 0.4 -10.2% per passenger Non-hazardous waste produced The Environmental Management Systems in each of ASUR’s airports are kg/pax 0.21 0.20 0.20 -3.9% per passenger 1 Bird-strike incidents that cause damage to aircraft are certified according to ISO 14001. Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 18.3 18.1 21.8 20.4% reported to the Mexican civil-aviation authorities by the airlines, as the directly affected parties. ASUR does not compile data on the numbers of bird strikes at or within the vicinity of its airports. 38 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 6.4 ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION For a full breakdown of these performance in3. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION: 5. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED: As of the 31st of December 2019, the environdicators for each of the nine airports operated mental management systems in place in all of by ASUR, please refer to Appendix C. This parameter refers to the total amount This parameter refers to the total amount ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certificaof electricity consumed by the airports of waste classified as non-hazardous under tion. The airports at Cancún, Huatulco and OaThe parameters measured are described in from the national grid during the year. Mexican law, which is produced by the airxaca were recertified for the period 2016-2019, more detail below: Data are provided on total consumption ports and disposed of in municipal landfills and those at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Ta(stated in kilowatt hours and the equivaduring the year. Recycled waste is not inpachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa were re1. WATER CONSUMPTION: lent in gigajoules), as well as consumption cluded in this figure. Data are provided on certified for the period 2017-2020. on a per-passenger basis (kilowatt hours total production (stated in tonnes), as well This parameter refers to the total amount of and megajoules per passenger) to provide as production on a per-passenger basis (kiMexico’s Environmental Protection Agency water consumed by the airports during the a more comparable parameter from one lograms per passenger) to provide a more (Profepa) also performs audits once every two year, whether taken from the municipal waairport to another and from one year to comparable parameter from on airport to years to ensure that ASUR’s airports are in full ter supply or extracted from underground another. These figures state only the inanother and from one year to another. compliance with the country’s environmental aquifers. Water recycled from treatment termediate energy produced by Mexico’s legislation. Following the inspection proceplants is not included in this figure. Data Federal Electricity Commission and pur6. FUEL CONSUMPTION: dure, provided that no violations of environare provided on total consumption (stated chased by ASUR. At this time, data are not mental legislation are identified, the individual in cubic metres), as well as consumption on available that allow a calculation of the This parameter refers to the total amount airports are issued certificates confirming their a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) amount of direct energy consumed in orof petrol (gasoline) and diesel consumed compliance with the law. All nine of ASUR’s to provide a more comparable parameter der to produce the electricity. by the airports during the year, for examairports currently have valid environmental from one airport to another and from one ple in utility vehicles and shuttle buses to compliance certification: the airports at Canyear to another. 4. HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED: transport passengers for boarding. Data cún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz were are provided on total consumption (starecertified during 2019, and those at Cozumel, 2. WATER DISCHARGED: This parameter refers to the total amount ted in litres), as well as consumption on a Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa of waste classified as hazardous under per-passenger basis (millilitres per passenare due to be audited during 2020. This parameter refers to the total amount Mexican law, which is produced by the ger) to provide a more comparable parameof waste water discharged by the airports airports and appropriately disposed of duter from one airport to another and from To date, no administrative or judicial sanctions, during the year, in accordance with the perring the year. Data are provided on total one year to another. including fines or non-monetary penalties, mits obtained from the local authorities, foproduction (stated in kilograms), as well as have been imposed on the company for failure llowing the required treatment processes. production on a per-passenger basis (mito comply with national, international or local Data are provided on total discharge (stalligrams per passenger) to provide a more environmental laws or regulations. ted in cubic metres), as well as discharge on comparable parameter from on airport to a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) another and from one year to another. to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 40 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES 7.0 QUALITY OF LIFE DURING THE PERIOD, WE MAINTAINED AN EXCELLENT FOR EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY RECORD Principal U.N. Sustainable Development Goals addressed in this section: A TOTAL OF 137,261 MAN HOURS OF TRAINING WAS PROVIDED As a fundamental part of ASUR’s duty of care toward its employees, we aim to provide decent working conditions in all the subsidiaries that form part of the Group. The company’s main goal in relation to human resources is to ensure that our airports constitute a reliable source of safe employment for local populations. THE TOTAL NUMBER OF LOST DAYS Between 2018 and 2019, the number of full-time employees in our organisation RESULTING FROM ACCIDENTS IN THE WORKPLACE increased by 1.7% from 1,057 to 1,075, while our agency-hired employees increased WAS EQUIVALENT TO 0.09% by 4.1% from 267 to 278. During the period, we have achieved a low level of staff turnover and an excellent occupational health and safety record. Further information on these aspects is available in Sections 7.1 and 7.2 of this report. OF TOTAL DAYS WORKED 42 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES 7.1 DESCRIPTION OF WORKFORCE Positive relations between the company’s In addition to the professional development As of the 31st of December 2019, the majority Of the 1,075 workers directly employed by the employees and management are also a prioof staff members, the company plans a series of ASUR’s workforce was employed on a percompany, 846 are male (79%) and 229 are ferity for ASUR. 35% of the company’s emploof activities, to provide an opportunity for manent, full-time basis; of a total workforce of male (21%). All of the company’s six executives yees are unionised, and the company enjoys employees to socialise and to support local 1,353 people, 1,075 (79.5%) had indefinite, writare male. Of the 63 employees in managerial a good working relationship with the union. cultural traditions. Among the events orgaten labour contracts for full-time employment. positions, 54 are male (86%) and 9 are female The company has a written “open-doors” comnised in 2018 were celebrations of Children’s Among full-time employees, a staff turnover (14%). Of the remaining 1,012 employees, 792 munication policy, according to which all staff Day, Mothers’ Day, Father’s Day, Christmas, rate of 8.3% was achieved during the year; this are male (78%) and 220 are female (22%). members are free to approach any member of and the traditional Mexican festivities of the is calculated on the basis of the number of management with consultations or complaints Epiphany (Día de Reyes) and the Day of the people who left the company for whatever reThe following table shows a breakdown of the at any time. Employees are also given the opDead (Día de Muertos). ason, including retirements, resignations, and 1,075 permanent employees of the company tion of submitting any grievances they have via dismissals, as a percentage of total employees. according to the location where they work: the company’s internal reporting system; these The company has a series of written policies reports are investigated confidentially by the covering different aspects that relate to its huInternal Auditing Department to identify any man resources, such as recruitment practices, instances of inappropriate behaviour on the holiday entitlements, work-life balance, and FIGURE 13: part of those involved and to reach amicable occupational health and safety. Additionally, BREAKDOWN OF ASUR WORKFORCE ON GEOGRAPHIC BASIS solutions whenever possible. company policy mandates the protection of (PERMANENT EMPLOYEES) employees’ human rights, such as the right to The company has a permanent training proequal opportunity and non-discrimination, the gramme for employees in all ten locations right to personal and physical integrity, and No. of NonCity State Unionised % % where we have operations in Mexico (the head the right to exercise fundamental liberties, inemployees unionised offices in Mexico City and the nine airports). cluding freedom of association. Regular interCancún Quintana Roo 559 162 29% 397 71% During 2019, training was provided to staff nal campaigns are carried out to ensure that Mérida Yucatán 107 44 41% 63 59% members in a wide range of areas, covering all company employees are aware of these poVillahermosa Tabasco 64 28 44% 36 56% topics such as technical systems training, avialicies, as well as the provisions of ASUR’s Code Cozumel Quintana Roo 62 36 58% 26 42% tion security, fire safety, handling hazardous of Ethics, which include information on the inVeracruz Veracruz 59 26 44% 33 56% materials, and first aid. A total of 137,261 man ternal reporting system for grievances. hours of training was provided for the comMexico City Mexico City 49 0 0% 49 100% pany’s 1,075 employees and other key members On a day-to-day basis, labour issues within the Tapachula Chiapas 49 24 49% 25 51% of the airport communities during the year.1 organisation are the responsibility of the comOaxaca Oaxaca 47 21 45% 26 55% pany’s Human Resources Manager, who is baHuatulco Oaxaca 43 20 47% 23 53% sed at the company’s headquarters in Mexico Minatitlán Veracruz 36 16 44% 20 56% City and oversees the human resources team in each of the airports. Certain labour relations Total 1,075 377 35% 698 65% issues, such as the renegotiation of the collective bargaining agreement with the union, are handled directly by the Chief Executive Officer. 1 Calculated on the basis of the total duration of training courses, multiplied by the number of trainees. 44 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES 7.2 SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE The remaining 278 workers (20.5% of total The company’s non-unionised workers are The right to physical integrity, and therefore In accordance with the system used by the workforce) were employed on a temporary also offered a series of employment benea safe workplace that does not expose emploMexican Social Security Institute, accidents in basis via an employment agency. These temfits, such as health and life insurance, holiyees to unnecessary risks, is included in the the workplace are defined as incidents leading porary workers are distributed among the airday entitlements, Christmas bonuses, matcompany’s written policies. During 2019, the to an injury that requires the staff member in ports on an ad hoc basis, as needed. As of the ching-funds savings accounts and, in some 1,075 permanent employees of ASUR worked a question to miss one or more days of work. The 31st of December 2019, the geographic districases, performance bonuses, that are in extotal of 3,094,160 hours, equivalent to 386,770 total number of lost days includes all calendar bution of ASUR’s 278 agency workers was as cess of the minimum benefits required under days (eight-hour shifts). In the period in quesdays between the initial accident and the date follows: 231 at Cancún Airport; 10 at Cozumel Mexican labour legislation. tion, the total number of lost days resulting on which the employee returns to work, even Airport; 10 at Villahermosa Airport; 9 at Mérifrom accidents was 355, equivalent to 0.09% when these days are not working days. The date da Airport; 8 at Veracruz Airport; 7 at Oaxaca In addition to the permanent employees and of total days worked. There were no cases of on which the accident occurs is counted as day Airport; and 3 at Huatulco Airport. the agency-hired personnel mentioned abooccupational disease and no fatalities. one for this purpose. Minor accidents requiring ve, there are significant numbers of workers first-aid treatment only are not included in the ASUR’s unionised workers all belong to the Nabased at each of the company’s airports who number of accidents in the workplace. tional Airport Industry Workers Union (Sindicaare not directly employed by the company. to Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria AeThey may be broken down into a number of In the same period, the absentee rate (defiroportuaria y de Servicios Similares y Conexos de different categories, including: government ned as the total number of days that emplola República Mexicana). Once every two years, employees, such as those working for the air yees were absent from work due to general, the company management and the union untraffic control, immigration and customs sernon-work-related illness or when no justificadertake a collective bargaining procedure to vices; the employees of ASUR’s commercial tion was presented for the absence) corresdetermine employment conditions for unioniconcession holders, such as food and beveraponded to a total of 2,346days, or 0.61% of tosed employees and the benefits that they are ge or retail outlets and car rental offices; the tal days worked. entitled to. The agreements reached in this neemployees of other businesses with a permagotiation are formalised in a written collective nent base at the airport, such as ramp service These data refer exclusively to the 1,075 direct, labour agreement that is signed by the repreproviders and the airlines; and the employees full-time employees of ASUR as of the 31st of sentatives of the company and the union. The of those companies subcontracted by ASUR December 2019. At this time, there are no sysrenegotiation process was undertaken during to provide specific services in the airports. In tems in place that require subcontractors, ser2018, and the current collective bargaining the latter case, the most significant services vice providers or other parties with employees agreement will be valid until 2020. subcontracted by ASUR in all nine of its airworking at the airport to provide ASUR with ports are cleaning services for terminal builaccident, injury and absenteeism data. Among the benefits negotiated with the union dings, administrative offices, and so on; and for the 2018-2020 period are: higher rates of security services, including general surveipay for special shifts or activities that imply a llance staff and the personnel manning secuhigher level of risk; life and disability insurance; rity filters and passenger inspection points. Christmas bonuses and holiday entitlements; support for childcare; support in the event of a At this time, data are not available in relation death in the family; and scholarships to enable to employment types, contract types or collecemployees and their children to complete their tive bargaining agreements for the aforemenbasic education, as well as an allowance for their tioned workers. books, stationery, and other school equipment. 46 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPORT 8.0 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPORT Principal U.N. Sustainable Development Goals addressed in this section: WE ARE AWARE THAT THE AIRPORTS WE OPERATE ARE IMPORTANT FOR THE PROMOTION OF REGIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT The contribution that ASUR makes towards creating decent living standards for its employees and their families is one of the most significant ways in which the company provides support for local communities. The basis for this is the financial success of our business, and we are therefore constantly seeking ways in which WE RECOGNISE THAT THE SUCCESS we can increase value for both our shareholders and other stakeholders. OF OUR BUSINESS ALSO DEPENDS ON ESTABLISHING GOOD RELATIONS WITH We are also aware that the airports we operate play a significant role in facilitating OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES business for other companies and individuals in the regions where they are located; our airports form a key part of local transport networks, and are therefore important for the promotion of regional economic development. THE TOTAL VALUE OF DONATIONS FOR SOCIAL PROJECTS IN 2019 IS ESTIMATED AT $80.1 MILLION PESOS 48 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPORT 8.1 DIRECT ECONOMIC BENEFITS As a matter of policy, ASUR undertakes a series The table below provides a breakdown of the economic value generated, DURING THE YEAR 2019, of activities intended to raise the profile of the distributed and retained by ASUR in 2019. ASUR DID NOT RECEIVE ANY destinations where we operate. We have a dedicated Route Development team, whose job it FIGURE 14: 8.2 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE is to promote our destinations with the world’s ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED, DISTRIBUTED AND RETAINED COMMUNITY MEXICAN GOVERNMENT. airlines. The goal of this is to bring in more flights to our destinations, and more visitors (FIGURES STATED IN MILLIONS OF MEXICAN PESOS) INVOLVEMENT mean increased revenues for local businesEconomic value generated ses as well as our airports. We also participaThe nine airports of ASUR are involved in In the field of assistance for people with disaTotal economic value generated 16,821.6 te in networking conventions and congresses various community projects at the local level. bilities, upgrades were made and equipment around the world relating to the airport and Economic value distributed These projects are selected and administered acquired to continue to improve disabled actourism industries, often in coordination with by each airport individually, to respond to local cessibility in several of the group’s airports, Operating costs 7,820.2 the Mexican federal and state tourism authorineeds and to promote a sense of ownership and an awareness campaign was provided ties and local business groups. Employee wages & benefits 645.4 and greater commitment. Support is provided throughout the year for all company emplomonetarily and in the form of donations of yees. Several donations were also made at the Payments to providers of capital 3,393.0 In addition to any direct or indirect economic goods and services, as well as volunteering. local level for organisations that assist people impacts created by our operations, however, Payments to governments 2,423.1 The total value of cash donations, donations with disabilities. we recognise that the success of our business in kind and man hours in 2019 is estimated Community investments 79.4 also depends on establishing good relations at approximately $80.1 million pesos. During In relation to education, the various airports in with our local communities, and on ensuring Total economic value distributed 14,361.2 the period, the projects supported fell under the group continued to organise guided tours that our operations are of mutual benefit to four main categories: culture and education, of their facilities for local educational estaEconomic value retained both the company and all its stakeholders. To public health services, care for people with blishments, as well as children’s workshops this end, each of our airports provides support Total economic value retained 2,460.4 disabilities, and the environment. on a range of subjects such as environmenat the local level for a wide range of communital protection. Several of the group’s airports ty projects. Our corporate policies also include Of ASUR’s total community investments in also participated in different ways to support stated commitments to run our business ethiAs per the methodology established in the Global Reporting Initiative’s 2019, a considerable percentage was destined environmental initiatives in their local comcally and to avoid practices that promote cosustainability reporting guidelines, the figures in this table are based on to cultural projects under the government-run munities. Among the projects were donations rruption or are harmful to fair trade. Sections ASUR’s audited financial statements for the year 2019, which are preinitiatives Eficine and Efiartes. The sum donaand volunteering for local beach-cleaning and 8.2 and 5.2 of this report contain more detailed pared in accordance with Mexican financial reporting standards. The ted to theatre, film production, and film disreforestation initiatives. information on ASUR’s community involveitem “Total economic value generated” corresponds to the company’s tribution projects under these initiatives was ment and anticorruption measures. revenues. Under “Economic value distributed”, the item of “Payments $78.8 million pesos. to providers of capital” includes interests on loans and dividends paid to shareholders. “Payments to governments” correspond to taxes, and the Various other organisations received support figure for community investments includes all cash donations, as well from ASUR, for example in the healthcare secas the estimated values of donations in kind and man hours used for tor, including the Mexican Red Cross. Awarevolunteer projects. ness campaigns were implemented throughout the company to promote healthy eating and a healthier lifestyle. 50 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS 9.0 COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS ASUR HAS A WRITTEN POLICY IN WHICH THE COMPANY FORMALLY SETS FORTH ITS COMMITMENT TO UPHOLDING AND PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS The goal of ASUR’s management in relation to human rights is to ensure that the company and its employees do not incur any human rights violations, and that in those cases where possible abuses are detected, the corresponding steps are taken to resolve them quickly, efficiently and transparently. THE COMPANY GUARANTEES ITS EMPLOYEES THE RIGHT TO PERSONAL INTEGRITY ASUR DOES NOT USE OR BENEFIT FROM FORCED LABOUR OR CHILD LABOUR OF ANY KIND 52 ANNUAL SU STAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS The Internal Auditing Department is entrusDuring 2019, four cases were identified that inAccording to the company’s policy on human ted with investigating any potential human volved potential infringement of human rights. rights, ASUR does not use or benefit from rights abuses. The head of this Department reOne was dismissed after being investigated, forced labour or child labour of any kind. All ports directly to the Audit Committee, which and in the other three cases disciplinary action working agreements are governed by consenis ultimately responsible for enforcement of was taken. sual, written employment contracts, and the the company’s policies on human rights. Intercompany’s policy is not to employ anyone nal campaigns are carried out on at least an The company has assumed the obligation to who is under 15 years of age. Currently, no one annual basis, in which employees are encouprotect its employees’ right to freedom of assounder the age of 18 is employed by ASUR and raged to use the company’s reporting system ciation. As mentioned in Section 7.1 of this reno situations involving forced labour have to notify the Internal Auditing Department of port, the company management and the airport been identified. any rights abuses. workers’ union adhere to a regular collective bargaining procedure to establish employment Finally, the company has the obligation to avoid ASUR has a written policy in which the comconditions and benefits for unionised emploany situations in which it might be complicit pany formally sets forth its commitment to yees. During 2019, no threats were identified to in human rights abuses; in practical terms this upholding and promoting human rights. This the freedom of association or collective bargaimeans that no investments should be made in, policy expressly states that the company will ning rights of the company’s employees. or products and services procured from, other guarantee its employees the right to personal companies that incur human-rights violations. integrity, which means that workers may not During the period, no instances of human rights be subjected to corporal punishment or verbal violations have been identified in the company’s abuse of any nature, and that sexual harasssupply chain. ment of any kind is strictly forbidden. The policy also represents a statement of the company’s position on gender equality and non-discrimination: it contains a clause that guarantees equal opportunity for all in hirings, promotions, salary levels, training and day-today treatment, regardless of ethnicity, nationality, gender, marital status, physical ability, religion, sexual orientation, social circumstances or political affiliation. 54 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 EXTERNAL PROGRAMMES 10.0 EXTERNAL ASUR WAS SELECTED AS ONE OF THE FIRST GROUP OF COMPANIES PROGRAMMES TO BE PART OF THE MEXICO STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY INDEX ASUR BECAME A SIGNATORY OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) IN 2005 56 ANNUAL SU STAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 EXTERNAL PROGRAMMES 10.1 SUSTAINABILITY INDICES In 2011, ASUR was selected as one of the first Below is a table that states what the Ten Principles are and where they are addressed in the text group of companies to be part of the Mexico of this report. Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. To be considered for inclusion in the index, compaFIGURE 15: nies’ practices and procedures in the areas of UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES environment, governance and stakeholder issues are subject to a rigorous evaluation process, with the intention that the index can be Principle Refer to used as a responsible-investment guide for ethical investors. As of the 31st of December 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection Section 8.0: Commitment to 2019, ASUR continues to form part of the Mexiof internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights co Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not Section 8.0: Commitment to complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights Section 6.1: Description of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Workforce association and the effective recognition of the right Section 8.0: Commitment to to collective bargaining Human Rights 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms Section 8.0: Commitment to 10.1 of forced and compulsory labour Human Rights UNITED NATIONS 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Section 8.0: Commitment to GLOBAL COMPACT child labour Human Rights 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of Section 8.0: Commitment to discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Human Rights The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative established by the United Nations to promote the values of social responsibility and respect for 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach Section 5.0: Environmental human rights in businesses around the world. ASUR became a signato environmental challenges Responsibility tory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2005, and the 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Section 5.0: Environmental Chairman of ASUR’s Board of Directors, Fernando Chico Pardo, held a greater environmental responsibility Responsibility position on the UNGC’s Board of Directors between 2009 and 2012. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and Section 5.0: Environmental As of the 31st of December 2019, ASUR had a representative on the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Responsibility Steering Committee of the local network of the UNGC in Mexico. The 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its Section 7.3: Anticorruption company provides funding for the activities of the UNGC at both the forms, including extortion and bribery Measures national and international levels. The UNGC asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption; these core values are the Ten Principles. 58 ANNUAL SU STAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 11.0 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS This report has been prepared in accordance with the G4 sustainability reporting guidelines and the Airport Operator Sector Supplement (AOSS) published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Global Reporting Initiative is a networkbased organisation that promotes the use of a standardised framework for sustainability reporting. In 2009 and 2010, ASUR participated in the GRI multidisciplinary working group that brought together representatives of airports from around the world and their stakeholders, and which produced the aforementioned sector supplement for the airport industry, published in 2011. 60 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter List of entities included in the organisation’s financial statements or G4-17 Section 2.4: Organisational Structure equivalent documents Below is an index of the GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators that are addressed in this report, and where the relevant information can be found in this document. Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries, and how Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and G4-18 the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Identification of Material Aspects FIGURE 16: Report Content INDEX OF GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and G4-19 List of all material aspects identified in the process for defining report content Identification of Material Aspects Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and GRI G4-20 For each material aspect, aspect boundary within the organisation Identification of Material Aspects Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and G4-21 For each material aspect, aspect boundary outside the organisation Identification of Material Aspects STANDARD DISCLOSURES Effects of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the G4-22 Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations of Report G4-1 Section 1.0: Message from our C.E.O and the reasons for such restatements relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and G4-3 Name of the organisation Section 2.0: Company Profile G4-23 Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations of Report aspect boundaries G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Section 2.1: Business Activities Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters Section 2.0: Company Profile Identification of Material Aspects G4-6 Number and names of countries where the organisation operates Section 2.0: Company Profile Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Identification of Material Aspects G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Section 2.3: Shareholder Structure Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and G4-8 Markets served Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data G4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement Identification of Material Aspects Section 2.4: Organisational Structure G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data G4-27 engagement Identification of Material Aspects G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Section 7.1: Description of Workforce G4-28 Reporting period Section 3.0: Report Parameters G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collection bargaining agreements Section 7.1: Description of Workforce G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Section 3.0: Report Parameters G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain Section 2.8: Description of Company’s Value Chain G4-30 Reporting cycle Section 3.0: Report Parameters Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, Section 2.6: Significant Changes in Operations during G4-13 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Section 3.0: Report Parameters or ownership Reporting Period Section 11.0: GRI Standard Disclosures and Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement and G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report G4-14 Precautionary principle Performance Indicators Identification of Material Aspects G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations of Report Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or Section 11.0: GRI Standard Disclosures and G4-15 which it endorses Performance Indicators G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation Section 4.0: Corporate Governance Memberships of associations in which the organisation holds a position on Description of the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of G4-16 Section 10.0: External Programmes G4-56 Section 4.4: Code of Ethics the governance body behaviour, such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 62 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI GRI Reporting Description Refer to Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Parameter DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Section 8.1: Direct and Indirect Economic Benefits DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Environment Section 6.1: Significant Issues and Management Strategy G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Section 8.1: Direct and Indirect Economic Benefits DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Labour Section 7.0: Quality of Life for Employees Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO3 Section 5.2: Anticorruption Measures corruption and the significant risks identified DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Economic Section 8.0: Community Involvement and Support G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Section 5.2: Anticorruption Measures DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Society Section 8.0: Community Involvement and Support G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Section 5.2: Anticorruption Measures DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Human Rights Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Section 6.2.6: Fuel Consumption G4-HR4 of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Section 6.2.6: Fuel Consumption and measures taken to support these rights Section 6.2.3: Energy Efficiency Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Section 6.2.6: Fuel Consumption G4-HR5 of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights of child labour Section 6.2.3: Eficiencia energética G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Section 6.2.6: Fuel Consumption Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of G4-HR6 forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Section 6.2.4: Water Management of all forms of forced or compulsory labour G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse-gas emissions (Scope 1) Section 6.1: Significant Issues and Management Strategy Total number of passengers annually, broken down by passengers on G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse-gas emissions (Scope 2) Section 6.1: Significant Issues and Management Strategy AO1 international and domestic flights and broken down by origin-and-destination Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data passengers and transfer, including transit, passengers G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Section 6.2.5: Waste Management Annual total number of aircraft movements by day and by night, broken Section 2.6: Significant Changes in Operations AO2 down by commercial passenger, commercial cargo, general aviation and state Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data G4-EN27 Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services during Reporting Period aviation flights Section 6.2.1: Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion AO4 Quality of storm water by applicable regulatory standards Section 6.2.4: Water Management Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary G4-EN29 Section 6.4: Environmental Certification sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Aircraft and pavement de-icing / anti-icing fluid used and treated by m³ AO6 Section 6.2.4: Water Management and/or tonnes Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and G4-LA6 Section 7.2: Safety in the Workplace absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region AO9 Total annual number of wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements Section 6.2.7: Biodiversity Issues 64 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65 APPENDIX 12.0 APPENDIX APPENDIX A ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY APPENDIX B ASUR ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE APPENDIX C ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 66 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 67 APPENDIX APPENDIX A: APPENDIX B: ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ASUR ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE TITLE: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AREA RESPONSIBLE: CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CODE: ORG-07 Measurement Progress / Airport Objective Activities Parameter Result 1. OBJECTIVE: ASUR will manage its operations with the aim of: Reduce environmental LEED platinum level certification for buildings and facilities Percent conclusion Cancún 100% footprint of airport facilities of new Terminal 4 of project Monitor and reduce To establish the express, formal commit• preventing incidents that might have harmful effects on the enCancún greenhouse gas emissions Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion 70% initiative with Airports Council International of project ment assumed by Grupo ASUR to act in vironment; into atmosphere favour of the environment, reducing the Reduce production of nonUse of organic waste to create compost for green areas in Percent of organic Cozumel 60% harmful effects of its operations and pro• minimising emissions, effluents and the generation of solid waste hazardous waste airport waste used moting a culture of environmental protecas a result of the Group’s operations; Monitor and reduce Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion Cozumel greenhouse gas emissions 70% tion and rational use of natural resources. into atmosphere initiative with Airports Council International of project • implementing measures that reduce the consumption of energy Reduce production of nonAcquisition of shredder for organic material to improve Machinery items 2. SCOPE: and natural resources within its facilities as far as possible; Huatulco 1 hazardous waste compost quality acquired Reduce consumption of Replacement of fluorescent bulbs with LED lighting fixtures Percent conclusion Huatulco 100% All companies that form part of Grupo • taking steps to reduce or compensate for greenhouse gas emiselectricity in various areas of airport of project ASUR, and their sphere of influence. sions due to the direct and indirect activities under the control Reduce production of nonAwareness campaign to dissuade use and promote Percent conclusion Huatulco 100% of the Group; and hazardous waste replacement of single-use plastic products of project 3. POLICY: Huatulco Raise awareness about Awareness campaign on protecting and not removing Percent conclusion 100% protection of marine species marine species from their natural habitat of project • adopting strategies to mitigate the effects of our operations on It is the policy of Grupo ASUR to act in a the environment. Monitor and reduce Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion Huatulco greenhouse gas emissions 83% way that is compatible and harmonious initiative with Airports Council International of project into atmosphere with the environment, and to undertake To these ends, ASUR will carry out the appropriate inspections Reduce production of Percentage of used Mérida Recycling of ink and toner cartridges used in airport 100% continuous efforts to reduce the impact and assessments of the activities that have an impact on the envihazardous waste cartridges recycled that its operations have on the balance of ronment, to measure and control their development and to create Awareness campaign to promote disposal of alkaline Reduce production of Percent conclusion ecosystems. ASUR will ensure compliance mechanisms or adopt new technologies that counteract these imMérida batteries in containers located in public and administrative 100% hazardous waste of project areas of airport at all times with all applicable environmenpacts. The Group also undertakes to respond rapidly and effectively Monitor and reduce tal laws and regulations, and will guarantee to minimise the impacts of any incidents that occur as a result of Mérida greenhouse gas emissions Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion 70% initiative with Airports Council International of project that all of its airport facilities maintain enits operations. into atmosphere vironmental quality assurance certification. Percent reduction Reduction of 10% in water extracted for consumption in ASUR will encourage respect for the environment both inside and outMinatitlán Reduce consumption of water in total water 20.2% airport facilities via various initiatives consumption side the companies in the Group. Among its employees it will promote Improve measurement of Installation of additional water meters in various areas of Percent conclusion environmental awareness, the mitigation of carbon footprints, and a Minatitlán 100% water consumption airport facilities of project general culture of sustainability, using internal communications and Reduction of 5% in diesel and gasoline consumed in vehicles campaigns. It will also exploit any opportunities that arise to promote, Reduce consumption of Percent reduction in Minatitlán and machinery (other than emergency generators) via 10.1% fossil fuels fuel consumption provide guidance, and influence a culture of sustainability among suvarious initiatives ppliers, concessionaires, contractors, other business partners, and the Promote reforestation of Donation of 1,500 fruit tree saplings from airport plant Number of trees Minatitlán 1,500 community in general. green areas nursery as gifts for staff members and general public given away 68 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 69 APPENDIX Airport Objective Activities Measurement Progress / APPENDIX C: Parameter Result ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Recycling of 2.5 tons of non-hazardous waste (paper, Minatitlán Recycle non-hazardous waste Tons of waste recycled 2.5 aluminium and PET) Monitor and reduce Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion Minatitlán greenhouse gas emissions 70% initiative with Airports Council International of project into atmosphere Planting of 100 local-species trees and 400 plants in green Number of trees/ Oaxaca Reforest green areas 500 areas of airport plants planted Number of trees Oaxaca Reforest green areas Planting of 150 local-species trees in forest close to airport 150 planted ASUR ALL AIRPORTS Improve handling of Acquisition of two tanker trailers and construction of facility Percent conclusion Oaxaca 70% hazardous materials for storage of diesel and gasoline, to reduce risk of spills of project TOTAL FIGURES % change Oaxaca Improve measurement of water consumption and discharge Installation of additional meters in different facilities at airport Percent conclusion of project 100% Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Total water consumption m3 825,475 755,612 797,217 5.5% Monitor and reduce Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion Total water discharged m3 422,323 417,450 457,066 9.5% Oaxaca greenhouse gas emissions 80% initiative with Airports Council International of project into atmosphere Total electricity consumption kWh 98,843,472 111,744,821 113,315,672 1.4% Reduce consumption of Replacement of two air conditioning chillers with newer, Number of equipment GJ 355,836 402,281 407,936 1.4% Tapachula 2 electricity more energy efficient systems items replaced Total hazardous waste produced kg 17,319 15,655 14,391 -8.1% Increase recycling of nonIncrease by 10% the amount of non-hazardous waste Percent increase in Tapachula hazardous waste recycling (paper, aluminium and PET) recycled waste 7.2% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 6,450.6 6,796.3 6,679.9 -1.7% Non-hazardous waste recycled 1,046.2 1,066.6 1,119.2 4.9% Reduce consumption of Replacement of incandescent bulbs with LED lighting Percent conclusion Tapachula 100% electricity fixtures in various areas of the airport of project % non-hazardous waste recycled 16% 16% 17% Monitor and reduce Total fuel consumption l 570,733 604,608 744,961 23.2% Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion Tapachula greenhouse gas emissions 70% initiative with Airports Council International of project into atmosphere Participation of airport employees in mangrove reforesting Percent conclusion Veracruz Reforest green areas 100% activities of project PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Veracruz Reduce consumption of Awareness campaign to reduce use of paper towels in Percent conclusion 100% Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) natural resources terminal building lavatories of project Water consumption per passenger l/pax 26.4 22.6 23.3 3.1% Percent conclusion Veracruz Reduce consumption of water Awareness campaign on non-wasteful water usage 100% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 13.5 12.5 13.4 7.0% of project Reduce production of nonAwareness campaign to dissuade use and promote Percent conclusion Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 3.2 3.3 3.3 -0.9% Veracruz 100% hazardous waste replacement of single-use plastic products of project MJ/pax 11.4 12.1 11.9 -0.9% Raise environmental Five presentations on environmental protection as part of Number of Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.6 0.5 0.4 -10.2% Veracruz 5 awareness in the community outreach programme with local schools presentations given Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.21 0.20 0.20 -3.9% Monitor and reduce Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 18.3 18.1 21.8 20.4% Veracruz greenhouse gas emissions 70% initiative with Airports Council International of project into atmosphere Installation of system to capture rainwater and condensate Percent conclusion Villahermosa Reduce consumption of water from air conditioning systems for use in irrigating green 95% of project areas and for fire-fighting drills Reduce consumption of Replacement of 140 bulbs with LED lighting fixtures in Percent conclusion Villahermosa 100% electricity various areas of airport of project Improve quality of wastewater Reduction of coliforms in discharged wastewater to 35% Percent conclusion Villahermosa 100% discharged below daily average stipulated in official discharge permit of project Monitor and reduce Completion of stage one of Airport Carbon Accreditation Percent conclusion Villahermosa greenhouse gas emissions 90% initiative with Airports Council International of project into atmosphere 70 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 71 APPENDIX CANCÚN AIRPORT HUATULCO AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES % change TOTAL FIGURES % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Total water consumption m3 503,963 438,499 501,963 14.5% Total water consumption m3 19,851 15,436 18,944 22.7% Total water discharged m3 337,384 342,860 371,091 8.2% Total water discharged m3 8,937 8,304 8,981 8.2% Total electricity consumption kWh 71,235,808 84,460,554 85,484,189 1.2% Total electricity consumption kWh 1,698,210 1,732,165 1,879,656 8.5% GJ 256,449 304,058 307,743 1.2% GJ 6,114 6,236 6,767 8.5% Total hazardous waste produced kg 3,166 5,138 2,950 -42.6% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,146 1,860 1,672 -10.1% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 5,817.8 6,142.6 5,960.2 -3.0% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 62 70 115 65.5% Non-hazardous waste recycled 987.6 993.7 1,035.7 4.2% Non-hazardous waste recycled 5 7 6 -17.0% % non-hazardous waste recycled 17% 16% 17% % non-hazardous waste recycled 8% 11% 5% Total fuel consumption l 319,670 336,906 436,876 29.7% Total fuel consumption l 37,870 27,744 39,059 40.8% PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 21.3 17.4 19.7 13.5% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 25.5 18.8 21.2 13.0% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 14.2 13.6 14.6 7.3% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 11.5 10.1 10.1 -0.4% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 3.0 3.3 3.4 0.4% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 2.2 2.1 2.1 -0.1% MJ/pax 10.8 12.0 12.1 0.4% MJ/pax 7.8 7.6 7.6 -0.1% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.1 0.2 0.1 -43.1% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.5 2.3 1.9 -17.2% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.25 0.24 0.23 -3.8% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.08 0.08 0.13 52.4% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 13.5 13.3 17.1 28.6% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 48.6 33.8 43.8 29.6% COZUMEL AIRPORT MÉRIDA AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES % change TOTAL FIGURES % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Total water consumption m3 33,058 24,417 39,135 60.3% Total water consumption m3 148,022 148,895 110,355 -25.9% Total water discharged m3 27,155 15,764 27,494 74.4% Total water discharged m3 1,240 1,755 3,171 80.7% Total electricity consumption kWh 2,528,402 2,484,775 2,621,930 5.5% Total electricity consumption kWh 9,881,368 10,058,008 10,423,878 3.6% GJ 9,102 8,945 9,439 5.5% GJ 35,573 36,209 37,526 3.6% Total hazardous waste produced kg 5,349 2,879 4,036 40.2% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,488 2,878 1,720 -40.2% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 40 48 50 3.1% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 68 92 120 30.9% Non-hazardous waste recycled 16 19 22 15.9% Non-hazardous waste recycled 2 4 8 108.0% % non-hazardous waste recycled 41% 40% 45% % non-hazardous waste recycled 3% 4% 7% Total fuel consumption l 19,520 17,150 29,129 69.8% Total fuel consumption l 43,058 45,020 50,783 12.8% PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 60.3 41.6 71.6 72.2% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 68.2 60.4 39.5 -34.5% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 49.5 26.9 50.3 87.4% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 0.6 0.7 1.1 59.6% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 4.6 4.2 4.8 13.4% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 4.6 4.1 3.7 -8.4% MJ/pax 16.6 15.2 17.3 13.4% MJ/pax 16.4 14.7 13.4 -8.4% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 9.8 4.9 7.4 50.6% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.7 1.2 0.6 -47.2% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.07 0.08 0.09 10.8% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.03 0.04 0.04 15.6% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 35.6 29.2 53.3 82.5% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 19.8 18.3 18.2 -0.3% 72 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 73 APPENDIX MINATITLÁN AIRPORT TAPACHULA AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES % change TOTAL FIGURES % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Total water consumption m3 10,233 10,803 8,621 -20.2% Total water consumption m3 14,905 11,771 15,598 32.5% Total water discharged m3 5,490 6,402 4,082 -36.2% Total water discharged m3 4,816 6,056 7,940 31.1% Total electricity consumption kWh 653,376 698,899 669,542 -4.2% Total electricity consumption kWh 1,543,765 1,633,051 1,662,358 1.8% GJ 2,352 2,516 2,410 -4.2% GJ 5,558 5,879 5,984 1.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 697 436 280 -35.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,202 423 656 55.1% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 5 5 4 -0.9% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 48 46 38 -16.0% Non-hazardous waste recycled 3 3 3 0.1% Non-hazardous waste recycled 2 2 2 7.2% % non-hazardous waste recycled 58% 56% 56% % non-hazardous waste recycled 5% 4% 5% Total fuel consumption l 20,062 30,940 30,811 -0.4% Total fuel consumption l 18,511 28,702 33,507 16.7% PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 50.4 60.4 39.5 -34.5% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 49.9 34.9 40.5 15.8% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 27.0 32.3 27.6 -14.7% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 16.1 18.0 20.6 14.6% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 3.2 3.5 4.5 28.2% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 5.2 4.8 4.3 -11.0% MJ/pax 11.6 12.7 16.3 28.2% MJ/pax 18.6 17.4 15.5 -11.0% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 3.4 2.2 1.9 -14.1% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 4.0 1.3 1.7 35.6% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.03 0.02 0.03 32.5% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.16 0.14 0.10 -26.5% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 98.8 156.1 208.0 33.2% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 62.0 85.2 86.9 2.1% OAXACA AIRPORT VERACRUZ AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES % change TOTAL FIGURES % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Total water consumption m3 20,156 27,958 22,952 -17.9% Total water consumption m3 38,644 39,690 41,804 5.3% Total water discharged m3 12,340 12,133 8,670 -28.5% Total water discharged m3 10,761 10,470 11,784 12.6% Total electricity consumption kWh 1,350,779 1,327,879 1,315,823 -0.9% Total electricity consumption kWh 5,961,647 5,587,968 5,530,974 -1.0% GJ 4,863 4,780 4,737 -0.9% GJ 21,462 20,117 19,912 -1.0% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,026 731 1,059 44.9% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,210 457 220 -51.8% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 115 118 127 7.6% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 146 150 141 -6.2% Non-hazardous waste recycled 4 8 8 -5.4% Non-hazardous waste recycled 13 17 19 12.9% % non-hazardous waste recycled 4% 7% 6% % non-hazardous waste recycled 9% 11% 13% Total fuel consumption l 26,263 30,546 34,751 13.8% Total fuel consumption l 54,474 51,891 49,717 -4.2% PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 22.9 29.0 19.2 -33.9% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 27.8 26.3 28.3 7.6% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 14.0 12.6 7.2 -42.4% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 7.8 6.9 8.0 14.9% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 1.5 1.4 1.1 -20.2% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 4.3 3.7 3.7 1.1% MJ/pax 5.5 5.0 4.0 -20.2% MJ/pax 15.5 13.4 13.5 1.1% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.2 0.8 0.9 16.7% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.9 0.3 0.1 -50.8% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.13 0.12 0.11 -13.3% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.11 0.10 0.10 -4.2% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 29.8 31.7 29.1 -8.3% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 39.2 34.4 33.7 -2.2% 74 ANNUAL SU STAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 75 VILLAHERMOSA AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Total water consumption m3 36,643 38,143 37,845 -0.8% Total water discharged m3 14,200 13,706 13,853 1.1% Total electricity consumption kWh 3,990,117 3,761,522 3,727,322 -0.9% GJ 14,364 13,541 13,418 -0.9% Total hazardous waste produced kg 2,036 854 1,798 110.5% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 148 126 124 -1.4% Non-hazardous waste recycled 12 13 16 21.0% % non-hazardous waste recycled 8% 11% 13% Total fuel consumption l 31,306 35,709 40,328 12.9% PER-PASSENGER BASIS % change Parameter Unit mmt 2017 2018 2019 (‘19 vs ‘18) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 28.7 30.8 30.4 -1.4% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 11.1 11.1 11.1 0.4% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 3.1 3.0 3.0 -1.6% MJ/pax 11.2 10.9 10.8 -1.6% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.6 0.7 1.4 109.2% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.12 0.10 0.10 -2.0% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 24.5 28.9 32.4 12.2% 76 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
