Communication on Progress 2019 Copyright Impact® 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011: IMPAC Communication on Progress 2019 The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy in businesses that are committed to aligning their o strategies with ten universally accepted principle of human rights, labour, environment and antiCopyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Human rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed human rights; and challenges; Principle 2 Principle 8 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Anti-corruption recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10 Principle 4 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; extortion and bribery. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Who we are Our strategy, our process Impact are an independent, multi-award-winning, global people Creation of our 2022 strategy has been a collective and collaborative development agency. We develop people and build the expertise that all process... involving all areas of our global business. organisations need to respond successfully to the challenges of unprecedented change. Led by a cross-functional, geographically and culturally diverse team of inspiring leaders, the strategy represents the culmination of insights and Since 1980 we have been working as a creative change agency at the work from Impact's annual global team conference (One Impact Week), our intersection of leadership and people development, change and business CEO, strategy group work, global planning meetings and input from transformation and sustainable innovation. Our methods are action our Global Leadership Team and Country Managers. orientated and outcome focused, helping organisations to execute their vision and deliver their plans. In response to the complex and uncertain world we are operating in, we We apply our unique experiential learning methodology to design work on a rolling three year strategy which is reviewed on an annual basis customised solutions to help our clients succeed in highly competitive and and then extended for a further year. This approach allows us to be more highly disruptive change environments. agile in order to navigate a volatile and ambiguous future. We plan to grow our business by creating more value for our clients, through applying our expertise in experiential learning to a wider organisational context than learning and development. Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Our strategy, our process As a business we have adopted the UN Sustainable Development Goals We recognise the interconnected nature of the SDGs and acknowledge (SDGs) with the ambition of integrating all the goals into our business that our work contributes to the overall progression of all of the SDGs: strategy. We believe this will help to inform our internal practice and to support, engage and influence our supply chain and clients around the sustainability agenda. Following an internal assessment of our business and relevant activities, we have identified seven goals which align directly to our business: In this report we share, where possible, our current position and progress with the seven primary goals and where possible the targets which sit under each goal. To help us in this process we used the GRI/UNGC Business Reporting on SDGs – Analysis of goals and targets: https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/GRI_UNGC_BusinessReporting-on-SDGs_Analysis-of-Goals-and-Targets.pdf Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Introduction from David Williams, Founder and CEO Impact has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since Part of this strategy is about identifying and working with businesses who 2005, Key to the progression of these principles is the commitment and are committed to addressing the complexity of change and grappling with support from our people. In a recent survey (source: Great Places To Work® how to do it. It is the overlap of leadership, people-led change and Survey 2019) sustainable innovation where our clients say that we provide the most value. § 99% of our employees said that ‘it is a physically safe place to work’ § 99% said that ’Impact manages its' impact upon society responsibly’ Internally, our focus has been on IT security, tightening up our policies and § 100% said that ‘Management is honest and ethical in its' business procedures. We now have a security officer who is responsible for practices’ overseeing our whole IT security operation. He heads up our data security working group. We have also been recognised as the ’Best Workplace™ for Women’ (GPTW survey), 2019. Our intention as a business is to continue to measure and report on our impacts. 2019 has been a positive year for us, due in part to our ability to be agile and responsive in the face of uncertainty. 2020 is already proving to be a fastchanging environment with social, political and climate related issues facing An area we need to make more progress in is measurement and all businesses in all sectors. management of our carbon footprint. Although 94% of our employees said that Impact is ’working to improve its' environmental impact’. This figure is Our external strategy is focused on our core strengths providing powerful 3% down on 2018. experiential learning throughout organisations. We are committed to supporting and challenging our clients and helping them to become In 2020, we report for the first time on our carbon footprint and are organisations worth working for. also working on a net zero carbon strategy, in line with the UK government targets. This is a company-wide ambition and will require all functions to take action to improve this. Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Introduction from David Williams continued One example of how we have developed our ideas to reach a global Our employees are the driving force behind many internal practices, such audience without travelling is through air, our new experiential learning as plastic use, travel options and how we work with our clients. application. Launched in January 2019 it is now live with several clients across different countries and in several languages including Japanese. As we move into 2020 we begin our 40th year in business and we embark upon a company-wide initiative to take part in 40 global projects We actively look for opportunities to engage in strategic partnerships. In embedding the SDG's. We hope to engage our clients, community 2019 we partnered with the United Nations Global Compact (UK Network). partners, Impact families and friends. Through this work we have engaged with more than 600 people across all sectors, helping them to embed the Sustainable Development Goals within their business strategies. This has created several new opportunities to build I am pleased to reaffirm my full support to the UNGC and the principles new client relationships and deepen existing ones. In 2020 we will continue which underpin the initiative. In this year’s report we outline progress made to develop programmes with the UK Network around this agenda. in the UK. As in previous years, our report demonstrates success and failure against our 2019 targets. Our relationship in the local community is an important part of our culture. The 24th children’s holiday took place in August, working in Our report is in the public domain and can be viewed on the UNGC website partnership with a local charity (Action for Children) to provide a week-long or via a link on our website: holiday for 14 disadvantaged children. This takes 15 employees out of the business for more than a week and is an initiative I am hugely proud of. www.impactinternational.com/united-nations-global-compact Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and abuse Context Internally Impact are fully supportive of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights The support Impact provide to uphold the rights of its employees and of and the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. Impact are committed others through our ‘Learning in the Community’ initiative. to the implementation of all aspects of human rights, internally within our organisation and externally, through the delivery of programmes for our Externally clients. How we support and uphold the rights of participants on our programmes and partner organisations through our Community Action Learning (CAL) As an international organisation, we seek to develop consistent best practice programmes. across all regions and work to the highest standards in terms of safe and healthy working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. As a service organisation, we can support these principles in two tangible and measurable ways. The former is around how we engage and educate our people in this area and the latter is about providing innovative approaches to engage and influence across our clients and supply chain. Our report outlines how we address these principles internally and externally. Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Internal All Impact employees are given a minimum of three paid days, working in their local community. We call this initiative ‘Learning in the Community’ (LITC). Learning in the Community (LITC) is formally reviewed twice a year, during performance reviews by line managers. Some recent examples include: Our target is to uphold 70% engagement of LITC throughout the UK business. In 2019 we increased our LITC days by 30 days, this was due to the work with In August 2019, 15 people across the UK business the UNGC (UK Network). worked collaboratively to design and deliver a week of activities and memorable experiences 2019 a total of 169 days were achieved out of a potential of 219 days = 77% for disadvantaged young people in Cumbria. We In 2018 a total of 136 days were achieved out of a potential of 204 days = 67% do this each year in partnership with Action for In 2017 a total of 135 days were achieved out of a potential of 207 days = 65% Children, Cumbria. The statistics above include all full-time members of Impact UK in 2019, of which there are 73. We believe our figures are consistently high due to our employees being encouraged to identify and work with partners and charities they feel closest to. According to the Great Places to Work® (GPTW®) survey: 99% of UK employees ‘feel good about the way we contribute to our communities’. Copyright Impact® 2020 This is up by 5% from 2017. Communication on Progress 2019 Aligning our LITC activities to the SDGs People at Impact feel engaged and motivated when they are able to ‘Thank you for the work inspiration week we attended at Impact. From this I create opportunities to give back. This has helped us to create the sense of gained a better insight into the business as well as into Human Resources. My community and appreciation of each other which helps to define our favourite aspect of the week was seeing how everyone at Impact interacts with culture. one another through the Monday morning meetings and in general All LITC work is aligned to an individual’s personal development plan (these communication’. are reviewed twice a year) and the Sustainable Development Goals. Impact Aid An internal group that raises monies that are then donated to Two LITC initiatives are shared below; our chosen charity as well as other local, national and international charitable causes with a connection to Impact staff. Impact UK donates 50 Work Inspiration Programme Since 2010 Impact have partnered with local pence per participant of our UK development programmes, to Impact Aid. secondary schools to provide a five-day programme for 15-17 year olds that Fundraising activities include themed staff lunches held at our hotels, bake educates and inspires a generation of local young people around the world sales, coffee mornings, sponsored challenges and race nights. of work. Since 2010 more than 160 students have taken part in more than 20 programmes. In 2019, 20 students participated. Below we provide some feedback: We also provide support in the form of skills and services for example strategy development, facilitation and marketing and design advice. ‘I would like to thank you for giving us the opportunity to work at Impact for a week, I have learnt many skills and developed my communication skills, which has improved my confidence and I now feel more comfortable to present and speak in front of a crowd’. Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Aligning our LITC activities to the SDGs Streetfootballworld (SfW) A network of around 100 organisations across Bendrigg Trust specialises in delivering adventure learning for disabled the world using the power of football to address social issues in their and disadvantaged people. communities. Bendrigg are long term partners and supporters of Impact, regularly Streetfootballworld and Impact have worked together for several years and partnering with us to provide memorable opportunities with the clients we they have continued their ongoing partnership throughout 2019 where work with. This time we gave back by designing and delivering a whole Impact supported social inclusion and human rights in partnership with SfW. organisation 'Strategy Day' for 70 people, shaping the direction of the trust for the next 10 years. Two Impact consultants delivered on the SfW's 'Play Proud' programme for the North American and Caribbean youth leaders. This event marked the start of an 18-month journey to develop leadership capacity amongst 'Play Proud' pioneers to promote social inclusion and 'safe spaces' in sport for the LGBTQ community. Copyright Impact® 2020 Manny Larenas (Impact consultant) working with the youth leaders Bendrigg Trust, ‘Strategy Day’ Communication on Progress 2019 Aligning our LITC with a fundraising adventure... Adventure is a key part of the culture at Impact. There are often individuals The team challenge was to climb the three highest peaks in the UK and groups of Impact employees who take on challenges in aid of others. (Snowdon, Scafell Pike and Ben Nevis) and between the hikes, they Below is an example of a challenge which captured the hearts of many travelled by bike. The challenge involved 44km of walking and 700km of people at Impact. cycling. The Challenge The team was made up of bike enthusiasts, adventure seekers and fitness A team of seven people from the business took part in a huge fundraising fanatics! And in line with the culture of Impact, many more people challenge to raise money for two local charities which support people living supported the team from driving, filming, walking up the mountains and with cancer, The Bay Hospitals Charity and The Rosemere Cancer providing accommodation on route. Foundation, both very well respected and caring organisations who supported Ann Williams (mother and wife of three Impact employees). They exceeded their fundraising target of £5,000 and raised a total of £11,048.75. Copyright Impact® 2020 Impact team: Izzy, Andy, Simon, Josh, Dave, Emma and Sam The Impact support team watching from the office – The team streamed a live update from Loch Lomond Communication on Progress 2019 Aligning our LITC through strategic partnerships... Our strategic partnership with the UNGC (UK Network) YSIP (Young SDG Innovators programme) A 10-month programme to provide skills, mentoring, learning and support for 30 young leaders in The Global Goals Roadshow 2019 A strategic partnership between Impact business. This professional young group are all working towards innovating and UNGC (UK Network). It utilised the skills and experience of both breakthrough products and services to address the SDGs. Impact facilitated organisations in the design and co-delivery of nine ‘Making Global Goals two of the five modules. Other partners were Volans and PA consulting. Local Business’ workshops around the UK and a flagship ‘'Making Global Goals Local Business UK’ conference in London which attracted more than Overall thoughts 300 people. Part of our commitment to the UNGC principles is to engage and influence other businesses around the importance of this initiative. Our involvement in air – Impact’s learning application was also provided as an additional offer to this work has helped us to progress our intentions in this space as well as help all participants to stay connected following the roadshow events. providing us with opportunities to expand our network. Participants were invited to continue to share best practice and to keep informed with current issues in the area of sustainability. Impact provided pro-bono support to the UK Network with the design and delivery of these workshops and engaged 17 Impact employees, providing a positive and engaging learning experience for everyone involved. Cynthia Adebiyi-Yekinni, Project Manager – Global Goals and YSIP Progamme Manager and Jo Appleby, Head of Partnerships, Impact Participants at the UNGC Roadshow event in Leeds Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Action which support the human rights of our employees We intentionally go beyond what is required in terms of supporting and As a direct consequence: respecting our employees. We strive for excellence in providing an environment in which people can thrive. § Team leaders are encouraged to meet regularly to identify how to better support staff in their roles Each year we conduct an internal pulse survey. We ask the same questions § Managers are now trialling a new format for regular 1:1 meetings each year and look for patterns and areas where people want to see § Line managers are also being developed in coaching techniques and improvements. handling difficult conversations § We also encourage a feedback culture where employees are There was a clear desire identified in our staff survey in 2018 and in last encouraged to give timely feedback, ask questions and voice concerns year’s wellbeing sessions for staff to have dedicated regular time with their openly line manager. All of these areas are designed to help employees be as effective in their role whilst dealing with any underlying problems or issues which could cause stress immediately. We listened to our people and this was the priority this is now being rolled out globally. Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Progress against targets Additional progress made 2019 target: Review human rights policies and report on any changes § We have been in discussions with a UNICEF Children's' Champion to ensure we are working to ensure the Rights of the Child are met under Progress: A group of Impact employees supported the UNICEF ‘Digital section 16 of the SDGs Rights’ project by testing and providing feedback on their online resources. This process enabled us to have wider conversations about passwords, § HR and UNICEF Children's' Champion have spoken about our supply privacy and our own digital security. chain and whether our suppliers are in line with the anti-slavery act. As a result the HR team and our UNICEF representative revisited and reviewed our human rights policies. No action was taken as it was clear that § We now pay a national living wage foundation rate for our interns our policies were substantial in this area § Through our internal personal development programmes (called Impact Academy) we delivered 39 Academy offerings globally 2019 target: The rolling out of a one-day mental health awareness course to non-UK staff via a web platform § We introduced a new programme, 'Inspiring Leaders' for our next generation leaders and virtual design series sessions globally Progress: We have not been able to develop this due to a lack of resource § We committed to a global initiative to work on 40 SDG related projects 2019 target: Roll out coaching training to enable people to support each across our global business working with colleagues, partners, clients and other more effectively in their work and home lives suppliers Progress: Every first Friday of the month a morning of skills development is made available (including coaching, dialogue and managing difficult conversations). This session is made available for all employees, across all functions. Creating a safe space to learn and practice skills. This is followed by a company-wide free lunch Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Targets for 2020 Our central purpose through 2019 in respect of our commitment to the UN Declaration of Human Rights will be to engage our own employees, as well as influencing our clients and our supply chain with regards to their practices. Specifically we aim to: § Share and communicate the anti-slavery act principles across our network and through our global digital newsletter § Roll out mental health training globally § Review our current policies to make sure they are up to date with any changes following the UK exit from Europe § Report on our activities during the UK Mental Health week in May § Report on the next series of SDG’s Roadshow events with the UNGC (UK Network) § Send three people on a Mental Health First Aid course § Plan a series of events to support the UK Mental Health week initiative in May Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Context Our key asset is our people. Consequently Impact is committed to adhering Principle 3 to, and going beyond, all legal requirements to provide fair, flexible and Business should uphold the freedom of association and the appropriately remunerated employment to all our directly employed and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining freelance contract staff. Key labour related issues for Impact involve providing a safe and healthy Principle 5 work environment, flexible working structures (both in terms of available the effective abolition of child labour, and contracts for staff and day-to-day working practices) and providing transparent remuneration and appropriate benefits for contract staff. Impact Principle 4 employ a large number of ‘contract’ or ‘freelance’ staff across our global the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory offices. Because of their freelance status such staff often have the least access to representation and forms of collective bargaining. labour; Relevant feedback from the Great Place to Work® survey in terms of labour Principle 6 standards include: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 100% said ‘Management is honest and ethical in its' business practices.’ and occupation. 99% said ‘This is a physically safe place to work.’ 99% said ‘This organisation actively promotes mental and physical health among its employees.. 100% said ‘Management trusts people to do a good job without watching over their shoulders’ Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Safety at Impact will always be our top priority § Our Global Head of Safety, Philip Poole reports directly to David Williams, Founder and CEO § Health & Safety is addressed at the beginning of every Monday morning company meeting and the beginning of every programme and every project § Each month a safety update is communicated globally through our safety website § Updates from Country Managers are shared with the Board on a quarterly basis § Every year a safety report is completed and shared throughout the organisation We have had a good accident record for the year April to April 18/19 with only six accidents in the UK, all of which, were minor and no reportable incidents. Safety continues to be managed proactively with a number of significant risk assessments reviewed this year and many actions completed as a result. Regular updates are sent out to all staff to inform them of any lessons learnt and other safety information. Global Head of Safety, Phillip The online safety training continues for: Poole § Stage One new staff § Stage Two delivery staff Safety training continues as a face to face or webinar meetings for: § Stage Three Programme Directors Copyright Impact® 2020 The end of 2019 saw the launch of the new safety website https://safety.impactinternational.com/ Communication on Progress 2019 External safety audits We continue to monitor changes and updates to legislation and guidance. Adventuremark Inspection There have been no significant legislation changes that affect Impact UK. The impact of Brexit on safety laws is also unlikely to affect us greatly. The Adventuremark is a non-statutory safety scheme current plan is to introduce the Health and Safety (Amendment) (EU Exit) devised by the Adventure Activity Industry Regulations 2018. These clarify that existing duties remain and do not Advisory Committee (AAIAC) for providers of introduce any new obligations on employers. Any major changes to adventurous activities that are outside the scope of legislation are unlikely to follow any time soon. the Adventure Activity Licensing regulations. Total accidents This is a bi-annual inspection. The inspector looked at our safety systems, risk assessments and § This year, we had a total of 6 accidents, up by 1 on last year, all of which equipment and then observed the project were minor. We only had two participant accidents, but staff accidents 'Pipistralis' being run in darkness. were up to four. § Near miss reporting was down last year from 9 to 6. Although this has We were marked as grade 1 in all areas. The inspector remarked positively enabled us to implement any improvements necessary, the level of on our safety systems, equipment and staff ratio. reporting could do with improving for next year. Report comments included: Risk Assessments ‘Good use of flood lighting and high vis vests.’ The risk assessments associated with all incidents have been reviewed and ‘The quality of the safety briefing was excellent and staff placed themselves updated. Other risk assessments are regularly revised when changes occur. in safety critical positions during the task.’ Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Progress beyond targets Incidence of accidents Embedding a Safety Culture – actions as a result of incidents The incidence of accidents (number of accidents divided by the number of Below are a some of the actions taken following a reported incident. people) has gone down for participants from 0.05% to 0.02% and up for staff These actions are shared to all employees through our regular from 0 to 5.06%, as we had four staff accidents for the year. communication channels (please refer to page 18) Frequency of accidents Safety actions as a result of incidents The frequency of accidents is an industry standard calculation of the § Updated Codes of Practice and Risk Assessment on a group number of accidents x the hours exposed and has gone down for development project after incident. participants from 2.26 to 0.78 and up for staff from 0 to 2.81. § Advice on how to deal with panic attacks § Update on Impact Stores ropes management systems Statutory reportable incidents § Reminder to check environment for hazards when doing project and We had no reportable incidents this year. energisers § Staff reminded to use the steps to the office and not walk up the drive What sort of accidents? § Outside office steps remarked to make them clearer All the accidents this year were minor, including a bruised knee from stone § Drone risk assessment completed fall on a stretcher lower and a sprained ankle on an external ropes course § Updated blindfold project risk assessments zip slide. § Updated travel risk responsibilities for those organising and staffing Staff accidents were caused by closing a minibus door on their foot, a trip on programmes in other countries outside office steps, and a burn from spilt coffee. § Updated policy on checking of stretcher lower sites not normally used § Reminder to associate staff to know and follow project risk assessments Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Proactive safety actions Targets for 2020 § Update on ‘Run Hide Tell’ guidance if caught in a terrorist attack § Accurately record progress on the safety training Learning Management § Reminder about group control, emergency response and co-ordination System (LMS) after the functionality upgrade after personal incident § Review the safety website and fully update after the redesign § Reminder of where the defibrillators are kept § Create a generic safety training system for other countries § Staff training on the use of defibrillators this happened during the Monday morning meeting where all staff meet Staff Training We have completed a number of staff safety training events this year including: § Radio training for all new Programme Managers who monitor the emergency radio for groups out on the lake § There has been a push for all staff to complete both stage 1 and 2 safety training and the system now automatically finds and reminds those who have not completed it by email every two weeks § Driving training has been conducted for all new staff who use our vehicles Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Safety of our IT systems and data security Last year we continued our work on improving our data security and Policy and procedure changes adjusting our policies and procedures to match the changing cyber threats § Change to new employee procedure to increase security around sharing around us. We achieved re-certification against Cyber Essentials and began of confidential documents, such as passport scans and contracts working towards the GDPR Fundamentals certification, as a way of testing and proving our data security controls. We focussed on raising the profile of § Introduced the Terms of Reference for the DPO data security in the organisation, with the goal of making it a standard part of everyone's daily work. This work will continue in 2020, with the aim of finishing the year with certifications in GDPR Fundamentals and Cyber Essentials. Progress beyond targets § re-organising the documentation and updating many of the policies to align with ISO27001 and BS10012. § introduced a range of technology measures to secure our devices, we simplified our system architecture and centralised many of our systems § We restricted access to personal data, granting access on a need-toknow basis § Data security is now overseen by the new Data Security Working Group, Data Protection Officer, Daniel headed up by our Data Protection Officer Osborn § We achieved the UK governments 'Cyber Essentials' certification in September and are working towards re-certification as well as the GDPR Fundamentals certification Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Targets for 2020 – IT systems and data security § Finalise new data sharing agreements between Impact offices § Review Impact's privacy notices § Introduce training for the hotel staff § Finalise the Personal Information Management System (PIMS) § Revamp the Business Continuity Management Plan Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Context Like all businesses, Impact face considerable environmental Principle 7 challenges. As a service organisation our key challenges are around Businesses should support a precautionary approach to resource usage on our programmes, office energy efficiency and environmental challenges; transportation. In line with government ambitions we aim to minimise our carbon footprint. Principle 9 By far our biggest impact is air travel. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 99% of our employees believe that we are working to reduce our environmental impact (source: Great Place to Work® Survey 2019). Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental We believe that we have an environmental responsibility to protect our responsibility; and communities and minimise our environmental impact through the delivery of our programmes. We aim to undertake environmental initiatives that will have an impact on our local and global communities and to look for viable low carbon alternatives to the amount of air travel. We have an internal focus group that consists of a cross-functional team tasked with driving environmental initiatives through the business. Including engagement from programme managers, operations, finance and the consultant teams. Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Progress against targets Target 2019: Accurately measure Impact (UK) carbon footprint annually Target 2019: Reduce disposable plastic consumption Progress: Work done more accurately to measure our carbon footprint Progress: Impact branded pens are now biodegradable and made from more complete flight records for 2019 and train journeys for 2019 now vegetable plastics included in the reported figures which helps explain increased figure from 160 tonnes 2017 up to 288 tonnes 2019 Target 2019: Achieve zero to landfill by 2030 Progress: Target 2019: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from electricity and gas § Old sleeping bags and wetsuits donated to charity heating in Impact UK offices to zero by 2030 § Ropes now donated to be upcycled § All our retired waterproofs and harnesses are donated and are made into Progress: Impact Stores is now on a green energy tariff from 02/04/2019 – rucksacks which will save an estimated seven tonnes of C02 annually (based on 2017 usage) Actions beyond targets § Travel considerations for programmes and meetings – taking the train as a priority whenever possible (mainly trains to UK airports but also Target 2019: Minimise resources used and waste generation from Eurostar if possible) computers, office equipment and programme materials § Discontinue supply of flip charts that are not 100% recyclable § Communicated printing rules regarding using colour Progress: § Order stationery less often (minimum every 2 weeks) resulting in fewer § We will no longer use a project called in my shoes as it relies too heavily deliveries on consumable materials (old shoes) § Reuse kit box materials § Materials list for project chock away revised to make more sustainable § Reviewed current paper consumption and labels to ensure eco friendly § Discontinued supply of flip charts that are not 100% recyclable § Revamped a car sharing pool to ensure we can maximise travel to work § Communicated printing rules regarding using colour Copyright Impact® 2020 options § Order stationery less often (minimum every 2 weeks) resulting in fewer § Engaged a global team to run ‘Lightning Jam sessions’ to help identify deliveries internal action to improve our environmental impacts § Reuse kit box materials § Providing facilitation and expertise to Ambleside Climate change initiative § Reviewed current paper consumption and labels to ensure eco friendly Communication on Progress 2019 Targets for 2020 § Installing electric vehicle charge points § Increasing the number of international train journeys (to reduce flights) § Add information regarding trains on travel request forms § Review of current kit requirements and recommendations for reducing kit § Share our Net Zero climate strategy § Plant 400 trees § Educate and engage people and organisations through partnership work at the COP26 summit § Increase the number of LITC environmental days we take part in § Report on the work we have carried out with the Ambleside Climate Change group Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Context Impact firmly believe that all businesses should work against corruption. We have strong internal policies communicated to all staff (through our staff handbook) about expectations for professional and ethical behaviour, it states that: ‘Impact recognise the importance of conducting its' business subject to the highest ethical standards, with integrity and honesty, and in full compliance with all applicable laws’. All new employees are taken through a full induction process where our policies on anti-corruption are provided and talked through to ensure people understand our policies. There are also a number of interventions at every stage of our work with clients where we share, communicate and assess the work scope and our role. Any issues which may compromise our work are quickly identified, communicated and discussed at the appropriate level. In 2019 we recorded no incidents where our policy was compromised. Copyright Impact® 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Communication on Progress Produced by: Impact Cragwood House Windermere Cumbria LA23 1LQ Telephone: +44 (0)15394 88333 Email: jo.appleby@impactinternational.com Images contained in this report are from “Images From a Warming Planet”, which Impact are proud to support. Ashley Cooper is the photographer behind “the book, a collection that is the culmination of 14 years work travelling to every continent to document the causes and impacts of climate change and the rise of renewable energy. His art-photographic book showcases 500 of the best images from an epic journey around the planet, which Jonathon Porritt called “an extraordinary collection of images Copyright Impact® 2020
