Communication on Progress 2020 Name of the Participating Company/organization: Green Delta Insurance Company Limited Country: BANGLADESH Industry sector: Non-Life Insurance Reported period: 2019-2020 1. Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact Green Delta Insurance Company is a leader in general insurance sector in terms of premium collection, claim settlement, highest paid up capital and service standard. This company is run by professionals to achieve the client confidence and is the only AAA rated insurance company in Bangladesh. This company also contributes to the society by CSR activities. Nasir A Choudhury Advisor & Founding MD Brief Description of Nature of Business Green Delta Insurance Company Limited was established in the year 1986 with professional people to operate as general insurer in Bangladesh. Since the inception of our operation we have been maintaining our position as leading insurer of the country. We have achieved the confidence of the insurance community both in home and abroad. Most of the multinational organizations as well as Foreign Direct Investors are taking our insurance coverage from us. The following is a list of some of our major clients:  Summit Group  RAK Group  Multifabs  Bharat Heavy Electricals  General Pharma  INDEX  APR Energy BD  Meghna Group  COLOSSUS  Youngone Group  BD Edible Oil Ltd.  Sonia  EPIC Group  Global Brand BD Ltd.  Mobil Jamuna Lubricants Bangladesh  Abul Khair Group  Penta Ocean Construction  bKash  Beximco Group  Robi Axiata  C.P. Bangladesh  Saiham Group  SPARROW  GRAMEEN  South China Group  MAX  TRANSSION  Badsha Group  MAINETTI  SHANTA  FCI Group  RING SHINE  ACME  AKIJ Group  BRAC  VENTURA  TK Group  Regency Group  NAKANO  United Ashuganj Energy  GEEBEE  New Asia Group (Malek Spinning)  Walton Group  SANOFI  IDLC  Seven Circle Group  SIEMENS Bangladesh Ltd.  YKK  American & Efird  BITOPI  Sinha Group (OPEX & SINHA)  PHP Group  TAMISHNA  Asrotex Group  Kenpark Bangladesh  MARICO  LENNY Fashion  Confidence Group  BSRM  Standard Chartered Bank We have established our relationship and Association with internationally renowned insurance organizations. Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA)world-renowned British insurer and re-insurer; Zurich Insurance Company of Switzerland-one of the largest insurer and re-insurer of the world; Sompo Japan-third largest insurer of Japan made us as their Local Network Partner of their Global Operation. Besides these, General Insurance Corporation of India, Arab Re. etc. are our strategic reinsurance partners. Our team comprises of professional people trained on various specialized fields of insurance in London, Switzerland, Germany, Singapore, U.A.E. Canada and other industrially developed countries and is much capable in both risk analysis and designing appropriate insurance programs for our clients to give maximum protection at minimum cost. In order to make the capital base stronger, we have raised our paid up capital to BDT 807 million. In addition to that we have wide reinsurance coverage both from home and abroad. This reinsurance protection gives us immense support to underwrite any stake of risk. We hope and believe that considering our strength, efficiency and legendary customer services to our client, we’ll place our position with maximum coverage at most competitive and economy price. International Finance Corporation (IFC) of World Bank Group is our equity partner since 2013. Green Delta Capital Ltd., Green Delta Securities Ltd., Professional Advancement Bangladesh Limited and GD Assist Limited are four of the direct subsidiaries. GDIC provides stock brokerage services through Green Delta Securities Ltd. (GDSL) and Investment Banking services through Green Delta Capital Ltd. (GDCL). Professional Advancement Bangladesh Limited provides international standard professional trainings, in collaboration with CII, UK and GD Assist Limited is an agency promoting health and marketing services. Scope of this COP 1. Human Rights 2. Labour Standards 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption Main emphasis on Work place, Community and the Government. 1. Description of practical actions taken to implement the UN Global Compact principles and quantitative measurement of performance. Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses a) The company does demonstrate its human rights a) Actions taken to implement commitment: protection policy by the following documents:  Provide attractive salary  Organizational structure  Allow incentives and other recognition awards  Employment rules  Training program abroad and In-house  Risk management plan  To introduce new product  Supplier selection criteria  Have the facilities of Group insurance Schemes  Investment policy rules  Customer relation systems  Employee information and training plan  Sponsorship, donation and social activity program b) A special team or committee in charge of implementing b) The committee is headed by the CEO of the company and liable to the this policy. Board of Governors. c) Measurement of outcomes and value added for our c) To compare the employee services in terms of business earnings. company.  The company provides information among its employees on the measures supporting human rights.  The company protects the rights of its customers by providing information about its products /services d) We have the communication channels for presenting d) We have the following channels: Green Delta Insurance to our clients.  We have newsletter/in house magazine as well as monthly bulletin  Green Delta Insurance Company Limited’s own website  We have active presence in social media platforms  We frequently visit our valued clients to share their views with our company  We have launched online digital insurance services The Key Milestone of Green Delta Insurance Company 10. Nasir A. Choudhury, Founder Managing Director & Advisor of Green Delta 1. Green Delta Insurance provides the maximum Insurance Company Ltd. received the Golden Award for quality & Business security with minimum cost. Prestige 2009 by Association Other Ways in Berlin. 2. The Paid up capital of Green Delta Ins. Co is now BDT 11. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded International Quality Crown 807 million which is the highest among all the private general Award IQC 2009 in Diamond category by Business Initiative Directions in insurance companies in Bangladesh. London recently for its TQM (Total Quality Management) that has been implemented for next two years. 3. Prompt claim settlement is the strength of our company. 12. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded Platinum Technology Award 4. Our company adheres to true professionalism, effective for Quality and Best Trade Name customer service, transparency and accountability, wide use of technology, inclusive management styles, well trained staff 13. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded the First Prize Winner and good company culture remained the strength behind the of “Best Published Accounts” in the 10th Institute of Chartered Accountants success of our company. of Bangladesh for 2009 (Non Banking Category – Insurance Sector) 5. Our distribution network is located around all over 14. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited was awarded “AA1” rating in the Bangladesh by our 43 branches. long term and “ST-1” rating in the short term by Credit Rating Agency of Bangladesh 6. The company is the proud sponsor of the 1st & 2nd Division Hockey League since 1987. In 2004, GDIC sponsored 15. Rapport Award for Excellence in Corporate Women Leadership 2011. Senior Division Hockey League and Premier Division Cricket League for the Second time. 16. Nasir A. Choudhury, F o u n d i n g Managing Director & Advisor of Green Delta insurance Company Ltd. was awarded Who’s Who membership 7. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has awarded for for 2010 – 2011 one of the bestpublished Annual Report in the Non-Banking financial sector several times. 17. As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility Green Delta Insurance Company Limited contributed toward “World Water Day 2011” 8. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been awarded for best Insurance Corporate Performance Award -2008 by 18. Ensuring access to primary health care is one of Green Delta’s key focus ICMAB (Institute of Cost and Management Accounts of areas for social intervention. On the occasion of its Silver Jubilee, and as part Bangladesh). of its Corporate Social Responsibility, Green Delta Insurance, jointly with Lion’s 9. On behalf of Green Delta Insurance Ltd, the Founder Club of Bonoful, Delta, organized a daylong Free Eye-Care Camp. Managing Director & Advisor, Mr. Nasir A. Choudhury, received The International Star Award for quality in the Gold 19. To ensure the life and safety of all employees against fire, Green Delta category in Switzerland, Geneva. organized a Fire Drill demonstration at the Head Office. 20. Green Delta Insurance Company Ltd. Founder Managing 29. Launched Nibedita, a Comprehensive Insurance Scheme for Women, which Director & Advisor, Mr. Nasir A. Choudhury was awarded for is the first of its kind in Bangladesh The Platinum Technology Award for Quality & Best trade name by Association OtherWays in Berlin. 30. Got engaged with Bangladesh Women Chamber of Commerce and Industry to sponsor them in their various programs to support the female 21. On behalf of Green Delta Insurance Ltd, the Founder entrepreneurs of our country. Managing Director & Advisor, Mr. Nasir A. Choudhury awarded “The BIZZ Award-2011” by World Business 31. Sponsored Bangladesh Premier League Cricket as the Insurance Partner Confederation of Business, USA for Leadership, Excellence in and insured all the national and international players, stars and organizers. management, Quality and Marketing. 32. Sponsored Bangladesh Youth Leadership Center’s (BYLC) Leadership boot 22. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been camp 2013 to patronize 100 young leaders selected from various universities awarded First Prize in ICMAB Best Corporate Award-2011 in all over the country. Insurance category. 33. Sponsored JAAGO Foundation for their activities regarding Children 23. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been Education and Children rights. conferred the ‘Certificate of Merit’ for the Best Presented Accounts Award 2010 in the category ‘Insurance Sector’ by the 34. Launched a campaign named ‘Ekbar Bhabun’ regarding Human rights and South Asian Federation of Accountants (SAFA). road safety issues 24. As a member of Bangladesh-Malaysia Chamber of 35. Launched ‘Ami Achi’ Campaign focusing on different areas of human rights Commerce & Industry (BMCCI), Green Delta Insurance donated in the fund for the Scholarship and Gold Medal in the 36. Launched the lifestyle and security mobile app for Nibeditaname of Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohammad with Dhaka University. Comprehensive Insurance Scheme for women, which has a panic button to summon friends and family as well as law enforcement agencies to safeguard 25. Green Delta Insurance Company Ltd. insured 573 women in times of perils Members of Finance Alumni Association of Dhaka University under Peoples Personal Accident Policy. 37. Launched Digital Insurance for the first time in Bangladesh 26. Introduced People’s personal Accident Policy for the 38. Launched weather index-based agriculture insurance for the first time in students of South-East University and University of Asia Bangladesh in 2018 jointly with IFC after successful completion of 3 pilot Pacific, the first of its kind in Bangladesh projects which were run since 2016 27. Sponsored Children’s Day Program Organized by Srilanka Association of Bangladesh 39. Ms. Farzanah Chowdhury, Chartered Insurer, MD & CEO of GDIC, has been awarded with the prestigious “Public trust Award” by CII (UK) for building 28. Became the Insurance partner of the T-20 Corporate people’s trust in insurance and financial services Cricket League 2012 and insured all the players and organizers with Personal Accident Policy 40. Launched Livestock insurance for the first time in Bangladesh in 2019 Labour Standards: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation a) Our company does demonstrate its Labor Standard a) The company has following measures for maintaining labor standards: policy by the following documents:  The company has a plan for employment, training and career  Organizational structure development, the criteria being transparent for the employees. The company has clear rules regarding working hours, breaks, etc. Job  Employment rules advertisements guarantee equal opportunity to all able candidates.  Risk management plan  The company has a formal representation of the employees in the management. The company has a formal system to hear the opinion  Supplier selection criteria of the employees.  Customer relation systems  The company’s web site publicly displays information about different indicators regarding the diversity of company employees, including in  Employee information and training plan management bodies and others `  External audit reports The company supports projects of organizations, which:  Sexual Harassment Policy  train higher grade students to use their labor rights  Grievance policy  assist women in acquiring entrepreneurial skills Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. a) The company demonstrates its environment protection a) The precautionary approach of the company guarantees that it collects policy by the documents: information in order to identify, monitor and assess the possible environmental effects of its products and services  Risk management plan  The company supervised under the Credit Rating authority which is  Supplier selection criteria compulsory by the Insurance Act  Customer relation systems  The company allocates for new officers and other resources for inhouse training programmes  Employee information and training plan  The company states clearly its planned environmental targets and  Marketing plans achievements (on the web site, news letter, etc.)  Recyclable materials  Low carbon emitting materials Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Documents that could bear on elements of anti-corruption The company has following measures against corruption: policy:  The company observes strict rules with regard to donations,  financial rules and orders regarding gifts, social expenses including for political parties, guaranteeing transparency. and representational expenses  The employees are informed about the company policy thanks to  purchase rules and purchase committee an internal bulletin.  description of connected persons  The all financial expenses informed to the Board which has all rights to enquiry, decision or reject.  Rules for service payments to employees 3. Sharing the COP with the company’s stakeholders – available links to the company’s Communication on Progress and additional information on the location of the COP report Contact person: NASIRUDDIN AHMAD CHOUDHURY Advisor & Founding MD Contact information: if you are unable to contact with Mr. Choudhury then please contactSYED MOINUDDIN AHMED AMD & Company Secretary Date of submission: 17.09.2020
