CSR Report 2019 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Page 1 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 CONTENTS 03 CEO’S COMMENTS 33 A GOOD PLACE TO WORK 05 ABOUT KOHBERG 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 08 CSR STRATEGY AND FOCUS AREAS 52 KPI – DEFINITIONS 14 SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION 56 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT AND COMPANY PROFILE 23 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS Published by: Kohberg Bakery Group A/S, Kernesvinget, 6392 Bolderslev, Denmark www.kohberg.com www.kohberg.com This report is not only Kohberg’s annual report on our corporate social responsibilities but also a mandatory report in pursuance of Article 99a of the Danish Annual Statements Act regarding social responsibility. The same report is filed as our annual (CoP) Communication on Progress with regard to the United Nations Global Compact scheme. Page 2 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 BREAD BAKED IN DENMARK WITH DANISH FLOUR In 2019, Kohberg decided to bake with Danish flour. The main ingredients Since the company’s foundation in 1969, we have remained firmly rooted in our conventional and organic breads and pastries are flours from grain in the soil at Bolderslev in Southern Jutland. By baking with Danish flour, that is grown, harvested and ground to flour in Denmark. we repay our debt to society because we support Danish agriculture and other industries that deliver goods and services to the agricultural sector. Danish flour is advantageous in many ways. The principal reason for choosing to bake with Danish flour is that Kohberg wishes to take Our responsibilities also extend to our employees, everyone of whom responsibility. We base our CSR work exclusively on UN Sustainable does his or her bit to ensure that Kohberg supplies delicious, well-baked Development Goal no. 12 – Responsible consumption and production. We bread in Denmark and abroad. Kohberg would be nothing without regard this as our special goal because taking responsibility for our own our dedicated employees. Here too, we are proud to take actions and impact on our surroundings is embedded in Kohberg’s DNA. responsibility. Therefore, we extend a helping hand to employees who have special needs, and offer As a Danish-owned food company, we seek, wherever possible, to use flexijobs and other solutions to help them Danish ingredients in the quantities and volumes that we require. We do surmount their challenges. We contribute so because we know, for example, that Danish crops and food products actively to training the next generation of a are subject to very stringent inspections and this means that we mainqualified workforce by taking on apprentices tain high food safety standards. In addition, we achieve environmental in various specialist fields. We also provide benefits because Danish flour is transported over shorter distances than practical work experience positions for people flour of foreign origin. who need us to open a door for them to the labour market. Shorter transportation helps to reduce our carbon footprint, which means that Kohberg takes responsibility for its impact on the Kind regards, environment. We also take responsibility for the society of which we have been part for more than 50 years. René Normann Christensen CEO, Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Page 3 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 SELECTED KEY FIGURES 12 apprentices 9 flexijobs 60 % of our bread has the The largest Danish-owned bakery Nordic Keyhole label 0% of our eggs come from caged hens BRC Food Certificate 100 % Danish rye flour 80 100 % Every bread baked with 66 % Danish flour qualified of our bread RSPO-certified bakers palm oil carries a vegan label Page 4 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 ABOUT KOHBERG Page55 | | Kohberg Page KohbergBakery GroupA/S BakeryGroup A/S CSR CSRReport Report2019 2019 ABOUT KOHBERG OWNERSHIP Kohberg Bakery Group is the largest Danish-owned bakery. Kohberg is part of the ownership structure (shown here) under Almost every Danish consumer recognises the name. Danes eat KOFF A/S, a family-owned and -managed holding company. bread throughout the day – at breakfast, lunch and dinner, and in Kohberg Bakery Group is KOFF A/S’ largest food-producing snacks between meals. company. Our 524 employees – of whom 80 are fully qualified bakers – work This CSR Report describes Kohberg Bakery Group A/S including at three bakeries at Bolderslev, Haderslev and Taastrup in H. C. Andersen Bagergården A/S Denmark, and at our Hinnerup warehouse. KOHBERG AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 2019 Revenue MDKK 941.9, EBITDA MDKK 46.7, Equity MDKK 92.3, As a food-producing company, Kohberg makes an impact on its 524 employees. surroundings. Similarly, factors in our surroundings impinge upon us, e.g. public authorities and legislation, the employees at our Per Fogtmann bakeries, our customers and the consumers who enjoy our bread, Jesper Fogtmann 100% cakes and Danish pastries. 100% 50-66,65% 50-66,65% PF HOLDING AABENRAA ApS JF HOLDING AABENRAA ApS 100% KOFF A/S 90-99,99% 100% 90-99,99% 100% FF CAPITAL A/S KOHBERG Crispy Food A/S BAKERY GROUP A/S EASIS A/S 50-66,65% NAKSKOV 100% MILL FOODS A/S Nisco ApS H.C. ANDERSEN Authorities Owners Employees Suppliers Customers Consumers BAGERGÅRDEN A/S Page 6 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our primary product is bread, delivered freshly baked and food service wholesalers and the retail trade. Organic and vegan pre-packed. We also supply frozen bake-off bread and Danish variants are available in several product categories. Kohberg also pastry. Kohberg sells its products on the Danish and international offers its food service customers gluten-free and lactose-free markets under its own brand and as private label products to e.g. bread. Our range includes the following product categories: RYE BREADS & LUNCH AND BREAKFAST BUNS BUNS MULTIGRAIN BREADS WHITE BREADS SANDWICHES & DANISH PASTRY SNACKS FASTFOOD & CAKES Page 7 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 CSR STRATEGY AND FOCUS AREAS Page88 | | Kohberg Page KohbergBakery GroupA/S BakeryGroup A/SCSR CSRReport Report2019 2019 CSR STRATEGY AND FOCUS AREAS We have a consistent, common target: At Kohberg, we bake the Kohberg has chosen to focus primarily on UN Sustainable best bread for the Danish people. We have devised a framework Development Goal no. 12 because it is here that we as a food for ourselves and for our business activities. We also have a producing company can make most difference. mission. Moreover, we are diligent in our work with Corporate Social Responsibility because acting responsibly and encouraging FOCUS AREAS our surroundings to do the same, adds value for our customers, Based on recent research, at Kohberg we have decided to build our business partners and ourselves. CSR work on three pillars/focus areas. These are: Environmentally Sustainable Consumption, Good Food and UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS A Good Place to Work. SDG 12 – RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION We have added a fourth pillar, Responsible Corporate Continued economic growth and sustainable development Governance, as this indirectly affects the other three. depend on successfully minimising our impact on the natural environment. We can achieve this in many ways, including changing how we consume resources and dispose of waste and pollutant substances. As a commercial enterprise, Kohberg is obliged to examine how we recycle and reduce waste volumes. As a food company, we are actively involved in efforts to reduce global food waste per head by half. We believe this will improve food product safety at the international level and help drive the world economy towards a better use of its resources. Page 9 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 THE UN’S 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN Sustainable Development Goals comprise 17 specific goals As a food producing company, it makes perfect sense for us to with 169 sub-goals that oblige UN member states to focus on a examine how we best utilise resources while minimising our more sustainable future for people and the planet we live on by impact on the climate and environment. This focus extends 2030. throughout the value chain, from the crops in the fields until Kohberg has chosen to focus on UN Sustainable Development Goal customers and consumers buy the finished bread. no. 12 and its sub-goals as the foundation for our work with CSR. Page 10 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 VISION We aim to be the most attractive baking company for our customers and we seek to add most value for their and our own sakes. UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Environmentally Good Food A Good Place Sustainable Products to work Consumption Consumption of resources Food safety Energy consumption Healthy food products Pollution Sustainable ingredients Responsible corporate governance Supplier management, fairness and transparency Mission We’re bakers. We are passionate about bread and we make it easy for you to buy good tasty fresh bread, no matter where you shop. Page 11 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 VALUE CHAIN AND RISK FACTORS In connection with our strategic CSR work, we have studied As we aim to act responsibly, we strive consistently to minimise Kohberg’s value chain, including links of the chain at which any negative effects we may have. Kohberg affects its surroundings negatively or risks doing so. INGREDIENTS & GROWERS SUPPLIERS TRANSPORT KOHBERG CUSTOMERS CONSUMERS Chemical substances Chemical substances Co2 Waste and food waste Waste and food waste Waste and food waste Water consumption Water consumption Water consumption Waste and food waste Waste Co2 Biodiversity Co2 Animal welfare Co2 Food safety Food safety Food safety Food safety Food safety Food safety Indigenous people Indigenous people Particulate pollution Odours Traffic safety Noise Child labour Child labour Marketing Forced labour Forced labour Data Wages Wages Wages Wages (temps) Wages Working conditions Working conditions Working conditions Working conditions Working conditions Health Health Health Health Health Bribery Bribery Bribery Bribery Bribery Corruption Corruption Corruption Corruption Corruption Page 12 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 MATERIALITY By collecting information and analysing the wishes of our stakematrix, in which we plot various aspects of CSR work and weight holders and the risks not only at Kohberg but also throughout the them according to their relative importance for our stakeholders value chain, we can summarise the situation in a materiality and Kohberg, respectively. Pride and meaning Reporting Higher Purchase guarantee Food safety Eliminate food additives Safety at work Traceability Renewable energy and climate Human rights Reliable delivery Taxation Policies Waste and recycling Compliance Organics Pollution Sustainable packaging Indigenous people Healthy food products Biodiversity Noise Animal welfare/battery eggs Health at work Importance to society Particulate emissions Chemicals Child labour Water consumption Forced labour Employment conditions Odours Job creation Data security Anti-corruption Fair marketing Wastewater pollution Supplier management Careers and challenges Fair competition Food waste Donations Transparency Optimised use of resources Good corporate governance Local community Palm oil Discrimination and inclusion Gender distribution in management High Importance to Kohberg Higher Page 13 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION Page 14 || Page 14 Kohberg Bakery Group Kohberg Bakery Group A/S A/S CSR CSR Report Report 2019 2019 ENVIRONMENTALLY CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION STRONG FOCUS ON WASTE Every day at our three bakeries, Kohberg bakes thousands of At Kohberg, we intend the bread we bake to be eaten. Focus on loaves and Danish pastries and subsequently distributes these avoiding waste is one of our highest priorities. We measure our products to stores, wholesalers and eateries across the country. process and finished product waste and, by means of consistent We have strong focus on our consumption. We strive to optimisation and improving work processes, we have over the incorporate eco-friendly and sustainable alternatives into our years successively reduced both process and food waste. patterns of consumption throughout the value chain – from the crops growing in the fields until the bread is transported to our Consequently, we have examined opportunities to reduce waste customers. We also strive to reduce the volume of waste. in many functions at our bakeries – in day-to-day operations and maintenance, and in sales and distribution processes. To ensure that we maintain consistent focus on waste, we hold daily meetings at which waste is discussed. INGREDIENTS & GROWERS SUPPLIERS TRANSPORT KOHBERG CUSTOMERS CONSUMERS Page 15 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 FORECASTING SYSTEM TO REDUCE FOOD WASTE As a bakery, Kohberg begins making the dough a while before the “Our aim is to give consumers access to bread that is as fresh as bread is sold. However, fresh-packed bread keeps for only a few possible in the shops. We aim for supply to equal demand. The days. To forecast the demand for bread more accurately, Kohberg new system will allow us to coordinate our value chain better and plans to implement a new forecasting system that each evening adapt production to meet demand – from the forecast to sales and will produce regional sales forecasts for the Danish market. The from production to ingredients.” system is user-friendly and less dependent on individual key staff. Flemming Svenningsen, Supply Chain Manger Page 16 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 THINK TANK TO REDUCE FOOD WASTE Kohberg played a key role in the “Danmark mod Madspild” at Kohberg cannot simply sit back and watch one third of the (Denmark fights Food Waste) campaign. In 2019, we joined a new world’s food go to waste. Kohberg joined the think tank because, Danish think tank, ONE\THIRD, in which 55 food producing thanks to our wholehearted approach to the baker’s craft and our companies, stakeholders, public authorities and research consumption of ingredients, we have a wealth of relevant scientists are joining forces to combat and prevent food waste. knowledge and expertise, and can contribute to resolving food waste problems.” “As a Danish-owned bakery and food producing company, we René Normann Christensen, CEO, Kohberg Bakery Group. Page 17 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 APPROACH TO PLASTIC It is important that our fresh-baked, pre-packed bread variants “By implementing thinner film and reducing the quantity of are packed in the right type of packaging. In addition to abiding by superfluous plastic, we expect to reduce our total consumption of specific food contact regulations, Kohberg is keen to contribute to plastic by 5-7 percent in 2020. We engage in a close dialogue with sustainable, eco-friendly solutions. Kohberg’s new packaging the plastics industry, colleagues in our own industry and the retail policy seeks to reduce the quantities of plastic we use by sector with a view to taking other measures to reduce our optimising bag sizes and examining film thickness. consumption of plastics.” Britt Hougaard, Marketing and Communication Manager Page 18 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 ENERGY CONSUMPTION RECORDS AND MANAGEMENT NEW TRUCKS ON THE ROADS Kohberg has three bakeries and a relatively high energy During 2019, Kohberg switched the last of its fleet to new more consumption. When you bake large quantities of bread, you fuel-efficient trucks. The initiative reduced the company’s diesel inevitably consume a certain amount of energy, although consumption in its own trucks compared to total products sold Kohberg does strive consistently to reduce energy consumption to 5.05 litres per ton, and reduced the number of kilometres per throughout the bakery. We aim to reduce total CO2 emissions per litre to 3.85. The truck replacement process was still under way in kilogramme of finished product. 2019. To achieve this, Kohberg seeks to record more of the bakeries’ CO2 As all of our trucks are now fuel-efficient and comply with the emissions and measure our electricity and renewable energy most stringent EU fuel economy regulations regarding NOx and consumption. If we record and measure consumption more particulate emissions, the company does not expect to be able to precisely, we will be in a better position to identify areas in which make further reductions. Kohberg can implement new readings or improvements to reduce energy consumption. Page 19 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 BREAD WITH A LOW CARBON FOOTPRINT Bread has a relatively low carbon footprint compared with other food “Flour is the main ingredient in our bread, which means that products. A significant part of the bread’s CO2 is emitted during raw reducing transportation on this one ingredient makes a difference. materials transport. Kohberg envisages that the switch to Danish There are many benefits associated with baking with Danish flour will reduce these emissions. Studies conducted by the National flour – lower carbon emissions is just one.” Centre for Food and Agriculture show that bread baked using Danish René Normann Christensen, CEO, Kohberg Bakery Group. flour emits about 20 percent less CO2 because transportation from a foreign country to Denmark is dispensed with. Page 20 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION ANNUAL RESULTS 2019 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS ACTION RESULTS Process waste Process optimisation -7.4 % process waste from commodities/ Consumption of resources Chemical 6.9 % process waste from commodities/ Focus on waste at weekly meetings ingredients – from purchase to finished substances ingredients – from purchase to finished product product (5,560 tons of process waste Policy Water consumption (5,200 tons of process waste from total 75,224 from total 75,224 tons of products sold). Environment Policy Waste and tons of products sold) Climate policy food waste Focus on discards, forecasting and planning 2,2 % food waste from finished products Food waste Biodiversity 1.9 % food waste from finished products – – from packing of product to sale Animal welfare from packing of product to sale (1,650 tons of food waste from total CO2 (1,400 tons of food waste from total 75,224 75,224 tons of products sold) tons of products sold) Sustainable packaging All repurchased bread trays are made of recycled All of our plastic bread trays are made of (New goal, not recorded in 2018) plastic recycled plastic All of our plastic bread trays are made of Input to packaging policy obtained from customers. Prepared a plastics policy for freshrecycled plastic. The public authorities’ plans for waste disposal is a baked, pre-packed bread We will finalise our packaging policy key issue Continual implementation of bags made Consistent substitution of the type of plastic film of mono plastic and a substitute for used to make bread bags. The new film is 8 % plastic chips by week no. 40 in 2022 thinner and saves on superfluous plastic Energy consumption CO2 Electricity consumption Recording and measuring consumption at A number of minor initiatives taken to (New goal, not recorded in 2018) various stages in production lines save DKK 500,000. Policy Initiatives to save DKK 500,000 844 kWh per ton of finished product Climate policy Diesel consumption Switch to new, more fuel-efficient trucks 4.2 km per litre consumed by our own 3.85 km per litre consumed by own trucks trucks (realised a 31 % improvement on (a 20 % improvement on 3.2 km per litre in 3.2 km per litre in 2018) 2018) Pollution Particulate pollution Particulate emissions -We continue to operate trucks that comply All our own trucks comply with All our own trucks comply with stringent EU with stringent EU fuel economy regulations stringent EU fuel economy regulations Policy fuel economy regulations Environment Policy Page 21 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION GOALS 2020 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS PLANNED ACTION Consumption of resources Chemical Process waste -Process optimisation and efficiency measures substances -7.3 % process waste from commodities/ingredients – Focus on waste at weekly meetings Policy from purchase to finished product (5,256 tons of process Environment Policy Water consumption waste from forecast total 72,000 tons of products sold) Climate policy Waste and food waste Food waste Better forecasts, better exploited. Biodiversity 2.0 % food waste from finished products – from Process optimisation and efficiency measures CO2 packing of product for sale (1440 tons of foot waste from forecast total products sold = 72,000 tons) Sustainable packaging All repurchased bread trays are made of recycled plastic. 820 kWh per ton of finished products, corresponding to Continual implementation of bags made of mono plastic and a 2.8 % saving compared to 2019 a substitute for plastic chips by week no. 40 in 2022 Energy consumption CO2 Electricity consumption Optimisation and investments in technology 820 kWh per ton produceret færdigvarer, svarende til Policy en besparelse på 2,8 % ift. 2019 Climate policy Diesel consumption Significant change to route plans entails more stops 4.0 km per litre consumed by own trucks (a 4% decline on 4.2 km per litre in 2019) Pollution Particulate Particulate emissions We continue to operate trucks that comply with pollution All our own trucks comply with stringent EU fuel stringent EU fuel economy regulations Policy economy regulations Environment Policy Page 22 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS Page 23 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 Page 23 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS We bake Kohberg bread, cakes and pastries using proud baking The overarching goal of the BRC Global Standard for Food Safety traditions, accumulated over 50 years. Alfred Kohberg opened his is to ensure food safety for the consumer. Kohberg is obliged to first bakery in 1960 and soon became famous for his delicious rye describe every procedure and work process. The British Retail bread. Ever since then, we at Kohberg have focused on making Consortium inspects our material once a year. In 2019, two of our good bakery products using good quality ingredients. In addition bakeries are BRC certified at Grade B. Our bakery in Haderslev to calling for tasty bread, cakes and pastries, our customers also is now classified as a BRC Grade A bakery, the highest possible look for healthier alternatives that meet their expectations rating. regarding food product safety and responsibility. Making good, WE AIM TO ACHIEVE ELITE SMILEYS tasty products is our most important goal. When we source At Kohberg, we believe it is imperative to maintain strict discipline commodities and ingredients, we monitor that they meet our own when it comes to hygiene and self-inspection. As a food standards. producing company, we work closely with the authorities but in FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY the final analysis, food safety is all about meeting our customers’, our employees’ and our own expectations. The Danish Veterinary INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATE and Food Administration’s (DVFA) mandatory audits help to keep All three Kohberg bakeries, in Bolderslev, Haderslev and us on our toes and ensure that we strive to maintain consistently Taastrup respectively, have achieved the international BRC Global high standards and be awarded an Elite Smiley. In 2019, the DVFA Standard for Food Safety from the British Retail Consortium. awarded our bakeries at Haderslev and Taastrup, the BRC is a standard that requires food producing companies to warehouse in Hinnerup and cold store in Haderslev, an Elite comply with the most stringent requirements regarding Smiley. At Bolderslev, we have of course rectified all the remarks management, food product safety, hygiene, maintenance and but we cannot regain our Elite Smiley until 12 months have employee training. The certificates include Kohberg’s depots at elapsed since the last remark. Haderslev and Hinnerup. Page 24 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 HEALTHY FOOD PRODUCTS WE BAKE WITH DANISH FLOUR SIGNALS FOR CONSUMERS Kohberg has baked with Danish flour, conventional and organic, Kohberg consistently launches new, healthier bread products that since 1 December 2019. This means that the main ingredient carry the Whole Grain Label and/or the Nordic Keyhole label. We in Kohberg bread and Danish pastry is flour from grain that is do this to help consumers make healthier choices. In 2019, 21 of grown, harvested and ground in Denmark. As we are a Danish our fresh-baked, pre-packed bread and buns products carried the food producing company, if possible we essentially select Danish Whole Grain Label that guarantees that the bread contains more ingredients. We bake with Danish flour because Danish crops and whole grains and has a healthy nutritional profile (fats, carbohyfood products are subject to very stringent inspections. When we drates, salt and fibre). This amounts to 43.75 percent of Kohberg’s use Danish flour, we therefore offer our customers high standards fresh-baked, pre-packed bread. In 2019, 29 of our fresh-baked, of food safety. Meanwhile, we prefer to use Danish grain that is pre-packed bread carried the Nordic Keyhole label, corresponding cultivated without plant growth regulators or pesticides to more than 60 percent of this product category. containing glyphosate. On average, Danes consume 63 g of whole grains a day. The official recommendation is 75 g per day, which corresponds to Another benefit of our using Danish flour is that we are repaying three slices of our delicious Herkules rye bread. our debt to the society of which we have been part for the past 50 years. By baking with Danish flour, we repay our debt to society because we support Danish agriculture and other industries that deliver goods and services to our agricultural sector. Using Danish flour, we also help to create jobs in Denmark and reinvest in Danish society. Page 25 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 SUSTAINABLE INGREDIENTS Ø IS FOR ORGANIC Denmark has led the field in organic products for many years. The Danish state authorities inspect products bearing the Danish Belief in the value of organic ingredients is as popular among Ø-logo and the text “statskontrolleret økologisk”. The green EU consumers as it is in professional kitchens. At Kohberg, organic organic logo indicates that the bread complies with the food is very close to our heart. We use specially selected guidelines in the EU Organic Regulation. Kohberg joined both ingredients to bake the best organic bread. Baking with organic labelling schemes voluntarily. 12.5 percent of our fresh-baked, ingredients demands more of us as bakers. However, as we are pre-packed bread is organic. masters of our craft, we can give customers and consumers the chance to choose organic alternatives and they can rest assured that the bread meets all official requirements regarding organic products. Page 26 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 NO EGGS FROM CAGED HENS 100 PERCENT SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL As a food-producing company, Kohberg believes that animal In 2012, Kohberg joined the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil welfare is important. Consequentially, we do not use eggs from (RSPO). Today we use only certified segregated palm oil. The use caged hens in our bread, cakes and Danish pastries. We also of only certified segregated palm oil applies throughout our require our suppliers to avoid using eggs from caged hens. All supply chain. Kohberg receives reliable deliveries of the certified products produced at Kohberg have been 100 percent free of eggs palm oil. We also produce some bakery products in which we use from caged hens since 2016. alternatives to palm oil. This applies e.g. to our vegan Danish pastries. Read more about Kohberg and RSPO here: Page 27 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 GREEN ALTERNATIVES FOR A GREEN LIFESTYLE More and more consumers are opting to lead a green lifestyle, in lifestyle ethic. However, we are also working on new vegan which a plant-based diet is essential. While avoiding animal alternatives to classic bakery products to allow vegans and others products has become a sign that the individual has taken a to indulge in something delicious and still pander to their green conscious decision about his/her diet, other people who do not conscience.” necessarily ingest a stringent plant-based diet (often called Britt Hougaard, Marketing and Communication Manager flexitarians) regard vegetarianism and veganism as healthier choices. Kohberg has joined the Danish Vegetarian Association’s labelling “Kohberg rye bread is essentially vegan and contains no scheme. Twenty-three of the bakeries’ fresh-baked, pre-packed animal-based ingredients. Rye bread is also a climate-friendly bread products carry the Vegan label that guarantees that the food product with a low carbon footprint that matches the green bread contains no animal products, e.g. no milk, egg or honey. Page 28 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS ANNUAL RESULTS 2019 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS ACTION RESULTS Food product safety Food product safety BRC certificates Third-party certification agency Grade B at 2 locations, Grade A at 1 All three locations have a BRC certificat location Policy Human rights policy Elite Smiley DVFA inspections Four out of five locations are awarded an Four out of five locations are awarded an Elite Elite Smiley Smiley Internal BRC audits Internal audits All 14 planned internal BRC audits were 14 internal BRC audits conducted Internal supplier audits Audits of selected suppliers 2 supplier audits conducted 2 supplier audits Healthy food products Healthy food Glyphosate Supplier requirements 100 % of flour and grain products products 100 % of flour and grain products purchased are glyphosate-free Policy purchased are glyphosate-free Chemical substances Human rights policy Pollution Plant growth regulators Supplier requirements 100 % of flour and grain products 100 % of flour and grain products purchapurchased are free of plant growth sed are free of plant growth regulators regulators The Whole Grain Logo Recipe monitoring 43.75 % of the total number of 43.75 % of the total number of fresh-baked, Whole grain calculation fresh-baked, pre-packed bread products pre-packed bread products carry the Whole Grain Logo carry the Whole Grain Logo The Nordic Keyhole label Recipe monitoring 60.4 % of the total number of fresh60.4 % of the total number of fresh-baked, baked, pre-packed bread products carry pre-packed bread products carry the Nordic the Nordic Keyhole label Keyhole label Page 29 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 CONTINUED GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS ANNUAL RESULTS 2019 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS ACTION RESULTS Eggs Commodities/ingredients requirements – 100 % of eggs purchased (kg) are not Sustainable commodities/ Biodiversity 100 % of eggs purchased (kg) are not from caged suppliers from caged hens ingredients Animal welfare hens Child labour Policy Enforced labour Commodities/ingredients requirements – 100 % of palm oil purchased (kg) is Palm oil Environment Policy Working conditions suppliers RSPO-certified 100 % of palm oil purchased (kg) is RSPOWages certified Chemical substances 12.5 % of the total number of freshOrganic Supplier requirements baked, pre-packed bread products are 12.5 % of the total number of fresh-baked, Recipe follow-ups organic pre-packed bread products are organic Organic accounting Organic inspection Page 30 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS GOALS 2020 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS PLANNED ACTIONS Food product safety Food product safety BRC certificates Third-party certification agency All three locations have a BRC certificate Policy Elite Smiley DVFA inspections Human rights policy Four out of five locations are awarded an Elite Continual improvement of processes Smiley Internal BRC audits Internal audits 14 internal BRC audits conducted Internal supplier audits -Audits of selected suppliers 2 supplier audits Healthy food products Healthy food products Glyphosate Supplier requirements Chemical substances 100 % of flour and grain products Policy Pollution purchased are glyphosate-free Human rights policy Plant growth regulators Supplier requirements 100 % of flour and grain products purchased are free of plant growth regulators Danish flour Use of Danish rye and Danish wheat – Rye – conventional conventional and organic 100 % Danish flour Rye – organic At least 75 % Danish flour Wheat – conventional At least 75 % Danish flour Wheat – organic At least 50 % Danish flour The Whole Grain Logo Recipe monitoring 44 % of the total number of fresh-baked, preWhole grain calculation packed bread products carry the Whole Grain Logo The Nordic Keyhole label Recipe monitoring 61 % of the total number of fresh-baked, pre-packed bread products carry the Nordic Keyhole label Page 31 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 CONTINUED GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS GOALS 2020 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS PLANNED ACTIONS Sustainable commodities/ Biodiversity Eggs Commodities/ingredients requirements – ingredients Animal welfare 100 % of eggs purchased (kg) are not from caged hens suppliers Child labour Palm oil Commodities/ingredients requirements – Policy Enforced labour 100 % of palm oil purchased (kg) is RSPOsuppliers Environment Policy Working conditions certified Wages Chemical substances Vegan 66 % of the total number of fresh-baked, Commodities/ingredients requirements – pre-packed bread products are vegan suppliers Organic -Supplier requirements 13 % of the total number of fresh-baked, Recipe follow-ups pre-packed bread products are organic Organic accounting Organic inspection Page 32 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 A GOOD PLACE TO WORK Page 33 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 Page 33 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 A GOOD PLACE TO WORK We employ 524 people at our bakeries and warehouse, and in efforts to communicate them. The analysis also showed the blind sales and administration. We believe it is important that Kohberg spots at our locations that needed better signposting. is a good, responsible and safe place to work. A Great Place to In 2019, there were 32 reports of accidents and injuries with Work is therefore also a core focus area for us. We focus on absence, which was unfortunately an increase compared to 2018. developing initiatives that improve safety at work and ensure that We aim to bring the number of accidents and injuries at work we can accommodate the different types of people we employ below the industry average within the next two years. That we and how we ensure that the individual employee thrives and have extra focus on safety is demonstrated by the fact that the develops competences. number of near misses reported in 2019 rose to 167, where the target was 89. This was in fact a positive result as it reflects more OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY widespread awareness of our blind spots. WE CHECK OUR BLIND SPOTS WORK ENVIRONMENT SMILEY As Kohberg is a production company, safety is a priority issue for Kohberg cooperates with the authorities on the work us. We strive to improve the working environment and environment at the company as a matter of course. The Danish safety across the organisation. We record all accidents and injuries Working Environment Authority often visits Kohberg to check at work and near misses. In the past, we aimed to record more that we comply with current regulations and legal requirements. near misses as these reports show where we need to implement We have an effective works committee that helps to spotlight this changes and adopt new routines. An analysis of the near misses area. In 2019, all five Kohberg locations had a green Work reported in 2019 led to increased focus on internal traffic at Environment Smiley. This shows that we meet work environment Kohberg locations. At bakeries and in the warehouses, there is regulations regarding e.g. noise, heavy lifting and the mental forklift truck, bicycle and pedestrian traffic. To make the working work environment. day safer, we have tightened internal guidelines and made special Page 34 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 BRIAN RAISES SAFETY STANDARDS In October 2019, Brian Vestergaard Olesen was hired as OHSE “The more we know, the more we can change and improve on. Coordinator at Kohberg. Brian’s function helps to support and At Kohberg, we have embarked on a new journey and in future, boost focus on safety issues in certain parts of Kohberg. Safety we will make ongoing improvements. It will be a long journey and safety challenges are permanent items on the agenda at because behaviours and habits take time to change. Changing whiteboard meetings and production meetings, and Brian is habits and routines is actually the most important aspect of work currently working on a new system of recording accidents and environment initiatives.” near misses. Brian Vestergaard Olesen, OHSE Coordinator Page 35 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 TOLERANT WORKPLACE WE TAKE RESPONSIBILITY WOMEN IN MANAGERIAL POSITIONS Kohberg can accommodate – and is indeed very willing to By 2022, we aim to have at least one woman hold a seat on the accommodate – special needs. We are all different and society Board of Kohberg Bakery Group (one of four seats = 25 percent). must provide more jobs that are adapted to the individual. At There were no elections to the board in 2019 so the situation is Kohberg, we employ a number of people on special conditions of unchanged. employment. In 2019, there were nine people in flexijobs at Kohberg, seven in production and two in administration. We aim to achieve an appropriate equal distribution of men and women in managerial positions. We therefore strive to ensure that It is also important that we at Kohberg contribute to training the every employee has the same opportunities, regardless of gender. next generation of qualified employees. The young will help us in Nevertheless, when we hire new employees and appoint leaders, the future so it is important that we help them now. In 2019, we seek to ensure that we hire the best candidate regardless of Kohberg increased the number of apprenticeships offered gender. throughout the company to 12. In 2020, we aim to take on one further apprentice, in the accounts department. At the end of 2019, the executive management team numbers five. Of these five, two are female. We consider the 40:60 ratio Throughout the year, Kohberg welcomes many people on between females and males to be satisfactory. From 2020, we will practical work experience, all of whom for some reason need a record the gender distribution in executive management, helping hand to gain a foothold in the employment market. A currently 29 people, in order to present a more comprehensive typical period of practical work experience lasts three months, picture of gender distribution in leadership positions at Kohberg. after which time there are various opportunities to continue the induction process if both parties wish, including positions at Kohberg. Page 36 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 HCA NOMINATED TO RECEIVE SOCIAL AWARD At H. C. Andersen Bagergaarden, the Kohberg bakery in Haderslev, “We all know of someone who has been through hard times or there are invariably people working a period of practical work buckled under. It could happen to anyone of us and it is important experience in the bakery and as cleaners. In January 2020, the that we take social responsibility. As a company, I believe we are bakery was nominated Socially Responsible Company of the Year duty bound to help. Newcomers here are always allocated a buddy. in Haderslev Municipality. The award was motivated by Kohberg’s If I see someone new here, I will invariably have a chat with him or tolerant and socially responsible approach to people during their her. And my door is always open.” practical work experience period. Teddy Krogh Jensen, Bakery Manager H. C. Andersen Bagergaarden Page 37 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEES WITH NEW COMPETENCES In 2019, Kohberg again made determined efforts to offer Some of the programme is run under the auspices of the IKUF employees courses and further training. Having well-qualified industrial skills development scheme, which offers all our employees is one way to ensure future success at Kohberg, and employees two weeks’ training of their choice every year. we appreciate the value of having happy employees and giving For example, unskilled employees can train to become process them a chance to develop their skills. A well-educated workforce operators via the IKUF scheme. During 2019, more of our also makes it easier for us to recruit within our ranks. employees completed basic leadership training. Three leaders have completed professional leadership training. Page 38 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 KENN IS GAME FOR MORE It all began with a job capacity assessment. Kenn Schmidt is now “It was difficult in the beginning but everyone was willing to in permanent full-time employment at Kohberg. This is a Kohberg make allowances. And I was welcomed like any other man on the success story, a story of patience, support and training that has team. I’m sure that my colleagues’ backing helped me give me the benefited the individual and the company. courage to take on more.” In 2018, Kenn began a period of practical work experience at Having taken courses and undergone special training in cleaKohberg in Bolderslev. Kenn’s downfall was depression and ning techniques, 31-year-old Kenn now has the special expertise initially he worked only a few hours a week. Slowly but surely, required to work as a cleaning assistant at the Kohberg bakery. He Kenn settled in and could work more hours. Subsequently, Kenn has recently started in full-time work – under normal conditions attended cleaning courses. of employment. “Kohberg helped to get me back on my feet and I have settled in well. And I’m simply delighted not to have to go out and start from square once again somewhere else.” Kenn Schmidt, Cleaning Assistant Page 39 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 MARIA IS A ROLE MODEL At 23, Maria Hammelsvang is currently training to become a proDanish Vocational School’s Students’ cess operator at Kohberg. The two-year course of further training Organisation. builds on her industrial operator training. Further training was not offered at the workplace where she served her apprenticeship. “I tell the pupils what it is like to At Kohberg, she learns the baker’s craft and how the bread take vocational training. I’m a role production lines work, so that she can identify and resolve model who shows them that problems with either dough or machinery, and knows when to there are many different call for help. paths to choose.” “At Kohberg I’m not just an apprentice. There’s a friendly atmosphere. We help each other. It’s a great place to work. I love worMaria Hammelsvang, king here.” Apprentice Process Operator The process operator training takes Maria a step closer to her career goal. In time, she hopes to become a Production Manager responsible for keeping production going. Maria is pleased to talk about her apprenticeship and her ambitions when she visits schools as part of her work as an ambassador for Page 40 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 A GOOD PLACE TO WORK ANNUAL RESULTS 2019 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS ACTION RESULTS Occupational health and safety Safety at work Fatalities Consistent focus on continual improvements 0 fatalities Health at work 0 fatalities as a result of industrial accidents andpreventive actions within OHSE, Policy education and training Employees’ rights policy Boosted the OHSE organisation by hiring new OHSE Coordinator Industrial accidents From the end of 2019, resources allocated to 32 work-related injuries and accidents 25 % reduction compared to the 28 focus more on analysing accidents and near corresponding to a 14 % increase comwork-related injuries and industrial accidents misses to provide lessons learned and pared to no. of industrial accidents and with absence reported in 2018 improve prevention work injuries with absence reported in 2018 Boosted the OHSE organisation through new OHSE Coordinator Absence due to industrial accidents Prioritising safety as the first item discussed 86 days of absence due to work-related 25 % reduction of days of absence due to at whiteboard meetings. Consistent focus on accidents per 1000 workdays work-related accidents per 1,000 workdays continual improvements, preventive action in corresponds to a 68 % increase compared compared to 51 days of absence due to OHSE work and education and training to days of absence due to work-related work-related accidents per 1,000 workdays in 2018 accidents per 1,000 workdays in 2018 Near misses Recent implementation of new reporting 167 near misses (industrial accidents 100 near misses (industrial accidents and injuries) system and extra focus have resulted in and injuries) reported reported. (89 cases reported in 2018) more reports Work Environment Smiley Special focus on work environment Four of the five locations are awarded a All five locations are awarded a green Work green Work Environment Smiley Environment Smiley Page 41 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 CONTINUED A GOOD PLACE TO WORK ANNUAL RESULTS 2019 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS ACTION RESULTS Tolerant workplace Discrimination Special positions Maintain high quality of apprenticeship 9 flexijobs (2 in administration and 7 in Employment conditions 7 flexijobs training. production) Policy 9 apprenticeships Create awareness of Kohberg’s socially 12 apprenticeships Employees’ rights policy responsible approach among staff leaders (6 apprentice process operators, 5 apprentice Human rights policy automation technicians, 1 bakery apprentice) Gender distribution on the Board of Directors As there were no elections to the Board in 0 % of Board members is female (none 25 % of board members is female (one out of four) 2019, target is not yet met. of the four) (target by end of 2022) Focus on female candidates to the Board Gender distribution in executive management Focus on female candidates to the executive 40% in executive management is 40 % in executive management is female board female (two out of five) (two out of five) Employee Development Employment conditions Employee well-being/satisfaction No employee satisfaction survey conducted No employee satisfaction survey Safety at work Job satisfaction at at least 72 % in 2019. Leadership and LEAN training conducted. Leadership and LEAN training Policy Health at work conducted. conducted. Employees’ rights policy Education and training Maintain high quality of education and Salaried employees received 892 hours Education and training courses for salaried further training for hourly-paid and of external training. and hourly-paid employees as necessary salaried employees Three leaders have completed Conduct industrial skills development (IKUF) professional leadership training. training 2,295 hours of IKUF training for Launch internal project management course hourly-paid employees (27 people) About 1,125 hours of in-house training (project manager education) Page 42 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 A GOOD PLACE TO WORK GOALS 2020 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS PLANNED ACTION Occupational health and safety Safety at work Fatalities Extra focus on safety and goal-oriented instructions Health at work 0 fatalities as a result of industrial accidents Increased focus on safe patterns of behaviour Policy Safety is the first item on the agenda at whiteboard and production meetings Employees’ rights policy Industrial accidents Extra focus on safety and goal-oriented instructions 15 % reduction compared to 32 workIncreased focus on safe patterns of behaviour related injuries and industrial accidents with Safety is the first item on the agenda at whiteboard and production meetings absence reported in 2019 Industrial accidents compared to sector Extra focus on safety and goal-oriented instructions For serious accidents in hazardous work Increased focus on safe patterns of behaviour and in our sector, we wish to reduce the no. Safety is the first item on the agenda at whiteboard and production of accidents to the national average (or lowmeetings er) measured on incidence (no. of cases per 1,000 employees) Near misses Information about the importance of reporting and taking action +200 near misses (industrial accidents and on reported near misses Injuries) reported in-house Goal-oriented initiatives/projects Four special initiatives nominated and prioritised in 2020 – launch one per quarter Internal traffic and safety, uniform marking and regulations in all buildings, Goal-oriented steps to enhance contingency plans and first aid – conduct drill workforce skills re OHSE cooperation, Reduce the no. of accidents via nudging processes everyone acquainted with this work Draw up a plan for OHSE work in the coming years(2021 – 2022) One initiative per quarter Work Environment Smiley Special focus on working environment All five locations are awarded a green Working Environment Smiley Page 43 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 CONTINUED A GOOD PLACE TO WORK GOALS 2020 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS PLANNED ACTIONS Tolerant workplace Discrimination Special positions Encourage staff leaders to consider creating special positions Employment conditions 9 flexijobs and continue to take on apprentices Policy 13 apprenticeships Employees’ rights policy (6 apprentice process operators, 5 apprentice Human rights policy automation technicians, 1 bakery apprentice and 1 accounting apprentice) Gender distribution on the Board of Directors By 2022, the company aims to have at least one female Board member 25 % of board members is female (one out of four) (target by end of 2022) Gender distribution in executive management When hiring new leaders, if we have suitable candidates, candidates of both 20 % in executive management is female (six out of 29) genders will be invited to interview. Nevertheless, when hiring new employees The company aims to achieve an appropriate and appointing leaders, Kohberg seeks to ensure that we hire the best candidate equal distribution of males and females in the company’s regardless of gender various leadership groups Employee Development Employment conditions Education and training Maintain high quality of education and Safety at work Education and training courses for salaried further training for hourly-paid and salaried employees. Policy Health at work and hourly-paid employees as necessary Conduct industrial skills development (IKUF) training Employees’ rights policy Launch internal project management course Leadership training “Learn to lead” leadership training with external consultants. Leadership training of 30 leaders Expect about 30 leaders Page 44 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Page 45 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 2019 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At Kohberg, we have strong focus on responsibility and Our purchasing and quality departments hold monthly VACCP transparency. We do our utmost to act with decency and with meetings at which they discuss food safety and supplier respect for our stakeholders at all times. We are proud that we are assessments. Vulnerability Assessment and Critical Point (VACCP) consistently on the right side of the law, e.g. in marketing, is a management process that identifies vulnerabilities in the competition and combating corruption. Our Code of Conduct supply chain with special focus on dishonest conduct, adulteratidemands much of us. CoC requirements apply throughout the on and stolen goods. supply chain. SUPPLIERS SIGNATURES SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT While Kohberg is obliged to adhere to the principles in our Code of MONITORING SUPPLIERS Conduct, the Supplier Code of Conduct obliges our suppliers to a As a food producing company, it is essential that Kohberg has supset of ethical regulations that apply to management and pliers who are reliable and cooperative. We maintain close employees within several areas, including human rights, labour contacts with our suppliers, and measure and assess the rights and corruption. Suppliers must also act responsibly with individual supplier on a series of parameters. We check them in respect to climate and environment. accordance with the obligations implicit to our BRC accreditation All our suppliers of commodities and ingredients, packaging and and because we have a declared aim to develop our suppliers and wholesale goods have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct. These our partnerships with them. suppliers have highest priority because their products have direct We categorise our suppliers as: impact on our bread and Danish pastry. It is therefore important to Kohberg that everyone in this group of suppliers has signed the • New supplier SCoC. 54 percent of total purchase volume is sourced from suppli• Approved supplier ers who have signed the SCoC. The signature process is continu• Selected supplier ing because we seek to introduce even more of our suppliers to • Preferred supplier the SCoC. In 2020, we will categorise our suppliers in multiple purchasing categories in order to track and promote development in the coming years. Page 46 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 WE BUY FLOUR BEFORE THE GRAIN IS HARVESTED Kohberg’s decision to bake exclusively with Danish flour demands “Cooperation between Kohberg and our primary supplier of flour close cooperation between Kohberg and the supplier. To ensure is very close. We rely heavily on a dependable supply of the right that we have sufficient quantities of the right quality of Danish quality of wheat. We would not have this supply without our flour, Kohberg agrees to purchase the suppliers’ grain long before principal supplier. Similarly, we are an important customer for the it is harvested (in fact even before it is sown). Many factors, supplier. I believe it is important that supplier and customer are a including wind and rain, affect grain quality. Therefore, Kohberg good match. We wish all the best for them and they us.” purchases much of Danish agriculture’s grain in advance, e.g. Carsten Pedersen, Director of Group Procurement organic wheat. Page 47 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 FAIRNESS OPENNESS GOOD AND HONEST MARKETING PRACTICES CSR REPORTING Kohberg is a responsible company. We act fairly and This report is Kohberg’s annual report on our corporate social responsibly throughout the value chain and this includes responsibilities in pursuance of the Danish Annual Statements marketing the Kohberg brand and our bread, cakes and Danish Act. However, the report is also an important tool that, year on pastries. Our marketing campaigns are always decent, honest and year, ensures that we at Kohberg continue to improve how we act truthful. We meet every legal requirement and we respect the responsibly and sustainably with regard to our consumption, food principles of fair competition. Relevant members of staff are products, employees and corporate governance. The 2019 CSR continually taught competition law and compliance. New Report tells us where we are doing well and where there is room employees attend a similar training course, if relevant. for improvement. The same report is filed as our annual CoP (Communication on Progress) with regard to the United Nations Global Compact scheme. Page 48 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL RESULTS 2019 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS ACTION RESULTS Supplier management All risks Supplier Risk Assessment In accordance with Supplier Evaluation 2018, 71 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sour72 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced we selected specific suppliers for audit in 2019 ced from risk-assessed suppliers Policy from suppliers who are risk-assessed Human rights policy Employees’ rights policy Signing the Supplier Code of Conduct Obtain signatures 54 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourClimate policy 57 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced Evaluate if there are more relevant purchaced from suppliers who have signed Environment Policy from suppliers who have signed the SCoC sing categories where we must take steps the SCoC Anti-corruption Policy All our suppliers of commodities and ingredito get suppliers to sign the Supplier Code of All our suppliers of commodities and ents, packing and wholesale goods have signed Conduct ingredients, packing and wholesale goods the SCoC have signed the SCoC Supplier Self-assessment Suppliers complete a self-assessment 54 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sour57 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced All suppliers of commodities and ingredients, ced from suppliers who have completed from suppliers who have completed packaging and wholesale goods must complea self-assessment a self-assessment te a self-assessment All our suppliers of commodities and All our suppliers of commodities and ingredients, packaging and wholesale ingredients, packing and wholesale goods goods have completed a self-assessment have completed a self-assessment Fairness Unfair marketing practices Fair marketing 0 breaches of marketing legislation 0 breaches of marketing legislation Corruption 0 breaches of marketing legislation Our marketing campaigns are always decent, Policy Distortion of competition honest and truthful. Anti-corruption Policy We respect national regulations and the principles Human rights policy of fair competition. Relevant employees receive competition law and compliance training Anti-corruption Focus on anti-corruption 0 breaches of anti-corruption 0 breaches of anti-corruption legislation legislation Fair competition Relevant employees receive competition 0 breaches of competition law 0 breaches of competition law law and compliance training Page 49 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL RESULTS 2019 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS ACTION RESULTS Openness All risks CSR report Collected CSR data and published CSR Report CSR Report 2018 published Publication of CSR Report Policy Anti-corruption Policy Human rights policy Page 50 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOALS 2020 FOCUS AREAS RISKS GOALS PLANNED ACTIONS Risk Assessment – all external purchases Select suppliers for audit Supplier management All risks At least 70 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced from risk-assessed suppliers Risk assessment Policy Human rights policy Supplier Risk Assessment – suppliers of commodities and ingredients, packaging Select suppliers for audit Employees’ rights policy and wholesale goods Risk assessment Climate policy 100 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced from suppliers of commodities and ingredients, Environment Policy packaging and wholesale goods who are risk-assessed Anti-corruption Policy Signing the Supplier Code of Conduct – all external purchases Obtain signatures At least 65 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced from suppliers who have signed the SCoC Evaluate if more purchasing categories shall sign the SCoC Signing the Supplier Code of Conduct – suppliers of commodities and ingredients, Obtain signatures packaging and wholesale goods 100 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced from suppliers of commodities and ingredients, packaging and wholesale goods who have signed the SCoC Signing the Supplier Code of Conduct – commodities and ingredients, packaging and Obtain signatures wholesale goods,cleaning & logistics At least 65 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced from suppliers of commodities and ingredients, packaging and wholesale goods, Cleaning & logistics who have signed the SCoC Self-assessment – all external purchases Suppliers complete a self-assessment At least 65 % of purchase volume (DKK) is sourced from suppliers (all external purchases) Evaluate if more purchasing categories shall who have completed a self-assessment complete a self-assessment Fair marketing Conduct competition law and compliance Fairness Unfair marketing 0 breaches of marketing legislation training for relevant employees practices Policy Corruption Anti-corruption Focus on anti-corruption Anti-corruption Policy 0 breaches of anti-corruption legislation Human rights policy Distortion of competition Fair competition Relevant employees receive competition law and 0 breaches of competition law compliance training Openness All risks CSR Report Collected CSR data and published CSR Report 2019 Publication of CSR Report 2019 Policy Anti-corruption Policy Human rights policy Page 51 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 KPI – DEFINITIONS Page52 Page 52 | | Kohberg KohbergBakery GroupA/S BakeryGroup A/S CSR CSRReport Report2019 2019 KPI – DEFINITIONS ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES Process waste Process waste from commodities/ingredients – from purchase to packed product (as a percentage of total production in tons) Food waste Food waste from finished products – from packing of the product for sale compared to total products sold (in tons) ENERGY CONSUMPTION Diesel consumption No. of kilometres per litre consumed by our own trucks POLLUTION Particulate emissions Percentage of our own trucks that comply with the most stringent EU fuel economy regulations GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY BRC Certificates No. of locations awarded BRC food safety certification Elite Smiley No. of locations awarded an Elite Smiley (awarded by the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration via third-party audit) Audits No. of internal BRC audits conducted on own sites HEALTHY FOOD PRODUCTS Glyphosate Percentage share of flour and grain products purchased that are glyphosate-free Plant growth regulators Percentage share of flour and grain products purchased that are free of plant growth regulators Danish Flour Percentage share of organic rye, conventional rye, organic wheat and conventional wheat flour that is ground from grain grown in Danish fields Whole Grain Logo Percentage share of the total number of fresh-baked, pre-packed bread products that carry the Whole Grain Logo Nordic Keyhole Label Percentage share of the total number of fresh-baked, pre-packed bread products that carry the Nordic Keyhole label Page 53 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES Egg Percentage share of eggs purchased (kg) that are not from caged hens Palm oil Percentage share of RSPO (Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil) certified palm oil Vegan Percentage share of total number of fresh-baked, pre-packed bread products that are vegan Organic Percentage share of the total number of fresh-baked, pre-packed bread products that are certified organic A GOOD PLACE TO WORK OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Fatalities No. of fatalities resulting from industrial accidents Industrial accidents No. of reported industrial accidents and work-related injuries leading to absence Absence due to work-related accidents Absence due to work-related accidents per 1,000 days worked Near misses No. of near misses (industrial accidents and work-related injuries) reported in-house Work Environment Smiley No. of locations awarded a green Work Environment Smiley TOLERANT WORKPLACE Special positions No. of active flexijobs and apprenticeships Gender distribution on the Board of Directors No. of seats held by women on the Board of Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Gender distribution in executive management No. of women in executive management team at Kohberg Bakery Group A/S. The team comprises CEO, CFO, Sales Director, Production Director and HR Director EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Employee satisfaction Total score (percentage) satisfied employees in employee satisfaction survey conducted in alternate years by Ennova Education and training No. of hours of training for salaried and hourly-paid employees Page 54 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Supplier risk assessment Percentage share of purchase volume (DKK) sourced from risk-assessed suppliers Signing the Supplier Code of Conduct Percentage share of purchase volume (DKK) sourced from suppliers who have signed the SCoC Supplier self-assessment Percentage share of purchase volume (DKK) sourced from suppliers who have completed a self-assessment FAIRNESS Fair marketing No. of legal decisions for breach of marketing legislation reached or caused by Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Anti-corruption No. of legal decisions for breach of anti-corruption legislation reached or caused by Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Fair competition No. of legal decisions for breach of competition legislation reached or caused by Kohberg Bakery Group A/S OPENNESS CSR REPORT n/a Page 55 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Page 56 Page 56 || Kohberg Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Bakery Group A/S CSR CSR Report Report 2019 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Until and including 2017, we at Kohberg Bakery Group based Kohberg is still a member of the UN Global Compact and we will our programme of CSR activities on the principles of the United therefore report on its ten principles below. Every area associated Nations’ Global Compact. We focused on two principles: People & with Human Rights, Employees’ Rights and Anti-corruption was Health, and Environment & Climate. In 2018 and 2019, we have rated as “satisfactory” as these areas are covered by our Code of changed the methods used in our CSR reporting. These changes Conduct and legislative requirements in “low-risk countries”. We are reflected in this report. strive to reduce our impact on the environment and climate, and consider our efforts to these ends to be largely “green”. We are conscious of our environmental responsibilities and therefore believe that we must continue to focus on them. Page 57 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 IN THIS REPORT, WE ADDRESS THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT AS FOLLOWS: PRINCIPLE PAGE 1 The company supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 14-22, 23-32, 45-51 2 The company makes sure it is not complicit in human rights abuses 14-22, 23-32, 45-51 3 The company upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 33-44, 45-51 4 The company supports measures to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 33-44, 45-51 5 The company upholds the effective abolition of child labour 33-44, 45-51 6 The company upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 33-44, 45-51 7 The company supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 33-44, 45-51 8 The company undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 33-44, 45-51 9 The company promotes the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 33-44, 45-51 10 The company is opposed to corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 45-51 Page 58 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 COMPANY PROFILE ORGANISATION Company name: Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Websites: www.kohberg.dk & www.kohberg.com Headquarters: Kernesvinget, 6392 Bolderslev, Denmark Ownership: Koff A/S (100 percent) Employees: 524 REPORT Reporting period: 1/1 2019 – 31/12 2019 Reporting practices: We report in pursuance of Articles 99a and 99b of the Danish Annual Accounting Act. The report comprises information regarding all the companies in the Kohberg Bakery Group A/S. GOVERNANCE The contact person with regard to this report and the person generally responsible for CSR is René Normann Christensen, CEO (rnch@kohberg.com) Page 59 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S, Kernesvinget, DK-6392 Bolderslev, Denmark +45 73 64 64 00, kohberg@kohberg.com www.kohberg.dk, www.kohberg.com Page 60 | Kohberg Bakery Group A/S CSR Report 2019
