CARING ABOUT QUALITY OF LIFE Fiscal 2020 Integrated Report CONTENTS 1 Vision & mission 04 MESSAGE FROM SOPHI E BELLON 06 OUR MI SSI ON 08 OUR ETHI CAL PR I NCI PLES 09 I NDEPENDENCE ENSUR ED THR OUG H FOUNDI NG FAMI LY SHAR EHOLDI NG 10 A BOARD OF DI RECTORS TO ENSURE SOUND GOVERNANCE 12 THE GR OUP’S EVOLUTI ON SI NCE I T S C RE AT IO N A year marked by the sanitary 2 crisis 16 MESSAGE FROM DENI S MACHUEL 18 A STABLE AND ENGAGED EX ECUTI VE COMMI TTEE 20 A GR OWI NG FI RST HALF 22 FULL MOBI LI ZATI ON FR OM THE FI RS T M O M E N T S 24 EFFECTI VELY MANAGI NG BUSI NES S A C T IV IT Y THROUGH AN UNPR ECEDENTED CR IS IS 25 SUPPOR TI NG THE R ECOVERY INTEGRATED REPORT WI TH CONFI DENCE Sodexo is committed to the practice 27 EFFI CI ENCY AND TRANSFORMATI O N of Integrated reporting, based on FOR FUTURE GROWTH the recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the Group’s roadmap for corporate responsibility Better Leader in Quality of Life 3 Tomorrow 2025. services Managers from various departments within the Group took part in a series 30 SERVI CES ADAPTED FOR THE SHORTA N D of workshops to co-create the report, LONG-TERM ensuring there is a common perspective on Sodexo’s overall economic, social and 32 A UNI QUE R ANGE OF QUALI TY OF L IFE environmental performance. SERVI CES This Fiscal 2020 Integrated Report 36 A SUSTAI NABLE VALUE CR EATI ON M O D E L draws on information from the Universal 38 CAR I NG ABOUT QUALI TY OF LI FE F O R A LL Registration Document in which 40 I DENTI FY I NG AND MANAGI NG RI SK S it is published. 41 SHAR I NG A COMMON VI SI ON 42 OUR COR POR ATE RESPONSI BI LI TY RO A D M A P 43 ENHANCI NG EFFI CI ENCY AND PROMOTI NG PER FORMANCE 46 FI NANCI AL PERFOR MANCE FI SCAL 2 0 2 0 48 NON-FI NANCI AL PER FORMANCE FIS C A L 2 0 2 0 50 A RESPONSI BLE COMPENSATI ON P O LIC Y CARING ABOUT QUALITY OF LIFE Fiscal 2020 Universal Registration Document Caring about quality of life Founded in 1966 by Pierre Bellon, Sodexo is the global leader in Quality of Life services, an essential factor in the performance of individuals and organizations. Sodexo is the only company in the world with a unique client offering of On-site Services, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services and Personal & Home Services, the result of more than 50 years of experience. Caring about quality of life means giving meaning and value to every stage of life, through foodservices, reception, cleaning and maintenance services, technical maintenance, services and programs driving employee engagement, solutions simplifying and optimizing the management of travel and professional expenses, and home care, childcare and concierge services. Sodexo services contribute to consumer satisfaction and its clients’ performance while promoting the development of its teams and the economic, social and environmental development of local communities. Key ﬁgures as of August 31, 2020 During the second half of Fiscal 2020, Sodexo faced an unprecedented decline in business due to the Covid-19 pandemic, signiﬁcantly affecting its ﬁnancial performance, share value and workforce. Sodexo teams around the world are fully mobilized to ensure the health and safety of all. The Group remains conﬁdent in terms of its ﬁnancial structure, market positioning and medium-term prospects. 19.3 420,000 64 100 B I L L I O N EU R O E M P L OY EE S COUNTRIES MILLION CONSUMERS I N C O N S O L I DAT E D S E R V E D DA I LY REVENUES 1.3 #1 80.1% #1 MILLION FR ANCE-BASED E M P L OY EE IN ITS SECTOR IN BOTH A F F I L I AT E D P R I VAT E E M P L OY E R ENGAGEMENT THE DOW JONES MERCHANTS W O R L D W I D E (1) R AT E (2) SU S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N D E X (D J S I) (3) AND THE 2020 SAM S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Y E A R B O O K (4) Source: Sodexo 1 2020 Forbes Global 2000 ranking. 2 2020 employee engagement survey sent to 328,547 Sodexo employees of whom 59% responded. 3 The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) provides a global ranking of the companies most advanced in the area of sustainable development. It is jointly compiled by the Standard & Poor’s Dow Jones Indices and SAM. 4 The SAM Sustainability Yearbook is the world’s most comprehensive publication on corporate sustainability performance. More than 2,600 companies were evaluated according to economic, ﬁnancial, social and environmental indicators. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 01 CARING ABOUT QUALIT Y OF LIFE Vision & mission Whether eating a healthy lunch at work, in a restaurant or at home, working efficiently and safely in a well-designed space, organizing daily life for a better work-life balance or enjoying a cultural or sports event, Sodexo, world leader in Quality of Life services, has been helping since 1966 to improve these moments of daily life. From childhood to professional life to retirement, Sodexo is focused on delivering a positive impact not only on individual health and wellbeing, but also on neighborhoods, cities and the planet. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 03 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Message from Sophie Bellon CHAIRWOMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS There will deﬁnitely be a before and an after. Widespread lockdowns, isolation, concern for our most vulnerable loved ones and impending economic collapse: the pandemic has affected all of us in an extremely tangible way, to varying degrees. It has forced us to rebalance our priorities virtually overnight. It has made us acutely aware of how fragile and critically important our health and our human and social ties are. In 2019, we wondered what challenges the new decade had in store. In 2020, the entire world was turned upside down. We already suspected that uncertainty had become our new normal: there can no longer be any doubt. We’ve stepped squarely into the 21st century. Will it be a time of getting back to what really matters? In any case, our societies ﬁnd themselves more than ever at a crossroads in terms of economic, social and environmental balance. 2020 has been a pivotal year for Sodexo too. Never before has our company experienced such extreme upheaval. The global health crisis that has dealt such a blow to the world and the real economy has also created a sudden drop in demand for our services. We are a link – a vital one – in the chain, and when our clients are brought to a standstill, it affects us directly. The impact on our company is undeniable: we lost nearly a third of our revenue in the second half of our ﬁscal year. We’ve had to make some very painful decisions to compensate for the abrupt slowdown in certain areas of our business: -88% in our Sports & Leisure segment, -47.2% in Education and -29.2% in Business & Administrations. Every aspect of our development has been deeply and permanently affected. On a fundamental level, we have always been a growth company. On a fundamental level, My ambition for Sodexo is clear: we will continue to be we have always been a growth one. We will respond to this crisis by accelerating the transformation of our traditional value creation models, company. My ambition for not only to secure the future of our company, but even Sodexo is clear: we will continue more so to open new development paths. to be one.” To that end, I ﬁrst want to highlight how strongly the previous months have revealed the vital importance and tremendous value of our service professions. Our teams working in health care facilities and with senior populations have also been on the front lines in the ﬁght against the virus. They have helped keep essential infrastructures running. Without them, there can be no economic recovery. This is why our own recovery requires that we forcefully reaffirm the virtue of these often ignored professions, which are suffering from the current context but are so instrumental to 04 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M VISION & MISSION This crisis has revealed the vital importance of our service professions. Once again, I want to express the smooth running of schools, universities, offices and hospitals – and even society at large. my sincere gratitude to our teams Our mission to improve quality of life has never made for their exemplary engagement more sense. Faced with the pandemic threat, at a time throughout this most unusual when protecting health and well-being is at the forefront year.” of everyone’s minds, including in countries where that seemed like a given, I know that our know-how and our diverse, complementary assets give us a powerful advantage. It enables us to be a step ahead by creating level, so that decisions keep being made as close to a cutting-edge offer, in line with the most ambitious and the ﬁeld as possible. After all, this is where our true advanced scientiﬁc research. value is created, in the daily contacts with our clients, consumers and suppliers. The disruption required from us also involves structural changes that will enable us to truly put consumers at Our return to sustained, proﬁtable growth is closely the heart of our model. The pandemic and lockdowns linked to the acceleration of our supportive approach, have ampliﬁed consumer trends that had already in which generating wealth simultaneously beneﬁts begun, and on which we were already working: we are all of our stakeholders and ecosystems. This goal now speeding up. Innovative business models geared has been at the heart of our mission since 1966 and towards increasingly ﬂexible, digitalized and sustainable is an integral part of our performance requirements. dining options, revised production modes adapted to But it is more relevant now than ever. If all corporations new consumption patterns, focus on the most proﬁtable are now expected to show their ability to take action markets with a still tighter country portfolio and a to address world issues, few are able to have a social targeted and modernized Facilities Management offer: and environmental impact as signiﬁcant as Sodexo: it’s up to us to make the right choices, with Denis we are present in 64 different countries through our Machuel and Sodexo’s entire leadership team, and with 420,000 employees, serving 100 million consumers the support of the Board of Directors. It’s up to us to every day. focus our efforts on the areas of highest value. I am Sodexo is the world leader it is today because ambition, convinced that we will bring our revenue back up to courage, and the ability to adapt quickly in an everpre-crisis levels, but its nature and composition will be changing world are an integral part of who we are. different. Our success is supported by a solid foundation: our Transforming our model also involves further developing mission, the founding values that are the basis of agile, decentralized working methods, in keeping with our identity, and our ﬁnancial independence. We also the new situation. It involves combining global vision and have one priceless advantage: our teams. They are the strategy with the autonomy to execute at the local level. ones who make Sodexo the great company that it is, Indeed, in the heat of the moment, with support from and their sense of service shines through every day, our transversal teams, our operational teams were able particularly under exceptional circumstances. It is to ﬁnd concrete solutions to meet the unprecedented thanks to their determination, their commitment and challenges faced by our clients and suppliers, in all the their courage that we have weathered the storm. Once countries and environments where we operate. Our again, I want to express my sincere gratitude to them employees adjusted to the situation from one day to for their exemplary engagement throughout this most the next to implement enhanced sanitary measures unusual year. I also want to express my full conﬁdence and new service offers, to lend their support to their in our ability to create the conditions that will support colleagues on the busiest sites, all the while caring for the future development and growth of our company. the most vulnerable. In this urgent situation, common sense prevailed over the bureaucracy that threatens I am convinced that the key to our future success any multinational. We were able to refocus on priorities, now lies in the implementation of an innovative work differently, and give employees the freedom management model that allows each of our employees to take initiative. Not only is there no going back, and our clients to be both proponents of and players but I also want to accelerate and further streamline in our company’s transformation, and in the the rebalancing of our organization towards the local transformation of the world. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 05 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Our mission Improve the quality of life of our employees and those we serve, and contribute to the economic, social and environmental development of the communities, regions and countries in which we operate. Our values SERVICE TEAM SPIRI T OF SPIRI T SPIRI T PRO GRE SS This mission and these values are embodied daily through the commitment of our 420,000 employees, operating in our 3 business activities in 64 countries. DAYANNY DE LA CRUZ, CENTERPLATE(1) EXECUTIVE CHEF AT HARD ROCK STADIUM IN MIAMI, ON-SITE SERVICES (UNITED STATES) — The ﬁrst female Head Chef to have managed the kitchens of the Super Bowl, in February 2020, Dayanny De La Cruz and a team of 100+ chefs introduced 65,000+ fans to the tastes of regional South Florida cuisine. In addition to the many products from local suppliers, the offering included vegetarian dishes, including the ImpossibleTM Burger. With increasingly personalized services and major initiatives to phase out single-use plastic, such as replacing cups and bottles with aluminum, fans of one of the most famous sporting events in the world were offered a diverse, sustainable and unforgettable experience. — Since March 2020, faced with Covid-19-related event cancellations, the Chef and her team redirected their efforts to produce nearly 10,000 meals a day for homebound senior citizens, working in close collaboration with MiamiThe Super Bowl and the commitment Dade County and DeliverLean. They also partnered with the of my entire team to making it Miami Dolphins Foundation to produce boxed meals for local schools, shelters and missions. As of August 31, more than a successful experience is something 1 million meals had been distributed among the different I will never forget. But after that, programs. we took on another role: helping the most vulnerable among us.” 1 Centerplate, part of Sodexo since 2017, specializes in food and hospitality services at sports facilities, convention centers and cultural venues in North America. 06 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M VISION & MISSION JUAN APONTE, MARKET ANALYTICS MANAGER BENEFITS & REWARDS SERVICES (MEXICO) — In Mexico as elsewhere, Sodexo’s teams share strong common values. By offering innovative solutions to daily challenges, within a committed and enthusiastic team, Juan is proud to put his skills at the service of clients, consumers and affiliate partners. — Faced with the health emergency, Juan and his colleagues developed “Sodexo Consumer Assist”, a platform to provide medical assistance to over 12,000 Sodexo electronic wallet consumers. The program identiﬁes and helps those with Covid-19 symptoms and provides information and advice on seeking appropriate medical attention. I am happy to be part of a dynamic and caring company where relationships are characterized by goodwill and we are given the resources to fully reassure parents about the care and development of their children.” CAROLINE HOUSSIAUX, CHILDCARE(2) DIRECTOR IN STAINS, PERSONAL & HOME SERVICES (FRANCE) — Caroline believes in her mission to reveal everyone’s Continuous process improvement potential, to contribute to the development of the children and smart incorporation of entrusted to her care and the professionals on her team, whose methods and skills are continuously enriched, and to technology are essential to deliver reassure parents. Recognizing that team spirit is central to value to all stakeholders. This is effective performance, she fosters an environment conducive to camaraderie and sharing between families and childcare what Sodexo does, by integrating providers. With the active support of regional teams and support a wide range of skills, different services, and aligned with Sodexo’s values, she offers parents availability, ﬂexibility and services adapted to their changing cultures and ways of thinking, expectations. framed by ethics and respect, — Through the strong service spirit common to all hospital which allows each one of us nurseries, she and her team have remained active during conﬁnement due to the pandemic, supporting healthcare to develop our own potential.” providers and ensuring continued care for the children. 2 With the Crèche Attitude network of 300 owned childcare centers and more than 1,200 partner nurseries, Sodexo is one of the leaders in the French childcare facilities sector. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 07 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Our ethical principles Ethics are essential to Sodexo’s success and a fundamental pillar of its commitments to responsible business conduct. Sodexo’s management has zero tolerance for abusive practices, such as corruption or human rights violations. Sodexo is, and will continue to be, a company that clients, consumers, partners and other stakeholders can trust. To maintain this trust, Sodexo’s employees and partners agree to respect the ethical principles CENTRAL TO ITS VALUES AND ETHICAL in all activities: PRINCIPLES, RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS IS A PILLAR OF SODEXO’S COMMITMENT TO BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND ESSENTIAL LOYALTY TRANSPARENCY TO ITS MISSION. Caring about quality of life means This is a key principle for Sodexo placing trust at the heart of our that applies consistently with all Sodexo conducts its business in relationships. Sodexo is built on a solid stakeholders: clients, consumers, a manner that does not infringe upon foundation of loyalty to its clients, employees, shareholders and the the human rights of others and works employees and shareholders, and on general public. We ensure that all to identify, prevent and mitigate any honest and open relationships with are informed in a clear and precise adverse impacts that may result from them. Loyalty is one of the cornerstones manner about our products, services, its business activities. All employees of how our business operates. commitments and performance. and partners are expected to observe this commitment, which is based on the international human rights RESPECT FOR PEOPLE INTEGRITY principles set forth in the International Labour Organization’s Declaration Humanity is central to our business. We do not tolerate and we condemn on Fundamental Principles and Rights Sodexo is committed to acting in favor all practices that are not based on at Work, the United Nation’s Guiding of equal opportunity, regardless of honesty, integrity and fairness, Principles on Business and Human ethnicity, age, gender, beliefs, religion regardless of where our business Rights and Sodexo’s Human Rights or sexual orientation. Improving quality operates in the world. We make our Policy and Fundamental Rights at Work of life means treating each individual position clear to our clients, suppliers Charter and Guide. with respect, dignity and consideration. and employees, and expect them to reject corrupt and unfair practices. 08 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M VISION & MISSION Independence ensured through founding family shareholding In June 2015, Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Bellon and their children Sodexo’s independence is ensured entered into a 50-year agreement, which prevents the through the shareholding direct descendants of Sodexo’s founder from freely disposing of their shares in Bellon SA. of Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Bellon and The sole asset of Bellon SA is its holding in Sodexo shares and their children who control 72.6% Bellon SA does not intend to sell this shareholding to third parties. of the family coordinating company, This independence enables the Company to sustain its values, Bellon SA. focus on a long-term strategy, maintain management continuity and ensure its sustainability. As of August 31, 2020, Bellon SA held Since the creation of Bellon SA, the sustained commitment 42.8% of Sodexo’s capital and 57.1% to build a truly international organization and a strong of the exercisable voting rights. management team, nurture lasting client relationships and develop a successful integrated offer, reﬂects this vision. SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE VOTING RIGHTS As of August 31, 2020 As of August 31, 2020 BELLON SA 57.1% BELLON SA FAMILY COORDINATING COMPANY 19.6% 42.8% EMPLOYEES 1% 55.2% SODEXO PUBLIC 1% TREASURY of which 51.1% Institutions SHARES and 4.1% Individual 100% Shareholders SOFINSOD 1.3% 41.6% EMPLOYEES PUBLIC S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 09 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E A Board of Directors to ensure sound governance The long-term vision that accompanies family control is key to Sodexo’s success. Under the leadership of Chairwoman Sophie Bellon, the Board of Directors, composed of seven women and ﬁve men, determines the strategic orientation of the Company. BOARD OF DIRECTORS AS OF AUGUST 31, 2020 Independent Family Directors 7 3 Directors SOPHIE BELLON* Chairwoman EMMANUEL BABEAU LUC MESSIER of the Board FRANÇOIS-XAVIER Chief Financial Officer, President of BELLON Philip Morris International Reus Technologies LLC Chairman of the Management Board of Bellon SA COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 12 FRANÇOISE BROUGHER* SOPHIE STABILE NATHALIE Chief Financial Officer, Lagardère BELLON-SZABO* Chairwoman Chief Executive Officer, of the Audit Committee Sodexo Sports & Leisure members Worldwide, On-site Services Audit Committee member Nominating Committee member Compensation SOUMITRA DUTTA CÉCILE TANDEAU Committee member Professor of Management, DE MARSAC Cornell University Chairwoman of 2 the Compensation and Employee Nominating Committees representatives PIERRE BELLON Chairman Emeritus Founder of Sodexo and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bellon SA VÉRONIQUE LAURY PHILIPPE BESSON CATHY MARTIN Head of Projects Regional Manager, and Sponsorship, Sodexo Canada Director proposed for Sodexo France nomination at the Shareholders’ Meeting on January 12, 2021 FEDERICO J. GONZÁLEZ TEJERA * whose renewal is proposed at the Fiscal 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting on January 12, 2021. 10 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M VISION & MISSION BOARD OF DIRECTORS KEY FIGURES AS OF AUGUST 31, 2020 70% independent 4 4 years on average in office for Directors* nationalities independent Directors 97% average attendance 60%women* 56 average age BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEES AUDIT NOMINATING REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 5 members 4 members 4 members 75% independent* 50% independent 100% independent* 100% attendance 95% attendance 96% attendance BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ AREAS OF EXPERTISE Knowledge of 7 the services sector Executive management of international companies 8 Strategy, Mergers and Acquisitions 8 Finance 10 7 Marketing and Sales Innovation and Digital Sustainable development, 7 societal commitment and human resources 6 * Excluding employee representatives. For more information on Sodexo’s governance, see chapter 5 of the Universal Registration Document. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 11 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E The Group’s evolution since its creation Since 1966, Sodexo has been dedicated to the goal of improving quality of life, convinced of its contribution to both higher organizational performance and societal progress. This consistent focus has enabled the Group to grow proﬁtably and sustainably while providing continuous development opportunities for its employees. KEY MOMENTS 1995 Acquisitions of 1966 Gardner Merchant (UK) Sodexo founded Partena (Sweden) by Pierre Bellon 1967 1976 40 countries 1992 First multi-service 1st meal Development in North America, Creation contract for the voucher South America, Russia of the Sodexo management of CNES and South Africa Management (French Space Agency) Institute in Guyana 35 countries 1983 1987 Development in Belgium, Initial public The Group is structured Italy, Spain, Africa offering on the Paris in line with and the Middle East Stock Exchange its internationalization with the emergence of client segments 1975 Opening of Foodservices in schools and hospitals 36,000 15,000 1,000 €1.2 bn €213 m €9.3 m 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 12 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M VISION & MISSION 1996 As of August 31, 2019 Creation of Stop Hunger, a global 470,000 non-proﬁt network that works towards a hunger-free world 1998 EMPLOYEES Creation 2007 of the European Sarbanes–Oxley Act conformity, €22 bn 420,000 Works Council Section 404 80 countries 1998-2001 64 countries Acquisition of 380,000 Marriott Management Services (U.S.) 2000-2005 72 countries CONSOLIDATED REVENUES Launch of new Including Brazil, Quality of Life services: China, India €19.3 bn Facilities Management services, vouchers and cards services 2020 €15.3 bn During the second half of Fiscal 2020, Sodexo faced an unprecedented decline 286,000 in business due to the Covid-19 pandemic, signiﬁcantly affecting its ﬁnancial performance, share value and workforce. Sodexo teams around the world are fully mobilized to ensure the health and safety of all. The Group remains conﬁdent in terms of its ﬁnancial Rapid growth structure, market positioning in new markets: and medium-term prospects. technical maintenance, energy and water consumption €10.5 bn efficiency, spatial planning 2016 • Appointment SHARE PRICE of Sophie Bellon as Chairwoman of the Board €59.96 of Directors, on January 26 • Launch of the Sodexo Ventures fund 2017 Renewal of corporate responsibility commitments (Better Tomorrow 2025) 2018 • Denis Machuel becomes CEO on January 23 • Implementation of the strategic agenda, “Focus on Growth” • Sodexo becomes a leader in the Sports & Leisure segment globally with the acquisition of Centerplate 2019 • Sodexo expands its offering by strengthening its position in Foodservices – Novae (Switzerland), 2000-2010 2009 Alliance in Partnership (United Kingdom) – and Acquiqitions of Implementation of the ﬁrst in Personal & Home services – Pronep (Brazil), Sogeres and Score Group (France), launch of our corporate Crèches de France (France) Wood Dining Services, Circles, responsibility roadmap and the Good Care Group (United Kingdom) Comfort Keepers® (USA), • Sodexo strengthens its technological capabilities Zehnacker (Germany), with the acquisition of a strategic minority stake Development in Zeta (India) and a strategic investment Radhakrishna Hospitality of integrated Quality in Meican (China) Services Group (India), of Life services, • Part of the “Future 50 Foods” program, VR (Brazil) for key global accounts Sodexo is developing 40 new sustainable recipes 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 13 C A R I N G A B O U T Q UAL I T Y O F L I FE A year marked by the Covid-19 crisis After delivering solid growth momentum in the ﬁrst half of Fiscal 2020, Sodexo naturally aligned itself with its clients and its communities to confront the Covid-19 crisis. Frontline teams demonstrated their determination in critical areas such as support for the healthcare & seniors sector, government authorities and also in procurement. Through its expertise and close stakeholder ties, Sodexo is fully mobilized to respond to the multiple challenges and needs of thousands of businesses and organizations, consumers, employees and suppliers in adapting to this new reality. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 15 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Message from Denis Machuel CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The ﬁscal year that has ended has been an exceptional one, marked by the most signiﬁcant crisis in Sodexo’s history. As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to spread and severely impact society, our teams everywhere are fully mobilized to support our clients, our consumers and the communities with which the Group interacts. This has been our mission for more than 50 years. And with the crisis conﬁrming the relevance of our businesses and the resilience of our model, we are accelerating our transformation to seize the numerous emerging market opportunities. Since 2018, Sodexo’s teams have demonstrated their ability to strengthen our business model. Our “Focus on Growth” strategic agenda delivered the ﬁrst solid results with organic revenue growth of +3.6% over the last ﬁscal year, the highest in seven years, conﬁrmed by a dynamic +3.2% growth during the ﬁrst half of Fiscal 2020. Covid-19 interrupted this positive momentum. Since February 2020, with the full support of Sophie Bellon and the Board of Directors, Sodexo has mobilized to respond on two fronts – ﬁrst, reducing health risks and protecting the health of our teams, our consumers and our partners and second, ensuring the continuity of our operations and those of our clients, while preserving the Group’s liquidity and longevity. This challenge was all the more complex as we operate in 64 countries and in diverse business sectors within speciﬁc environments. I am extremely proud of the commitment shown by our teams, who have been able to deploy the range of Sodexo services under exceptional conditions. The essential role of our people has come out of the shadows and into This crisis has also highlighted the spotlight, highlighting the value of our services. Around the world, Sodexo employees have worked our strengths: the relevance collectively to support caregivers, patients and of our unique service offering, consumers, in hospitals, senior residences, schools the resilience of our business and factories that remained open, as well as in public administration sectors under pressure. Everywhere, model, and the exceptional our teams have been on the front line, strengthening commitment of our employees.” sanitary measures to preserve the health and safety of all, adjusting our Foodservices, supporting suppliers and partners, and helping those most vulnerable by donating meals, merchandise and supporting government programs. Our teams have also demonstrated their agility to seize business development opportunities such as selling additional cleaning and disinfection services or winning signiﬁcant new contracts like the Los Angeles Surge Hospital in California and the deployment of rapid health testing centers in the United Kingdom. 16 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M A YEAR MARKED BY THE COVID-19 CRISIS Despite the crisis, Sodexo balanced geographical distribution, we can count on the compatibility of our three activities as a true competitive remains true to its promises and advantage. commitments. Sodexo’s transformation, initiated before the crisis With our teams, we are creating by strategic choices and targeted investments a collective dynamic and clear over the past few years, must be accelerated to build tomorrow’s growth. Indeed, the trends that we had path forward to create value previously identiﬁed have greatly accelerated for all of our stakeholders.” with the Covid-19 pandemic. To move forward, we are focusing on three priorities: rationalize, enable and transform. First, we are simplifying our organization by reducing Sodexo’s innovation and responsiveness were fully our overhead costs on a long-term basis and bringing demonstrated through the creation of “rise with Sodexo.” our teams closer to the ﬁeld and our clients, while Launched in record time, this global program highlights adjusting our resources to meet post-crisis needs. the unmatched value, uniqueness and relevance of our We are also continuing to optimize and streamline service portfolio, particularly given the current context. our geographic presence as well as our portfolio Focused on the needs of our clients and consumers, this of technical maintenance services. program enables them to meet the challenges they face in terms of safe health, well-being and performance. And At the same time, to generate growth, we are continuing because we are convinced that trust is a key element in to invest in key targeted ﬁelds of marketing and this new reality, we have strengthened this program by sales, as well as in digital, data and IT systems. establishing a Medical Advisory Board and a certiﬁcation These investments, combined with sustainable and label for our sites with Bureau Veritas. responsible Foodservices offers, will allow us to be more focused than ever on consumer expectations. Of course, there have been business impacts from I am convinced that Sodexo is well positioned to capitalize closing or reducing many parts of our business, including on the new expectations generated by the crisis, the in Sports & Leisure, Schools & Universities and Corporate increasing outsourcing of services, the growing demand Services. To respond to the pandemic’s economic for integrated services and the challenges of ﬂexible consequences, we quickly identiﬁed all possible means workspaces. Today, we have all the necessary assets to reduce costs, interrupted non-essential investments to respond to these demands. and protected our cash ﬂow. As much as possible, we have sought solutions to preserve employment and We are also accelerating the transformation of our core support our teams impacted by the crisis, for example business, Foodservices. With redesigned operational by forging partnerships with other sectors under and business models, Sodexo has the ability to offer pressure or by establishing an unprecedented global its consumers multimodal and multichannel dining Employee Relief Program, made possible by the support experiences, reinforced by digital innovations and of the Group’s senior executives. Our ﬁnancial results meal delivery offers. Our clients can also count on in the second half of the year were inevitably impacted our expertise in employee beneﬁt solutions, adapted by the Covid-19 pandemic, with annual consolidated to new forms of mobility and to remote working. revenues of 19.3 billion euro, down -12%. Our operating Investments in new Foodservices models driven by margin was 2.9% and the free cash ﬂow stood at digital, one of the engines of our growth, such as 72 million euro. Through rigorous management of FoodChéri, Alchemista, Zeta or Meican, are fully the crisis, the ﬁscal year ended with a solid balance aligned with the expectations and needs of today sheet, with liquidity of 5.1 billion euro, allowing us and tomorrow. So too are our major pioneering to look to the future with conﬁdence. commitments to inclusive growth, to the promotion of healthy and sustainable food choices, to the During this exceptional period, and reﬂecting the reduction of our carbon emissions and to our ﬁght value of our multi-services expertise, numerous against food waste. clients placed or renewed their trust in us to support them, both in Facilities Management services and for Today, despite the crisis, Sodexo remains true Foodservices either on-site or off-site. Over the year, to its promises and commitments. I know that Sodexo our client retention rate demonstrated its solidity will regain momentum for growth that is based on at 93.5%. The crisis has also highlighted our strengths: responsible consumption of resources and putting the relevance of our unique service offering, the resilience people at the heart of everything we do. With our teams, of our business model, and the exceptional commitment we are creating a collective dynamic and clear path of our employees. With a solid ﬁnancial model and forward to create value for all of our stakeholders. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 17 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E A stable and engaged Executive Committee The Executive Committee participates in the development and implementation of the strategic and operational plan, and ensures the deployment of initiatives. This diverse team combines transversal expertise and skills representative of all the Group’s activities, segments and geographic regions. THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AS OF OCTOBER 1, 2020 Nathalie Bellon-Szabo Johnpaul Dimech Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer Sports & Leisure worldwide, Geographic Regions On-site Services Region Chair, Asia Paciﬁc, On-site Services Nationality: French Denis Machuel Cathy Desquesses Nationality: Australian Group Chief Group Chief Executive Officer People Officer Chairman of the Executive Committee Nationality: French Nationality: French Tony Leech Sylvia Metayer Chief Executive Officer, Group Chief Government worldwide, Growth Officer On-site Services Nationalities: French, British Nationality: Australian and Canadian Sean Haley Satya-Christophe Menard Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer, Officer of Service Operations Schools worldwide and Region Chair, UK & Ireland, Universities rest of the world, On-site Services On-site Services Nationality: British Nationality: French Belen Moscoso Del Prado Anna Notarianni Group Chief Digital & Region Chair, France, Innovation Officer On-site Services Nationality: Spanish Nationality: French Sarosh Mistry Sunil Nayak Region Chair, North America, Chief Executive Officer, On-site Services Corporate Services Chair, Universities worldwide, On-site Services North America, Nationality: Indian On-site Services Chief Executive Officer, Homecare Services worldwide Nationality: American 18 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M A YEAR MARKED BY THE COVID-19 CRISIS 8 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE KEY FIGURES AS OF OCTOBER 1, 2020 N AT I O N AL I T I E S 32% WOMEN 47% NON-FRENCH 3 years AV E R A G E T E N U R E 53 AV E R A G E A G E ON THE EXECUTIVE C O M M I T T EE Marc Plumart Dianne Salt Chief Executive Officer, Group Chief Healthcare & Seniors Communications Officer worldwide, On-site Services Nationality: Canadian Nationality: French Marc Rolland Didier Sandoz Group Chief Chief Executive Officer, Financial Officer Corporate Responsibility and Personal & Home Nationality: French Services Nationality: French Simon Seaton Bruno Vanhaelst Chief Executive Officer, Group Chief Sales and Energy & Resources Marketing Officer worldwide, On-site Services Nationality: Belgian Nationality: British Aurélien Sonet Chief Executive Officer, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services Nationality: French This year, we bid farewell to a long-serving member of our senior management team, Damien Verdier, Group Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer and a member of the Sodexo Executive Committee since 2005, who is retiring. During his 41 years with Sodexo, Damien has embodied Sodexo’s values perfectly through his exceptional ability to unite teams and develop talent, his undeniable spirit of service and his convictions, in particular his pioneering commitment to corporate responsibility. We thank him for his contribution and wish him every success in his role as President of the Groupement des Professions de Services. For more details on Sodexo’s Governance, please see chapter 5 of the Universal Registration Document. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 19 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E A growing first half The improving growth momentum conﬁrmed in the ﬁrst half of Fiscal 2020, reﬂects the focused action of Sodexo teams around the “Focus on Growth” strategic agenda. Until the Covid-19 global pandemic its consumers: new on-site Foodservices management and individual and collective struck, Sodexo had shown its ability to solutions, like the Enjoy offer in France for development, aligned with the STEP strengthen its business model by listening small spaces, initiatives to ﬁght food waste strategic indicators, new compensation to its clients and consumers and better (such as WasteWatch) or new recipes, policies and apprenticeship/mentoring responding to rising new trends. The nutrition programs like the Melting Pot solutions for young people in many ﬁrst half of the year, from September 1, offer for schools in the Middle East, which countries are just a few of the examples of 2019 to February 29, 2020, with organic enables students to discover the diversity initiatives implemented at Sodexo. growth of +3.2%, reﬂected solid, proﬁtable of culinary traditions. The Group is also fully committed to and sustainable growth, driven by the True to this entrepreneurial and guaranteeing the health and safety of momentum of most segments and regions, collaborative culture, Sodexo also its teams and to diversity, inclusion and in line with the strategic agenda. promotes open innovation through Sodexo business integrity. In support of inclusion Ventures and the Accelerators program initiatives, the Group has structured by building partnerships with startups an international network, Pride, to A CHANGING MARKET internationally and developing internal provide support and visibility to LGBTQ+ corp-ups, offering speciﬁc services such as employees and partnered with leading The priority for Foodservices is producing Wx or Doctor House. organizations worldwide (Workplace healthy, varied and balanced meals that Pride, Out&Equal, Acon...). Long-term respond to the expectations of clients and support for gender equality is reﬂected by consumers. Another challenge for Sodexo is inventing the cuisine of the future, ENHANCING OPERATIONAL the renewal of Sodexo’s inclusion in the combining healthy, sustainable food EFFICIENCY 2020 Bloomberg Gender-Equality index. with enjoyable, customized experiences, To support its operational efficiency by leveraging its expertise in Facilities objectives, Sodexo has launched initiatives Management, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services ANCHORING CORPORATE across all segments and activities aimed and Personal & Home Services. RESPONSIBILITY at optimizing costs and simplifying the organization. The available ﬁnancial Sodexo’s commitment to corporate capacity is then dedicated to deploying responsibility is a real competitive BEING CLIENT AND new offers and digital solutions and advantage today. Each year, an increasing CONSUMER CENTRIC strengthening marketing and sales. number of clients, with their focused Regional Marketing & Sales Distribution expectations and policies in this area, With its focused approach on clients Centers are gradually being implemented seek the Group’s expertise. In line with its and consumers, in-depth knowledge of to provide increasing support to segments corporate responsibility roadmap Better its markets and differentiating services, in the areas of digital marketing, client Tomorrow 2025, Sodexo acts to strengthen Sodexo improved its client retention rate relations and the commercial approach its performance, by promoting healthy and during the ﬁrst half and won new contracts for Global Strategic Accounts. At the sustainable food choices, reducing carbon or signiﬁcantly extended others such as heart of the Group’s strategy is the STEP emissions, ﬁghting against food waste Merck/MSD in 66 countries and Procter framework (Sodexo Targets for Enhanced and boosting local and solidarity-based & Gamble in 30 countries (Corporate Performance), which is based on common procurement. For example, Sodexo has Services). Numerous local contracts have operational indicators to assess, manage joined the Sustainable Coffee Challenge also been concluded, such as with KLM and drive performance at all levels of the and is committed to ensuring that by in the Netherlands (Corporate Services) company. 2021, 100% of the coffee served under its and Transport for London in the United own brands are procured from responsible Kingdom (Government & Agencies), the sources. The Group also encourages Tim Horton Field in Canada and the World Market Center Las Vegas in the United NURTURING TALENT volunteerism among its teams through the Stop Hunger Goodness Platform. States (Sports & Leisure), Grupo Hycsa in Sodexo employees are central to its Already operational in North America, the Mexico (Beneﬁts & Rewards Services), and offering and its culture. Excellent service United Kingdom, Belgium and at Sodexo Naugatuck Schools and the University of quality is ensured through three major headquarters, this online solution connects Hawaii in the United States (Education). levers: a performance culture, resource employees to the Stop Hunger network of In order to support new trends, Sodexo planning, and training and development associations. adapts its offers to the changing needs of for all. The Aspire program for performance 20 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M A YEAR MARKED BY THE COVID-19 CRISIS HEALTHCARE SPORTS & LEISURE GOVERNMENT & AGENCIES PLACING FREEDOM OF CHOICE ENRICHING THE LIVE EXPERIENCE RESPONDING TO CLIENT AT THE HEART OF THE MEDICAL Once again, Sodexo demonstrated its CHALLENGES EXPERIENCE expertise in the ﬁeld of major international “Sodexo teams that support our critical Backed by a partnership of more than sporting events during the Rugby World Cup, objectives at Montgomery House are 20 years, Elsan, the second largest private hosted for the ﬁrst time in Japan. To provide quite simply doing an outstanding job. hospital group in France, joined forces with teams and the global public an unforgettable From behind-the-scenes maintenance Sodexo to co-build and deploy the leading experience, Sodexo designed, developed through enhanced and precision cleaning, brand for healthcare hospitality in its 78 and offered all of the hospitality services to keeping us all fed and snacked via the establishments in France. “Symphonia by at the 12 stadiums hosting matches as café, your people are just first class. You Elsan” offers a set of services to improve well as Foodservices ranging from snacks know how important it is to keep things the daily life of patients, healthcare to premium dinners, and at the World working and you know how to take care professionals and visitors contributing Rugby Awards ceremony. Emblematic of of us.” to the comfort and safety of all: a varied the event was the main Webb Ellis pavilion, Foodservices offer adapted to nutritional constructed in the International Stadium COLONEL ANDY SZABO, requirements and consumers’ desires, Yokohama. This temporary structure ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE JOINT COMMAND AT MONTGOMERY HOUSE completely redesigned environments and a composed of 19 private suites and a 700IN ALDERSHOT (UNITED KINGDOM) service to ﬁght against the risk of infection. seat restaurant saw 8,600 guests served during the tournament. HUMAN RESOURCES BENEFITS & REWARDS SERVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROMOTING INCLUSION OF ALL INNOVATING FOR RENEWED FIGHTING FOOD WASTE “We are committed to ensuring that CONFIDENCE For Sodexo, the fight against food waste each employee can reach their full Since 2008, Sodexo has managed the is a daily commitment. Sodexo is the first potential, regardless of their personal Belgian service voucher, used to pay for group in its sector to link its financing to characteristics, age, gender, culture, cleaning services, ironing, transport for its actions to combat food waste. Through origin, sexual orientation or disability. seniors and assistance with daily tasks for a its WasteWatch program and its smart True to its founding values, Sodexo has quarter of Belgian households, or 1.2 million waste measurement technology, Sodexo joined the international initiative “The active users. Our solid position in the market teams collect waste data at restaurants Valuable 500”, to unlock the potential and and our technical know-how enabled us to and implement operational and behavioral social and economic value of people with win the bids in 2019 for all three regions, changes to eliminate waste generated by disabilities around the world. Sodexo is Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, with an kitchens or thrown away by consumers. therefore committed to ensuring that, by offer 100% focused on the digital experience. Since the program start, Sodexo has 2025, 100% of its workforce has access This market, with total 2019 issue volume managed to avoid more than 17,000 tons of to initiatives supporting the inclusion of of 3.1 billion euro, finances the revenues carbon emissions. people with disabilities. We are proud to of about 2,000 home services companies, be part of this movement and hope that a sector that is one of Belgium’s major many other companies will do the same employers. so that our collective efforts become the normal way of doing business.” MARGOT SLATTERY, ORGANIC GROWTH REVENUE FOR FIRST HALF FISCAL 2020 GLOBAL CHIEF DIVERSITY & INCLUSION OFFICER, SODEXO +3.2% ON-SITE SERVICES +4.0% B E N E F I T S & R E WA R D S S E R V I C E S S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 21 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Full mobilization from the first moments Since December 2019 and the appearance of Covid-19 in Asia, Sodexo has been fully mobilized to protect the health and safety of its consumers and employees and ensure the continuity of operations with its clients through its support for all stakeholders. FRONTLINE EMPLOYEES and safety of all an absolute priority. healthcare teams to place orders online Exceptional measures put in place include and have them delivered directly First in Asia, then around the world, adapting services in restaurants, creating to the hospital. thousands of Sodexo employees working simpliﬁed menus and further reinforcing Beyond healthcare staff, Sodexo works as in hospitals, senior residences or public hygiene measures in the kitchen and on sector entities under pressure have been closely as possible with local communities sites. In the United States, for example, collectively supporting caregivers, patients to support their needs. In the United Sodexo has adapted the services and and consumers during the crisis, through States, despite closures of many operational measures to ensure safety on their professionalism and with the little universities, Sodexo teams continued to the U.S. Marine Corps sites. touches that make the difference. prepare more than four million meals In Europe and elsewhere, Sodexo teams per week for students in ﬁnancial need As the pandemic has spread across are personally committed to ensuring while teams from Centerplate mobilized the world, more stringent disinfection their activity’s continuity. At the height to support conﬁned seniors in Miamistandards and precautionary measures of the crisis, many employees chose to Dade County and to support families have been implemented on sites. Sodexo adapt their personal lives (accommodation, in Orlando through the “Feed the Need teams have applied their expertise transport, family life) to the constraints Florida” initiative. In India, more than in clinical engineering to ensure the imposed by the sanitary situation. 2.7 million meals prepared by Sodexo operational management of medical The hidden heroes of Foodservices and were distributed to those most in need equipment and delivered critical Facilities Facilities Management services have in several cities under conﬁnement. Management services such as hygiene mobilized to ensure the provision of food and cleaning services on Corporate or The unprecedented mobilization of Sodexo and the protection of health and safety Education sites that remain open. and its teams, combined with the support on client sites, as well as those of Home of client companies and the action of the Everywhere, adaptation and collaboration Services teams which continued to take global Stop Hunger network, have made it have been at the forefront as the care of their clients experiencing even more possible to support food aid associations in crisis deepened in order to ensure the isolation during this period. many countries. continuity of operations while dealing with The essential work of the supply chain reductions in attendance, cancellation Because the exceptional situation facing teams and the strength of partnerships of services and the closure of sites. As the company has unfortunately had an with suppliers also contributed to often as possible, teams with declining impact on the employment of some of its the safety of all and the continuity of business activity have been redeployed on-site employees, Sodexo has created activities, including by ensuring the supply to reinforce sites under pressure. Intera global Employee Relief Program of of raw materials, masks and personal segment collaboration was strengthened 30 million euro funded by contributions protective equipment. in France, for example, through the from the Group’s senior executives and the production of meals by the Education CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY company. This program has notably made segment for Corporate sites that remained FULLY EXPRESSED it possible to ﬁnance the extension of health open or, in the United Kingdom, by the insurance coverage in the United States and As partners in daily life, it is natural support of Sports & Leisure teams for to grant food ﬁnancial aid in Brazil. for Sodexo teams to support health Healthcare teams to help ensure the proper Sodexo also mobilized from the start professionals dealing with this crisis, functioning of Covid-19 testing centers of the crisis to support its ecosystem keeping open the essential activities such deployed across the country. of suppliers, impacted by the sudden as school meals or childcare centers as well as donating products. In France for interruption of numerous Foodservices UNWAVERING SUPPORT FOR example, 1,200 meal trays were offered by activities by identifying possible logistical CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS support arrangements, help with the Lenôtre in the Paris-region, nearly 30 tons In this exceptional situation, Sodexo’s of fruit and vegetables were distributed disposal of stocks, volume transfers to mission to improve quality of life has to over 100 health facilities and staff active segments and ﬂexible ﬁnancing taken on even greater relevance. More and hundreds of electronic tablets were solutions, especially for Small and Medium than ever listening to and at the side of provided to patients to maintain the link Entreprises (SMEs) and local suppliers. clients, whether in person or remotely, with their families. In many countries, onSodexo has also provided support to Sodexo teams have pooled their strengths site retail services have been reinvented to its restaurant partners, for example by and expertise to help them ensure the help caregivers cope with day-to-day life, adopting an early repayment system continuity of their business activities, such as “Grocery & Meals to Go” in North for restaurant vouchers in France and adapting services and practices at each America and “Key Workers, Key Essentials” by organizing the solidarity initiative phase of the pandemic, with the health in the United Kingdom, solutions that allow “Vivent les restos”. 22 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M A YEAR MARKED BY THE COVID-19 CRISIS EMPLOYEES MOBILIZED COMBINING EXPERTISE SOLIDARITY IN THE FACE ON THE FRONT LINE WITH RESPONSIVENESS OF THE FOOD EMERGENCY “As soon as the first suspected cases As a strategic supplier to the UK Government, At the height of the crisis in Brazil, Stop appeared, my team and I were fully Sodexo teams from different segments Hunger Brazil supported the “Mãos de Maria” mobilized to support hospital staff. – Healthcare, Sports & Leisure… – worked in social and solidarity program. With the All of us had a role to play in ensuring partnership with the Department of Health support of Sodexo and partner companies, the health and safety of healthcare and Social Care and the Boots company they provided nearly 70 women temporary professionals and patients in the face of to install and operate Covid-19 testing work preparing 10,000 meals a day for this crisis. Our corporate values and the centers. From an initial 16 drive-through families in the Paraisópolis favela. Operations trust placed in us by our clients enabled testing centers and nine walk-in centers for were led out of the public educational us to cope. I am so very proud of the work National Health Service staff and frontline restaurant facilities, modernized thanks to the accomplished by our teams.” workers, Sodexo expanded the collaboration 2018 Women Stop Hunger Award. In addition by deploying 40 additional mobile testing to the distribution of meals, Stop Hunger JUAN XU, units throughout the country for anyone has increased its fundraising campaign for AREA MANAGER FOR RENMIN AND WUHAN UNION HOSPITALS, ON-SITE SERVICES, displaying symptoms. Sodexo applied its social projects, contributing alongside Sodexo SODEXO CHINA expertise throughout the entire process, from clients to distribute more than 45,500 Stop infrastructure design, test training and ﬂow Hunger food cards (valued at approximately management to security, Personal Protective 3.3 million euro), helping over 227,500 people Equipment (PPE) and test kit procurement, obtain necessities from local merchants and cleaning and waste management. survive the health and economic crisis. COMMITTED TO SUPPORTING CLIENTS “Nestlé Chile was identified by the government as a primary-level essential HELPING GOVERNMENT SUPPORTING THE HEALTH company, needed for the continued supply TO SUPPORT CITIZENS EMERGENCY of food products to citizens. Together Building on trusting relationships and innovative In early April 2020 in California, Sodexo with Sodexo teams and with constant solutions, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services teams helped re-open the former St. Vincent communication, we quickly adapted to the put their expertise at the service of Panama’s Hospital, which would become the Los new requirements defined by the health humanitarian aid plan. Through a contract Angeles Surge Hospital dedicated to Covid-19 authorities and by Nestlé, always keeping worth 51.5 million U.S. dollars, Sodexo enabled patients. The unused building was refreshed the health of our workers as the first priority. nearly 610,000 families to benefit from food and brought up to regulatory standards in New standards and risk mitigation measures baskets and vouchers to meet the essential just 13 days. Sodexo also provides catering, were implemented for Facilities Management needs for food, medicines, hygiene and cleaning, servicing, maintenance, as well services, with innovative solutions thanks to disinfection products through an extended as biomedical engineering services for the the global expertise of Sodexo.” network of affiliates that beneﬁt from a digital 266 hospital patients. ANDRES AGUILAR MIRANDA, reimbursement solution. Globally, Sodexo is BUSINESS EXCELLENCE, STUDIES proud to support public programs in 19 countries & STRATEGIC PLANNING, WORKPLACE that beneﬁt more than 7.8 million users. SOLUTIONS MARKET LEAD, NESTLÉ CHILE LISTENING TO SUPPLIERS Part of the social and solidarity economy, the Bou’Sol network “The link with Sodexo is the result ensures the creation and operation of ﬁve “Pain et Partage” of innovative cooperation which bakeries. Since 2003, Sodexo has partnered with the bakeries, strengthens solidarity between which offer paths to employment and ensure the production people and the territory. It is a of breads made with locally produced organic ﬂour. Faced with partnership for sustainable and the closure of Foodservices sites and local food issues, Sodexo inclusive food that allows us to connected this trusted partner with preparing solidarity approach the future confidently lunches for families from disadvantaged neighborhoods and to grow together.” in Marseille. Sodexo also participated in the crowdfunding SAMUEL MOUGIN, campaign launched in Bordeaux to ensure the sustainability CO-FOUNDER OF THE BOU’SOL of the local employment integration system. NETWORK S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 23 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Effectively managing business activity through an unprecedented crisis Faced with the rapid spread of Covid-19 around the world, Sodexo’s priority has been to adapt its activities to ensure the Group’s sustainability. AN IMMEDIATE OPERATIONAL euro for the year, down -12% compared around the world. Corporate services activity RESPONSE to the previous year. in China has even returned to growth on On-site Services revenues declined by -12.1% a monthly basis by the end of the second half To reduce the impact of the drop in revenue of the ﬁscal year. for the year and by -27.8% in the second caused by the partial or total closure of half. This downturn is the most severe ever Sodexo can also rely on its Facilities a signiﬁcant number of sites, particularly in experienced by Sodexo. The revenue decline Management services, which represents 40% the Education, Corporate Services and Sports for the Business & Administrations segment of On-site Services and which have fallen by & Leisure segments, Sodexo immediately was -29.2% for the second half, with a highly only -1.4% during the second half, compared identiﬁed all possible means to reduce costs mixed situation among the sub-segments. with a drop of -42.2% in Foodservices. This and capital expenditures, and preserve cash. For example, sales from Sports & Leisure is in a context where cleaning, disinfection or The Group quickly adopted a set of rigorous activities, which closed very quickly in maintenance of installations are key services measures, including proactive above-site and mid-March, fell by -88% over the period, to ensure that clients are able to gradually workforce cost management to adapt to rapid while the decline in Corporate Services was reopen sites, and particularly in Global Accounts changes in the situation, redeployment of -26%. In Healthcare & Seniors, the decrease that represent nearly 10% of sales. Its varied teams to high-demand sites and leveraging sectoral expertise also enables the Group to was limited to -11.1% for the period, due in government measures to protect employment. face this unprecedented crisis and demonstrate particular to the slowdown in elective surgery Other steps included strict management of the usefulness of its services, particularly in in hospitals. The Education segment was cash focused on maintaining ongoing dialogue Healthcare & Seniors, or in Energy & Resources down -47.2% in the second half of the year, with clients, appropriate and careful monitoring and Government & Agencies; these last two strongly impacted by the closure of most of inventories and the supply chain, and schools and universities around the world, represent 14% of On-site Services revenue postponement of all non-essential investments. although Foodservices were requested by and posted a +1.3% increase in revenue Adapting services, from enhancing certain governmental authorities in order to in the second half of Fiscal 2020. Despite the Foodservices offer to implementing provide meals to families. the pandemic, Sodexo won signiﬁcant new additional Facilities Management services contracts in multiple segments, including Revenue from Beneﬁts & Rewards Services in response to local conditions, also helped Energy & Resources. In Peru, Sodexo is providing was down -18.8% over the second half to strengthen the conﬁdence of clients and its expertise in Facilities Management and of the year and -13.4% for the full year, in some cases even expand the business, like Foodservices for 8,000 Anglo American with an improving trend after the end of the development of Covid-19 testing centers Quellaveco employees and is extending its the lockdown in Europe and the gradual in the United Kingdom. For example, Corporate contract with Nexa to cleaning services. Sodexo reopening of restaurants. Services teams deployed a smart App worldwide also won a new contract with Antofagasta and in record time that enables real-time Despite this crisis, Sodexo’s ﬁnancial situation Minerals in Chile. In Norway, the Group won a monitoring of the situation on 1,400 Global is solid. The underlying operating proﬁt signiﬁcant contract to provide food, cleaning Account client sites: sites open/closed, zones margin for the year was 2.9%. Underlying and laundry services for eight offshore platforms at risk to the spread of the virus, changes in Net proﬁt amounted to 306 million euro. with the deployment of innovative technological the service offering, business continuity plan, The Group has been particularly active in solutions to improve operational efficiency and cost management, thus enabling efficient scrupulously watching over its cash ﬂow, safety of services. management of the activity. by reimbursing the USPP of 1.4 billion euro, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services also contributed thus resolving the issue of the covenant to Sodexo’s resilience. Although impacted by A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT thresholds and by issuing 2.5 billion euro the drop in revenues in Employee Beneﬁts and ON THE GROUP’S of bonds in April and July. Free cash ﬂow Services Diversiﬁcation, the teams were able PERFORMANCE reached 72 million euro and underlying to accelerate the digitization of the activity earnings per share stood at 2.10 euro. The pandemic interrupted the positive during the crisis by converting clients to digital, growth momentum that had been driven developing new partnerships with delivery SOME RESILIENCE FACTORS platforms and strengthening complementarity by the strategic agenda launched in 2018. In the second half of Fiscal 2020, organic OF THE BUSINESS MODEL with On-site Services, in particular through the revenue growth fell by -27.5%. The organic This unprecedented crisis has highlighted development of Sodexo cards to improve the trend nevertheless improved in the fourth the resilience of Sodexo’s model, including meal experience for people working from home. quarter, falling only -24.9%, after a -36% the diversity of its services portfolio and its The activity was also supported by contracts decline in the third quarter, adjusted geographical footprint. The Group’s global concluded with several governments for the for the ﬁrst two weeks before lockdown. presence has enabled it to maintain continuous distribution of public aid to populations most Consolidated revenues stood at 19.3 billion activity in response to the pandemic’s spread affected by the crisis. For more information on Fiscal 2020 ﬁnancial performance, see the Universal Registration Document. 24 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M A YEAR MARKED BY THE COVID-19 CRISIS Supporting the recovery with confidence To reopen and feel safe in one’s work environment, at school or at a sporting event, through proven sanitary protocols and to beneﬁt from new services that respond to new needs is a prerequisite for successful adaptation to the world’s new realities. In creating “rise with Sodexo,” a global program to provide support to organizations based on the complementarity of On-site Services, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services and Personal & Home Services, the Group reaffirms its mission as a privileged partner for its clients and a leader in improving quality of life in the communities it serves. It is an offer designed to respond to the safety, well-being and performance challenges that clients face. Drawing on its expertise and experience acquired in Asia, Sodexo is implementing a powerful and targeted market strategy supported by a global offer of more than 40 essential services, structured around ﬁve areas: • Preparing an expert risk assessment and restart process through a structured and The “rise with Sodexo” program is being A new Sodexo Medical Advisory Council, personalized approach for the rolled out across all segments and responsible for offering technical guidance client environment. locations worldwide. In Germany, for and validation of health and safety • Protecting people and places example, the healthcare teams have protocols for its services has been set up. through a wide array of services installed smart sensors to measure and This governance body comprises experts ranging from disinfection to manage restaurant occupancy in real from around the world in epidemiology, contactless services to ensure both time at Tübingen University hospital. family medicine, nutrition, occupational the productivity and the well-being In France, Sports & Leisure is offering new and behavioral health, as well as in of client teams. hybrid experiences, combining physical pandemic planning and operations. • Enabling teams to perform and connected events, to allow audiences at their best with services for to engage and gather safely. In the United both on-site and home workers Kingdom, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services and with healthy and sustainable On-site Services teams have combined SAFE food offers to simplify life for their skills to offer Sodexo’s Employee consumers, grab-and-go solutions, Independently Veriﬁed Experience Card, a new offer combining retail and digital convenience and the on-site or affiliated restaurants card In addition, Sodexo has partnered with meal cards. with payment cards for purchasing office Bureau Veritas to introduce a hygiene • Supporting consumer wellness supplies for people working from home veriﬁcation label that is linked to Sodexo’s and the maintenance of social and gift cards to build employee loyalty procedures and services, enabling clients links and communication. and strengthen engagement. and consumers to resume their activity on • Optimizing the experience To support the deployment of the “rise site with peace of mind. The label covers according to new health needs with Sodexo” program and offer its both Facilities Management services and standards with optimized clients the guarantees necessary for a (reception, cleaning and disinfection management of energy conﬁdent restart, Sodexo also launched services, security and maintenance) and efficiency in line with Sodexo’s two initiatives to boost the quality of its Foodservices (adaptation of Foodservices environmental commitments. protocols. processes with social distancing, etc.). S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 25 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS WITH CONFIDENCE INNOVATION SERVING CONSUMER STRENGTHENED PARTNERSHIPS EXPERIENCE WITH DELIVERY PLATFORMS “Since 2014, Sodexo has supported us at all of our 20 sites in France, representing Sodexo has accelerated the development of With more than 70 partnerships with meal 51,000 m2. of office space, with traditional technological solutions to offer a continuously delivery platforms in 7 countries, consumers Facilities Management services, such as improved workplace experience. In China, can now use their Sodexo meal card as a reception, telephone switchboard and a smart retail solution was successfully payment method to order at their favorite cleaning as well as through innovative deployed at more than 30 client sites. With the restaurants. In Portugal, Sodexo is the first services like quality of life hubs, featuring partnership with Meican, Chinese consumers on and only issuer of meal cards providing online floor captains to ensure the well-being some sites can also make their choice, order and ordering with Uber Eats, now present in nearly of the teams and the safety of the space. pay directly via a digital platform before picking 40 cities. In France, in addition to 40 delivery Close collaboration during the various up their “contactless” lunch prepared by Sodexo sites that are already partners (FoodChéri, phases of managing the Covid-19 teams or their dinner from partner restaurants. Nestor, Class’Croute, etc.), holders of the Pass pandemic enabled us to preserve the Everywhere, new services are being deployed Restaurant card have access with Deliveroo to health and safety of teams by reinforcing to meet the expectations of consumers, such 12,000 restaurants in 300 cities. Its partnership cleaning and disinfection services and also as Bite+ in the United States that facilitates extends to other services such as booking during the confinement phase converting campus Foodservices, and the ordering and holidays on the Booking.com site in Romania correspondence to digital to ensure the remote payment Apps, B by Sodexo in Belgium for users of Tourist Pass vouchers and cards. continuity of our activities. We were also and Twelve in the United Kingdom. able to count on the Sodexo team’s agility and expertise in supporting us in reopening NEW DELIVERED MEAL OFFERS INTENSIFICATION OF In a changing environment, now affected by the offices and working together on the DIGITALIZATION OF BENEFITS & an unprecedented crisis, new expectations procedures to be implemented to ensure REWARDS SERVICES and needs are emerging that are providing that our teams could return to our sites with confidence.” Changes in working methods, reinforced by numerous development opportunities for Sodexo. YVES CHÂTELET, the Covid-19 pandemic, have accelerated the The delivery model launched in Brazil has WORK ENVIRONMENT DIRECTOR, digital transformation of Benefits & Rewards made it possible to approach the B2C market, DELOITTE (FRANCE) Services. Through new solutions and the transforming four existing sites into cloud adaptation of existing services driven by the kitchens by creating virtual restaurant offers acceleration of the migration from paper and by developing some strategic partnerships to cards and the increase in contactless with marketplaces such as Rappi and Ifood. transactions, Sodexo’s priority is to meet the Initially launched in three cities, the new service new needs of its clients, partners and users in offer is being rolled out across the country and is search of security and ﬂexibility. Sodexo is also regularly enriched with new menu options while capitalizing on its unique service offering with building synergies with the capabilities of Beneﬁts a 360° dining experience focused on consumer & Rewards Services and suppliers. Deli Express was practices in the workplace as well as outside. also launched in Singapore to offer a convenient An example can be found in the Czech Republic, and healthy selection of soups and salads for where more than 20,000 meal vouchers were lunch on weekdays available on the Grab mobile provided for people working from home during App. In the United Kingdom, The Good Eating the lockdown. This expertise and the digital Company also launched a new workplace food solutions proposed provided responsiveness delivery solution for urban markets. In France, INNOVATING TO IMPROVE and ﬂexibility to support government economic Sodexo is already reaching consumers in their OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY recovery plans. In Belgium, for example, homes and offices through FoodChéri as well as Sodexo’s technical expertise is reinforced by Sodexo supports several initiatives, such as with Seazon, the ﬁrst subscription offer of freshly the use of advanced technological solutions. the payment of a subsidy to many SMEs in cooked meals delivered every week throughout Energy & Resources teams in Australia have Wallonia and the distribution of food cards for France. Adapted to specific consumer needs, implemented a global collaborative project inhabitants living in a precarious situation. these offers are also provided by Amelis as a home to offer a 2.0 remote maintenance service assistance solution. through connected glasses, in partnership with RealWear and AMA’s Xperteye solution, for Rio Tinto mining sites, spread over 1,500 kms. This solution, now available for TOWARDS RESPONSIBLE ECONOMIC RECOVERY all clients worldwide allows on-site personnel In collaboration with World Wildlife Fund With the program “rise with Sodexo,” the Group to be guided remotely by specialized (WWF), Sodexo committed to reducing its is strengthening its actions to contribute to technicians and thus limit downtime of carbon emissions by 34% (scopes 1, 2 and 3) the preservation of biodiversity and to the essential equipment and ensure continuity between 2017 and 2025. With this ambition efforts against climate change, including of operations at decentralized sites. The validated by the Science-Based Target initiative, through increasing the proportion of lowSodexo has become the first company in the carbon emission menus, increasing responsible service was particularly useful during the Foodservices sector to have a carbon target purchasing, reducing food waste and raising lockdown, allowing remote inspections of in line with the Paris Agreement objective of employee awareness. isolated sites, health and safety audits and limiting climate warming to 1.5° C. virtual site visits. 26 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M A YEAR MARKED BY THE COVID-19 CRISIS Efficiency and transformation for future growth In order to adapt to its rapidly changing business sector and to respond to long-term structural challenges, Sodexo is accelerating its transformation to progressively adjust its organization, increase its agility and seize the numerous opportunities for future growth. The shock wave from the global health crisis 175 million euro of SG&A savings, will increase particular on these commitments in the areas has accelerated Sodexo’s transformation. the company’s agility and efficiency, to be of health, nutrition and well-being, social The Covid-19 crisis strongly impacted the closer to client needs on the ground. equality and protection of biodiversity, for Foodservices activity in many segments and win-win partnerships, like its Partner Inclusion accelerated certain consumption trends. INVESTING EFFICIENTLY Program or its commitments to reduce carbon In line with major global trends (see page 30), TO REVITALIZE GROWTH emissions. With 20 billion euro in annual Sodexo is reﬁning its strategy to capitalize Building on the initial gains in terms of purchasing capacity from approximately on the increasing outsourcing of services and operational efficiency and commercial 150,000 suppliers around the world, Sodexo account for demographic changes, particularly relevance, the Group is continuing its efforts is able to transform its procurement model in developing economies, while responding to to anticipate and respond ever better to the while having a positive impact on its supplier societal forces such as changing consumption needs of its clients and to strengthen their ecosystem and on the planet. choices or resource scarcity. loyalty, around a unique portfolio of services. To do this, the Group is continuing its targeted ACCELERATING FREEING UP FINANCIAL THE TRANSFORMATION investments around key catalysts, such as CAPACITY TO REINVENT THE MODEL the deployment of a global client relationship To maintain its competitiveness and management tool for On-site Services, To respond to changing behaviors and increase its agility and ability to act, creating regional centers of marketing-sales expectations, particularly in terms of Sodexo is pursuing and accelerating the expertise in Europe, and building client loyalty corporate foodservices, in response to trends transformation initiated in 2018. The Group, with the overhaul of Sodexo’s “Clients for Life” greatly reinforced by the pandemic such which has already reduced its international program. New technologies, automation, as working from home or meals delivery, presence from 80 to 64 countries, is thus robots and the Internet of Things will also Sodexo is accelerating development of its continuing to optimize its geographic improve the execution and operational multi-modal and multi-channel offers and footprint, with an emphasis on regions efficiency of its services. Building on its the adaptation of its production and with the greatest potential for growth and investments, Sodexo is strengthening its operating models. proﬁtability. The Group thus intends to go-to-market strategies and building unique strengthen its efforts in its main markets, The Group’s approach is to place relationships with its clients. the United States, the United Kingdom and the consumer at the heart of its model and France in particular, and to accelerate its The transformation of Beneﬁts & Rewards to respond to the diversity of situations with investments in the markets with strong growth Services is now reﬂected in a business relevant services. In particular, the Group potential such as Brazil, China and India. digitization rate of 86%, up 13 points in just intends to develop its operating model two years. The platform implemented in through new off-site production sites and Additionally, having successfully rebalanced partnership with Zeta in India, combining both strengthening the digitization of services, its market dynamics and the balance a new consumer-centric approach and robust such as pre-order, click & collect and digital between global/local contracts and Facilities digital payment technology, is gradually payment solutions, which are gradually being Management and Foodservices, Sodexo is being leveraged in other countries, including continuing to rationalize its technical services rolled out in all segments and regions, as well Brazil, to deliver a holistic and unique multiportfolio to focus its efforts on those with the as digital platforms such as SoHappy used beneﬁts experience. Sodexo now offers a greatest potential and highest added value. daily by 250,000 French consumers and robust digital ecosystem and more than To meet new post-crisis challenges, solutions implemented in China in 70 partnerships with e-commerce sites and particularly the impact of working from home partnership with Meican. delivery platforms and has accelerated time in the Corporate Services segment, the Group to market for its offers. With more than Sodexo is thereby reinforcing its value is adapting its workforce to the volumes of 36 million consumers every day and nearly proposition to its clients and meeting the on-site activity. Sodexo is also embarking on one billion digital transactions per year, the individual needs of consumers, regardless a program to optimize and simplify its central of their place of consumption, through Beneﬁts & Rewards Services business is now structures, including transitioning from the complementarity of meal delivery offers the technological arm of Sodexo. 12 to 7 regions and pooling support functions. such as Alchemista in the United States and This program, which should generate about To stimulate growth, improve its FoodChéri in France as well as through its competitiveness and meet the expectations Beneﬁts & Rewards Services. of its clients and consumers, Sodexo is CUMULATIVE RESTRUCTURING COSTS stepping up its efforts to transform its supply Through the diversity of its offers and the adaptation of its production methods, 350 MILLION chain, through operational efficiency gains, acceleration of digitization and consolidation Sodexo is able to meet the expectations of of its responsible sourcing approach. To consumers and thus increase their average EU R O BY F I S C AL 2 0 21 differentiate itself, the Group relies in purchase, while improving productivity. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 27 CARING ABOUT QUALIT Y OF LIFE Leader in Quality of Life services Focused on its stakeholders and global trends, and inspired by the energy of its 420,000 employees, Sodexo constantly adapts its unique integrated service offering to deliver ever better support to its clients and consumers to meet the challenges of a changing market. More than ever, Sodexo’s ambition is to improve quality of life and contribute to the performance of organizations and the progress of society. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 29 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Services adapted for the shortand long-term Beyond the current crisis, preparing for the long-term future means being aware of the world’s great transformations. By deﬁning and analyzing 11 major megatrends with demographic, social, environmental, economic and technological implications, Sodexo is ﬁne-tuning its strategy and adapting its offers. Some of these megatrends are accelerating faster than others as a result of Covid-19 and Sodexo is ready to respond and seize the opportunities. Demographic shifts Environmental issues Developed countries are faced with a rapidly aging population and resource scarcity due in part to slow population growth estimated at 2.9% between 8.6 billion inhabitants in 2030: the demographic boom is 2015 and 2030. Meanwhile, developing countries, will experience weighing on natural resources, heightening global warming and an average population growth of 18.5% between 2015 and disrupting traditional consumption pattern. The current crisis 2030(1). has raised the level of consciousness on this issue. Urbanization Empowered consumers Rapid urbanization is contributing to the increase Consumers and clients now have unlimited access to information in GDP per capita, but the emergence of mega-cities and expect personalized services and experiences. The current (>10 million inhabitants) is creating enormous economic crisis has deﬁnitely accelerated this trend, empowering consumer and social challenges. Urbanization projects are expected communities. to be impacted in the short-term but will continue to expand in the long-term. Digital transformation Technology disrupts the relationship between companies and Emerging middle class users and generate new expectations. As the value of data Education and technologies are transforming consumption grows, offering new insights and usages, companies are able to modes and habits. The middle class, whose purchasing power increasingly personalize their offers. is on the rise and which will represent most of the consumers in 2022, are dedicating an increasing share of their budget to health and wellness, leisure and culture. Ownership vs. use Why buy if you can subscribe or rent? Collaborative platforms are revolutionizing business models and buying behaviors. Global economy With their lower capital intensity, these business models can Capital, information and talent are now interconnected, generate much more rapid growth than traditional ones. providing companies with new sources of growth. As globalization continues to shape the economy, we expect a push toward regional and local sourcing as well. Future of work Disruptive technologies such as artiﬁcial intelligence, robotics or the Internet of Things... all are profoundly transforming the world Developing markets of work. To succeed, companies must support employability and Developing markets are creating wealth for millions of people. attract talent. Their weight in the world economy is increasing due to rapid population growth seven times faster than that of developed countries, combined with the rise of the middle class. Public deﬁcits The weight of public debt is leading governments to consider more efficient ways to provide public services and to outsource certain services, more so in the current crisis. Between now and 2030, rising public deﬁcits and persistent youth unemployment will strongly impact public policies and taxation. 1 Roland Berger Trend Compendium, UN DESA. 30 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M LEADER IN QUALITY OF LIFE SERVICES Many of these rapidly accelerating trends are leading to “new normals”. As an international company, Sodexo is preparing for the future and transforming itself to provide new offers and solutions. INNOVATIVE MEAL EXPERIENCES The traditional workplace food offering with kitchens serving on-site employees, at set hours, is one dimensional. As behaviors and perceptions of work have evolved, so have expectations when it comes to food in the workplace and how it supports people during their day. That is why Sodexo is investing in companies like Meican, China’s leading corporate Foodservices platform to harness the power of data and digital. With its unique positioning and core competency in the digital Foodservices market, Meican provides a wide range of Foodservice options for multiple company scenarios. In all countries, Sodexo is enhancing its current services with tech-enabled solutions, building partnerships to meet new and evolving guest expectations and developing new capabilities such as the Enjoy offer in France that delivers food solutions to companies without kitchens. Megatrends impacts: Digital transformation, Empowered consumer CONTINUED BENEFITS FOR WORKING FROM HOME Working from home is now part of everyday life, especially with the onset of Covid-19 as companies are becoming more ﬂexible on their employee’s working location. Sodexo believes that it is of utmost importance to provide at-home offers that boost productivity, wellbeing and quality of life of employees. Through Beneﬁts & Rewards Services, speciﬁcally meal and food vouchers, Sodexo has managed to expand its offering to those workers who have been working from home during the sanitary crisis and will continue to do so in the new normal, as for example in the United Kingdom with the launch of the Employee Experience Card or in France with the opportunity to put in place a combination of Foodservice solutions, as well as a meal card thereby giving access to local restaurants and food delivery, through FoodChéri, and food delivery platforms when working from home. Megatrends impacts: Future of work, Digital transformation, Empowered consumer WORKSPACE SOLUTIONS 70% of top CEOs agree that creating a great workplace experience is essential for productivity, retention, or sense of belonging(1). Speciﬁcally, at the end of the Covid-19 conﬁnement, many clients are encouraging their employees to come back to the office. Wx is a Sodexo corp-up that helps organizations optimize their workplace experience through ethnography, IoT and data science. With both their consultancy services and technology solutions, Wx helps clients to deﬁne a functional and sustainable working environment. From wireless sensors that measure occupancy to machine learning algorithms and a space analytics platform, Wx ultimately leads to better decision-making and an enhanced employee experience and productivity. Megatrends impacts: Empowered consumer, Future of work AT-HOME CARE As people are living longer and are choosing to live at home, Sodexo’s goal is to create a life plan with the elderly person and their family in order to ensure that seniors and disabled individuals can live independently and as comfortably as possible at home. For instance, Comfort Keepers in the U.S. as well as Amelis in France and The Good Care Group in the United Kingdom help ensure senior safety and wellbeing particularly today through the current pandemic. Caregivers are specially trained to provide care within the safety and comfort of home. From picking up prescriptions and grocery shopping to providing day-to-day companionship and personal care, Sodexo’s services enable seniors to stay at home longer. Megatrends impacts: Empowered consumer, Demographic shifts FROM GLOBAL TO LOCAL Mindful of the impact of sourcing choices, and committed to promoting low carbon emission products, Sodexo Supply Management experts favor short circuits and local and seasonal offers, to reduce the ecological footprint and to continually improve the quality of the meals prepared. A global Sodexo Supply Chain Inclusion Program is promoting the integration of small and medium-sized enterprises, businesses owned and/or run by women or persons belonging to minorities, and suppliers who are actively committed to diversity and inclusion. In its Beneﬁts & Rewards Services, Sodexo is also highlighting and giving visibility through digital tools to local restaurants or restaurants sourcing locally to raise awareness and drive more traffic. As part of Better Tomorrow 2025, the objective is to reach 10 billion euro of business value beneﬁting SMEs by 2025. Megatrends impacts: Environmental issues and resource scarcity 1 How leaders are managing mental health and wellbeing in the workplace Deloitte November 2019. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 31 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E A unique range of Quality of Life services Through its three business activities, On-site Services, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services and Personal & Home Services, Sodexo offers a complete response to the needs of its clients and accompanies consumers throughout their lives. Operating in 64 countries, with unmatched leadership in reputation. Sharing of organization and infrastructure enables developing economies, Sodexo adapts its integrated offer to the Group to achieve economies of scale, while offering an array local needs while providing consistently high-quality service of professional career opportunities for its employees. throughout the world. Its services create value for clients and Detailed knowledge of client and consumer needs is essential to improve the daily lives of consumers through the fulﬁllment of developing and expanding this unique offering of Quality of Life its economic, social and environmental commitments. services. Sodexo leverages synergies between its three business activities in terms of business development opportunities and global Corporate Services BUSINESS & Energy & Resources Government & Agencies ADMINISTRATIONS Sports & Leisure Others ON-SITE SERVICES HEALTHCARE & SENIORS Healthcare Seniors Schools EDUCATION Universities BENEFITS & EMPLOYEE BENEFITS REWARDS SERVICES SERVICES DIVERSIFICATION CHILDCARE PERSONAL & CONCIERGE SERVICES HOME SERVICES HOMECARE 32 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M LEADER IN QUALITY OF LIFE SERVICES On-site Services Increasing a company’s efficiency, caring for patients in the hospital, fostering a learning environment, providing safety and comfort on a remote site: services delivered improve quality BUSINESS & ADMINISTRATIONS of life for millions of consumers and enable clients Sodexo promotes quality of life to improve their performance. at work through customized solutions that help businesses, public institutions, managers of prestigious venues and At the heart of Sodexo’s offering, On-site Services are organized organizers of major events to create Foodservices, on site or in a speciﬁc around global segments: Business welcoming, creative, efficient and environment, contribute to improving & Administrations, Healthcare & Seniors innovative solutions, for all audiences, the quality of life for consumers. Sodexo and Education. employees or visitors, even under also offers its clients its multiple This approach enables Sodexo challenging conditions. expertise and services in many areas, to leverage its size, its global presence from the design of workplaces to the and its sector expertise, and thereby sterilization of medical devices, reception increase the value provided to its clients. and cleaning services and so on. It also helps the Group to best meet the To deepen understanding of the challenges needs of consumers, whose expectations its clients face and adapt the organization can vary considerably from one segment to the globalization of the market, to another. estimated at 900 billion euro(1), REVENUES BY CLIENT SEGMENT AND SUB-SEGMENT HEALTHCARE & SENIORS as of August 31, 2020 Sodexo responds to the challenges of healthcare and an aging population. HEALTHCARE & SENIORS BUSINESS & Alongside healthcare professionals 26% ADMINISTRATIONS throughout the care journey, Sodexo 55% Healthcare 19% offers equipment engineering and clinical infrastructure solutions and a range of Corporate value-added integrated services, designed Services 25% Seniors 7% to improve the quality of life of patients and seniors in residences or health EDUCATION facilities. 19% Energy & Resources 8% Universities 10% Government & Schools 9% Agencies 6% Sports & Leisure 5% Others 11% KEY FIGURES(2) as of August 31, 2020 EDUCATION Sodexo supports schools and universities in fostering a fulﬁlling educational environment in schools and on campuses while helping universities 96% 18.6 408,526 improve their attractiveness. The Group offers educational solutions and tools, of Group revenues billion euro employees and supports clients in their infrastructure in consolidated design and renovation projects. revenues Source: Sodexo 1 Market potential for On-site Services, including Personal & Home Services. Sodexo estimate (Market estimates are likely to evolve over time, given the growing reliability of information sources in various countries.) 2 Including Personal & Home Services. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 33 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Benefits & Rewards Services With its range of nearly 250 services, Beneﬁts & Rewards Services strives to improve the quality of life of employees and help improve business performance. To attract and retain their employees, companies can count on the innovative and personalized solutions offered by Sodexo such as meal or food card solutions. Driven by technological innovations, these Quality of Life services help to improve employee engagement, recognition, work-life balance, travel and expense management, health and well-being. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS From Meal Pass to Gift Pass, Sodexo offers its clients innovative and personalized solutions to improve the quality of life of their employees, as well as services aimed at recognizing their efforts: incentive and recognition programs, professional development tools, etc. SERVICES DIVERSIFICATION Sodexo offers simple and easy-to-access solutions to meet mobility challenges, as well as health and wellness, and incentive and recognition via unique platforms such as fuel cards, Mobility Pass travel booking and management of business expenses. KEY FIGURES REVENUES BY REGION as of August 31, 2020 as of August 31, 2020 LATIN EUROPE, ASIA, UNITED STATES 4% 773 4,708 AMERICA 38% 62% of Group revenues million euro employees in consolidated revenues 470,000 36 million 1.3 million clients beneﬁciaries and affiliated consumers merchants 34 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M LEADER IN QUALITY OF LIFE SERVICES Personal & Home Services Sodexo offers a range of Personal & Home Services that respond to demographic trends and contemporary lifestyles. Present at each key stage of life, the Group operates in three areas: Childcare services, designed to take care of the youngest children while making life easier for parents; Concierge services, to enhance the development and well-being of our clients’ employees; Homecare services, to make life easier for seniors and adults who want to maintain their independence while enjoying the comfort of their home. CHILDCARE In France, Germany and Spain, Sodexo offers childcare solutions, whether pre-school or not, optimal alternatives to traditional childcare facilities, with working hours adapted to the needs of working parents. Thanks to genuine educational expertise, these services offer children a variety of activities that reveal and stimulate their potential, and provide parents with the conditions for a fulﬁlling parenthood balancing between personal and professional life. CONCIERGE SERVICES Accelerated by the changes of work life habits, companies are looking for partners that bring the physical and virtual space together so their employees can connect, collaborate and perform at the highest level. With Circles concierge services, Sodexo enhances the quality of life of consumers while improving the organization’s productivity, performance and brand reputation. HOMECARE Whether an aging senior, a patient requiring skilled hospital care or a person with a disability or illness, people want to stay at home as long as possible. Sodexo offers customized services across the care continuum, from homemaker-companion services such as preparing balanced meals and helping with errands, to highly skilled care provided by therapists, nurses, and doctors. These care and support services are delivered in North America, France, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Norway, Singapore and China. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 35 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E A sustainable value creation model OUR MISSION OUR AMBITION Improve the quality of life of our employees Our ambition is to one day improve the quality and those we serve, and contribute of life of one billion individuals around the world. to the economic, social and environmental development of the communities, regions and countries in which we operate. INPUTS/RESOURCES OUR BUSINESS 11 MEGATRENDS See page 30 420,000 engaged Y DIGITAL AND INN employees EDB OV ER AT OW IO HUMAN P N B EN EF IT S 19.3 CE S & BILLION EURO in consolidated VI 60% 80% RE revenues Foodservices Employee W ER beneﬁts AR ES DS ON S I T SERV I CE S ECONOMIC 40% 20% Facilities Management Improving Services diversiﬁcation Innovation insight services quality gained from of life 100 MILLION consumers Concierge Services RELATIONSHIPS Homecare Childcare SUSTAINABLE PROCESSES ResponsiblyPE AN RS S sourced ON VI CE TY CH AL & H OM E SER LI BI raw materials OR IN G SI CORP P ON ORATE RES NATURAL RESOURCES 36 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M LEADER IN QUALITY OF LIFE SERVICES Sodexo’s success, as a service provider, employer and corporate citizen, depends on its ability to build enduring relationships with all of its stakeholders. OUR VALUES OUR ETHICAL PRINCIPLES • Service spirit • Loyalty • Team spirit • Respect for people • Spirit of progress • Transparency • Integrity STAKEHOLDERS OUTCOMES/IMPACTS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS/ AFFILIATED MERCHANTS/NGOs 83.1% RETENTION RATE of total workforce HUMAN -1.2% AVERAGE ANNUAL TSR Total Shareholder Return (5 years) ECONOMIC 4.4 BILLION EURO spent with SMEs(1) CLIENTS/INSTITUTIONS CONSUMERS RELATIONSHIPS 22,990 TONS CO2 reduction(2) SHAREHOLDERS/COMMUNITIES NATURAL RESOURCES 1 Small and Medium Enterprises. 2 Scopes 1 and 2, compared to 2017 baseline. For more information, see chapter 2 of the Universal Registration Document. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 37 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Caring about quality of life for all Listening to our stakeholders is the very foundation of our business activity. The strong relationships that Sodexo develops and maintains with its clients, consumers, employees, shareholders and local communities in the countries where the Group operates allow us to respond to their expectations while expanding the virtuous circle created by solutions that beneﬁt all of its ecosystem. LISTENING TO TRENDS AND NEEDS IN SUPPORT OF THE DEVELOPMENT “With Sodexo we have developed a long-term business relation OF PARTNERS AND AFFILIATES based on trust. Since 2018, the 12,000 employees at the Madrid headquarters have benefited from a new digital and sustainable “Our restaurant has a warm and refined atmosphere catering experience through the integration of IoT solutions. and is located in the city center, in a commercial street with For example, we can order remotely, pay without contact, and a mixed clientele. By joining the Sodexo network, I clearly have an easy access to the information of all ingredients in every increased the number of customers, especially during lunch. dish. We also appreciate the efforts that Sodexo has made to The development of digital solutions allows me to save time by eliminate plastic from the restaurant and the work we are doing facilitating customer payments, the management of operations and voucher reimbursement. I appreciate the decision to together to keep making progress in sustainability.” increase the payment ceiling to 38 euro, which has allowed us MARIA DE PUI RUIZ DE LA CUESTA, to approach the future with a bit more serenity.” HUMAN RESOURCES AND FINANCE MANAGER, DANA PETRYCKA, TELEFÓNICA (SPAIN) RESTAURANT LA VILLA D’AUBRAC, NANTERRE (FRANCE) REINVENTING SCHOOL CATERING To offer, to enable discovery and, above all, to provide enjoyment through ﬂavorful taste, over and over again: these are the aspirations of a top chef, who journeys from the kitchens of prestigious restaurants to the world of school food. The goal of this talented enthusiast, an active member of the Toques Françaises, PERSONALIZED HOME HELP Euro-Toques and Cuisiniers de la République, is to restore a taste “My caregiver has a good sense for the daily priorities as for eating well to children through a variety of healthy, sustainable well as the flexibility to adapt to my lifestyle and situation. and, at times, amusing recipes. A talent rewarded by increased I am very grateful for the essential support she provides me attendance in the canteen, enabled by Sodexo’s understanding of a through meals and cleaning and for her consideration, which great chef’s motivations and provision of the means to ﬂourish and goes far beyond my physical needs.” achieve a great success of which to be proud. MARIE-CHRISTINE, JEAN-CHRISTOPHE BROUDY, BENEFICIARY OF AMELIS HOMECARE SERVICES, C’MIDY KITCHEN CHEF AT THE GUILLAUME APOLLINAIRE COLLEGE AIX-EN-PROVENCE (FRANCE) IN YVELINES (FRANCE) 38 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M LEADER IN QUALITY OF LIFE SERVICES ACTING FOR A HUNGER-FREE WORLD SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES “The World Food Programme is relentlessly committed to ending hunger and reaching the Sustainable Development Goals, but we Around the world, Sodexo is committed to developing cannot do it alone. For six years, we have partnered with Stop Hunger, partnership relationships with local communities. benefiting from financial support and the expertise of dedicated In Canada, Sodexo was certiﬁed at the Gold level – for Sodexo employees who volunteered to work with us around the world. the seventh time – by the CCAB(1) for its PAR(2) Program Together, we have built new tools and identified ways to improve in recognition of the Group’s work with 89 suppliers in our ability to reach school children with safe and nutritious meals 23 communities. In Australia, Sodexo achieved a second prepared with food grown in their own country and communities. elevate reconciliation plan (RAP), which highlights Together, we are making a difference in the lives of millions of people the company’s commitment to reconciliation and the and providing a model for how the private sector can deliver impact.” advancement of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples through relationship building, direct employment VALERIE N. GUARNIERI, and the economic development of Indigenous businesses. ASSISTANT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE UNITED NATIONS 1 Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business. WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME 2 Progressive Aboriginal Relations. SERVING COMMUNITIES AND FUTURE GENERATIONS “SodexoMAGIC strives each day to be recognized as an industry leader anchored in social progress that champions supplier CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS diversity, economic development and sustainability. Our mission FOR A POSITIVE IMPACT is to provide quality of life solutions that empower communities “Sodexo has been a partner for many years, and our collaboration is and future generations to eat healthy, live well, and provide a perfect example of our common vision for a more sustainable future. opportunities to the underserved. Our 6,500 employees offer Together, our chefs created recipes using ingredients from the Future best-in-class Food and Facilities Management services at more 50 Foods Report, launched in 2019 by Knorr and WWF-UK. These than 1,700 sites in corporate services, healthcare, universities, recipes combine familiar foods, such as lentils, wild rice and kale, K-12 schools and aviation.” with lesser-known foods like fonio, pumpkin flowers and amaranth, selected for their lower environmental impact and high nutritional SELENA CUFFE, value. This was a unique opportunity to bring more sustainable and SODEXO MAGIC PRESIDENT nutritious food choices to consumers across the world, while driving positive change and making a real impact. Sodexo has made these recipes available in 13 countries and 6,500 locations. Our teams are now working to make this even bigger in 2021.” HARRY BROUWER, CEO UNILEVER FOOD SOLUTIONS WELCOME TO THE CLUB In creating a Shareholders’ Club in 2019, Sodexo further strengthened its direct relations with its long-term individual shareholders. A true forum for discussion, the ON-SITE BENEFITS & PERSONAL & initiative provides opportunities to better know Sodexo’s SERVICES REWARDS HOME activities, services and managers, follow news about the SERVICES SERVICES company and beneﬁt from occasional commercial offers and invitations to events in which the Group participates. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 39 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Identifying and managing risks As part of its activities and the continuity of its strategy, Sodexo is faced with a certain number of internal and external risks and uncertainties. In order to address them and protect its values, the Group has created an organization and policies aimed at identifying, evaluating, preventing and managing these risks to limit their negative impact. Operational managers are the ﬁrst line of defense for identifying and managing risks in their area of activity. Support and transversal functions deﬁne the procedures and standards and provide tools and processes for operational staff to manage the risks. Internal audit makes an independent assessment of risk management and recommendations for improvement. BOARD OF DIRECTORS/AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE EXTERNAL AUDITORS/ Report Report Report Inform REGULATORS FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE SECOND LINE OF DEFENSE THIRD LINE OF DEFENSE OPERATIONAL SUPPORT/ INTERNAL MANAGEMENT TRANSVERSAL AUDIT FUNCTIONS MAIN RISKS Each year, a risk proﬁle is established based on the risk assessments carried out by senior management of the main entities and interviews with senior executives. Given the health situation linked to the Covid-19 pandemic and the Group’s current situation, the risk proﬁle has evolved this year to include a risk on the impact of this pandemic. Thus, the following risks are considered the most signiﬁcant for Sodexo as of August 31, 2020: MEDIUM HIGH CLIENT & Client retention CONSUMER CENTRIC Consumer expectations Bidding risk Competition OPERATIONAL Client contract execution EFFICIENCY Technology and information security TALENT Talent management and development Resource planning CORPORATE Food, services & workplace safety RESPONSIBILITY Environmental impact EXTERNAL Unpredictability of the duration ENVIRONMENT and effects of the Covid-19 pandemic Compliance with laws and regulations For more information, see chapter 5 of the Universal Registration Document. 40 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M LEADER IN QUALITY OF LIFE SERVICES Sharing a common vision To carry out its mission, Sodexo relies on strong relationships with all of its stakeholders. In 2019, in collaboration with Business for Social Responsibility(1), a new materiality study was conducted to identify and prioritize the key corporate responsibility issues and their impacts. This study was carried out in consultation with internal and external stakeholders, taking into account the evolution of contemporary issues – social, societal and environmental – as well as the evolution of the market and various expectations. The consultations and analyses with employees, management team members, suppliers, clients, NGO partners, investors and ratings agencies enabled the quantitative and qualitative assessment of the issues identiﬁed upstream by Sodexo teams. The 30 issues, clearly deﬁned and ranked by importance, were integrated into and enrich the Better Tomorrow 2025 corporate responsibility roadmap. Critical Disclosure and Respect for Transparency Human Rights Business Integrity Climate Mitigation, Resilience Supply Chain and GHG(2) emissions Environmental Impact Healthy and Sustainable Eating Supply Chain Labor Practices Food Quality and Safety Fundamental Food Waste Rights at Work Packaging and Occupational Non-organic Health and Safety Waste Diversity Governance and Inclusion Importance for stakeholders Women Empowerment Water and Effluents Data Privacy Food and Protection Technology Resource Antimicrobial Security Resistance Animal Welfare Employee Well-being Local and Engagement Socio-economic Impact Stakeholder Collaboration Fundamentals Employee Training Hunger and Malnutrition Energy and Development Individuals Talent Attraction and Retention Wellness Solutions Communities Environment High Importance for Sodexo Critical 1 Business for Social Responsibility is a non-proﬁt organization that has been developing sustainable business strategies and solutions through consulting, research, and cross-sector collaboration for 25 years. 2 GHG: greenhouse gas. For more information, see chapter 2 of the Universal Registration Document and the dedicated page on sodexo.com. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 41 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Our Corporate Responsibility roadmap Anchored in the Group’s DNA since its creation, Sodexo’s corporate responsibility is expressed through the Better Tomorrow 2025 roadmap. Responding to present and future challenges, it drives the deployment of our actions and measures their impact in the 64 countries where Sodexo operates. The nine commitments are consistent with the most material This commitment, which is fully in line with the United Nations’ issues identiﬁed through the materiality process. They are based Zero Hunger Sustainable Development Goal, strengthens on tangible and measurable objectives that allow all of its entities the notion of sustainability and Sodexo’s willingness to act in to monitor and drive progress. the long term. The actions and indicators associated with this Faced with the constant increase in the number of people who commitment have not been impacted by these changes. suffer from hunger, Sodexo reaffirms its commitment and In addition, the “500,000 women in communities educated determination to act through Stop Hunger, its main philanthropic through job training centers” objective has been reformulated cause. Thus the title of the commitment as a corporate citizen to better reﬂect the actions Sodexo takes in support of women in favor of individuals has been changed from “Fight hunger empowerment without limiting itself to training. The new, more and malnutrition” to “Act sustainably for a hunger-free world”. ambitious goal is: “500,000 empowered women in communities”. OUR 9 COMMITMENTS AND 2025 OBJECTIVES OUR IMPACT ON OUR IMPACT ON OUR IMPACT ON INDIVIDUALS COMMUNITIES THE ENVIRONMENT Improve the quality of life Ensure a diverse workforce Foster a culture of environmental of our employees, safely and inclusive culture that reﬂects responsibility within our workforce and enriches the communities and workspaces we serve OUR ROLE AS 80% 100% 100% employee of our employees work of our employees are trained on AN EMPLOYER engagement rate in countries that have gender sustainable practices balance in their management populations Provide and encourage our Promote local development and Source responsibly and provide consumers to access healthy fair, inclusive and sustainable management services that reduce lifestyle choices business practices carbon emissions OUR ROLE AS 100% 10 billion euro 34% of our consumers are offered of our business value reduction A SERVICE PROVIDER healthy lifestyle options will beneﬁt SMEs(1) of carbon emissions(2) every day Act sustainably for Drive diversity and inclusion as Champion sustainable a hunger-free world a catalyst for societal change resource usage OUR ROLE AS 100 million 500,000 50% Stop Hunger empowered women reduction A C O R P O R AT E C I T I Z E N beneﬁciaries in communities in our food waste (1) See chapter 2 of the Universal Registration Document.. (2) Absolute reduction in Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 carbon emissions, compared to a 2017 baseline. The corporate responsibility roadmap Better Tomorrow 2025 was developed in accordance with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs are a set of global goals in 17 key areas, requiring action by governments, businesses and society to achieve a more just and sustainable world by 2030. All commitments are aligned with these goals. 42 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M LEADER IN QUALITY OF LIFE SERVICES Enhancing efficiency and promoting performance As a services company, Sodexo recognizes that employees are central to its ability to create sustainable value. Sodexo’s human resources strategy SHAPING A CULTURE OF A STRATEGY TO contributes to achieving its long-term PERFORMANCE ANTICIPATE AND ADAPT growth objectives. It promotes TO FUTURE NEEDS A culture of performance is about empowerment, performance and differentiating employees based on The growth of the business relies on accountability, anticipating resource their individual contribution to the the ability to anticipate and adapt to and skill needs, investing in employee business, rewarding and recognizing their the future needs of clients and consumers. development and ensuring a safe, diverse achievements and identifying the talent, Through research on global trends and and inclusive working environment that that will be key to shaping the future insights around the expected impact on improves quality of life and fosters success. clients and consumers, Sodexo is better professional growth. The company’s strategy enables it to manage the To reinforce its performance culture, able to adapt its resource model to meet identiﬁed risks for its 370,000 consumerSodexo launched Aspire in 2019, a future needs. and client-facing employees and its simpliﬁed performance assessment and In the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, 50,000 managers. development tool for its 50,000 managers Sodexo’s Human Resources team is worldwide. Aspire links manager working closely with operational teams objectives directly with the business to assure it provides the relevant support A STRATEGY TO ENHANCE strategy. When combined with the KPIs to clients in all segments, both in the OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY from the strategic STEP(1) framework, immediate and longer-term future. To reinforce operational efficiencies Aspire allows employees to demonstrate The short-term focus is on adapting and provide access to more sustainable real performance impact and contribution services to ensure that health and employment, Sodexo leverages personnel to business success. Progress is safety is prioritized within clients’ management programs to connect monitored through ongoing collaborative post-Covid recovery plans. For Sodexo, employees with local opportunities and constructive dialogue and feedback. that means resourcing, training and in a huge diversity of roles offered by As well as providing the business with an upskilling employees to deliver standards the company. effective tool to support performanceand services that instill conﬁdence In response to shortages in skills based conversations and help individuals and trust. and employee turnover, Sodexo helps take ownership for their own career In the longer-term, Sodexo must remain employees develop skills through development, Aspire provides a framework agile and responsive to the needs of comprehensive training programs and to capture important information and clients, many of whom will need to the accelerated use of new technologies. data, which supports succession planning re-build and re-shape their businesses Other initiatives include new training and talent reviews, which in turn allows to remain competitive and successful. centers that enable people to learn new Sodexo to support the development of Sodexo also anticipates a war for skills, increasing their employability future leaders. talent emerging from the pandemic and providing the Group with the right A new compensation philosophy was and that as the labor market opens, capabilities to deliver its services. launched to enhance performance culture future candidates will want to work for In order to anticipate workforce needs, and drive ownership through a number companies that care for their employees. Sodexo implements workforce planning of levers. These include salary, which In line with Sodexo’s mission and genuine processes and tools. is fair and competitive against internal focus on people, the Group is well To ensure fair employment practices and external benchmarks; variable pay, positioned to compete for future talent. (compensation, data management), which differentiates based on collective Sodexo is continuously improving and individual achievements; and longits processes, governance and tools, term incentives, which promote future including deploying a workforce performance and retention. management platform. 1 STEP for Sodexo Targets for Enhanced Performance. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 43 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E IMPROVING ITS PRACTICES FOR PRESERVING HEALTH, SAFETY AND MAKING INCLUSION A REALITY SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE WELL-BEING In response to the Black Lives Matter SUPPLY Preserving the health and safety of its movement, Sodexo, like many businesses, In 2020, Sodexo celebrated the 10 th employees was Sodexo’s utmost priority reaffirmed its commitment to fighting anniversary of partnering with WWF during the crisis. This involves not only racism and inequality. In the U.S., to continuously improve the Group’s physical health but also mental health and Sodexo has deployed a series of race operations and procurement practices, wellbeing. In the U.S., Sodexo introduced and social justice interventions, training as well as to reduce the carbon footprint a text campaign to stay connected with and resources to support its workforce, associated with its activities. The frontline teams, when preparing to recall including a townhall meeting for main areas of collaboration are the furloughed employees back to the workplace 5,000 employees, in which leaders engaged responsible sourcing of agricultural and to address any concerns or anxieties they in a conversation about race and shared seafood products and the reduction of might have about returning to work. In the messages of support. In addition, Sodexo greenhouse gas emissions. United Kingdom, the company launched hosted several external webinars and a counseling service dedicated to helping mobilized its Diversity Leadership Council. “We are delighted to renew our more than 5,000 employees handling the Sodexo’s long-standing commitment partnership with Sodexo, a longadditional pressure of working through the to diversity and inclusion is further standing partner of WWF. With more pandemic in healthcare environments. demonstrated by a 28% increase in African than 100 million consumers served every day around the world, Sodexo Americans in senior leadership roles and a has the ability to drastically reduce its 17% increase in middle management roles VIEWING DIVERSITY environmental impact in its practices, in the U.S. in the past four years alone. AS AN OPPORTUNITY through its supply chain and in S o d e x o j o i n e d t h e Te n t P a r t n e r s h i p minimizing its carbon footprint. We are for Refugees in 2018, pledging to hire UNDERSTANDING WHAT DRIVES fully invested in supporting the company EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 300 work-eligible refugees by 2020 in in its transformation and helping to Brazil, Canada, Sweden and the United With many employees confined to their create a collective dynamic throughout States. With over 1,500 refugees hired homes or working remotely during the the Foodservices sector.” since the initial pledge, Sodexo extended pandemic, Sodexo recognized the potential MARIE-CHRISTINE KORNILOFF, its commitment to hire 2,000 refugees impact of isolation and the increasing DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, globally by 2025. By providing what importance of engaging teams. Sodexo WWF FRANCE is often a first job opportunity in their launched a survey to measure the host communities, Sodexo supports the sentiment of employees and the different Sodexo and WWF are working in partnership livelihood and integration of refugees while feelings and concerns of the teams. The to promote sustainable eating enriching its teams with new talent. feedback provided important data, which and reduce the Group's carbon emissions enabled the company to increase the frequency of communications, design e-learning modules to satisfy relevant needs, and further promote regular team and one-to-one conversations. The Group PROMOTING HEALTHY AND also launched its global engagement SUSTAINABLE FOOD survey in September 2020, introducing Sodexo has increased its menu mix a far simpler format of 13 key questions target for plant-based meals to – including 3 Covid-related – enabling more than 30% globally to address more agile responses and giving more the growing consumer demand for ownership to site managers to engage sustainable food and more natural, their teams and drive performance at a local and healthy ingredients. Sodexo local level. The survey, conducted online is working with its partners to offer and sent to 328,547 employees, attracted consumers more responsible food a participation rate of 59% (versus 62% in choices that positively impact the 2018). Despite the pandemic, the employee global food system. Sodexo now offers engagement rate increased by 11 point to its menus based on “Future 50 Foods” that encourage biodiversity at 6,500 sites 80.1%, expressing employee satisfaction in 13 countries. This initiative follows Sodexo’s launch of 200 plant-based meals and involvement. in the U.S. in 2018 and Green & Lean sustainable recipes in the United Kingdom and Ireland in 2017. 44 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M LEADER IN QUALITY OF LIFE SERVICES FIGHTING AGAINST FOOD WASTE CREATING NEW INCLUSIVE MODELS INNOVATING FOR THE REDUCTION IN REGIONS OF SINGLE-USE PLASTICS A member of the United Nations Champions 12.3 initiative, Sodexo has In line with its mission, Sodexo is creating To combat the growing pollution of singleset a 2025 target of reducing food waste new models for an inclusive, financially use plastics, Sodexo uses innovative and by 50% (compared to 2019). To achieve sustainable economy that ensures equal sustainable packaging and recycling this, the Group is committed to supporting opportunity in disadvantaged areas. solutions. An internal study identified and stimulating the progress made by Embodied by “l’Atelier,” this innovative relevant articles and proposed to replace its chefs and employees on site, like the model is based on consultation with local the plastic articles with reusable, bioplastic partnership developed in Australia with the stakeholders and the needs of the regions. and organic materials for clients in anti-waste food platform Yume. Sodexo A pilot will be opened in the fall of 2021 in 17 countries. In France, FoodChéri, the also combines its expertise with other Clichy-sous-Bois (France) and will include a first foodtech player to have used 100% member companies of the International vegetable processing plant, a reception and eco-responsible packaging, is taking up Food Waste Coalition (IFWC) as part of a early childhood center, a community space the challenge of the zero-waste offer by collaborative “from ﬁeld to fork” approach. and a training room. Backed by a partnership proposing companies returnable packaging In addition, Sodexo joined nine other world with the Agence nationale de rénovation in reusable plastic. In India, Sodexo has leaders in the food industry in founding urbaine, the model will be deployed in around replaced nearly 8 million plastic products the 10x20x30 initiative, in which partners 20 regions by 2025. This project was also with their equivalent in durable materials: engage with their priority suppliers to put selected in the incubator of the Business paper straws, wooden beverage stirrers, in place common processes for measuring for Inclusive Growth (B4IG) coalition, an wooden utensils, paper in aluminum waste throughout the value chain. initiative that Sodexo joined in August 2019. packaging. Coordinated by the OECD, the coalition brings together 38 large international companies mobilized to advance human rights within their value chains and to strengthen inclusion throughout their internal and external ecosystems. STRENGTHENING THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF SITES Sodexo is committed to switching to 100% PRIORITY TO SHORT renewable energy by 2025 at its directly SUPPLY CHAINS operated sites. This ambition extends Sodexo’s supply management teams to its clients, whom the Group supports are adopting new supply chain in improving their energy efficiency and CONTRIBUTING TO practices, including shorter routes, achieving their sustainability goals by A HUNGER-FREE WORLD more local products and increased offering them a comprehensive energy Created by Sodexo in 1996, Stop Hunger seasonal offerings. Sodexo gives management service that generates is a global non-profit network acting in small businesses priority access signiﬁcant savings and signiﬁcant returns 47 countries. The human values and skills of to its supply chain through its on investment. In Södertälje, Sweden, the 26,000 Stop Hunger volunteers beneﬁt partner inclusion program and a the external impact of AstraZeneca’s local communities and hundreds of NGOs. methodology designed to help small Oazen restaurant was reduced by 67% by In Fiscal 2020, they collected 8.6 million and medium-sized businesses meet accelerating the Sodexo-supported Sparx U.S. dollars in donations and distributed the Group’s standards. Globally, program in partnership with the innovative 7.3 million meals. Over the last 5 years, 4.4 billion euro of Sodexo business company, Klimato, for calculating CO 2 44 million beneﬁciaries have been helped. value beneﬁting small and mediumemissions. The Coolab program, developed sized businesses. In France, for jointly by Sodexo and Nokia China helped instance, 60% of products are to improve the energy efficiency of Nokia sourced from producers through laboratories, saving 1.3 million euro, direct supply. 12,620 MHW, and 9,945 tons of CO 2 emissions in 2019. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 45 CAR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Financial performance Fiscal 2020 After a ﬁrst half in line with the Focus on Growth strategic agenda, with organic growth of +3.2%, Sodexo faced an unprecedented decline in business in the second half due to the Covid-19 pandemic, signiﬁcantly affecting its ﬁnancial performance and share value. To limit the impact of the crisis and preserve its long-term capacity for action, the Group implemented signiﬁcant measures during the second half of the year. Sodexo is fully conﬁdent in terms of its ﬁnancial structure, market positioning and medium-term prospects. EVOLUTION OF CONSOLIDATED REVENUES ON-SITE SERVICES REVENUES BY REGION AND ORGANIC GROWTH 21,954 20,245 20,698 20,407 EUROPE 19,321 NORTH AMERICA 40% 7,308 million euro +3.6% 43% +2.5% 8,036 million euro +1.9% +1.6% -12.0% ASIA-PACIFIC, LATIN AMERICA, Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal MIDDLE EAST & 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 AFRICA Group consolidated revenues Organic growth 17% (in millions of euro) (in percentage) 3,210 million euro REVENUES BY ACTIVITY AND CLIENT SEGMENT UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE CORPORATE EXPENSES & INTRAGROUP ELIMINATION BY ACTIVITY AND CLIENT SEGMENT BENEFITS & ON-SITE BENEFITS & ON-SITE REWARDS SERVICES SERVICES* REWARDS SERVICES SERVICES* 4% 96% 30% 70% Foodservices 60% Business & Education Administrations 19% 23% Facilities Management services 40% Education 16% Healthcare & Business & Seniors Administrations Healthcare & Seniors 26% 55% 61% * Including Personal & Home Services. 46 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT EARNINGS PER SHARE, DIVIDEND PER SHARE AND AND OPERATING MARGIN PAY-OUT RATIO 1,340 1,226 1,200 1,128 4.85 6.5% 4.40 4.56 6.1% 4.21 5.5% 5.5% 2.75 2.75 2.90 2.40 569 Fiscal 2.9% 58% 55% 2020 50% 50% 0% Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 -2.16 Underlying operating proﬁt Operating margin (in millions of euro) (in percentage) Earnings per share Dividend per share Operating proﬁt (in euro) (in euro) NET DEBT AS A PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDERS AS OF AUGUST 31, 2020 EQUITY* PUBLIC 55.2% 67% Foreign BELLON SA Institutional shareholders 42.8% 39.9% 38% 27% 17% 11% EMPLOYEES * French 1% Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Institutional 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 shareholders 11.2% Individual TREASURY SHARES shareholders 4.1% 1% * Debt net of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and financial assets Source: Nasdaq related to Benefits & Rewards Services activity, less bank overdrafts. * Including shares resulting from restricted share plans held in registered form by employees and still subject to a lock-up period. SODEXO SHARE PRICE TREND TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR) from September 1, 2019 through August 31, 2020 -1.2% per year over the past five fiscal years SODEXO: -42% Market price at the end of the period CAC 40: -10% – market price at the beginning of the period + dividends paid over the period Market price at the beginning of the period For more information, see chapter 3 of the Universal Registration Document. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 47 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E Non-financial performance Fiscal 2020 Everywhere, Sodexo teams are fully mobilized to ensure the health and safety of all and pursue the Better Tomorrow 2025 corporate responsibility roadmap to contribute to a better future. During Fiscal 2020, Sodexo faced an unprecedented decline in business in the second half of the year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, signiﬁcantly impacting its non-ﬁnancial performance and the company’s workforce. Disclosure and transparency Sodexo is convinced that clear, comparable and accessible information on its ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial performance, enables all of its stakeholders to make informed decisions. Since Sodexo’s creation, our ﬁnancial, social, societal and environmental performance has been publicly disclosed in the Universal Registration Document. To ensure transparency, the information and indicators have been audited by an independent third party for each of the past nine years. 1 IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF OUR EMPLOYEES, SAFELY EVOLUTION OF WORKFORCE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 80.1% 83.1% 89.2% 460,663 470,237 employee employee site managers 425,594 427,268 422,712 engagement rate (1) retention rate retention rate Asia-Paciﬁc Latin America, 0.77 8.8 hours Middle East lost time injury rate of training on average and Africa provided annually per Europe employee (excluding Germany) North America I N T E R N AL P R O M O T I O N R AT E S BY C AT E G O RY Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 5.8% 7.3% for Of f-site managers for On-site managers BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE 80% employee engagement rate 1 2020 employee engagement survey sent to 328,547 Sodexo employees of whom 59% responded. 2 ENSURE A DIVERSE WORKFORCE AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE THAT REFLECTS AND ENRICHES THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE 100% of our employees work in countries that have gender 46% 93.5% balance in their management populations of our employees work of the work force works in countr ies that have in countr ies w ith gender balance in a non-discr iminat ion policy that the ir management includes sexual or ientat ion and gender ident ity WORKFORCE BY GENDER AND BY CATEGORY (as of August 31, 2020) Board of Directors Executive Committee Management Employees (excl. employee representatives) (as of October 1, 2020) 40% 68 % 56 % 45 % 10 19 49,296 422,712 Men people Men people Men Men people people 60 % 32% 44 % 55 % Women Women Women Women 48 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M 3 FOSTER A CULTURE OF ENVIRONMENTAL 7 ACT SUSTAINABLY FOR A HUNGER-FREE WORLD RESPONSIBILITY WITHIN OUR WORKFORCE AND WORKSPACES BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE 100 million Stop Hunger beneficiaries BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE 100% of our employees are trained on sustainable practices › 44 million Stop Hunger beneﬁciaries › 26,000 volunteers committed in Stop Hunger solidarity › 57,279 employees trained in sustainable practices initiatives › 98.3% of Group revenues from countries employing › 7.3 million meals distributed to the most deprived environmental experts 8 DRIVE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AS A CATALYST 4 PROVIDE AND ENCOURAGE OUR CONSUMERS FOR SOCIETAL CHANGE TO ACCESS HEALTHY LIFESTYLE CHOICES BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE 500,000 empowered women in communities 100% of our consumers are offered healthy lifestyle options every day › 45,495 empowered women in communities › 5,787 dieticians employed by Sodexo around the world › 94.8% of Group revenues from countries with initiatives to improve the quality of life of women › 96% of On-site revenues from countries that have a system ensuring that employees with Foodservices responsibilities are trained in accordance with local 9 CHAMPION SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE USAGE standards and the overall food safety policy BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE 50% reduction in our food waste 5 PROMOTE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT AND FAIR, INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES › 45.3% reduction in our food waste at the 291 sites that BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE have deployed the WasteWatch program 10 billion euro of our business value will benefit SMEs(1) › 90.7% of Group revenues from countries working to deliver on the United Nations’ food waste objective › 4.4 billion euro of our business value beneﬁting SMEs › 57.6% of the coffee purchased is certiﬁed sustainable (in kg) › 95.7% of spend with contracted suppliers having signed Acting responsibly is at the heart of our mission and Sodexo’s Supplier Code of conduct everything we do on a daily basis. Sodexo is recognized for these commitments and encourages its teams to make progress to reduce our impact on ecosystems. 6 SOURCE RESPONSIBLY AND PROVIDE MANAGEMENT Sodexo is a member of the ESG 80, FTSE4Good and Dow SERVICES THAT REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS Jones Sustainability Index and ranks as the leader in its sector for the 15 th consecutive year. The Group is also BETTER TOMORROW 2025 OBJECTIVE ranked 1 st among companies in its sector in the SAM 34% reduction of carbon emissions(2) Sustainability Yearbook and, for the 11th consecutive year, among the best companies in the DiversityInc ranking for LGBTQ+ employees, recruitment of women of color and › 15.9 % of reduction in Scopes 1 and 2 carbon emissions executives women leaders. Sodexo also holds Ecovadis Gold (in absolute, compared to 2017 baseline) certiﬁcation. › 10.5% of reduction in Scope 3 Supply Chain carbon emissions (in absolute, compared to 2017 baseline) › 77.7% of the total of ﬁsh and seafood procured is from sustainable sources For more information, see chapter 2 of the Universal Registration Document. 1 Small and Medium Enterprises. 2 Absolute reduction in Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 carbon emissions, compared to a 2017 baseline. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 49 CAR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E A responsible compensation policy In the interest of Sodexo and its stakeholders, and in accordance with our values, the Board of Directors ensures that the company offers a responsible compensation policy to deliver performance and achieve Sodexo’s long-term strategy. OUR COMPENSATION POLICY, BALANCING INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE RECOGNITION AND LONGAND SHORT-TERM PRIORITIES, SEEKS TO STRENGTHEN OUR CULTURE OF PERFORMANCE. THE STRONG AND RESPONSIBLE DECISIONS MADE DURING THE YEAR, IN RESPONSE TO THE EXCEPTIONAL SITUATION WE ARE FACING, REFLECT SODEXO’S VALUES.” CÉCILE TANDEAU DE MARSAC, Chairwoman of the Compensation Committee PRINCIPLES FOR COMPENSATION EMPLOYEE RELIEF PROGRAM In April 2020, faced with the social and economic consequences of the Covid-19 Sodexo COMPLIANCE Employee pandemic, Sodexo decided to create an Employee Relief Program. This global Relief Program program, administered locally according to the specific needs of each country, supports the most vulnerable on-site staff that have been impacted by the business interruption and COMPETITIVENESS resulting revenue declines. This solidarity initiative was enabled by a contribution from the company and by the reduction of the compensation of the Group’s senior executives for a total of 30 million euro. COMPLETENESS BALANCE • The compensation of Sophie Bellon, • Fixed compensation for Executive Committee Chairwoman of the Board of Directors, members was reduced by 10% over the second was reduced by 50% for the second half half of the ﬁscal year, and their annual variable PERFORMANCE of the ﬁscal year. compensation was suppressed. • The ﬁxed compensation of Denis Machuel, Chief • The 200 senior executives, from all geographies, Executive Officer, was reduced by 50% over the activities and segments, also contributed to TRANSPARENCY second half of the ﬁscal year and his variable this program through the cancellation of their compensation was suppressed for Fiscal 2020. annual variable compensation. ALIGNMENT OF INTERESTS COMPENSATION OF THE CHAIRWOMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Compensation structure The compensation structure applicable to the practices in France, she does not receive any 100 % Chairwoman of the Board of Directors comprises variable compensation, either short-term annual or FIXED a fixed compensation payment and collective multi-year, nor does she beneﬁt from a long-term COMPENSATION health and benefit plans. As the Chairwoman incentive plan. is a non-executive director, in line with market 50 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M Compensation details • For Fiscal 2020, annual ﬁxed • The compensation actually paid to • The compensation of the Chairwoman compensation theoretically attributable Sophie Bellon, Chairwoman of the of the Board of Directors will to the Chairwoman of the Board of Board of Directors for Fiscal 2020 was remain unchanged for Fiscal 2021 Directors was 675,000 euro. 506,250 euro due to the decision made (675,000 euro). by the Board of Directors to reduce her ﬁxed compensation by 50% during the second half of Fiscal 2020. Summary of the ﬁxed compensation of the Chairwoman of the Board of Directors €675,000 €675,000 €675,000 €506,250 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2021 Compensation paid Compensation paid Compensation policy Compensation policy COMPENSATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Chief Executive Officer’s compensation policy is structured to achieve a balance between longand short-term performance in order to promote the Group’s development for the beneﬁt of all of its stakeholders. Compensation structure Compensation details 75% 25% FIXED COMPENSATION SUBJECT NOT SUBJECT TO PERFORMANCE TO PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS CONDITIONS • The Chief Executive Officer ’s annual fixed compensation, unchanged since his appointment on January 23, 2018, is : LONG-TERM ASED N IO 900,000 euro, reﬂecting the inherent responsibilities in the role. AT 25% INC E-B • The fixed compensation actually paid to Chief Executive N UAL C O M PE NS FIXED EN Officer Denis Machuel for Fiscal 2020 was 675,000 euro, due AR 50% PERFORMANCE to the decision of the Board of Directors to reduce his fixed TI SH SHARES 25% compensation for the second half of Fiscal 2020 by 50%. VE ANNUAL : AN VARIABLE* SH • The Chief Executive Officer’s ﬁxed compensation for Fiscal 2021 CA % will remain unchanged (900,000 euro). 0% 50 5 * Assuming objectives 100% achieved. S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 51 C AR IN G ABO UT QUA L I T Y OF L I F E ANNUAL VARIABLE COMPENSATION • The Chief Executive Officer’s annual variable compensation • If all of the applicable targets are achieved, the annual is intended to encourage the achievement of the annual variable compensation amounts to 100% of his annual ﬁxed performance targets determined by the Board of Directors compensation (900,000 euro) and may reach up to 150% in line with Sodexo’s strategy. (1,350,000 euro) if the targets are exceeded. Weight Fiscal 2020 Results Achievement level FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Organic growth 20% -12% 0% Underlying operating profit margin excl. currency effect 20% 2.9% 0% Net income growth (in millions of euro) 10% (315) 0% Free cash flow (in millions of euro) 20% 72 0% NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Health and Safety (lost time injury rate) 10% 0.77 100% Talent management 10% 75% DJSI 10% #1 100% TOTAL 100% 27.5% Given the impact of the sanitary crisis on the Fiscal 2020 performance, the level of attainment of the objectives was 27.5 %, or implicitly, variable compensation amounting to 247,500 euro. However, given the decision made by the Board of Directors, the variable compensation for Fiscal 2020 has been suppressed. Exceptionally and given the sanitary crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the budget for Fiscal 2021 is established for each of the ﬁrst and second halves of the year, in line with the ﬁnancial objectives communicated to the market. Thus, the ﬁnancial performance targets were set in October 2020 for the ﬁrst semester and will be set in April 2021 for the second semester. For Fiscal 2021, the achievement rate for the Chief Executive Officer’s variable compensation will be measured at two points in time: following publication of the half-year interim results and following publication of the annual results. This structure will apply to all employees eligible for variable compensation. LONG-TERM COMPENSATION The long-term compensation program is intended to increase to three years, and in order to maintain a regular annual delivery the Chief Executive Officer’s motivation and loyalty while aligning of performance shares, no performance shares were granted to his interests with those of the Company’s stakeholders. the Chief Executive Officer in Fiscal 2020. Long-term compensation currently consists solely of Long-term compensation awarded in Fiscal 2021 will be subject performance share grants. to performance criteria and to a presence condition. Pursuant to the decision of the Board of Directors of November 6, 2019 to reduce the vesting-period from four Summary of the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer €1,836,000 €1,800,000 Long-term compensation €893,000 €900,000* €900,000* Annual variable compensation Fixed €900,000 €675,000 €900,000 €900,000 compensation Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2021 Compensation paid Compensation paid Compensation policy Compensation policy * Amount of up to 1,350,000 euro if targets are exceeded. For more information, see chapter 5 of the Universal Registration Document. 52 S O D E X O – F I S C A L 2 0 2 0 I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T W W W. S O D E X O . C O M Get the latest news on Sodexo www.sodexo.com @SodexoGroup Sodexo @SodexoGroup SodexoGroup Published by Sodexo. Design and production: Angie & Labrador. Writing: Sylvie Bréant & Wordwise. Photo credits: Jacques Grison, Magali Delporte, Matthew Noel, Marta Nascimento, P. Castano, Adrian Brooks/Imagewise, GettyImages, AdobeStock, PeopleImages, Martin Lee, Hero Images, Violeta Stoimenova, Colas Isnard, iStock, Stop Hunger Brasil, Martin Alazard, Taechit Taechamanodom, Sherif Scouri, Steve Cole, Martin-dm, LukaTDB, Nico Case Dietrich, Aurélien Bergot, Gregoire Korganow, Louis David, David Levenson, FlamingoImages, Médiathèque Sodexo, droits réservés. Printing: Labrador. This document is printed in France by an Imprim’Vert certiﬁed printer, on PEFC certiﬁed paper produced from sustainably managed forest. Sodexo 255, quai de la Bataille de Stalingrad 92866 Issy-les-Moulineaux Cedex 9 France Tel.: +33 (0)1 30 85 75 00
