UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nissens | 2020 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2020 Contents: Statement of Continued Support p. 3 Human Rights Principles pp. 4-5 Labor Rights Principles pp. 6-7 Environmental Protection Principles pp. 8-9 Anti-corruption Principles pp. 10-11 Publication & Contact p. 12 2 Statement The Nissens Group develops, manufactures and markets Cooling, Climate and Efficiency & Emissions in various industry segments worldwide is a key ambition, and it is fueled by the pursuit of constantly Delivering the of products for the international automotive Difference to customers, communities CONTENTS / STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT aftermarket and customized cooling and employees. Continued systems for the renewable energy and special vehicles segments. For years, Nissens continues to strengthen our focus on corporate social Support Nissens is considered a market-leading responsibility and sustainability. Through brand on thermal solutions for the this COP Report 2020, I am pleased, international automotive aftermarket. on behalf of Nissens, to reconfirm In addition, Nissens is a leading global our formal commitment and official player in the design and manufacturing of statement of continued support to the June 25, 2020 customized cooling solutions for onand ten principles of the UN Global Compact offshore wind turbines and a leading niche within the areas of Human Rights, Labor manufacturer of cooling systems for a Rights, Environmental Protection and variety of industrial onand off-highway Anti-corruption. applications. Nissens is recognized for a strong brand, a wide product range, Nissens’ CSR Policy and Code of consistently high service levels, good Conduct are approved by Nissens’ Group product quality, strong engineering Management and Board of Directors. capabilities as well as high-quality customization and innovation. In this annual Communication on Progress Report for 2020, we are pleased to share The Group consists of two business units: our commitments, focused actions and • Nissens Automotive, performing its achievements in relation to securing our main interaction with wholesalers continued support of the principles of and distributors in the automotive UN Global Compact with the public as aftermarket well as with our stakeholders, including • Nissens Cooling Solutions, focusing its our customers, employees, suppliers and activities on two industry segments; the other partners. wind energy industry and the industrial segment, targeting respectively global wind turbine manufacturers and global heavy-duty equipment OEMs Sincerely yours, Nissens is headquartered in Horsens, Denmark, with production and assembly facilities in Slovakia, Czech Republic, Mikkel Krogslund Andersen Denmark, China and the US. Servicing a CEO, Nissens large and versatile portfolio of companies 3 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2020 Human Rights Principles Commitment Nissens is headquartered in Horsens, Denmark, with in-house production and assembly sites in Slovakia, Czech Republic, Denmark, China and the US. Additionally, within the Group, we have 22 subsidiaries across three continents performing activities within sales, production and distribution. We have local employees in 20 countries. Nissens offers support and respect for the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and we are committed to leading and driving our business in a manner that ensures our company’s compliance with the protection of human rights in our internal as well as in our external value chains. We operate in respect of diversity, and we do not accept discrimination on the basis of race, religion, gender, age, nationality or sexual orientation within the company. For decades, our organization builds on representation of multiple nationalities, and we embrace the value and strength in the diversity of different cultures as an integrated part of our business composition. 4 Implementation of Actions: We continue to focus on the compliance Awareness of data privacy protection 2019/20 with the EU General Data Protection and compliance in our organization Regulation (GDPR), which is designed is important. To emphasize our focus to harmonize data privacy regulations on the importance of the GDPR across Europe. Professional data privacy implementation in the past year, DATA PRIVACY POLICY protection is important to leverage the Nissens maintains the defined data 1. GENERAL Nissens is committed to ensuring the confidentiality, integrity and protection of information from our employees, customers, suppliers speed of trust between Nissens and our protection KPI in our CSR Policy, which and other business partners, including their personal data. Nissens’ ambition is to be compliant with all personal data legislation and to work thoroughly and continuously to reach this ambition. Nissens will regularly manage the balance between the rights of the data subjects and Nissens’ legitimate commercial obligations as well as the consumptions of resources. Nissens will on a continuous basis review our formal Data Privacy Policy and improve the outcome concurrently with this development, especially via adoption of new IT solutions. internal as well as external stakeholders, outlines our ambition for management and we have implemented a number signatures on Nissens’ Data Privacy This policy outlines the general policy of Nissens, and according to this policy, a number of guidelines will be issued and designated to relevant managers and employees at Nissens and communicated in the relevant fora. When the above and following paragraphs are referring to the “data subject”, it means the person whose personal data is involved. 2. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE POLICY, ITS DEVELOPMENT AND THE COMPLIANCE OF IT At Nissens, the Data Privacy Policy has the attention and priority of the top management. The overall responsibility belongs to the CEO of the Nissens Group. In each subsidiary company, the co-responsibility belongs to the daily management. of automated solutions and processes Policy as a testimony of compliance. to secure and enhance efficient A Data Privacy Committee is appointed to take the overall Nissens Group responsibility for the Data Privacy Policy and implementation. The committee consists of: VP, Global HR & Group Services, Rikke Kroer Høberg manage­ment on personal data IT Manager, Helle Midtgaard Legal Director, Lars Brøgger The Data Privacy Committee directly reports to the CEO. protection. 3. PERSONAL DATA COLLECTED AND PROCESSED BY NISSENS Nissens is responsible as a data controller when collecting personal data. a) General Nissens collects personal information, including information about names, titles, addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses related to employees, job candidates, customers, suppliers, third parties, their owners and contact persons. Nissens Automotive can collect and process data about customers and their customers’ vehicles and their registration numbers. Nissens Automotive can collect and process data about mechanics’ training sessions and certifications. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Nissens can collect information about passports (copy of passports) and civil registration numbers, but limited to where Action KPI Target Status 2019/20 necessary according to legislation or based on relevant purpose. This nature of sensitive information will be stored under intensified security and control. Policy responsible (initials): Latest revision (year): Rev1/2018.06/Group policy LBR 2018 Implementation of Full compliance on 100% 100% GDPR, incl. Nissens’ signatures on Data Privacy Data Privacy Policy Policy from Top Tier Three Group of Managers Our ambition on management signatures In general, Nissens has not been subject Performance on our new Data Privacy Policy remains to any external investigations, nor have Evaluation & Outlook unaltered. With 100% target fulfilment we internally received reports or made in the fiscal years of 2018/19 and registrations of any incidents involving 2019/20, we will continue to strive for human rights violations in the past year, maintaining 100% target fulfilment in so Nissens reaffirms our commitment the coming year. to UN Global Compact’s principles on Human Rights. THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT i) Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 5 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2020 Labor Commitment Nissens continues to be among the We respect the freedom of association preferred suppliers to the leading of our employees as well as their right Rights players in the international automotive to collective bargaining, and we secure aftermarket, the global wind turbine our dialogue and co-operation with the industry as well as a number of industrial representatives of our employees through segments. Our ability to attract and formalized meeting structures and fora. Principles retain professional and market-leading customers builds on Nissens’ continued In our Code of Conduct, we state that success in attracting and retaining Nissens has zero tolerance of forced competent and dedicated employees in labor, child labor and discrimination. our global organizations. Our Code of Conduct is made publicly available to all employees at Nissens on We wish for all of our employees to go our InfoNet and in our local employee to work and perform their daily tasks handbooks. Managers at top tier levels in in a safe and well-organized working the organization are requested to provide environment. Nissens is committed to their signature on their commitment to offering a good working atmosphere respecting Nissens’ Code of Conduct. based on open communication and the Suppliers to Nissens Automotive and possibility for personal and professional Nissens Cooling Solutions are provided development within the company. with Nissens’ Code of Conduct upon engagement in co-operation with our two business units. Implementation of Actions: To secure a safe and good working Nissens regularly measures and follows 2019/20 environment, Nissens has e.g. carried up on prioritized focus areas serving out an employee satisfaction survey in as indicators of the well-being of our Nissens Automotive in 2020. The result employees. We have included our of the survey was very positive and performance on absence due to injuries testified of a healthy working environment and sickness absence below: building on trust, interesting job content and ability to influence. Baseline Actions KPIs 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Absence Rate due to Improved performance 4,1 3,5 4,4 Injuries in Denmark in FY2019/20 compared and Slovakia) to baseline in FY2017/18 (Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) per 200,000 working hours) Overall Sickness Maintained or improved sickness 2.90% 3.4% 3.4% Absence Rate absence rates in FY2019/20 (across DK, SK, CN compared to baseline in FY2017/18 Tianjin) and last year’s result THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT ii) Labor Rights Principle 3: Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the freedom The effective abolition of child labor of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Principle 6: bargaining The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and accupation Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 6 We will maintain our ambitions for our main local organizations, measured Performance improving our LTIR and sickness in terms of number of headcounts, Evaluation & Outlook absences rates in the coming year. After which is in general in line with national a positive development in the LTIR benchmark levels on sickness absence performance in FY2018/19, we have per country. We continue to follow not managed to maintain a positive up on developments in our sickness LTIR development trend in FY2019/20. absence rates per country on a weekly The LTIR performance in the past year and monthly basis, and we put in place is negatively impacted by considerable activities, which serve the purposes transformation in our production of supporting the individual employee LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES footprints including creation of additional affected by illness and securing the production capacity and introduction availability of required resources for of new production technologies. In the Nissens’ execution of daily operations. coming year, we expect for new factory layouts, enhanced safety initiatives as In the past year, Nissens has not been well as increased focus on follow-up subject to any external investigations, on LTIR developments to contribute to nor have we internally received reports improving our LTIR performance. or made registrations of any incidents involving labor rights violations in the Our sickness absence levels remain past year, and, in the year to come, slightly higher in the past two years we will pursue our focus on Nissens’ compared to our baseline in FY2017/18, continued compliance with UN Global but we continue to maintain a Compact’s principles on labor rights. performance on sickness absence across NISSENS’ CODE OF CONDUCT We have developed seven codes that serve as guidelines for our ethical behavior: 1 2 Responsible business principles Responsible business principles Legal Compliance Prohibition of Corruption 3 Responsible business principles Accounting & Reporting Standards 4 Responsible business principles Conflicts of Interest 5 Fundamental company ethics Non-Discrimination 6 Fundamental company ethics Environmental Protection & Work Environment 7 Fundamental company ethics Forced Labor & Child Labor 7 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2020 Environment Commitment Nissens is committed to act as an This is reflected in Nissens’ focus on Protection environmentally responsible company. supplies for the renewable energy We are certified according to the ISO segment, considerations for environ14001 environmental standard across mental enhancement through product Principles our production sites in Denmark, development and optimizations of Slovakia and China. Our environmental operational processes providing initiatives in the business include environmental benefits. activities on e.g. reduction of energy consumption, emissions and waste. To secure our organization’s awareness and competence in relation to Nissens’ Our ISO 14001 certification is an consideration for the environment, acknowledgement of our responsibility we apply a Train-the-Trainer Concept towards environmental protection. for all of our blue-collar employees, which includes training in guidelines on We wish to put emphasis on sustainrecommended environmental behavior ability by minimizing the impact of the and energy consumption. company’s physical surroundings through targeted environmental measures and by integrating an environmental focus into our business decisions. Implementation of Actions: In the past year, we have implemented on our CO2 emission, but it is an FY2019/20 initiatives, which have contributed to important contribution to improving continuing our reduction of Nissens’ the environment in general. energy consumption. • In our factories, we have continued the focus on applying sustainable We have had our main focus on two and cost-efficient lighting and selected initiatives in the past year: energy sources as a measure to • In one of our core production reduce our energy consumption processes, we use flux for coating of by e.g. conversion to LED lighting our coolers. To secure an improved and replacement of diesel-driven working environment, we have machinery by electric machinery. changed the flux method, and we have subsequently managed to The KPI defined for follow-up on our CO2 secure a better utilization of the flux emission reduction builds on our brazing just as we have managed to reduce process, which is a key element in our the release of flux aerosols. This manufacturing of aluminum radiators initiative does not have an impact and coolers. Action KPI 2018/19 2019/20 Measurement Global CO2 emission per kg Index 100 Index 100 of CO2 emission brazed aluminum in FY2019/20 compared to FY2018/19 Evaluation of We will continue to focus on In the past year, Nissens has not been Performance & Outlook improving our environmental footprint subject to any external investigations, through initiatives to limit our energy legal cases or incidents involving consumption, emissions and waste violations of the environmental through planned initiatives in our global protection principles defined by UN factories. Global Compact. 8 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PRINCIPLES THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT iii) Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 9 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2020 10 AntiCommitment Nissens has zero tolerance on the by external partners to employees at application of corruption and bribery as Nissens in order to keep the professional corruption an acknowledgement of corruption and impartiality and personal integrity of bribery being barriers to the development Nissens’ staff. of free and fair trade between companies and countries. Nissens has a whistleblower policy and Principles information channel, which serve the In Nissens’ Code of Conduct, it is purpose of providing access to named outlined that our employees must refrain or anonymous, formalized reporting of from offering rewards and means of alleged breaches of laws, regulations, corruption when exercising their duties Nissens’ Code of Conduct or other valid and acting as representatives of the policies and processes. company. Additionally, our employee handbooks contain guidelines on maximum values for appreciations made Implementation of Actions: Action KPI Target Status 2019/20 FY2019/20 Measurement of Zero confirmed incidents 0 incidents 0 incidents whistleblower in whistleblower scheme incidents WHISTLE-BLOWER POLICY OBJECTIVE ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES In order to ensure that Nissens and all Nissens employees, in relation to their work at Nissens, comply with all laws, regulations and Nissens issued ethical guidelines in the Code of Conduct, a so-called whistle-blower arrangement has been established. The aim with the arrangement is for Nissens, through notifications, to detect, respond to and sanction violation of laws, rules and ethical guidelines. To achieve this, Nissens has established a process of reporting violations and reasoned suspected violations a whistle-blower arrangement through which employees can safely report violations or suspected violations and where employees can expect professional handling without the risk of sanctions or reprisals to the informer him-/herself. WHAT CAN BE REPORTED  Any condition, act or omission that may result in penalty under existing laws  Any violation of Nissens’ Code of Conduct  Any other circumstances, act or omission committed intentionally or severely negligent, which may have a significant negative effect on Nissens, Nissens’ employees and/or Nissens’ reputation WHAT CANNOT BE REPORTED  Standard industrial relations and action of the employee’s own working conditions, where irregularities must be reported in accordance with the company's usual procedures (notification to the direct manager, HR, trade union representative, work environment representative etc.)  Conditions where Nissens’ customers or suppliers complain about deliveries, quality and/or other services where irregularities should also be reported in accordance with the company's usual procedures TO WHO SHOULD YOU REPORT  whistleblowing@nissens.com, only the undersigned – the whistle-blower responsible – have access to this mail box; Vice President Global HR & Group Services, Rikke Kroer Høberg, rkh@nissens.com, +45 76 26 27 80 or +45 26 88 00 51 Legal Director, Lars Brøgger lbr@nissens.com, +45 76 26 27 72 or +45 25 22 36 36 WHAT SHOULD THE REPORT CONTAIN  It is recommended that the notification is done in your own name and not anonymously. In anonymous reviews, it can be difficult to review the notification, and it is not possible to return to the informer with results of the investigation  Moreover, no formal requirements are required, but it is recommended to give a thorough description of the reported conditions Policy responsible (initials): Latest revision (year): Rev1/2018.01/Group policy RKH 2019 Evaluation of We continue to strive for optimal business violations have been reported to Nissens Performance & Outlook ethics within Nissens and maintain a KPI or registered by Nissens, and we will of zero confirmed whistleblower incidents continue to focus on full compliance with in the coming year. the principles of anti-corruption defined by UN Global Compact. In the past year, no investigations or legal incidents on anti-corruption THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT iv) Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 11 Nissens’ Communication on Progress Reporting is available on: UN Global Compact’s website Nissens’ website: www.nissens.com For more information about Nissens’ CSR profile and activities, contact the CSR officer at Nissens: Rikke Kroer Høberg Vice President, Global HR & Group Services Email: rkh@nissens.com
