UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 CONTENTS 03 Statement of continued Support of the UN Global Compact 04 Zeaborn Ship Management – Overview 06 01 Human Rights 08 02 Labor 12 03 Environment 16 04 Anti-Corruption 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Zeaborn Ship Management and its management This eighth annual Communication on Progress board confirm and renew their commitment to documents the measures and results of Zeacontinuously support the United Nations Global born Ship Management in the aforementioned Compact and its ten principles in the areas of four areas of the ten principles of the UN Global Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environmental Compact. In this context, it also describes the Protection and Anti-Corruption. objectives for the upcoming reporting period. The report will be made accessible to all stakeWithin the entire international commodity trade, holders of the company. the biggest proportion of transportation is seaborne. Shipping is therefore an important particiZeaborn Ship Management and its management pant and beneficiary in globalisation processes. board are committed to further incorporating the ten principles into their business strategy As a result, Zeaborn Ship Management recogand to continuously develop and enhance nizes and appreciates its economic, ecological respective objectives and measures. and social responsibility at both national and international level. Rob Grool Michael Brandhoff Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer 3 ZEABORN SHIP MANAGEMENT (ZSM) – OVERVIEW Zeaborn Ship Management is a globally acting, cording to the ISO standard 27001 was achieved, dedicated ship manager offering a comprethus to protect the data of both, the employees hensive and state-of-the-art ship management and the assets against any unauthorized access product portfolio with particular focus on peror abuse. formance, efficiency, digitization and advanced customer care. We proactively manage a fleet It is the declared goal of the company to extend of about 125 vessels focusing on containerships, the ISO 27001 to the dry cargo fleet within the bulk carriers, tanker and multipurpose vessels of year 2020. all sizes. Maintaining the ISO certification remains an About 4,300 employees on shore and at sea essential part of the “DNV GL Excellence 5 Star” are committed to provide safe, environmentally award, which is held by the company at both friendly and reliable ship management operalocations. tions to the company’s clients. The award was renewed successfully in 2019. In addition to mandatory certifications according It confirms that Zeaborn Ship Management to the International Safety Management Code complies with the highest state-of-the-art (ISM-Code), the Maritime Labour Convention standards for the operation of container-, bulk (MLC) and to the International Shipboard and and multi purpose vessels in terms of EmergenPort Facility Security Code (ISPS-Code), Zeaborn cy Response Service, Environmental Passport Ship Management developed an integrated (Containerships), Ballast Water Management management system certified to the following (Bulkers), advanced internal training schemes standards: for employees and good PSC records (external inspections of vessels by local authorities during • ISO 9001:2015 (quality management), port calls) – and also as a founding member of • ISO 14001:2015 (environmental management), the Container Ship Safety Forum (CSSF) and • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health participant of the UN Global Compact. and safety management), • ISO 27001:2013 (IT Security) Another important issue during the reporting period was application and acceptance to become This management system is established and a member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Netmaintained both on board of the managed fleet work (MACN), a global business network working and ashore. It will be audited by an independent towards the vision of a maritime industry free of external party on an annual basis. corruption that enables fair trade to the benefit of society at large. For further details please refer Within the reporting period, Zeaborn Ship Manto chapter 04 “Anti-Corruption” of this report. agement successfully passed the regular audits In connection with the MACN membership the for the applicable standards at both locations, management board of Zeaborn Ship Managethe headquarters in Hamburg and the site office ment stipulated a review and revision of the in Singapore. For the newly acquired tanker Code of Conduct (CoC) for employees as well as branch the latest certification for IT security acfor the Code of Conduct for Suppliers. As part 4 of the company´s compliance program, both The setup of the company´s Whistle Blower documents ensure a continuous improvement of Hotline (e-mail and phone) has been revised to the company’s social, economic and environmenmake it easily available to all employees on board tal performance and enforces the efforts against and ashore to either address further questions, corruption. proposals of improvement or to report any violations or non-conformities. The company’s entire Code of Conduct clearly refers to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. It is available to all stakeholders of the company. 5 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Zeaborn Ship Management recognizes and Beside the Company Policy, Zeaborn Ship Manappreciates its social responsibility and is or was agement provides further guidance regarding engaged in the following activities within the Human Rights to all stakeholders through its reporting period of 2019 in this regard: Code of Conduct and its Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Zeaborn Ship Management and its management board are committed to support and to protect The seafarers on board of our vessels are away the International Bill of Human Rights within from their homes for several months. As it is their sphere of influence and throughout all their crucial for them to be able to communicate with business activities. their families and friends while at sea, all vessels in Zeaborn Ship Management’s managed fleet It is further the declared company’s policy neiare providing all crew members with internet ther to permit nor to tolerate but to prevent any access. kind of discrimination and/or harassment of its employees on board or ashore on the grounds The company´s own social media guidelines are of race or the ethnic origin, gender, religion or giving a clear orientation regarding a safe web belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. navigation and a polite, respectful and transparent communication in line with all applicable laws Within its management system, Zeaborn Ship and regulations. Management has established a reporting procedure that enables and encourages all employees Beside of that it is of utmost importance to stay to report any non-conformity or complaint with in close contact with all employees on social regard to the Maritime Labour Convention and media. In addition to an already existing own other applicable national, international or internal Facebook account Zeaborn Ship Management rules and regulations. The latter also includes the has launched an official company presence declared company’s policy statements available on LinkedIn. This weband app-based social on the website of Zeaborn Ship Management. network is not only an important communication At the beginning of each year, the management channel which enables all employees to conboard of Zeaborn Ship Management is carrying nect with their company, it is also an important out a thorough review of the company’s policy recruiting tool. statement. The evaluation is based on the yearly Management Review. Necessary adjustments As recruiting is an important topic the Singapore of the policy will be instructed as deemed branch office opened its rooms as an “Open necessary. Office for future talents” and hosted a group of forty graduated bachelor students from the MIT World Peace University. All students are 6 participants in an program that is a academic Ship Management was able to hand over several enrichment and global exposure through visits boxes full of winter jackets, sweaters, hats and to the industry and lectures by professionals gloves to the International Seamen’s Club Duckform various industries, in this case the maritime dalben in Hamburg at the beginning of 2019. sector. Furthermore, numerous employees followed an intranet call in December and donated warm winter clothing for seafarers. As a result, Zeaborn 7 02 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The employment conditions of seafarers employThe aforementioned MLC 2006 governs the ment agreements of the crew members on board minimum requirements for seafarers to work on of Zeaborn Ship Management managed vessels a ship and the conditions of employment, the are based on collective bargain agreements accommodation and recreational facilities as well (CBA), fully in compliance with the Maritime as food and catering on board, the health proLabour Convention of 2006 (MLC 2006), its tection, medical care, welfare and social security amendments from 2014 and other applicable protection of seafarers. The effectiveness of the rules and regulations. system was continuously monitored through annual internal audits on board of each vessel since It is the declared policy of Zeaborn Ship Manthen. Furthermore, the company fully complies agement that all employees both on board and with the requirements of the Maritime Labour ashore shall be treated in a fair, just and correct Convention amendments 2014, which are providmanner based on relevant international and ing additional financial security for the seagoing national rules and regulations and applicable personnel in case of repatriation or abandoning working terms and conditions. Zeaborn Ship of a ship. Management considers harassment and bullying a serious and inacceptable offence. External crewing agencies are also audited by Zeaborn Ship Management on a yearly basis. The company has established a grievance These audits include the verification of their procedure, which clearly defines the right of compliance with the MLC 2006 as well. any seafarer to file a complaint arising from an alleged violation of his contractual or any other Zeaborn Ship Management’s internal and exterrights. Furthermore, anti-bullying posters (“Say nal recruiting process ensures that underaged no to harassment and bullying! Stand up and seafarers are not employed on board of Zeaborn raise your voice!”) have been developed in 2018 Ship Management managed vessels. Personnel and displayed on board all managed vessels, documents are being reviewed during various providing advice and support (hotline) to the steps of the initiation of employment and also by seafarers concerned. A total number of zero MLC the Master as a representative of the company complaints were recorded and dealt with in the on board. course of 2019. 8 With regard to a safe working environment, team work on board, ashore and between the Zeaborn Ship Management is obliged to ensure ships and the office. that all identified risks to its personnel are being assessed and appropriate safeguards are estabTo begin immediately with that change the lished in order to ensure that no unacceptable or company has started to implement the Maritime avoidable risks are taken. Resource Management (MRM) training for all seafarer and the worldwide office staff, thus with To fulfill this commitment, procedures to identify the clear goal to maintain MRM as a permanent critical shipboard operations and to control suband ongoing safety campaign for Zeaborn Ship stances hazardous to the health of employees Management. are established within the management system of the company. All procedures are regularly The Health Conscious Behavior campaign was reviewed and revised. Part of the review is not a great supplement to the safety – as a healthy only the proper implementation of these procecrew is essential for safety on board. As part of dures but also a verification of implementation our holistic workplace health promotion program by conducting internal and external audits on ‘move on BOARD’ we proudly present our online board and in the office. All audits are related to health training video series covering “strength the company’s Occupational Health and Safety & endurance”, “mobility” and “mental fit & relax” Assessment Series (OHSAS) certification. Further (www. moveonboard.com) to actively counter employee input is obtained through various tools strains arising from daily work routines on board. such as the monthly minutes of the Ship ManThe training videos are available for our seafarers agement Meeting, the annual “Master´s Review” and their family and friends free of charge. or by addressing a proposal for improvement. Our training videos were recognized with the To bring the company´s occupational health and “HR Excellence Award 2018” in the category safety measures to the next level the manage“Company Occupational Health Management”. ment board decided to start activities for a transfer of the present certification according to the • With the focus on fatigue management on OHSAS 18001 certification to ISO 45001 standboard, the company decided to approach this ard. This should be achieved within 2020. topic with two new training programs covering the fields ‘Activation’ and ‘Relaxation’. The The verification in the office was carried out trainings are accompanied with an introduction successfully during the reporting period of this video have been made available to our seaCommunication on Progress. In addition, further farers in 2019. The new training programs are positive feedback and impact on the safety based on feedback that we have received from system was not only given by the employees but seafarers particularly related to finding rest also by clients who carried out own officeand after the duties. shipboard audits according to their ownor to industry standards. • An onboard evaluation of the gym and welfare arrangements has been conducted to get an Based on all input and all previous measures, overview of the standard and the quality of the company´s management decided to launch the various equipment in the gyms. In average, a permanent and ongoing safety campaign to each vessel has about 30 square meters availachange and improve the Safety Culture across ble for the crew to do sport and relaxation e.g. the entire company, at sea on all vessels and in a sauna and a pool where available. The evalashore at all locations. The clear goal is to imuation revealed that the vessels overall are well plement and to consolidate a system of Chalequipped with various sport equipment e.g. lenge and Response which empowers anyone to tread-mill, ergo-meter bicycle, weights, bench, challenge an unsafe act and to stop any kind of table tennis, etc. It was noted however that not incident well in advance before it happens. all vessels were equipped with an ergometer and / or a treadmill or same equipment is not It is obvious that this demands a collaborative in adequate condition. 9 The company provided each vessel should The PSP (Performance Support Program) team have minimum a tread-mill and an ergo-meter provided training and development to 1.350 crew bicycle which were supplied to the vessels in members on board. PSP will remain a core comthe cause of 2019. ponent of the company’s personnel development and training concept for 2019 and beyond. • The theme of 2019 Day of the Seafarer, “I am on board with gender equality,” ties well with the As a founding member of the Container Ship IMO World Maritime Day Theme for 2019 “EmSafety Forum (CSSF), a global business-to-busipowering Women in the Maritime Community.” ness network that improves safety performance These important themes highlight the opporand management practices in the container tunities for women, as well as the contributions shipping industry, the company not only supthey are making, in a wide range of maritime ports the further growth of the Forum, but also careers and professions its further transition into a Non-Government Organization (NGO). Within the reporting period the company continued its approach to support and promote Again, during the reporting period the CSSF risk based assessments of relevant procedural managed to attract further members. The netchanges on board and ashore, thus to strengthwork now consists of 23 members, all of them en its own Risk Assessmentand Management major container shipping liner companies and of Change procedure. To reach the goals it was ship owning and / or ship managing companies. decided to continue with regular trainings and These 23 companies represent more than 40 workshops. The campaign to promote the idenpercent of the worldwide TEU (Twenty Foot tification of unsafe conditions and unsafe acts is Equivalent Unit) container capacity. Their comalso ongoing and the goal of the campaign is still mon objective is to create a container shipping valid: to promote a near miss reporting in order industry with high safety standards, ensuring no to proactively identify hazards before they will harm is caused to people, ships, cargo, and the lead to incidents and accidents. environment. To achieve this, CSSF members collaborate to advance the continuous improveIn 2019, the company continued to arrange Fleet ment of safety culture and performance in the Officer Meetings (FOM) for about 120 officers. container shipping industry through measureOne was held in Manila in January 2019 as kickment, reporting and benchmarking, sharing best off for the integration process of Zeaborn Ship practices, and engaging with key stakeholders to Management Tanker crew and one meeting was develop durable solutions. organized in the premises of the company in March 2019 elaborating values for the company and to share expectations between crew, company and owner. We embedded our Health-Conscious Behavior campaign into the meeting in Hamburg were we introduced the new moveonboard.com training offers on ‘Activation’ and ‘Relaxation’. 10 As a part of the occupational health manageIn order to improve the occupational health ment ashore the company maintains a weekly management, the company has set up a health “Active Lunch Break” a holistic movement conprogramme (MediFit) for its employees in coopcept for health promotion. Physical discomforts eration with the company medical officer. Each of the employees, such as back and neck pain, month there are individual one-on-one discusare reduced and health is sustainably promoted. sions, lectures or workshops on a specific topic. 11 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. This approach is reflected in all company mitigate and adapt the climate change and proinstructions and procedures, which ensure tect biodiversity and ecosystems. the safe operation of all vessels with regard to environmental protection, in compliance with All Zeaborn Ship Management employees are all relevant laws and regulations and in line with informed about this policy. They are trained the requirement of the ISO 14001:2015 standard. regularly to enhance their skills and abilities to Further internal and external verification audits environmental protection. were carried out on board of several vessels of the fleet. Furthermore, Zeaborn´s commitment has been shared with all stakeholders when the EnvironZeaborn Ship Management is clearly committed mental Statement was made available on the to protect the environment, which is a broader company´s own webpage. view compared to the previous approach to prevent any kind of pollution. Therefore, Zeaborn Within the recent reporting period, Zeaborn Ship Management is permanently reviewing its Ship Management has continued the successful company policy, its relevant procedures and co-operation between the office and ship staff KPIs. Consequently, the company was one of the on the one hand and with classification societies, first ship managers worldwide who revised its naval architects, shipyards, research institutes, management system to cope with the latest ISO engine makers and charterers on the other hand 14001:2015 standard. in order to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of all vessels under management. Zeaborn Ship Management is convinced that this is a major step and a significant commitment to Important measures are listed below and on the protect the environment, prevent pollution, following pages. OPERATIONAL Slow and super slow steaming Zeaborn Ship er and whenever trading pattern allowed this Management’s managed vessels were continuing measure. to reduce their normal voyage speeds wherev12 TRAINING 52 senior officers attended trainings concerning Training”. Officers also contributed to the “Ship Handling”, “ME MAN Engine course”, content of such trainings to increase the overall “RT Flex Engine course” and “MSPS In-house vessel performance. REDESIGN IMO and US coast guard regulation force ship From 01.01.2020, the sulphur content of maowners to implement/retrofit Ballast Water Treatrine fuels shall not exceed 0.50 % sulphur for ment Systems (BWTS) in order to prevent the operation outside ECA and from 01.03.2020, the spread of harmful aquatic organisms from one carriage of non-compliant fuel on ships not fitted region to another and halt damage to the marine with ‘equivalent’ means of compliance environment from ballast water discharge, by (e.g. exhaust gas cleaning systems) is prohibitminimizing the uptake and subsequent discharge ed. All vessels must have a vessel specific ‘ship of sediments and organisms. The first Zeaborn implementation plan’ (SIP) on board from now Ship Management managed vessel retrofit on. The IMO has agreed that administrations started in 2018 with the implementation of a and PSC authorities may consider the SIP when 500 m3/h UV / Filter BWTS on a 2,500 TEU verifying compliance with this regulation. container vessel and has been completed and commissioned in the first quarter of 2019. Several owners decided to install an exhaust gas Further 5 vessels have been equipped with a cleaning system (EGCS) on some of their vessels. BWTS in 2019 and another 5 installations will be 10 vessels of the fleet managed by Zeaborn Ship completed in 2020. Management have been equipped with an EGCS already and on another 14 vessels EGCS are Since January 2015, all vessels operating in Emiscurrently being installed. Remaining vessels mansion Control Areas (ECAs) also referred to as aged by Zeaborn Ship Management have been Sulphur Emission Control Areas (SECA), have to prepared for the use of compliant fuel in 2019. ensure that their emissions are reduced. Zeaborn Ship Management already started in early 2014 In addition, the company start conducting an to implement measures and modifications in inventory of hazardous materials (IHM) on board order to meet these regulations well before the of all ships under their management, thus to due date. Currently all Zeaborn Ship Manageimprove the ecological footprint of a vessel in ment managed vessels calling SECAs / ECAs are line with the Company´s Code of Conduct and fully compliant with the relevant MARPOL Annex Environmental Statement. VI regulations. Most other vessels managed by Zeaborn Ship Management, which are not sailing in those areas, are modified proactively. MONITORING During the reporting period, Zeaborn Ship day-by-day basis. Its reporting features reveal AND REPORTING Management continued to use FuelSafe, an where steps may be taken to increase efficiency, integrated tool of the company´s own Vessel giving the crew specific recommendations for Performance Monitoring Center (VPMC) installed performance improvement. on selective vessels representing all vessel classes under management. It enables optimal On top of that, Zeaborn Ship Management has efficiency regarding to fuel consumption and implemented additional functional modules in its asset protection. The system retrieves up to KPI based vessel performance evaluation soft300 measured values. It does not only deliver ware to monitor engine performance and lube analytical data but is also indispensable for sucoil consumption improving the VPMC’s guidance cessful monitoring: It checks the ship’s operation and support for the vessels to improve their continuously, gathering data on energy output, operational efficiency. fuel consumption and sailing conditions on a 13 The effectiveness of Zeaborn Ship Management’s Zeaborn Ship Management supports and uses energy efficiency system is backed by benchthe Shipping Efficiency initiative, which was mark systems of its customers. These systems launched by the Carbon War Room program. collect and monitor data about vessel perforWithin Shipping Efficiency Zeaborn Ship Manmance as well. The fuel efficiency benchmark agement maintains an up-to-date record of its system of the market leader showed that vessels ships in order to get an external energy efficienmanaged by Zeaborn Ship Management saved cy rating of its measures and to share such rating fuel in line with the top competitors. of its fleet in a transparent way with the public. COMPANY POLICY The management board of Zeaborn Ship ManGreater environmental responsibility is also agement reviews the environmental company’s expected from all suppliers and subcontractors policy in regular intervals and confirms its validaround the world. We see positive trends, ity. As mentioned earlier, this was done in 2019 especially in Asia, that suppliers are changing and confirmed the broader view of the compatheir behavior towards greater responsibility. ny’s environmental approach. As an important part, the Code of Conduct for all employees covers the environmental aspects of Zeaborn Ship Management’s business. It confirms that the protection of the environment as well as the conservation of natural resources do have a high priority. CAMPAIGNS The company continued its approach to reduce suppliers worked for the company. Approx. 45% the usage of plastic on board. In 2019 it supof supplier spending is based on frame contracts ported national ,campaigns, e.g. those of the to ensure high quality supplies and observance Republic of India, called “Prohibition on use of of high environmental standards and sustainable Single Use Plastic (SUP) on board merchant vesbusiness behavior. sels calling Indian Ports, and amended each ship specific Garbage Management Plan accordingly. On average, more than nine evaluations for each of these suppliers and subcontractors have been Another amendment to that plan was made to gathered in the last five years. In 2019 each supreduce and handle electronic waste on board. plier was rated 2,5 times. The average supplier To monitor the supplier’s environmental perforrating (from 1=poor to 5=very good) within 2019 mance, a software based supplier rating system was 4.06. After an average result of 4.07 the year is in use and allows both the office and the ship’s before, this figure reflects the high and stable side to rate the quality of a product and its standard of the suppliers’ performance. packaging. In addition, the Procurement team conducted Zeaborn Ship Management is continuously workseveral vendor audits of major suppliers. ing on a further development of a strong supplier base. In 2019, approx. 1.250 active 14 OFFICE In 2019, Zeaborn Ship Management reviewed clearly described and defines the responsible its environmental management system for the team / department, the status and in particular office. As a result, the management board has the related risks and opportunities. confirmed the environmental objectives and targets. The evaluation for 2019 on how far the objectives and targets have been met, is pending at the In order to enhance the understanding and suptime of finalization of this report. port of all employees ashore, the objectives and targets are still divided into three environmental Furthermore, the company continues to offer aims: subsidized monthly passes for public transport within the metropolitan area of Hamburg, in 1. Reduction of waste order to encourage employees to use environ2. Saving of resources mentally friendly transportation for commuting 3. Avoiding of pollution between home and work. All three aims are subdivided into single measures or projects. Each measure or project is 15 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The management board of Zeaborn Ship Ship Management or its related companies. Any Management is clearly committed to the seven secondary employment or additional business MACN Anti-Corruption Principles: of employees of Zeaborn Ship Management has to be reported to the company and is subject to • Compliance Program Requirements approval in order to reduce possibilities of con• Risk Assessment tradictions of interest. Salaries paid by Zeaborn • Monitoring & Internal Controls Ship Management are ensuring that employees • Due Diligence are able to support themselves without the need • Proportionate Procedures of an additional income. • Training & Communications • Reporting, Discipline & Incentives The management board continues to held regular meetings to discuss topics related to As a first step, designated instruction were anti-corruption, reviews the company´s policy shared with all employees at sea and ashore and revises its guidance to the employees, to support all of them in their daily work with stakeholders and interested parties. various third party stakeholder worldwide. In this connection the management board has reviewed and confirmed the company´s Anti-Corruption policy to counteract fraud, extortion and bribery or any other form of corruption within its sphere of influence and to act in line with all relevant rules and regulations. A reviewed and revised Code of Conduct will give guidance to all employees regarding: • Attitude towards business partners and third parties • Antitrust and fair competition • Anti-Corruption and improper advantages • Anti-Money Laundering • Trade Control Regulations Further contractual rules and regulation are governing the acceptance and granting of presents, corporate hospitality and other invitations and stipulating in which cases employees have to report to the company if such benefits are offered to them by third parties that uphold or are about to enter into business relations with Zeaborn 16 IMPRINT Zeaborn Ship Management GmbH & Cie. KG Ludwig-Erhard-Strasse 22 20459 Hamburg Germany Phone: +49-40-50098-0 info@zea-ship.com www.zea-ship.com www.zea-ship.com
