ONY A Ż NOW Ó W ZR ÓJ ILITÀ W IB Z N O TE R SOS OR T P RE BLITY I IVO ST U S TA IN A ODR Ž LT I G K E I T S ТЬ H A О Й ЧИ В О С NACH 续 性 УСТ IR LIK 可 持 IDA D T IL IL S E B IB O Ü L N 2019 N R E L SOST Ü E SÜRD UDRŽIT RHET A BILI LLBA DUR H Å TÉ TABLE OF CONTENTS About this report 4 Our environmental responsibility 44 How we reduce our energy consumption47 Foreword  6 How we reduce our emissions 48 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld 8 Our employees  52 Our business areas10 Healthy and sporty on the move  56 Our business model 14 Biesterfeld social benefits 57 Our stakeholders 16 Continuous training and education 59 Our locations20 Looking back over the history  22 Our reporting method 62 Facts and figures24 Compliance 28 GRI content index  69 Our sustainability concept 32 Publication details  76 Sustainability progress35 What are we doing in...? 40 Our sustainability objectives and strategies42 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Table of contents · 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT The Sustainability Report of the Biesterfeld Group covers the the GEMIS database (GEMIS: Global Emission Model for Intedevelopments in 2019 and applies to the whole Group. It serves as grated Systems), which was created by the German Environment a separate, non-financial Group report and describes the company’s Agency (UBA) in collaboration with the German Öko-Institut. I ON T IONS responsible conduct and commitment on a global level. A D I T 0 LOC A In this year‘s report we have documented our sustainability I L Y TR V E R3 In the following pages, the Biesterfeld Group presents all the man­agement and its extension to our branches in France, the FAM L AT O sustainability-relevant data and key figures transparently and Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden. For a detailed list of R A 113-Y E A NA T IO N comprehensively for direct and indirect stakeholders. our sites includ­ed in the 2019 report, can be found on p. 20 – our IN T ER [WORLD MAP] locations. Centrally controlled processes and products are apS S ER S H I P The report shows the Progress Report according to the United plied through­out the Biesterfeld Group. Y EE N L O RT Nations Global Compact and is based on the Core Option of E MP P A 94 0 OWN E D the latest framework of the internationally recognised Global For ease of readability, we generally use the male form in this 5 0 R EN Reporting Initiative (GRI), the so-called GRI Standards. This report when designating groups of persons and occupations. It OV ER ensures transparent presentation and comparability of data and goes without saying that we always address all sexes equally. U N IT S evaluations through the years. We use the emissions factors from E S S 6 BU S I N 102-1, 102-48, 102-50 4 · About this report B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 About this report · 5 DEAR READERS, It is with great pleasure and a certain amount of pride that I present to you in 2019. More than 100 exciting ideas and approaches were We owe the implementation and development of our sustain­ submitted by Biesterfeld employees. The best of these sugability activities, as well as our positive business development, the sixth sustainability report of the gestions not only received a prize, but were also directly impleto our employees, who work together across divisions and Biesterfeld Group. mented. In order to take responsibility for our most essential national borders to achieve our sustainability and ecoresource, our employees, and support them even better, we nomic goals. Every single individual has an important IS inaugurated the Biesterfeld Health Day last year. On that day in role to play, and contributes their personal abilities and E D VA LU E ADD OF March, we offered a wide range of seminars, talks, workshops strengths to the common success. Characterised by H E F RUIT HERS T OT It is and always has been a matter of course: We take responand activities revolving around health, sports and nutrition at ethical and responsible actions, we as a family busiV A L U IN G sibility and always reconcile our economic goals with ecological our Hamburg facility. Since the event received such a positive ness will continue to build our activities in line with and social aspects. In 2019, as in the years before, the issue of response from our staff, we have since published further sugthe demands of sustainable business practices. sustainability was again an important part of our activities, and gestions, tips and tricks on those topics in a monthly Intranet deeply rooted in all divisions of our family business. We ensure contribution called “#Healthforyou”. I hope you enjoy reading our sustainability report. that it remains an integral part of everything we do by defining, implementing and continuously developing company-wide But we support sustainability topics externally as well, as for standards for the safe and responsible use of critical products example with a project in Malawi focusing on restoring well and resources. systems. Malawi is one of the least developed countries in the world and about half of its population has no access to clean I personally believe that sustainability is also directly linked to drinking water. As part of the project, Biesterfeld works with Thomas Arnold the two topics of progress and innovation, and responsibility for local communities to identify and repair defective bore holes employees. To foster the former in our company, we created the and wells, giving the inhabitants of the region unlimited access Biesterfeld Innovation Award and bestowed it for the first time to clean drinking water. Thomas Arnold, chairman of the board 102-14 102-14 6 · Foreword B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Foreword · 7 B U R G H A M FROM ORLD D T H E W E R F E L T IN T O BIES T OU A R E WE 8 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 9 OUR BUSINEES AREAS healthcare, cleaning, paints/varnishes and coatings, high-quality intermediates, polyurethanes, polymer additives, construction, adhesives, lubricants, composites, food and electronics and For more than 113 years now, the Biesterfeld Group has been a service and dis[BIESTERFELD.COM] energy. [HISTORY] tribution company, as well as operating in the worldwide trade in raw materials. Our third division, Biesterfeld International, offers global distribution of base chemicals and specialities. Around 85 employees at 11 locations offer expert and customer-focused services in the Today, the Biesterfeld Group, with over 30 global locations, is a logistics solutions, are guaranteed by a comprehensive, decenfields of application consulting, product development, logistics successful distributor of plastics, rubber, and basic and special­ity tralised infrastructure with personal contacts locally. and financing. Local proximity to customers and suppliers as well chemicals. Years of market and product experience, great depth as long-term partnerships characterise this division. Biesterfeld of expert knowledge and trusting partnerships with customers The product portfolio includes plastics and additives for industries International’s portfolio includes commodities and specialities [BIESTERFELD.COM] and suppliers are the defining features of the distribution comsuch as automotive, healthcare, industrial and consumer goods, in the areas of industrial chemicals, pesticides and fertilisers, pany. With its four operating divisions and two service compaconstruction, toys, packagings, household appliances plus elecsalt, pharmaceutical raw materials and active ingredients, and [BIESTERFELD.COM] nies, the Biesterfeld Group offers its customers not only trics and electronics. feed and food additives. an extensive product portfolio, but also complex application advice and solution expertise covering this The international distribution of high-performance polymers, NG S T R O DU ALLY product range. Biesterfeld Spezialchemie is one of the internationally leading technical elastomers, silicone rubber compounds and additives I INDIV TABLE distributors of products and solutions in the speciality chemicals is the focus of the Biesterfeld Performance Rubber division, A U N BE H E R Biesterfeld Plastic is the Group’s largest division. and food industries. The Group’s second-largest division, its spefounded in 2016. Business activities are focussed on application E T TO G Around 315 employees are engaged in the continu­ cial attributes are solution-based applications expertise, innovatechnology consulting for the rubber processing industry and ous development of Biesterfeld Plastic, as one of tive strength and formulation know-how. Around 320 employees development of innovative local customer solutions, carried out the leading distributors for plastics and additives in not only develop customised solutions, but also ensure an inby around 35 qualified employees. As well as synthetic rubber, Europe, North Africa, Latin America and the CIS region. novative product range and continuous supply availability from compounds of high-quality silicone and fluorosilicone rubbers Through the long-standing, mostly exclusive, distriburegional warehouse locations. and carbon black, the product range also includes high-perfortion partnerships with global market leaders in the plastics mance polymers and the complete portfolio of corresponding [BIESTERFELD.COM] industry, the division offers its customers a virtually complete The wide-ranging product portfolio, which is characterised by additives. and homogeneous product portfolio. A wide range of services, long-term cooperation with leading suppliers worldwide, focuses such as development-based technical consulting and tailored on the requirements of selected industries such as personal care, 102-2, 102-6, 102-9, 102-18, 103,1, 103-2, 103-3 102-2, 102-6, 102-18, 103,1, 103-2, 103-3 10 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 11 The operating divisions are continuously supported by the two OUR CLIENT INDUSTRIES Biesterfeld service companies: The employees of Biesterfeld ChemLogS are responsible for compliance, sustainability, QSHE (Quality, Safety, Health & Environment) in the international chemical trade, REACH (European Regulation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) as well as customs and export controls and assisting the management systems. They support the whole Group with their specialist knowledge and expertise and ensure Adhesives & Sealants Automotive & Transportation Coatings & Construction Composites & Tooling daily implementation of national and international standards, regulations and internal guidelines in order to guarantee the smooth running of all Biesterfeld processes and compliance [BIESTERFELD.COM] with international norms. As a full-service provider, BIT-SERV specialises in the development, implementation and operation of business applications. stable, solution-oriented and user-friendly IT service. Their range Electro, Electronic & Energy Food & Feed Household & Consumer Goods Industrial Markets & Synthesis BIT-SERV provides active support to our business divisions, of services is tailored to the needs of small and medium-sized [BIESTERFELD.COM] with particular focus on SAP ® ERP applications, in-house CRM companies and is subject to strict security guidelines. developments, web developments and system technology. About 30 employees are specialists with many years of experience and The divisions and service companies operate jointly under the wide-ranging expertise in industry-specific applications. The umbrella of Biesterfeld AG. As the holding company, Biesterfeld principle objective of these employees, who combine the roles AG provides the framework for the Group’s business development of consultants, designers and project managers, is to offer a and assumes central strategy and control functions. Packaging Personal Care & Cleaning Pharma & Healthcare Plant Protection & Plant Nutrition 102-2, 102-5, 102-6, 102-18, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-2, 403-7 102-2, 102-6, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 12 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 13 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR SUPPLIER CHAIN We combine tradition with innovation. As a family business, the values of trust, commitment and to offer our customers high-quality products. We deliver raw maresponsibility play a key role. We trust our employees and are terials direct at the agreed time or provide intermediate storage. sure that we are pursuing a common goal to make Biesterfeld better every day. We keep our word and consistently fulfil our Direct customer contact helps us to respond flexibly to specific obligation, as employer and partner, to meet the standards customer requirements. We see ourselves as idea generators, that we set ourselves and others expect of us. Acting always managing to find appropriate solutions and answers to responsibly is the top priority. We operate honestly customer enquiries thanks to our development-related technical S LWAY E and fairly and always have our eye on the future. consulting. W E A HE F U T U R Therefore, we make our contribution to greater susAV E T H C US tainability. We are always looking for sustainable products that we can IN FO add to our portfolio. By working closely with our producers and Biesterfeld builds on its years of corporate experience customers we can respond more quickly to economic developand continuously develops it. Through the expertise ments in the market. We pass on customers’ wishes and requireof our employees and close cooperation with leading ments to our producers and provide support for the development producers, we offer our customers a comprehensive proand optimisation of products in regard to sustainability. In our duct portfolio with optimum service. sales activities, we ensure that statutory and political requirements are complied with for all orders and deliveries. We obtain our products from well-respected producers with whom we have exclusive contracts in some cases. This allows us 102-2, 102-16, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 102-2, 102-9 14 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 15 OUR STAKEHOLDERS industry developments and participate in the development of receive questions, suggestions and requests, and in some cases potential new products. to establish initial business contacts. Participants are able to speak face to face with our experts and satisfy themselves of To reach all our stakeholders simultaneously, we consistently their expertise. As a family business, we are committed to sustainable developissue news and press releases, which are also published on our ment in our industry and to raising awareness amongst our partwebsite. We inform them about current changes in the company, ners so that they will make their own contribution in this respect. new and existing partnerships, product innovations and upIt is particularly important to understand the different social coming events. By providing central contacts for each product Investors demands that our interest groups make on the company and to do or subject area, we enable interested parties to make specific Banks justice to these expectations. We therefore encourage exchanges enquiries. We also offer a contact form to cover all other areas. Holders with all our stakeholders and use various means of communiIn addition to communication via traditional media and our webcation to reach them in the best possible way. site, we use the social network LinkedIn. In this way, all stakeve an insight into the business results and plans for the financiholders have an insight into our company and for example , We value active communication with our stakeholal years, and can read corporate policies and follow current inalways have the latest information on products, events and E L I STEN ATE Associations Employees W UNIC ders. Our direct and regular exchanges are based ternal company news. In our social intranet B-Connect, redesijob vacancies. BIESTERFELD E COMM Y AND AR on openness and understanding. As an employer, gned in 2019, all employees have the right to upload, comment GROUP L OPEN SPARENT we focus on our employees, and they are our direct on and like contributions. In addition to company-related isWe regularly inform our capital providers, including the BiesterTR AN stakeholders. It is in our own interest to maintain sues, the intranet also has a forum, where our staff are able to mafeld family, the banks and investors, about the financial status of long-standing employment relationships, which we ke private enquiries or requests. the Biesterfeld Group. They are given information about business Competitors Suppliers achieve through fair and respectful interaction. Our development and insights into the company’s strategies. Their managers are required to conduct regular one-to-one Apart from direct communication with our customers, we also assessments and analyses enable us to pursue our goals. In staff appraisals to identify the needs of their staff, encour­ conduct customer surveys and evaluations. This enables us to addition, we publish the Biesterfeld Group’s results of operaage them and, in particular, sustain their motivation. respond to specific requests and constantly optimise our service. tions in the Bundesanzeiger (Federal Gazette) in accordance with Authorities Customers We provide information on new products and offer alternative, German commercial legislation. Furthermore, we actively use our intranet to maintain internal sustainable products. Evaluating customer reviews and comments communication with and amongst our Biesterfeld workforce enables us to meet the latest market requirements and ensure, Customer acquisition and networking are achieved by, for example, worldwide. Via our intranet we can provide information on all or increase, customer satisfaction. In addition, the evaluation attending national and international trade fairs and relevant company-related issues. In this way, our employees always haallows us to inform our producers about new requirements and events and conferences. These present opportunities for us to INDIRECT DIRECT STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS 102-15, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 403-4, 403-7 102-15, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 403-4, 403-7 16 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 17 The world‘s largest trade fair for the plastics processing industry representatives accepted our invitation and visited us at the fair. We fac­ilitate mutual understanding and discourse on matters is the K Fair, which is held every three years. Also in 2019 we Together we discussed our path towards greener logistics and, of sustainable development and procurement in the chemicals were present there and shared a stand with our long-time partner with our participation in the “Operation Clean Sweep” initiative, industry through our membership of chemical associations and CHIMEI to engage in dialogue with our partners, customers, we gave them an insight into the concept of careful and conscien[OPERATION initiatives. We encourage an exchange of experiences and knowl­ the media and visitors. We made effective use of the ten days tious use of resources. Further information on our participation CLEAN SWEEP] edge in relation to responsible conduct in the chemical industry at the fair to convey our sustainability concept to our partners. can be found on p. 42. and raise awareness of important issues. By participating in the In addition to customers and suppliers, many of our logistics Responsible Care Programme of the German Chemical Trade Association (VCH) and the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), we ensure that the principles of responsible conduct K Fair in Dusseldorf are integrated in our corporate structure and that we continuously improve. For example, we submit our performance indicators annually and have ourselves audited by an external company at regular intervals Jens Schuermann and Jens Imbeck (from left to right) at the K Fair INITIATIVES: • AGA employers association • FECC (European Association of Chemical Distributors) Also, our Biesterfeld France subsidiary took part in the Plastic • ICTA (International Chemical Trade Association) Expo in Tunis in 2019 together with colleagues from Biesterfeld • United Nations Global Compact Plastic and Biesterfeld International. This collaboration of Biester• VCI Association of the Chemical Industry feld employees was intended to further intensify the company’s • VCH Chemical Distribution Association presence in the Maghreb region and optimally serve this market. Joint discussions with customers and suppliers gave the team • PlasticsEurope e. V. new ideas and approaches for new developments and also high• Operation Clean Sweep® lighted the commitment and future path of Biesterfeld. 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 102-12, 102-13, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 18 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 19 OUR LOCATIONS Biesterfeld AG Hamburg, HQ (DE) Biesterfeld Plastic Biesterfeld Biesterfeld International Biesterfeld Performance Spezialchemie Rubber Abingdon (GB) Bangkok (TH) Athens (GR) Barcelona (ES ) Guatemala City (GT) Abingdon (GB) Bailerup (DK) Bratislava (SK) Hamburg (DE) Athens (GR) Barcelona (ES) Budapest (HU) Hong Kong (CN) Bangkok (TH) Culemborg (NL) Grodzisk Istanbul (TR) Barcelona (ES) Florianópolis (BR) Mazowiecki (PL) Jakarta (ID) Chrisy (FR) Hamburg (DE) Hamburg (DE) Miami (US) Culemborg (NL) Hamina (FIN) Istanbul (TR) Mumbai (IN) Florianópolis (BR) Istanbul (TR) Kiev (UA) São Paulo (BR) Hamburg (DE) Kiev (UA) Liestal (CH) Shanghai (CN) Istanbul (TR) Cologne (DE) Milan (IT) Warsaw (PL) Kiev (UA) Liestal (CH) Moscow (RU) Liestal (CH) Limhamn (SE) Norrköpig (SE) Limhamn (SE) Milan (IT) Parainen (FIN) Milan (IT) Moscow (RU) Prague (CZ) Moscow (RU) Nuremberg (DE) Oporto (PT) Prague (CZ) Oporto (PT) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Oporto (PT) Biesterfeld Locations Römerberg (DE) Vestby (NOR) Römerberg (DE) Countries in which Biesterfeld Rueil Malmaison (FR) Warsaw (PL) Rueil Malmaison (FR) is represented São Paulo (BR) Vienna (AT) Saint Ouen l’Aumone (FR) Warsaw (PL) Zagreb (HR) São Paulo (BR) Vienna (AT) Warsaw (PL) Vienna (AT) Zagreb (HR)  Biesterfeld locations included in this year’s Sustainability Report 102-4, 102-6, 102-45 102-4, 102-6, 102-45 20 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 21 LOOKING BACK OVER THE HISTORY The story of Biesterfeld began in Hamburg in 1906. Initially geared to the shortly after on the chemical and fertiliser trade. The new portfolio salt trade, the eponymous founder Wilhelm Ernst Hinrich Biesterfeld opened up further opportunities, which led to international expansion. quickly proved his business acumen. For example, he obtained exclusive Today the Biesterfeld Group is an international corporation with OUR HISTORY selling rights for evaporated salt in certain areas of northern and eastern more than 30 subsidiaries worldwide, and the company is now in its Germany. As a result of this successful milestone, he set his sights third generation of family ownership. Founding of BIT-SERV GmbH: In-house and third party solutions Founding of Biesterfeld for internet, data processing and Founding of Biesterfeld Performance Rubber GmbH networking applications ChemLogS GmbH OUR HISTORY Acquisition of Schütz & Co. Change the name from (GmbH & Co. KG), Germany Takeover of the chemical Company founder Wilhelm Biesterfeld Siemsglüss International GmbH Wilhelm Ernst Hinrich plant Gunter, Schröder & Co. Biesterfeld dies aged 84, his Expansion in the Asian to Biesterfeld International GmbH Biesterfeld moves into a in Hamburg-Harburg with nephew and adopted son, region with subsidiaries Joint Venture small office in Hamburg its own storage and trans­ Walter Biesterfeld, ensures the in China, Hong Kong and Founding of Biesterfeld Joint Venture Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Simko and starts trading in salt shipment facilities continuous growth of the company Indonesia Spezialchemie GmbH Petroplas Ltd., Great Britain Distr. Ltda, Brasilia 1906 1920–25 1930er 1945 Ab 1950 1961 1964 1970 1976 1980er 1988 1994 1998 2000 2001 2004 2006 2007 2008 2013 2015 2016 2019 Operation of The company has its own subsidi­ After the death of Walter Biesterfeld, Founding of Biesterfeld Plastic Founding of Acquisition of Acquisition of the Biesterfeld aries in the business divisions of his son, Dirk J. Biesterfeld, inherits GmbH and new subsidiaries in Biesterfeld Ibérica Milar Sp. z o.o., Poland Lindberg & Lund Group, Shipping Company import and export of chemicals, the company as a personally liable France, Italy, Poland and Spain S.L.U., Spain Norway salt and fertilisers, as well as partner chemical businesses; founding of the Biesterfeld Packaging division Joint V­enture Biesterfeld Nordic AB, Schweden Sole selling rights for evaporated Founding of the first Founding of subsidiaries Joint Venture Renaming to Acquisition of Küttner GmbH, salts in certain areas of northern European subsidiary Biesterfeld do Brasil Ltda., Biesterfeld Scheibler and Biesterfeld AG Germany and eastern Germany in the Netherlands Brazil and Biesterfeld U.S., Linssen GmbH & Co. KG Inc., USA 102-9 102-9 22 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 23 FACTS AND FIGURES Vestby, and other subsidiaries in Sweden and Finland. The approximately 50 employees in the areas of application technology, distribution, administration and warehousing are now part of The combination of our skills in the individual business divisions is the Biesterfeld family. This step will enable us to extend our strategic presence in Scandinavia. The overlap of strategic market what distinguishes us and has made us what we are today, namely one segments and the supplier portfolio are perfectly tailored to the Biesterfeld Group. of the leading international distributors of plastics, rubber, and basic and speciality chemicals. In 2019, Biesterfeld International obtained IFS Broker certification in the area of “Procurement and marketing of food supplements, such as amino acids and plant extracts, and food addiOur experienced employees are always on hand to advise our the French subsidiaries of Biesterfeld Plastic and Biesterfeld tives”. IFS Broker certification is a standard specially developed customers, numbering around 20,000, supporting them in seSpezialchemie were combined to form Biesterfeld France. The for trading companies and importers in the food industry. Based lecting and making best use of our products. homogeneous product range and uniform corporate image of on a uniform evaluation system, this standard guarantees not the locations allow us to focus more on our business activities Lindberg & Lund AS only food safety, but also the quality of processes and products. 2019 included numerous activities within the Biesterfeld and simplify internal processes. Biesterfeld’s internal processes were first tested intensively Group. We are in a constant process of optimisation, according to the international standard, leading to the company’s D based on the pursuit of our ‘One Biesterfeld’ strategy, Long-term relationships with leading producers and transparent In addition, we can supply the extensive portfolio of textile ensuccessful certification, which is valid for one year. I AL I SE S P E C U M BER which involves rethinking long-standing structures, communication by means of constant direct contact partners zymes throughout Europe and in Russia, Turkey and North Africa IN A N YS utilising synergies and streng­thening the consistent enable us to strengthen and further expand cooperation. For and also the natural and sustainable portfolio of, for example, Our company has enjoyed a successful history of more than OF WA market presence and brand identity of the Biesterfeld example, we have started distributing Vistalon™ ethylene proready-to-use peel-off, peeling and rinse-off masks, seawater, 113 years, and continues to grow steadily. Our experienced staff Group. For example, subsidi­aries operating in the pylene diene monomer (EPDM) rubber in the UK and Ireland. clays, marine actives as well as various micro and macro algae in enable us to adapt and respond promptly to market trends. This same region have been merged, enabling us to ben­ Vistalon™ EPDM rubber has extraordinary physical properties other countries. year, the strategic development of the Biesterfeld Group will efit from an exchange of experience and utilise stand­ and outstanding processing advantages. As well as good ozone once again lead to successful implementation of our plans and ardised systems and tools. In addition, process flows and UV stability, it is very resistant to chemicals and heat, is very Besides successfully developing our distribution partnerships, we attainment of our goals. have been improved, allowing expertise to be shared. flexible in cold conditions and has good electrical insulation and have expanded the Biesterfeld Group. Biesterfeld Spezialchemie The offices in Spain were merged in 2019, and in 2018 an excellent compression set. acquired the Norwegian Group Lindberg & Lund AS, based in 102-10, 102-15, 201-2 102-10, 102-15, 201-2 24 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 25 SALES BY REGION, 2018 ECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR THE BIESTERFELD GROUP, 2017 – 2019* 2019 2018 2017 26% Germany 38% Western Europe (excl. Germany) 4% Other 24% Eastern Europe Turnover 1,148,609 1,220,652 1,174,604 3% Asia Operating costs 1,034,570 1,104,198 1,063,289 5% America Wages and other 66,015 62,574 60,070 company benefits Payment to 1,1 BILLION financial backers 27,485 25,793 23,067 SALES IN EURO Payment to 12,995 13,469 12,588 940 government (taxes) EMPLOYEES * Figures in thousands of euros; there is no detailed profit and loss account; further economic data are presented in the Bundesanzeiger (Federal Gazette). WORLDWIDE 30 LOCATIONS 15.000 PRODUCTS 102-7 102-7, 201-1 26 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 27 COMPLIANCE OUR INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM As an international company, it is important that we adhere to clearly defined internal and external guidelines and implement our legal obligations. Our Compliance department, which reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Management, is responsible for ensuring compliance with these rules. It supports all subsidiaries with implementing laws and directives and is available to help them in an advisory capacity. Its activities are based on the Code of Conduct of the Biesterfeld Group and the integrated management system, which encompasses all the management [BIESTERFELD.COM] systems relevant to us, such as compliance, quality, environment, occupational health and safety, data protection, risk and crisis management. 102-11, 102-16, 102-17, 102-18, 403-1, 403-2, 403-7 102-11, 102-16, 102-17, 403-1 28 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 29 Our Biesterfeld Code of Conduct includes the key corporate and Our compliance management system monitors all business actiB HONEST – THE BIESTERFELD WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM and external persons can anonymously highlight any grievances, operational principles. It forms the basis for our daily interaction, vities and processes and is an essential component of conscienThe Compliance department always tries to raise the awareness wrongdoing or special risks in or for the company. The compliregulates our dealings with business partners and customers tious and sustainable corporate management. Thus, in the area of all staff to laws, regulations and internal company rules. To ance officers process and manage each report centrally. Each and includes standards and guidelines that apply throughout of logistics, for example, structural measures are put in place to minimise possible compliance risks within the company and piece of information submitted to the Compliance department the Group. The provisions in the Code of Conduct are an prevent any processes and conduct that are harmful to business protect Biesterfeld from conduct that is harmful to the company, is dealt with quickly and confidentially. In doing so, we are purimportant element of our preventive measures to combat so that legally and regulatorily compliant delivery can be guaranthe whistleblower system – B Honest – was introduced in 2017. suing the goal of strengthening and constantly expanding our [BIESTERFELD.COM] any misconduct, such as corruption, that would damage teed. All new and amended legislation is discussed at manageUsing the online reporting platform, all Biesterfeld employees compliance system and complaints management. I F F E RENT D the company. The Code is binding for the whole of the ment level with regard to its relevance to our company and disGING URAL M AN A AND CULT Biesterfeld Group and is a prerequisite for working seminated to all employees. L LEGA E N G E S in the company. In particular, it addresses issues such L C HAL as compliance with competition and antitrust law, With the aid of our Biesterfeld eCademy Tools, we can train and safety and social standards and human rights. As inform the entire organisation on vital issues. Therefore, all our Code of Conduct sets out framework guidelines staff have access to this online tool and receive regular training for our employees, and they are required to adhere to tailored to their jobs. In addition to the reminder function, exams these standards in their business dealings. Any violation and interactive self-learning modules, all employees receive indiof these principles are immediately and appropriately sanc­ vidually issued certificates upon successful conclusion of the tioned, in compliance with labour law. training. These online training sessions enable employees to complete their training flexibly within a specified period, regardEvery employee receives regular training on the Code of Conduct less of time and place. Training by the Compliance department and has direct access to the current version in German and is binding for all Biesterfeld staff. English via the Group-wide Intranet. Our Code of Conduct is also freely accessible on our corporate website so that partners and [BIESTERFELD.COM] customers can also read our business code. 102-11, 102-16, 102-17 102-11, 102-16, 102-17 30 · From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 From Hamburg out into the world – we are Biesterfeld · 31 IN G D -L O O K CEP T FORW AR Y CON OUR A B I L I T TA I N SUS 32 · Our sustainability concept B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our sustainability concept · 33 The demand for a sustainable corporate structure is firmly anchored in all divisions and at all levels of our company hierarchy. SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS ON THE ROAD TO A PAPERLESS OFFICE considerably, saves a lot of time and sharply reduces paper conOur employees are required to incorporate the principles of susappropriately with non-renewable raw materials present us all A few years ago we started to sustainably redesign processes sumption. As a result of the successful implementation and positainable management in their decisions. Our commitment to the with challenges that we can only face together with innovative that involve a lot of printing out and filling in manually. For extive feedback, we are working on introducing the system across United Nations Global Compact and our own Code of Conduct solutions and responsible action. For this reason, we try to conample, vacation requests and pay slips are now generated and the whole Group. reflect the importance of sustainability for the Biesterfeld Group. stantly make our supply chain more future-proof and we regutransmitted electronically. By using the appropriate tools, we larly remind all our partners and customers about the important can make the processes more effective and transparent. We see sustainability as an ongoing learning process with longpositive effects of acting in a sustainably conscious way. Thereterm successes. This process of learning and self-development fore, we wholeheartedly embrace the motto “Deeds, not words” Building on the experience gained to date, we are in the process enables us to rethink tried and trusted methods and forge new and hope that other companies will follow our example. of changing the travel expense management at Biesterfeld locapaths. This includes using efficient tools to save electricity or tions in Germany. In 2018 a project group was formed with responpaper, for example, and offering sustainable product solutions. We have set ourselves the goal of steadily reducing our consibility for introducing a new travel expense system. By converting It is clear to us that each individual advance we make as part sumption of resources and energy in order to best protect the the tried and trusted travel expense accounting system, which I S of our sustainable commitment helps to make the world environment and avoid endangering the world for future genewas hitherto based on an Excel list, we will save 38.6 kg paper O N E O F US LE E VER Y SIB more environmentally aware. rations. Accordingly, we endorse the following statement by the per year. In the past, travel expenses were recorded electronically LY R E S P ON J O I N T H E F UTU R E Brundtland Commission regarding its perception of generational in the Excel list, then printed off and presented to the line manager FO R T Over the years we have observed increasing demand from justice: “Sustainable development is development that meets together with supporting documents. After checking the travel our customers and suppliers in regard to sustainabilitythe needs of the present without compromising the ability of expenses claims, the line manager in turn sent them to the relerelated issues. In addition to the numerous questionfuture generations to meet their own needs.” vant bookkeeper. The process was therefore neither fast nor naires that we receive on environmental and social issues, transparent. Since the introduction of the new travel expense many people request our latest Sustainability Report. We are (Taken from the Brundtland Commission’s “Our Common Future” report from tool, claims are entered electronically and the process is started 1987.) “Sustainable development meets the needs of the present without really pleased about this trend, since the pace of climate change, via workflow. Sales representatives always have a transparent compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.”) with the associated impacts, and the question of how to deal overview of their claims and knows what stage of processing they have reached. The travel expense tool shortens the process 102-15 34 · Our sustainability concept B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our sustainability concept · 35 BIESTERFELD INNOVATION AWARD person jury consisting of employees and external experts. The “Chance” fair at the University of Applied Sciences Osnabrück Who knows best how the Biesterfeld Group can become even provider of ideas of the Top 10 were invited to present their conand the recruitment fair at the University of Applied Sciences better and more successful? For us, the answer is very clear: our cepts in person to the jury. The numerous proposals included Wedel. In addition to participating in university fairs, Biesterfeld staff! They motivate themselves anew every day and are totally ideas for optimising our marketing and sales activities and more will in future offer company visits and invite students from partner committed to their work. And they are precisely the people who effective design of work processes, but also ways to improve universities to the company headquarters in Hamburg. By means know what innovative ideas are relevant for the Biesterfeld Group. the working atmosphere and social activities in the Biesterfeld of various workshops, they will be able to form their own picture This year saw the launch of our Biesterfeld Innovation Award, Group. Many proposals have already been implemented or are of Biesterfeld as a company and potential employer. In addition, which provides gives our staff with a platform through which to currently at the planning stage. The keen response to the call for Biesterfeld employees regularly give guest presentations at partcontribute their own ideas, giving free rein to their creativity. Over entries and the numerous submissions made the event a comner universities to introduce interested students to our company 100 submitted ideas were examined and assessed by a fiveplete success. and our business model. SUSTAINABLE UNIVERSITY CONCEPT BIESTERFELD HEALTH DAY AND #HEALTHFORYOU To sustainably expand the personnel concept and to train upSustainability means more than just being on the right track and-coming talent for the Biesterfeld Group, we have developed economically and steadily cutting energy consumption a new concept for professionalising university cooperations. The and emissions. It is also about using the resources aim is to sustainably adapt personnel work at Biesterfeld to the we have sensibly and sparingly, and that includes growing internal and external needs. As part of this approach, OU R YEES human resources, our employees. Their health Bar. The overwhelming enthusiasm and positive feedback gave O E M PL various projects have been launched, both to attract new qualiEA R is very important to us. For this reason, we held us the idea to publish monthly items on the intranet, taking a closer fied employees to our company and to provide further education ARE D our first Biesterfeld Health Day, to inform our look at the subject of health. These #Healthforyou items focus opportunities within the company through the courses offered TO U S employees about nutrition, health and fitness. on different topics and concentrate on presenting information by selected universities. To this end, existing cooperations are For a whole day Biesterfeld employees had the and exercises for a healthier lifestyle. For example, recipes have being further expanded and new universities selected which offer chance to participate in various presentations, been collected, a health quiz with fantastic surprises has been relevant degree courses. To be directly approachable for young workshops, courses, health tests and massages. initiated, running campaigns have been started and information talent, Biesterfeld regularly takes part in job fairs at partner uniThey were given lots of useful tips on integrating has been provided on food which is important for a balanced versities. This year, for example, we took our own stand to the healthy eating into their everyday working life. In addidiet. Some of the items are accompanied by themed snacks, “Forum Wirtschaftsakademie” at the University of Münster, the tion, our employees had the opportunity to visit the Smoothie such as nuts or fruit, in the canteens. 36 · Our sustainability concept B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our sustainability concept · 37 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT SOLUTIONS In addition, Biesterfeld Spezialchemie offers the extensive portOur Biesterfeld Plastic division supplies the product INZEA®, a bioWe support our customers in producing sustainable products, folio of aromatic extracts and the odour absorber DeoPlex® albased and completely biodegradable and compostable polymer improving their ecological footprint and implementing sustain­ most the whole of Europe. Aromatic oil and hydrosoluble extracts, in accordance with EN 13432. It is based on polylactic acid (PLA) able business practices. In addition, in our portfolio we offer which can be used in products as an alternative to perfume, are and starch from renewable and non-genetically modified raw sustainable raw materials for our customers. available in the portfolio. DeoPlex® neutralises the scent in cosmematerial sources which are not in competition with the food chain. tic formulations or can be used to minimise the unwanted inherent It is suitable for food contact and can be processed by injection Biesterfeld Spezialchemie, for example, supplies textile enzyme odour of other raw materials. It is also used in detergents and moulding, extrusion and thermoforming with conventional proproducts. They are used as catalysts to speed up processing, animal care products. DeoPlex ® is also available with the USDA cessing machines. INZEA® can be used in a wide range of applicawhich allows shorter washing times at lower temperatures. Some Organic certificate and is therefore suitable for use in natural tions and segments such as packaging, bags, coffee capsules, products require fewer surfactants, thus reducing the environcosmetics. bottles, housings, household, catering, cosmetics, agriculture, mental impact. This gives customers of Biesterfeld Spezialchemie 3D printing and short-life parts. a reliable and trusted product that enables sustainable processing techniques and a more efficient production process. The innovative product range ECOZEN ® is also part of the Biesterfeld Plastic portfolio. The temperature-resistant PETG Furthermore, Biesterfeld Spezialchemie has acquired distribution consists partly of renewable raw materials and offers very good rights for Kalaguard® SB for Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, transparency, excellent impact strength and remarkable chemical Slovakia, Bulgaria and Slovenia. For household applications such resistance. It can be 100% recycled and is frequently used in as cleaning products, detergents, hand dish-washing liquids, cosmetics packaging, household items and toys. clean­ing cloths and fabric softeners, Kalaguard ® SB acts as a preserving agent and thereby helps to prevent the growth of dal Products Regulation, and is preferred to traditional biocides microbes. The product has been classified as a low-risk substance in order to promote the use of products with a more favourable by the European Commission for applications subject to the Biocienvironmental and health profile for humans and/or animals. 38 · Our sustainability concept B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our sustainability concept · 39 WHAT ARE WE DOING IN...? OUR CLIMATE PROTECTION PROJECT IN MALAWI With the aid of modern water pipes and the provision of fresh Since 2016 we have been compensating for our business travel drinking water, carbon emissions are simultaneously reduced with certified climate protection projects. by 10,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. In addition, the project helps to combat deforestation and desertification in large parts of Malawi In 2018, our colleagues in Austria did voluntary work cooking for homeless We have now been able to reduce the emissions from our travel by reducing the use of firewood. people, and this year they again gave up some of their time to help as far as possible. In order to do something good for the envipeople in need. This project was held at the end of the year under ronment beyond this, we are exploring new avenues and utilising We hope that this offsetting will enable us to make a contribution the slogan “Christmas in a Shoe Box”. It involved packing small additional opportunities. to sustainably improving the living conditions of local people. gifts and toiletries in shoe boxes and sending them to needy children. The enthusiasm of our colleagues in Austria was Through our compensation we would like to support projects tremendous and they were all keen to help, so everything that benefit people in need and improve their quality of life. was quickly collected and packed. In total, 23 shoe boxes Therefore, like last year, we again chose the certified climate with small gifts were sent to children in Romania. protection project in Malawi. Our Polish subsidiary offers staff on site fresh fruit as a This project identifies and repairs defective wells in Malawi. In healthy snack. Various seasonal fruits are delivered each addition to repairing the damaged municipal water points, local week and are then available to all employees for free. people are given training to enable them to carry out construction, maintenance and operation of the boreholes themselves in In addition, the Biesterfeld subsidiary in Poland became the future. As a result of these measures, the Malawian villagers involved in the community and donated around 2000 PLN will no longer have to boil water, and can drink it safely without to a local sports club. The donation was used to organise any processing. At the same time, the risk of disease resulting a tennis competition for children. from the use of fuel for boiling or the spread of water-borne diseases is reduced. In Spain, Biesterfeld staff receive a daily lunch voucher and can enjoy the benefits of freshly cooked meals every day. 40 · Our sustainability concept B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our sustainability concept · 41 We must preserve what is good and venture something new in OUR SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES order to take Biesterfeld successfully into the future. We are convinced that our economic growth can only be sustained OPERATION CLEAN SWEEP® We have set ourselves the task of informing our international in the long term if we constantly integrate and invest in ecologiOur Biesterfeld Plastic division is involved in the international logistics partners about this and also convincing them to particical and social corporate responsibility. The long-running success initiative Operation Clean Sweep® on a voluntary basis, highpate in the Operation Clean Sweep® initiative. To do this, we use story of the Biesterfeld Group is based on high standards and lighting just how serious the issue of plastics in the environment our stand at trade fairs or provide information through brochures. goals which we set for ourselves and which are consistently actually is: They do not belong in nature – and certainly not in For more information please visit www.opcleansweep.eu. [OPCLEANSWEEP.EU] pursued by experienced employees. The focus is always on the sea. ethical and responsible behaviour. It is clear to us that a forwardlooking policy must put sustainability at the centre of everything By participating in this global initiative, we want to raise awarewe do as a company. ness about the importance of conscientious and careful use of resources and proper disposal of plastic as well as recycling. We attach great importance to ensuring that our actions are The objective is to ensure that plastic granules, pellets, flakes consistent with our corporate principles, and we take up the and powders do not end up in the marine environment. One way challenge of achieving all this from a sustainable point of view. to achieve this is for all companies in the plastics supply chain Biesterfeld staff are encouraged to contribute suggestions and (manufacturers, distributors, logistics companies and procesideas that they consider should be part of the sustainable commitsors) to comply with strict (storage) site management and retenment of the Biesterfeld Group. In this way, the sustainable devel­ We are convinced that sustainability can only be achieved if every­ tion measures. opment of the Biesterfeld Group can be continuously advanced. one involved pulls together. That’s why we also strongly encour­ age our suppliers and partners to grab the initiative and commit For example, strict cleaning of floors and storage areas should Our Company Group is in an ongoing process of sustainable to conserving the environment and natural resources as well as mean that no surplus plastic granules are washed into stretches optimisation. This entails systematically reviewing processes protecting people and their working rights, just as we do. Regular of water or the environment in general. The raw material collected and attempting to make them more efficient. Conservation of communication and a proactive information policy on sustainabthrough systematic cleaning is then disposed of properly or – if resources and environmental protection play an important role le development are essential for the Biesterfeld Group because possible – recycled. We are committed to taking and are always incorporated into the restructuring process. we want to always act in a discerning and responsible manner. responsibility beyond the boundaries of our own business activities. 102-12, 102-13 42 · Our sustainability concept B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our sustainability concept · 43 FO R A I N H AND IVING L HAND E WORTH R FUTU E N TAL N M T Y EN V I R O S I B ILI OUR S P O N R E 44 · Our environmental responsibility B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our environmental responsibility · 45 We should look to the future to recognise what matters today. HOW WE REDUCE OUR ENERGY CONSUMPTION We know the areas where we consume the largest amounts of In this year’s Sustainability Report, we have included other For this reason, sustainable business practices are very important energy and can therefore design suitable measures. Our activities company locations which can be found on the world map on [WORLD MAP] to us and are the focus of our interest. mainly take place in the offices at the Biesterfeld sites, which p. 20. As part of our sustainability strategy, we pursue the goal means that lighting, air-conditioning and ventilation systems plus of recording all emissions and energy consumption of the entire Environmental protection is extremely important to us, out of small appliances and office electrical equipment are an important Biesterfeld Group in the report. This enlargement takes place conviction and responsibility for society. Consequently, we know focus for us. within the framework of defined processes, so that all data is what our company consumes and we evaluate the potential properly recorded. impact on the environment. We set ourselves ambitious tarIn Hamburg, we have been purchasing green electricity for our gets to keep our consumption to the minimum and to use the two locations since 2017. By using climate-friendly energy from ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF THE SITES MENTIONED IN THE available resources as effectively and efficiently as possible. In 100% environmentally friendly sources, we avoid 158,7 tonnes SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IN 2019* particular, we concentrate on those areas where we have a direct of attributable CO2 emissions annually. Employee energy consumption at the specified sites was approx. influence in order to initiate positive changes. At the same time, 2,396 kWh. In comparison to the previous year we have a reducwe see it as our mission, through communication, ideas and innoENERGY CONSUMPTION AT COMPANY LOCATIONS IN tion of -35%. vative solutions, to inform and raise awareness in all other areas HAMBURG 2019* where we have no direct influence. Ultimately we all, collectively, The consumption of energy amounted to approx. 1,746 kWh per Energy sources GJ kWh CO2 bear responsibility for protecting our world. We calculate our company’s CO2 emissions in accordance with employees. Compared to the previous year, we have a reduction emissions in t the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol*) and DIN EN ISO of -18%. As part of our sustainability strategy we shall cut back our con14064. As we have no emissions actually occurring within the Electricity 3,352 931,204 478 sumption of energy, water, paper and other raw materials to the company from our activities, we treat the indirect emissions Energy sources GJ kWh CO2 District heating emissions 2,073 575,899 151 absolute minimum in order to reduce our ecological footprint. caused by the procurement of energy as being caused by our (for room heating) in t For this reason, we record our energy consumption and emisactivities. The levels are determined using information from the Natural gas Electricity 1,195 331,830 170 621 172,361 35 sions every year and compare it with the previous year. We also GEMIS database. (for room heating) use 2014 as the base year for our first-time reporting. The transDistrict heating Total 6,046 1,679,436 664 *G  lobal standard for measuring, managing and reporting greenhouse gas 1,514 420,647 110 parent presentation of these figures underlines our intention and (for room heating) emissions. * T he figures have been rounded off. Heating consumption for the UK is included in the our determination to improve. DIN EN ISO 14064 Greenhouse gas accounting and verification Total 2,709 752,477 280 electricity consumption because heating is provided via the air-conditioning system. * The figures have been rounded off. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 46 · Our environmental responsibility B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our environmental responsibility · 47 HOW WE REDUCE OUR EMISSIONS As we have subsidiaries all over the world and engage in interAs a distributor, we act as the link between manufacturers and national trade, business trips are an integral part of our activities. customers. Therefore, our transportation of goods accounts for the We have now replaced many trips with web-based meetings and bulk of our emissions. Optimisation programmes and intelligent are increasingly turning to other ways of keeping the number of route planning in logistics service to achieve greater efficiency. The Biesterfeld Group‘s vehicle fleet is one of the indirect conFurthermore, employees‘ travel to the offices is considered an business trips to a minimum. For example, we use online training sumptions resulting from our activities. To keep these consumpindirect emission, which we determine annually. The good consessions or train colleagues who can pass on the knowledge they TRANSPORT OF GOODS ACROSS THE BIESTERFELD tions as low as possible, we are in a continuous modernisation nections to our locations means that employees can travel to have acquired to their colleagues. GROUP 2019* process managed by the Group Fleet Manager. Currently the fleet work by public transport. To further encourage this, Biesterfeld consists of 89 company vehicles, which meet the latest standards subsidises monthly travel with HVV (Hamburg Transport AssoTo set an example and to do something good for the environType of Amount Average CO2 emissions and therefore have low petrol and diesel consumption. ciation). ment and for people, we have compensated for our business transport in t distance in t per year in km travel since 2016. This year, we have again offset the emissions BIESTERFELD GROUP FLEET 2019* MEANS OF TRANSPORT BY WHICH EMPLOYEES TRAVELLED from our business travel by means of a certified project. You can Road 164,595 280 2,317 [MAL AWI PROJECT] TO WORK IN HAMBURG 2019* read more about this on p. 41. Inland Fuel type Total Total CO2 The emissions per employee for travel to work amounts to approx. 29,451 3,290 3,313 waterway consumption consumption emissions 0.8 tons CO2 per working year. This value has remained constant BUSINESS TRIPS ACROSS THE BIESTERFELD GROUP 2019* in litres in megajoules in t Sea 68,291 12,708 10,509 compared to the previous year. Diesel 152,168 5,627,178 500 Flights Distance in km CO2 emissions Air freight 158 4,183 516 Means of Journey to/from work CO2 emissions in t per year Petrol 29,575 980,021 84 Rail 7,806 383 113 transport in km per working day in t per International Total 181,743 6,607,199 584 and employee* working year** 2,879,120 439 Total 270,301 20,844 16,768 flights *T he figures have been rounded off. All vehicles registered to the Hamburg headquarters Bicycle 14 0 *T he figures have been rounded off. Quantity and distances are taken from the ERP system are covered. Domestic flights 381,110 90 and are based on deliveries within Germany (incoming and outgoing).. Train 117 12 Total 3,260,230 529 Car 82 145 * T  he figures have been rounded off. Local public 20 173 transport Total – 330 * T  he figures have been rounded off and give the average distance per working day per employee. ** T  he emission values are calculated by multiplying the number of kilometres travelled. 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 305-2, 305-3 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 305-2, 305-3 48 · Our environmental responsibility B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our environmental responsibility · 49 We attach great importance to ensuring that our business activiOur fleet has been expanded by six cars. Thus, the emission ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2019 ties are consistent with our corporate principles, and we take per vehicle for the year 2019 amounts to 6.6 tons of CO2 and has Compared to 2018 and the base year 2014 up the challenge of achieving this in terms of sustainability. We remained the same as in the previous year. ensure that we always act in an ethical and responsible manner, Typo of emission CO2 in t, 2019 CO2 in t, 2018 CO2 in t, 2014 and this forms the underlying principle of our corporate values as The emissions caused by employee travel have remained constant. Scope 2 a family business. As our economic growth is linked to our indi72% of our Hamburg‘s employees use local public transport. This Energy consumption at 280 286 307 rect emissions, there is limited scope for reducing these. Neveris due in particular to the central location of our Biesterfeld offices the company headquarters theless, we are searching for further measures to reduce our in Hamburg city center and the subsidized tickets. ecological footprint. This includes digitizing our processes in Scope 3 584 546 436 order to cut our paper consumption and the quantity of waste Emissions from business travel were reduced by approx. 267 Vehicle fleet produced. In addition we aim to save energy and emissions with tons of CO2. The fact that online meetings are increasingly being Employees’ journeys to work innovative and efficient technologies. used plays a key role here. Despite the reduction of emission 330 300 287 [MAL AWI in Hamburg values, we have not made any adjustments to our compensation PROJECT] Based on our values from previous years, we can compare our value. Business trips 529 796 614 emission and energy data and take appropriate measures. In this Transport of goods 16,788 38,164 19,169 manner, we were able to optimize processes this year in order By optimizing Logistics processes, we are able to achieve a Total 18,591 40,092 20,813 to keep our energy consumption and emissions low. reduction in emissions from the transport of goods. * The figures have been rounded off. The explanations of the calculations can be found on the previous pages under the corresponding tables. For example, through energy-saving solutions, we were able to Scope 2: The emissions resulting from the energy with which we use to run our building. Scope 3: Emissions caused by our activities. reduce the consumption per employee in the Hamburg offices by -18%. Compared to our base year, we have saved about 27 tons of CO2. 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 305-2, 305-3 102-51, 102-52 50 · Our environmental responsibility B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our environmental responsibility · 51 OWE R IN G P R IV THE D L D F E I E S T ER EES EH IN D B P L O Y B R E M OU 52 · Our employees B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our employees · 53 Our employees are the driving force behind Biesterfeld. It is their NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP 2019* performance and motivation that enables us to remain successful. We trust Up to 29 13 8 our staff and value highly their role in putting the values and standards Female 30– 4 9 26 32 of Biesterfeld into practice. Male 50 and over 0 6 It is in our interests to maintain the stability and diversity of our ample, the management board is available to answer employees‘ workforce in the Biesterfeld Group. Therefore, we constantly questions, are all means whereby we seek to identify employees‘ work on optimising sustainable personnel recruitment. needs as best we can and subsequently implement appropriate We keep ourselves informed about the latest developchanges. ments in the labour market and analyse the interests NEW HIRES BY REGION 2019* WORKFORCE BY GENDER 2019* R U S , E E FO OY EMPL of potential employees. This means we can assess DIVERSITY AS AN INTEGRAL COMPONENT AT BIESTERFELD E V E RY I N IQUE WAY what criteria an employer should meet in order to At our 30 locations worldwide, people from more than 100 nations S U N I OWN maintain the interests and motivation of employees work together at Biesterfeld. Therefore, it goes without saying 9 TH E I R in the best possible way. In addition, we encourage that we do not tolerate any form of discrimination. Regardless 3 active communication with and between staff within of gender, age, religion, nationality and/or sexual orientation, at Germany the Biesterfeld Group so that we can respond promptly Biesterfeld: human being is human being. We see it as our duty Europe excl. Germany Female 85 940 to requests for change and identified needs. Departto respect the diversity of our employees and we know that each 44 Asia Male mental meetings and employee surveys, as well as geneemployee is an enrichment for our company. Their individuality 29 America ral events such as works council meetings at which, for exmakes us unique together. 458 482 102-16, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 403-4, 403-8 102-49, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 54 · Our employees B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our employees · 55 HEALTHY AND SPORTY ON THE MOVE BIESTERFELD SOCIAL BENEFITS We are actively promoting the well-being of our staff by implealso reimburse the cost of computer glasses (also known as blue Economic developments and the different living situations are In addition to looking after our staff at the workplace, we offer menting a range of measures. In addition to occupational health light blocking glasses) if an eye test shows that they are required. contributing to a change in the needs of employees. As this is flexible working hours and the opportunity for mobile worand safety, which means ensuring that safety in the workplace In addition, we offer this test annually at the Hamburg headquarthe driving force behind the performance and motivation of our king. Our relationship is based on mutual trust, so it goes always meets the latest standards, we strive to take many additers as well as a flu vaccination. Every employee has the option employees, we are conscientiously working to meet these needs. without saying that we provide work models that are E tional steps with regard to the health of Biesterfeld employees in to take advantage of these offers free of charge. Our focus is particularly on creating a pleasant working environin keeping with modern times to enable our staff to D B A L AN C O the workplace. For example, we offer ergonomic office furniture, ment where our employees feel good and enjoy working. Fairachieve a good work/life balance. We make no disA GO such as height-adjustable tables and back-supporting chairs. We Numerous activities outside everyday office life promote interness, openness and mutual respect play an important role in this. tinction between full-time and part-time employees IS A LUTE MUST N action between Biesterfeld employees. They can get to know or fixed-term and open-ended contracts, because AB S O each other better and also meet colleagues from other departThe numerous benefits that we offer and continually expand we want every company employee to feel comfort­ ments. Our employees can prove their team spirit and take on are very popular with Biesterfeld employees. At our company able and highly valued. challenges together at various sporting events. Whether running headquarters, employees have a canteen with fresh, healthy events such as the Hamburg MOPO Team Relay, or the Hamburg and varied dishes to suit different tastes. A 50% subsidy allows We have also provided an extensive employee discount Triathlon, or the annual Hamburg EuroEyes Cyclassics, Biesterfeld them to eat cheaply and return to their work well nourished. scheme for our employees in Germany and Austria. On employees prove that they are also a strong team in a sporting Furthermore, on warm summer days we provide fresh fruit and this platform, well-known suppliers offer their products and sense. In 2019 Biesterfeld took part in a dragon boat race in smoothies. As a small thank-you for our employees’ commitservices on special terms, giving our employees exclusive advanHamburg for the first time. Biesterfeld entered the race with ment, we organised in summer an ice cream van, which provided tages and discounts. 15 employees. The proceeds from this event benefited the Verein a chance to cool down a bit during the working day. Hamburger Abendblatt hilft e.V. with its initiative “Children Help Children”, which supports needy children in Hamburg. Besides the team events, we have an arrangement with gyms/ fitness centres in Germany enabling our employees to enjoy a balance to their daily work routine at a reduced price for monthly membership. 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 103-1, 103-2, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 403-3, 403-4, 403-6, 403-8 103-3, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 403-4, 403-6, 403-8 56 · Our employees B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our employees · 57 CONTINUOUS TRAINING AND EDUCATION OUR SOCIAL BENEFITS AT A GLANCE Under the motto “working together and learning from each In addition to the internal further training catalogue of the other”, we promote ongoing training and education for our emBiesterfeld Group, our staff have the opportunity to take part in Accident Ergonomic ployees through internal training courses. External speakers external workshops, seminars or conferences. Employees‘ needs insurance office furniture and employees with specialist knowledge offer training courses are determined on the basis of one-to-one staff appraisals with which are open to all Biesterfeld staff. The training courses are the respective supervisor. In this way, common approaches can provided in the Intranet in the Biesterfeld further training catabe discussed and professional competences and interests can logue. They deal with specialist topics such as export control, be intensified. Training Annual customer typology and profiling as well as methodological and Profit sharing Subsidised opportunities social skills, such as working with Microsoft Office, presenting company canteen party in English and professional discussion. The Biesterfeld Group attaches great importance to ongoing training and education. Flexible We always strive to ensure that experience and expertise is reHealth working tained within the organisation and passed on to new employees. schemes hours In order to better serve the needs of our employees in the area Travel Mobile of further development, we have also included digital learning subsidies Pension massage Mobile work opportunities. For example, we have organised half-yearly lischemes service cences for employees who want to improve their English language skills. Employees can complete online courses tailored to their language level independent of time and location. Kitchenettes with Sports drinks on all floors competitions 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 403-3, 403-6, 404-2 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 403,5, 403-6, 404-2 58 · Our employees B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our employees · 59 WE ARE THERE EVERY STEP OF THE WAY we had 15 trainees, six of whom also completed a course. Four EMPLOYEE KEY FIGURES 2019 Through varied career opportunities we offer junior staff a prom­ of these then started their careers with us immediately after ising future at our company. With in-company training, a „dual completing their training. By employment contract* Female Male Total Headcount in % study“ programme or in the form of a scholarship, they can begin their career with us. We support our trainees not only profesTemporary contract 1 1 2 0.5 sionally, but also personally. In each department, two qualified permanent contact persons are assigned to provide support Permanent contract 206 206 412 99.5 and advise on all questions relating to training. Our trainees are integrated fully in all our working processes from the outset. For Parental leave* Female Male Total Headcount in % example, they accompany colleagues on visits to customers Entitled to parental leave 16 7 23 5.6 and suppliers, take part in trade fairs and other organised events. This gives them the best possible insight into the activities and Actually took it 16 7 23 5.6 functions of an international company and teaches them stepby-step how to assume responsibility. During their training, they Returned to work with will work in various fields and will, in the process, be able to cona period of employment 13 7 20 4.8 solidate and apply their theoretical knowledge. We always strive of at least 12 months to ensure that our trainees see themselves as an important part of the Biesterfeld Group. This is what sets us apart as a training Return rate in company. 81% 100% 91% reporting period The great interest shown by young people in starting their careers Trainees** Female Male Total with us is testament to our qualities as a training company and how sustainably we nurture our junior staff. On average in 2019, Apprentices offered positions 1 3 4 * Figures apply to the locations considered in the report. ** Values only apply to Germany. 102-41, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-8, 102-41, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 403-5, 404-2 102-49, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 403-5, 404-2 60 · Our employees B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our employees · 61 A R E NT ANSP N D TR HOD MET PEN A O OUR N G O R T I R E P 62 · Our reporting method B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our reporting method · 63 We measure our performance and success by the levels of satisfaction among LIST OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES our employees, customers and suppliers. United Nations Global Compact Principles Meeting and exceeding these expectations is our daily goal. cesses in harmony with the applicable environmental and social PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Acting in a trustworthy and responsible manner are important standards. To this end, we shall provide transparent information characteristics that we, as a traditional family business, have alto our stakeholders annually through our Sustainability Report. PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ways upheld and have firmly anchored in our corporate culture. We use this instrument to communicate essential aspects of our corporate culture, such as respect for and observance of human As an international operating company, we see it as our oblirights, responsible and respectful treatment of our employees, Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to PRINCIPLE 3 collective bargaining; gation to act sustainably at both global and local level. We are and efficient use of technology for an effective reduction of our convinced that sustainability can only be achieved if everyone CO2 footprint. involved pulls together. That’s why we strongly encourage our PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; suppliers and partners to grab the initiative and commit to conThe Biesterfeld Sustainability Report is based on the GRI Stanserving the environment and natural resources as well as prodards from the world’s foremost sustainability standards orgaPRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and tecting people and their working rights, just as we do. nisation, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI uses clearly defined specifications to enable transparent information For this reason, we regularly communicate with our stakeholders handling and constant comparability by means of a worldwide PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. and pursue a proactive information policy regarding our sustain­ standard. The core option we selected contains all the imporable corporate development. We strive to maintain a strong tant elements and specifications that a company has to include market position, always with a watchful eye on sustainability. and report in order to ensure sustainable corporate governance. PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, This information outlines the economic, environmental, social and Our entry into the world‘s largest sustainability initiative, the management performance of a company. We take account of the PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, United Nations Global Compact, in 2014 was a clear indication ten principles of the United Nations in the areas of human rights, of the direction of our corporate development. Through ambilabour standards, environmental protection and the fight against tious goals and improved processes, we shall pursue our succorruption. The previous report covers the 2018 financial year. PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-51, 102-52 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49 64 · Our reporting method B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our reporting method · 65 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS LIST OF SPECIFIC INDICATORS The materiality analysis clearly illustrates the indicators that underwent individual assessment. These indicators are grouped into categories. The circles reflect the number of indicators in ECONOMIC SOCIAL each category. The x-axis shows the significance of the category Subcategory: Labour practices and decent work Aspect: Economic Performance in terms of its economic, environmental and social impact. The Influence on stakeholder 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Aspect: Employment y-axis indicates how much influence the category has on the assessment made by our stakeholders. The x and y values of the Financial implications and other risks and Total number and rates of new employee hires categories are determined from the average value of the indica201-2 opportunities for the organisation’s activities 401-1 and employee turnover by age group, gender and tors individually assessed by ourselves. Hence, for example, we due to climate change region assess that the “Labour Practices and Decent Work” category has 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees ENVIRONMENTAL assessments and decisions significant influence on our stakeholders’ evaluation because it Return to work and retention rates after parental was relatively highly rated in spite of the modest number of indiAspect: Energy 401-3 leave, by gender cators. Furthermore, Product Responsibility has a major influence 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety on our stakeholders, but is also of great importance in terms of 302-3 Energy intensity economic, ecological and social impacts. 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Importance of economic, environmental 403-6 Promotion of worker health Reductions in energy requirements of products and social impacts 302-5 Aspect: Training and Education and services Programmes for skills management and lifelong Aspekt: Emissionen 404-2 Economic Human rights learning 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental Society Labour practices and Product responsibility 305-3 Weitere indirekte Emissionen decent work 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49 66 · Our reporting method B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 Our reporting method · 67 GRI CONTENT INDEX This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI Services reviewed that Option “Core”. The Sustainability Report was checked internally the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for and not submitted for external review. all disclosures included align with the appropriate sections in the body of the report. The service was performed on the German version of the report. E P ORT NE X T IT Y R 021 GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments OUR I N A B I L D IN 2 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 S US T A LI S H E GENERAL DISCLOSURES U B GRI 102: 102-1 P P. 5 E General Disclosures 2016 Name of the organisation L B WIL 102-2 P. 10 – 15 Activities, brands, products and services 102-3 P. 76 Location of HQ 102-4 P. 20 – 21 Location of operations 102-5 P. 12 Nature of ownership and legal form P. 76 102-6 P. 10 – 13 Markets served P. 20 – 21 102-7 P. 26 – 27 Scale of the organisation 102-8 Information on permanent employees P. 61 and other employees 102-9 P. 10, 15 Supply chain P. 22 – 23 102-54, 102-55, 102-56 68 · Our reporting method B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 GRI content index · 69 GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments Continued 102-10 Continued 102-43 P. 16 – 19 GRI 102: Significant changes in the organisation P. 24 – 25 GRI 102: Approach to stakeholder commitment General Disclosures 2016 and its supply chain General Disclosures 2016 102-44 P. 16 – 19 102-11 Important issues and concerns raised Precautionary approach and P. 28 – 31 102-45 P. 20 – 21 precautionary principle Entities included in the consolidated P. 54 – 61 102-12 financial statements P. 64 – 67 P. 19, 42 External initiatives 102-46 P. 54 – 61 102-13 Procedure for determining the content of P. 64 – 67 Membership in associations and P. 19, 42 the report and the delimitation of topics interest groups 102-47 P. 54 – 61 102-14 List of material themes P. 64 – 67 Statement from the senior P. 6 – 7 102-48 P. 5 decision-maker Restatement of information P. 54 – 61 P. 16 – 17 P. 64 – 67 102-15 P. 24 – 25 102-49 P. 54 – 61 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities P. 35 Changes in reporting P. 64 – 67 102-16 P. 14 102-50 P. 5 Values, principles, standards and P. 28 – 31 Reporting period codes of conduct P. 54 102-51 102-17 P. 64 Date of most recent report Mechanisms for advice and concerns P. 28 – 31 102-52 about ethics P. 64 Reporting cycle 102-18 102-53 P. 10, 12, 28 Governance structure Contact person for any questions P. 76 102-40 on the report P. 17 List of stakeholder groups 102-54 102-41 Declaration on reporting in accordance P. 69 P. 60 – 61 Collective labour agreements with GRI standards 102-42 102-55 Identification and selection of P. 16 – 19 P. 69 – 74 GRI content index stakeholders 102-56 P. 69 External audit 102-55 102-55 70 · GRI content index B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 GRI content index · 71 GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments KEY TOPICS GRI 302: 302-1 Energy 2016 Energy consumption within the P. 47 – 50 Economic Standard organisation GRI 103: 103-1 302-3 P. 47 – 50 Management approach 2016 Explanation of the main topic and P. 10 – 14 Energy intensity its delimitation 302-4 P. 47 – 50 103-2 Reduction of energy consumption The management approach and P. 10 – 14 302-5 its components Reduction of energy requirements P. 47 – 50 103-3 for products and services Assessment of the management P. 10 – 14 GRI 305: 305-2 P. 48 – 50 approach Emissions 2016 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GRI 201: 201-1 305-3 Economic performance 2016 Direct economic value generated and P. 27 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) P. 48 – 50 distributed emissions (Scope 3) 201-2 Social Standards Financial implications of climate change 103-1 for the organisation and other risks and P. 24 – 25 GRI 103: Explanation of the main topic and P. 54 opportunities associated with climate Management approach 2016 its delimitation change 103-2 Environmental Standard The management approach and P. 54 GRI 103: 103-1 its components Management approach 2016 Explanation of the main topic and P. 46 – 47 103-3 its delimitation Assessment of the management P. 54 103-2 approach The management approach and P. 46 – 47 GRI 401: 401-1 P. 54 – 61 its components Employment 2016 New hires and employee turnover 103-3 Assessment of the management P. 46 – 47 approach 102-55 102-55 72 · GRI content index B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 GRI content index · 73 GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments Continued 401-2 Continued 403-6 P. 56 – 58 GRI 401: Company benefits offered only to fullGRI 403: Promotion of worker health P. 54 – 61 Employment 2016 time employees but not to temporary or Occupational Health 403-7 P. 12 part-time employees and Safety 2018 Prevention and mitigation of occupaP. 16 – 17 401-3 tional health and safety impacts directly P. 54 – 61 P. 28 Parental leave linked by business relationships GRI 103: 103-1 403-8 P. 54 P. 54 Management approach 2016 Explanation of the main topic and Workers covered by an occupational P. 56 – 57 P. 56 – 58 its delimitation health and safety management system 103-2 GRI 404: 404-2 P. 54 Programmes to improve the skills of The management approach and Education and training 2016 P. 56 – 57 P. 59 – 60 its components employees and to provide transitional 103-3 assistance P. 54 Assessment of the management P. 56 – 57 approach GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational Health Occupational health and safety manageP. 28 – 29 and Safety 2018 ment system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, P. 12, 28 and incident investigation 403-3 P. 56, 58 Occupational health services 403-4 P. 16 – 17 Worker participation, consultation, and P. 54 communication on occupational health P. 56 – 57 and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health P. 59 – 60 and safety 102-55 74 · GRI content index B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 B I ES T ER F EL D G ROUP SUS TA IN A B I L I T Y R EP O R T – 2 019 PUBLICATION DETAILS Published by Biesterfeld AG Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg GERMANY Management board: Thomas Arnold (Chairman), Carsten Harms, Kai Froböse Chairman of the supervisory board: Dirk J. Biesterfeld Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht), HRB 90396 VAT ID no. DE 813 983 617 Responsible Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg GERMANY CEOs: Jens-Uwe Pietrock, Kai Froböse Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht), HRB 102258 VAT ID no. DE 2565 2165 9 General queries Further information is available on our Corporate Communications and Marketing Services website at: www.biesterfeld.com E-mail: communications@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 40 32008-374 © 2019 Biesterfeld AG Reprints, including excerpts, are only possible with the Sustainability relations publisher’s written permission and must be furnished Khojesta Rahbari with the image and text reference “Biesterfeld AG”. E-mail: k.rahbari@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 40 32008-780 102-3, 102-5, 102-53
