The Communication on Progress for 2019 Brave Road, PBC 12/31/2019 This Communication on Progress (CoP) is prepared to satisfy the annual requirement of our membership to the Global Compact, and has furthermore been fully integrated into our company’s main stakeholder communi se driven-business development for us as a public-benefit company, and based on our self-assessment we are submitting this CoP for GC Active level standing. Through the strong partnerships and clients that now define our brand, we are striving in 2020 for the goal of attaining GC Advanced standing in our next reporting cycle. OVERVIEW: Brave Road, PBC ​is a digital media and entertainment nexus – a marketplace – utilizing creativity, storytelling, best business practices and technology to inspire and drive positive social impact and social change. Our compass is the Sustainable Development Goals through which we are connecting and mobilizing corporate social responsibility, social impact conscious consumers, impact venture capitalists, non-profit and for-profit organizations. In short our goal is to use digital media and motivating storytelling to help the world’s changemakers amplify and accelerate efforts to reach more expeditiously the SDG’s. Key Performance on Critical Areas of the Global Compact The four cornerstone issues of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Corruption are of critical importance to Brave Road, PBC both internally and in selecting the areas of focus for our media partners. Description of actions and policies related to the following issue areas: Human Rights: ​ We as a company have few opportunities to come into contact with human right issues but remain cognizant that the entertainment industry has historically had, and continues to struggle with issues of discrimination and exploitation. 2019 was for example witness to the #MeToo movement in the industry, but we proudly stand out as a business that is gender balanced at the executive as well as management levels. We have designated an executive member of the company to remain informed and engaged in the best practice trends and implement them into our business practices. The U​ NHR’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights​ is one of our primary resources we have used, reviewed and reference in this regard. From a core business perspective, human rights and stories of equality and overcoming are one of the most focused parts of our storytelling platform. These are detailed further below. Labor:​ The entertainment industry, now entering the digital age is both highly regulated and increasingly unregulated when it comes to the fair treatment of labor. As a company we are a firm believer in playing by the rules of collective bargaining for fairness, and became in 2019 a proud signatory member of the Writer’s Guild and our executive is a member of the Producer’s Guild. We also as an environment and impact investment minded company, source our workforces in the locations where we are producing. This both lowers our footprint of travel and moreover creates local economic benefits that counter the entertainment industries notorious reputation of “shoot, eat, leave” locations that could benefit from the industries. We have designated an executive member of the company to remain informed and engaged in the best practice trends and implement them into our business practices. The​ ILO’s Guiding Principles of Labor for Global Compact Companies​ is one of our primary resources we have used, reviewed and reference in this regard. From a core business perspective, labor and the right to jobs particularly as it relates to rehabilitation, second chances, restorative and social justice is a focal point of our storytelling platform. These are detailed further below. Environment: ​Brave Road has from its inception been extremely environmentally conscious, and in fact its two founders both have experiences of dealing directly with environmental issues and reporting through media the need for drastic change, particularly as it relates to climate change. Accordingly Brave Road has been mindful in it travel practices and utilize as much as possible internet conferencing even though Brave Road’s team is literally spread across the United States and projects abroad. As we grow, we intend to make internal policies about our carbon footprint as an organization as well as our actions. We have designated an executive member of the company to remain informed and engaged in the best practice trends and implement them into our business practices. This member of the Brave Road team was a former consultant for businesses seeking to reduce and/or study and report on their environmental impacts and the adoption of land ethic practices that allow the economies of nature and commerce co-exist. From a core business perspective, the environment is a central theme in almost every aspect of our storytelling. We are pleased to be at a moment where it seems users are seeking information on how they can learn and become participants in the necessary changes that we need to take as a global family to combat the spectre of unmitigated human caused climate change. We as an organization have internally circulated the statements of the UN General Secretary and the newsletter from GC inspiring that businesses must do more to combat climate change. Corruption: ​The development of digital media in many ways has made media more accessible but also more easily accessible by many. It also creates a playing field that is far less regulated than ever before, and particularly as it relates to privacy and data, requires ethics and compliance with laws, regulations and best practices. We are also very cognizant and vett our software, media and vendors to assure they are respecting the use-licenses, trademarks, copyrights and IP rights of all parts of the production and distribution process. As a business we do not come into contact with too many corruption prone dealings, however we do use a project assessment process that measures all the Global Compact impacts, which includes likelihood of corruption. Therefore it is part of our collective corporate consideration processes. SWOT analysis of potential businesses is standard practice for our CSR executive, and issues of corruption are considered when creating these reports on a client/ project basis. Please accept this as our CoP for 2019. Andrew Bishop, Founder Frank Connelly, CSR Director BRAVE ROAD, PBC 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Project Specific To SDG’s There is exists no one digital distribution platform completely dedicated to telling and activating the stories of social impact. Social impact entertainment has recently been studied for its ability to encourage “pro-social” behavior, but to date there is no one aggregator and digital activator of this kind of content. Brave Road is changing that. Using existing and proprietary technology, the Brave Road platform has the potential of driving awareness of the issues that need addressed most if we are to meet the GC development goals. Therefore, by definition, every business dealing that Brave Road engages is seen through the lens of the GC Principles, how they can be served and how our clients and partners can enjoy the amplification of their progress toward same. A few of Brave Road’s many achievements this year was the development of certain initiatives that required the development of real-world coalition to support digital-world campaigns designed to drive attention and activation to the target coalition. This methodology we call Causefronts ® which serve a digital platform. Case Example 1 The best example of our “causefont” ® may be the coalition and media-activation strategy Brave Road developed around the issue of access of foster children to life enrichment activities and mentors that can provide stable, supportive and positive role models for these children desperately need. With an eye on a nationwide program platform, Brave Road starts where the need may be the most dramatic, Los Angeles County, USA. We focused on this initiative in part because the data metrics that leave little doubt that the failures of a the foster system currently lead directly to the blight of homelessness, incarceration and human trafficking in shockingly high numbers. Therefore, this program addresses the following: SDG 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable jobs, full and productive employment and decent work for all (as a preventative to incarceration, and a form of restorative and social justice.) SDG 10: Reduce inequality SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels SDG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development
