UN Global Compact Communication on Progress DAFA A/S 2019/2020 – November 11th 2020 In 2010 DAFA A/S joined UN Global Compact, the world’s largest initiative for corporate social responsibility. DAFA A/S is a private owned Danish production company with more than 80 years of experience on the segment where we operate. DAFA develop, manufacture and deliver a wide range of sealing, absorption and protection products and total solutions for the construction sector and industry. Profit, planet and people matter to DAFA. Based upon our history, we regard our way of doing business as a sustainable success with a sound balance between economic, ecological, social responsibility and social performance. DAFA Group cares about its employees and the employs are the most important assets of the business and its success. Every year DAFA organize different activities to show appreciation for the employee’s efforts and their dedication to DAFA. The company has safety policy, staff policy and a management guideline in place and a collaboration committee has been established to improve collaboration across functions. As we are developing our company into a more globalized business operation, it is important for us to include our ethic standard in a global perspective. The UN Global Compact provides us a frame that enables us to do so in a formalized manner and demonstrate our continuing commitment to advance the ten principles of the Global Compact in both policies and business operations. This our 11th UN Global Compact Communication of Progress. The focus areas since last COP have been: • DAFA China certification of environmental management system according to ISO 14001:2015 have been successfully completed by the external 3rd party certification body Bureau Veritas. • New LED lightning were implemented in DAFA Poland and in DAFA Denmark new pumps for the production, new table cutting machine and new water jetting machine were installed with yearly savings of 40 % in KWH. • Radon System were successfully introduced to the market to prevent ingress and reduce content of Radon gas in houses improving the indoor air quality and prevent related sicknesses. Radon in homes is the second most common cause of lung cancer. • DAFA Denmark has carried out energy audit acc. EN 16247 by third party Energy Solution to meet the requirements of EU Energy Efficiency Directive. The audit report points out the processes with most energy consumption and the most efficient effort to reduce power consumption and carbon dioxide emission. • Strategic supplier shall follow the requirements of Environmental Management system ISO 14001. For supplier that are not conforming DAFA will perform assessment to assure that the supplier is acting in compliance with DAFA requirements and local laws are implemented. • We have financial contributed to the organizations “Families with cancer-affected children” and Danish Cancer Society Knæk Cancer campaign • Equipment to minimize and handle waste foam from production to new recycling product were implemented In the next year we will be focusing on • DAFA adopts the goal of the Danish Climate law to reduce greenhouse gas emission by 70% in 2030. The reference level will be 2019 Greenhouse Gases Protocol of Scope 1 and 2. Accounting principles adapted will be on Science Based Targets as the overall best practice. • Set up project to merge and include DAFA sites into one common management system and eventually multisite certification to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 by the external 3rd party certification body Bureau Veritas. Hence introducing Environmental Management system to ISO 14001 in DAFA Poland. The site currently works under “Best in Class” Environment Management certificate. • DAFA will continue standardizing dimensions of pack aging carboard boxes globally to increase efficient use. Additionally, it will be investigated if the content of recycled cardboard can be increased and that bleaching can be avoided or performed after the best practices in the market. • Training of the employees in DAFA Group global sites in the Ten Principles of Global Compact and establishing the principles as formal CSR policy for DAFA group including human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. • DAFA will investigate if water consumption can be reduced through recycling of water in the most water consuming process in the manufacturing processes. • DAFA commits to “The global goals for sustainable development” and it is a goal for the next year to establish framework for achievement of selection of 2-3 global goals that the company´s business model can support actively. • DAFA has a goal for 2020 that the majority of DAFAs own brands in building materials will be assessed to be included in the Nordic Ecolabelling database of products that can be part of Nordic Swan Eco-labelled buildings and constructions. • In line with the input from the people survey, DAFA Group is introducing DAFA Academy in 2020. The academy will be a global management training program to ensure that all DAFA employees receive good management. Furthermore, a global training and education program will be structured and organized to continue developing the employees. DAFA constantly aim for continuously improvements in the whole organization and we believe that it is our responsibility to handle the impacts from our improvements correctly. We are very aware of our limited size seen from a global perspective, but we know we make a difference in our local business area. By using UN Global Compact as our overall guideline, we will extend our sustainable business ethics while striving for our vision of becoming a more global company. We look forward communicating our progress in the years to come.
