SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 To help business grow OeKB GROUP HIGHLIGHTS Monetary values in € million 2017 2018 2019 Consolidated financial statements Total assets at 31 December 26.005 28.714 33.352 Equity including minority interest 801 791 808 Profit for the year 40 32 51 Net other comprehensive income after tax 19 -5 13 Total comprehensive income for the year 59 27 39 Return on equity in% * 7,5% 3,4% 4,8% Cost/income ratio in% 59,7% 61,5% 61,0% Non-financial performance indicators OeKB Group’s average number of employees 402 410 442 Proportion of management positions held by women in percent 35,0% 39,0% 34,8% Guarantees of the Republic of Austria under the Export Guarantees Act Number of guarantees in place 3.773 5.897 6.092 New guarantee contracts issued 5.355 5.720 6.169 Aggregate guarantee exposure limit at 31 December 40.000 40.000 40.000 Utilisation of the guarantee exposure limit at 31 December 24.436 26.431 28.031 Premium and interest income 146 154 149 Gross claims paid by the Guarantor 47 39 50 Recoveries on claims paid 49 41 39 OeKB Export Financing Scheme New commitments issued 5.282 7.600 5.818 Total lending commitments outstanding at 31 December 20.585 23.174 25.212 Disbursements outstanding 17.539 19.901 21.519 Increase/decrease in net loans outstanding +1.838 +2.362 + 1.618 Guarantees of the Republic of Austria under the Export Financing Guarantees Act Limit on aggregate guarantee exposure under Export Financing Guarantees Act 40.000 40.000 40.000 Utilisation of the guarantee exposure limit at 31 December 24.513 26.283 28.931 Total new guarantees issued 13.274 12.732 13.683 Capital Market Services Austrian Government Bonds administered by OeKB 13.316 11.031 10.109 OeKB CSD Custody assets – Nominal value 328.493 326.422 319.307 Number of units in millions 9.328 8.199 7.825 OeKB CSD Settlement volume – Nominal value 701.474 658.219 461.926 Number of units in millions 11.594 8.191 6.869 OeKB CSD securities account holder 79 76 74 OeKB CSD Categories of securities 15.924 15.668 15.085 Tourismus Services Financing contracts outstanding 962 978 1.007 ERP credits outstanding 424 463 468 Guarantee contracts outstanding 221 227 238 * RoE = (Total comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company/equity attributable to the owners of the parent company) S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 2 CO2-EQUIVALENTS Energy and business travel in kg/employee 2019 284 2018 1,188 2017 1,202 2000 2,335 OeKB EXPORT FINANCING SCHEME NEW FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS IN (Monetar y values in € million) OeKB’S SECURITIES DATABASE 2017 2017 2018 2019 5,282 1,493 Debts 2,298 1,687 1,550 2018 Warrants 4,286 2,965 3,524 7,600 Certificates 2,923 2,635 2,493 2,093 2019 Funds 884 266 336 5,818 Other 37 64 40 2,052 Total 10,428 7,617 7,943 NEW COMMITMENTS ISSUED NEW CONDITIONAL LENDING COMMITMENTS ISSUED EMPLOYEES RATINGS OF OeKB GROUP ISS-ESG PRIME C+ 39% 35% 34.8% PROPORTION OF MSCI MANAGEMENT AAA POSITIONS 26.7% 26.8% 27.5% HELD BY WOMEN SUSTAINALY TICS PART-TIME EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE PLACE 1 GLOBAL 4.7% 5.5% 6.5% TURNOVER RATE UNIVERSE 2017 2018 2019 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 3 CONTENTS Contents About the report 6 Preface by the Supervisory Board of OeKB AG 7 Preface by the Executive Board and Management 8 OeKB Group 10 Shareholders and share capital of OeKB 11 Business model of the OeKB bank group and material shareholdings 12 The effects of our business model on environmental and social issues 13 Materiality analysis 20 Sustainable Development Goals 22 Sustainability strategy 26 Stakeholder relations and dialogue 27 Sustainability management 37 To help business grow 38 Financing with a holistic view 39 Export Services 40 Protecting against credit default risks 40 OeKB’s Export Financing Scheme (EFS) 44 Current developments in 2019 45 Development Financing 45 Financing for special projects through soft loans from OeKB 45 Financing stable development through Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank 45 Capital Market Services 51 Organisation and administration of Austrian government bond issues 51 Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) 51 Notification office under the Capital Market Act and issue calendar 51 Notices and calculations for investment funds 52 The OeKB bank group over the life cycle of a security 52 OeKB CSD GmbH 54 Notary Services und Safekeeping 54 Settlement 55 Asset Servicing 55 Current developments in 2019 55 Energy Market Services 56 Current developments in 2019 57 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 4 CONTENTS Sustainable finance in the OeKB bank group 58 #mission2030 Lighthouse 8 – Green Finance Agenda 58 Exportinvest Green 58 OeKB Sustainable Financing Framework 59 First sustainability bond 59 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank 60 EU action plan for a sustainable financial system 60 To help drive innovation 61 Innovation management 62 Cultural change 62 Collaboration with weXelerate 63 Online identification via MICK 63 Industry 4.0 research project – data trust and escrow services for machine data 64 To help employees advance 65 Our promise as an employer 66 Employee statistics 67 Competencies 69 Gender equality and diversity 72 Safety and health management 73 Remuneration policy 74 Employee representation 75 Future Work 76 To help the environment flourish 78 Ecology in day-to-day operations 79 Energy management 79 Emissions 81 Ecological key indicators 84 To help society succeed 87 Human rights 88 Corporate governance 88 Compliance and legal requirements 91 Business ethics 93 Social responsibility with long-term benefits 95 Review and outlook 98 Implementation of the programme of measures in 2019 98 Sustainability programme 2020 102 GRI-Index 107 Independent Assurance 119 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 5 ABOUT THE REPOR T About the report GRI 102-1, 12, This sustainability report covers the OeKB bank group, which comprises Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (OeKB) and 50, 51, 52, 53, 54 the fully consolidated subsidiaries Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) and OeKB CSD GmbH (OeKB CSD). ­Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank (ÖHT), of which the Group acquired a 68.75 per cent stake in 2019, is not included in the 2019 sustainability reporting. We have published an annual sustainability report since 2001. We published an integrated report in the years from 2013 to 2016. As the reporting requirements had become more and more extensive, we published the reports separately again starting in 2017. We hope that this target-group-oriented reporting will better satisfy the information needs of our stakeholders. In 2019, the OeKB sustainability report for 2018 took first place in the category of major corporations in the 20th Austrian Sustainability Reporting Awards (ASRA). This PDF sustainability report for the 2019 financial year was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: ­Comprehensive option. Ernst & Young conducted an external audit on the report with limited assurance regarding the sustainability coverage in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards and the EMAS (Eco-Manage­ ment and Audit Scheme) Regulation. The 2019 annual financial report was not part of the audit. The current and previous reports can be found on the OeKB website www.oekb.at. The sustainability report also qualifies as an Advanced Level progress report for the UN Global Compact. The OeKB bank group maintains an environmental management system according to the EMAS Regulation. The EMAS environmental statement is included in this report. Central Counterparty Austria (CCP.A), a tenant in the Strauchgasse building, is not EMAS certified, but is included in the environmental statistics provided. We have been “workandfamily” audit certified since 2006. This is a process that actively involves employees and that helps to continuously improve the work environment and culture. OeKB has been subject to assessment by numerous environmental, social, and governance (ESG) and corporate governance research agencies for years and is one of the leading companies in its sector. OeKB holds the rating “Prime C+” from ­ISS-ESG, first place in the entire Sustainalytics1 universe in the Sustainalytics ESG risk rating, and an “AAA” rating from MSCI2. As a future-oriented company, we welcome your comments, questions, and feedback about our report. You can contact us at: nachhaltigkeit@oekb.at. 1 As of September 2019 2 DISCALIMER STATEMENT The use by OekB AG of any MSCI ESG research llc or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of OekB AG by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 6 PREFACE Preface by the Supervisory Board of OeKB AG Ladies and Gentlemen, dear Reader, GRI 102-14, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (OeKB) and the other companies in the OeKB bank group continued on their 26, 28 success­­ful path and took a range of innovative steps in 2019. With the acquisition of 68.75 per cent of Österreichische Tourismusbank (ÖHT) in 2019, the OeKB bank group has expanded its range of services to not only cover the most important and relevant needs of the Austrian export and capital markets, but also the needs of the tourism sector. It offers services for the energy market and is part of the Austrian development financing framework. All of its activities result in clear benefits for the economy, strengthen Austria as a place to do business, and make Austria more inter­ nationally competitive. In this, the OeKB bank group acts in a neutral manner for the benefit of all industries with a clear commitment to sustainability and responsibility. Since the signing of the Paris Agreement on climate change and the associated efforts to align capital flows with a transformation to a global system with low greenhouse gas emissions and a robust response to climate change, all organisations have been called upon to make their contribution. The OeKB bank group supported the Green Finance flagship project of the Austrian climate and energy strategy in 2019. Under this commitment, a new export financing instrument for investments in environmental improvement measures called Exportinvest Green was developed in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF). Another clear sign of our commitment to responsible action and the integration of sustainable values in our core business was the development of the Sustainable Financing Framework with binding guidelines for sustainable bonds. The strong demand for the first sustainability bond affirms our efforts to create value and to contribute to environmental and social welfare. The OeKB bank group’s participation in various networks is a reflection of its belief that the major global challenges can only be mastered through joint action. It is a member of the UN Global Compact and part of the Steering Committee of the United Nations Global Compact Network Austria. As a service provider of the Republic of Austria, the OeKB bank group orients itself strongly towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in all it does in the interests of the general public. The OeKB bank group has been an EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) registered and certified company since 2001 and reports on the continuous improvement of its environmental management system every year. This report shows how the OeKB bank group tirelessly addresses the challenges surrounding sustainability. The e­ xemplary rating results for OeKB from leading environmental, social, and governance (ESG) and corporate governance research agencies are clear proof that sustainability management has become a core business policy element and an important source of impetus. And it is precisely this that is a fundamental requirement for fulfilling a wide range of responsibilities in the interests of the Austrian economy and society. With that in mind, the Supervisory Board of OeKB AG would like to thank the employees of the OeKB bank group, all of whom make a key contribution to these efforts and whose dedication increases the trust placed in their respective companies. Their achievements are documented in this report. Vienna, March 2020 The Supervisory Board of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG ROBERT ZADRAZIL, m.p. Chairman S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 7 PREFACE Preface by the Executive Board and Management Ladies and Gentlemen, dear Reader, GRI 102-10, We are pleased to look back on a positive and eventful 2019 financial year in the OeKB bank group. Our customer base 14, 15 succeeded in realising a great deal of potential despite the slower pace of economic growth and was actively supported by our committed staff. Despite this encouraging development and the strong operating result, our total comprehensive income for 2019 was lower than in previous years due to the depressed interest rate level and the need to allocate long-term pension provisions. As an agent of the Republic of Austria, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (OeKB) manages the export guarantees and also assists exporters with working-capital facilities and attractive financing solutions. We saw a stronger development in annual comparison in this Export Services area, including substantial growth in export guarantees. Business with financing arrangements also grew in this segment in 2019. The launch of our first sustainability bond generated an outstanding response on the capital markets. Climate and environmental protection and social inequality issues are the foremost global challenges of our time. Sustainable investments are also gaining in importance for Austrian companies. We at OeKB can help address these challenges by providing an incentive to invest more in environmental improvements through the new Exportinvest Green product that was developed in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Finance on the one hand and by providing financing through our sustainability bond on the other. We plan to issue further sustainable bonds through our Sustainable Financing Framework. Beyond this, the mandatory notification office function set forth in the new EU Prospectus Regulation, the high demand for Austrian government bonds, and the launch of our own central securities database were impressive successes for Capital Market Services. Our certification as a SWIFT service bureau in autumn further underscored our role as Austria’s neutral financial services provider. As a separate company, OeKB CSD GmbH (OeKB CSD) has acted as the central depository for Austria since 2015. We made important contributions in 2019 through our participation in working groups addressing the de-materialisation of securities and the EU Shareholder Rights Directive. Our customer base will profit from the coming legal framework. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) set its future course in 2019 with the implementation of its new strategy titled “Financing Our Shared Future”. In line with our mandate, all projects of OeEB are aimed at promoting private sector development in the developing and emerging countries and in this way at contributing to the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our international climate financing arrangements are a crucial instrument for fighting climate change. We are now one of the largest providers of climate financing for developing countries in all of Austria and expanded our product portfolio with the investment facility for Africa and the Gutmann OeEB Impact Fund. Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank (ÖHT) has been a member of the OeKB family since spring 2019. Our previously good collaboration has been enhanced by joint product and customer initiatives. We are exploiting synergies here in a targeted manner and will intensify these efforts in 2020. We are registering a great deal of interest in our joint offerings and are seen as a reliable and professional solution provider. One demonstration of this was the winning of the annual Borsianer award as Austria’s “Best Special-Purpose Bank” in 2019. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 8 PREFACE We continued to intensively pursue the Future Work internal strategy programme in 2019, with the goal of being at least as successful in 2030 as we are today. Our vision is the basis for this and formulates the target state that we are working towards. The mission statements are our guidelines and provide us with orientation as to how we can achieve the vision. Future Work is the framework under which we address how we should structure our work so that we achieve our goal. The ongoing process of transformation plays a key role in this. We must continually adapt to make use of the potential that these changes offer for our business, our customer base, and Austria as a place to do business while at the same time maintaining attractive working conditions. The core focus of Future Work is determining how we can best achieve this. One aspect is a new form of collaboration. Initial information and ideas were gathered in 2019 through the Future Office pilot project and through the mutual exchange and network building on future topics such as digitalisation, change processes, and sustainable financing made possible by our OeKB ThinkTank event. We hope that this report provides you with a detailed look at our activities from a sustainability perspective and invite you to stay in dialogue with us. We sincerely thank the employees of the OeKB bank group for their hard work. T­ ogether with you – our clients, customers, and stakeholders – we can build partnerships that facilitate lasting growth. Mag. Helmut Bernkopf Mag. Angelika Sommer-Hemetsberger Mag. Peter Felsinger Dr. Georg Zinner Mag. Sabine Gaber Mag. Michael Wancata S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 9 OeKB GROUP OeKB Group GRI 102-1, 2, OeKB has been strengthening Austria as a place to do business since 1946 with numerous services for small, m ­ edium-­sized, 3, 5, 45 and large enterprises and for the Republic of Austria. OeKB manages the export ­promotion ­pro­gramme of the Austrian federal government as an authorised agent. OeKB Group is based in Vienna and plays a special role as a central financial services provider. Within its broad range of competencies, OeKB Group focuses on five major segments: Export Services, Capital Market Services, Energy Market Services, Development Financing, and Tourism Services. GRI 102-11 OeKB Group consists of the OeKB bank group and of various equity holdings. The OeKB bank group comprises the companies of OeKB Group that hold banking authorisation, in other words OeKB AG, Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB), and OeKB CSD GmbH. Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank (ÖHT) has been part of the OeKB bank group since 2019, following the acquisition of a 68.75 per cent stake in the company. ÖHT is not included in the 2019 sustainability report. In the interests of completeness, the equity holdings are listed here to provide an overview of all of our activities. OESTERREICHISCHE KONTROLLBANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT Vienna Financing Capital Market Services 100% Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, 100% OeKB CSD GmbH, Vienna Vienna 50% CCP Austria Abwicklungsstelle für Börsengeschäfte GmbH, Vienna 50% Wiener Börse AG Services for tourism and 6.60% CEESEG Aktiengesellschaft, leisure industry Vienna 68.75% Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank Ges.m.b.H., Vienna Energy Market Services 20% AGCS Gas Clearing and Credit Insurance Settlement AG, Vienna OeKB EH Beteiligungsund 17% APCS Power Clearing and 51% Management AG, Vienna Settlement AG, Vienna 49% Euler Hermes Aktiengesellschaft, Hamburg 18.50% CISMO Clearing Integrated Services and 100% Acredia Versicherung AG, Market Operations GmbH, Vienna Vienna 100% 8.06% EXAA Abwicklungsstelle für ACREDIA Services GmbH, Vienna Energieprodukte AG, Vienna 100% ACREDIA Services d.o.o, 12.60% OeMAG Abwicklungsstelle Belgrade für Ökostrom AG, Vienna Other ­unconsolidated Fully consolidated companies companies Equity-accounted investees 100% OeKB Business Unconsolidated subsidiaries Services GmbH, Vienna Investments in other unconsolidated companies 100% OeKB Zentraleuropa Investments in other unconsolidated companies under 3% are not included. Holding GmbH, Vienna As of 31 December 2019 NACH HALTIGKEITSB E R I CH T 2019 | 10 OeKB GROUP Shareholders and share capital of OeKB GRI 102-5 OeKB has a share capital of €130.0 million. In view of the special functions performed by OeKB, its shares are registered ordinary shares that may only be transferred with the consent of the Supervisory Board. They are not listed. For the current s­ hareholder structure visit the OeKB website. SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 Shareholders Number of shares Shareholding in % CABET-Holding-GmbH, Vienna (UniCredit Bank Austria Group) 217,800 24.750% UniCredit Bank Austria AG, Vienna 142,032 16.140% Erste Bank der oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG, Vienna 113,432 12.890% Schoellerbank Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna 72,688 8.260% AVZ GmbH, Vienna 72,600 8.250% Raiffeisen Bank International AG, Vienna 71,456 8.120% BAWAG P.S.K, Bank für Arbeit und Wirtschaft und Österreichische Postsparkasse Aktien­gesellschaft, Vienna 44,792 5.090% Raiffeisen OeKB Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Vienna 44,000 5.000% Oberbank AG, Linz 34,224 3.890% Beteiligungsholding 5000 GmbH, Innsbruck 26,888 3.055% BKS Bank AG, Klagenfurt 26,888 3.055% VOLKSBANK WIEN AG, Vienna 13,200 1.500% Total Shares 880,000 100.000% S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 11 OeKB GROUP Business model of the OeKB bank group and material shareholdings GRI 102-2, 6 The OeKB bank group sees its role as promoting economic growth and strengthening Austria’s competitiveness in a global GRI 103-1 GRI 203-2 environment. It thus plays a special role as a central financial services provider. We fulfil this role by using economically FS5 relevant services to support the Austrian export industry, the domestic capital market, the commercial banks, and the GRI 201-1 see 2019 annual financial report Republic of Austria. We provide our services neutrally for all companies and in all sectors. The following also presents the shareholdings of OeKB AG that round out the services of the OeKB bank group and that are recognised according to the equity method. These especially include ACREDIA Versicherung AG (ACREDIA) and CCP Austria (CCP.A). For more information Exporting and investing abroad are both ways in which Austrian companies can grow and secure jobs in the country. about our services visit the OeKB website. OeKB AG manages the export guarantees from the federal government for small, medium-sized, and large companies and facilitates attractive financing for foreign business. We protect claims in Austria and abroad with the private credit insurance company ACREDIA. More details on funding After the federal government, we are the second-largest Austrian issuer on the international capital markets. Our bonds are operations can be found in the 2019 annual used to fund the Export Financing Scheme. Our Sustainable Financing Framework has also given us the ability to issue financial report green bonds, social bonds, and sustainability bonds since 2019. This framework is a mandatory guideline for the issue of sustainable bonds and contains clear rules for the use of the raised capital. www.oekb-csd.at Our capital market services cover key functions relating to securities: Every Austrian security comes into contact with the capital market services of the OeKB bank group multiple times in its “lifetime”, including a number of legally mandated tasks. Among other things, OeKB is the legal notification office under the Capital Market Act (KMG) and holds a­ uctions for A­ ustrian government bonds. OeKB CSD GmbH (OeKB CSD) is Austria’s central securities depository. As a local ­infrastructure provider, it offers an extensive range of services for capital market participants including the safekeeping and administration of securities and the efficient settlement of securities transactions. www.ccpa.at CCP Austria (CCP.A) guarantees the proper and transparent settlement of the transactions conducted on the Vienna Stock Exchange. As a central counterparty, CCP.A assumes and manages the settlement and default risk for the transactions on the Vienna Stock Exchange (clearing and risk management). The OeKB bank group also applies its decades of experience in financial clearing and risk management for the liberalised Austrian energy market through its energy market services. We assess the creditworthiness of market participants and handle the relevant financial clearing, payment processing, and risk management. www.oe-eb.at As the official development bank of the Republic of Austria, Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) offers private companies tailored financing solutions for economically viable projects that further Austria’s development policy objectives in developing and emerging countries. The inclusive and sustainable growth that is generated in this manner improves the living conditions of the people in these countries. Project-related programmes of OeEB enhance the development-policy impact of the projects. OeKB can also offer financing for projects that meet certain requirements in selected developing and emerging countries through soft loans from the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF). This type of development cooperation loan, which can be offered at very low cost thanks to government assistance, is also intended to promote the sustainable development of the target country. https://www.oeht.at Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank Ges.m.b.H. has been the national contact point for funding and financing in the tourism and leisure industry since 1947 and handles the tourism promotion measures of the federal government on behalf of the Federal Ministry for Sustainability and Tourism. This avenue offers small and medium-sized businesses in particular simple access to funding and financing for their projects. ÖHT qualifies as a PPP (public-private partnership) model. It has been a part of the OeKB bank group through a 68.75 per cent stake since April 2019. Alongside Raiffeisen ÖHT Beteiligungs GmbH, OeKB is now co-owner of this tourism financing specialist that works solely at the behest of the government. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 12 OeKB GROUP The effects of our business model on environmental and social issues For a detailed view The following table describes the business model of the OeKB bank group and its effects on environmental and social on our P&L statement (profit & loss, income issues in the form of an income statement. It shows what output we generate from our input – the capital provided statement) see 2019 by our shareholders – and what impact we have. We added the risk evaluation to the table in 2019. annual financial report Broken down by the business segments of the Bank, we show any material direct, indirect, and positive effects and where there are connections to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on which the OeKB bank group focuses. We also depict the possible negative effects in the form of the gross risks. The implemented management approaches show how we handle and mitigate these risks. In addition to environmental and social criteria, the business segments that are subject to ESG criteria also take into account governance aspects such as transparency, security, and compliance. Results from equity-method holdings (primarily ACREDIA AG and CCP.A) and the fully consolidated ÖHT are beyond the scope of this report and are not included in the sustainability management framework. Nevertheless, we also identified the effects from these companies in at least a general fashion during our screening. Overall, the business model of OeKB Group is based largely on legal requirements and ensures a functioning Austrian capital market while at the same time supporting the export and tourism industries, both of which are key for the Austrian economy. This means that SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth) and SDG 9 (industry, innovation, and infrastructure) are at the forefront. For the development bank, development-policy goals are also relevant. These goals are largely defined by law and current government policy, meaning that OeKB Group only fulfils a supporting and advisory role in the corresponding material issues. Item on the OeKB bank Direct environmental and Indirect environmental Positive environmental Negative impacts Share of business Positive impacts Gross risk including Core business segments subject to group income statement social effects* OeKB Group and social effects and social effects mitigation measures Net risk ESG criteria SDG focuses Services for the export market The potential negative The risks of negative impacts identified in the Authorised environmental and social environmental and social Positive impacts: agent of the impacts are identified audit are minimised by ­securing jobs and Federal Ministry in advance through appropriate contractual ­promoting economic of Finance for appropriate audits. The requirements and stated 100% Net fee growth in d­ ifficult the bank-related 1, 7, provided collateral is in the audit report. The and com­markets; ­reducing handling of x x x 8, 9, subject to the Common final decision on the mission ­poverty; numerous guarantees 13, 17 Approaches of the OECD issue of a guarantee is income renewable energy and under the and the “watchful eye” made by the Advisory infrastructure projects Austrian Export principle in terms of Committee, which such as hospitals Guarantees Act compatibility with the consists of various and schools. (AusfFG). environmental and social stakeholders and on standards. which OeKB has no voting rights. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 13 OeKB GROUP Item on the OeKB bank Direct environmental and Indirect environmental Positive environmental Negative impacts Share of business Positive impacts Gross risk including Core business segments subject to group income statement social effects* OeKB Group and social effects and social effects mitigation measures Net risk ESG criteria SDG focuses OeKB extends subsidised loans, so-called soft loans, on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Finance. These As over 90 per cent are earmarked for of the financing is sustainable projects provided on the basis of that are implemented by guarantees pursuant to Austrian companies and the AusfFG (see Guarthat benefit the general Financing antees), the impacts are public in less-developed export transassessed in connection countries. actions, equity with the guarantees. and capital Interest 1, 7, The financing arrangeWe created the new ­investments, and similar x x x 8, 9, ments not extended Exportinvest Green 100% and working-­ income 13, 17 on the basis of AusfFG product in conjunction capital facilities guarantees are largely with the BMF in 2019 by through main based on external building on the existing banks. government guarantees, Exportinvest guarantee meaning that we can instrument. This enables rely on the impact companies to cover an assessment under the additional 20 per cent Common Approaches of of the total investment the OECD. at the attractive OeKB terms. Exportinvest Green is intended to be an incentive for more environmentally relevant investments. Possible negative Positive impacts are ­environmental and generated as follows: social impacts are providing impetus for identified in advance sustainable economic through appropriate growth to improve living audits. The projects Identified risks are conditions for persons in are assessed on the minimised through condisadvantaged regions basis of the EDFI tractual requirements over the long term; Harmonised Principles (ESAP – Environmental financing projects that and IFC P­ erformance and Social Action meet development-policy Standards. Plan) contained in criteria; creating jobs OeEB – longand national income; Increased direct the credit agreement. term loans improving access to 100% effects: Long-distance Their implementation is and venture Interest 1, 7, modern infrastructure travel to the projects verified regularly. capital as well and similar xx x x 8, 9, and financing; supporting in the focus countries OeEB only supports as assistance income 13, 17 the energy supply, especauses correspondingly projects with a positive for supporting cially through renewable higher fuel consumption. assessment. These projects. energy and energy OeEB compensates must also be approved for its CO2 emissions by the Economy and efficiency projects. through the Uganda Development committee The Business Advisory Helioz project with the and the Advisory Services can amplify support of the University Committee. the development-policy of Natural Resources effects, conduct environ­ and Life Sciences mental compatibility in Vienna. assessments, and co-finance any resulting environmental and social measures. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 14 OeKB GROUP Item on the OeKB bank Direct environmental and Indirect environmental Positive environmental Negative impacts Share of business Positive impacts Gross risk including Core business segments subject to group income statement social effects* OeKB Group and social effects and social effects mitigation measures Net risk ESG criteria SDG focuses Provides investors with secure investment Refinancing on opportunities. the international and domestic The issue of sustainafinancial bility bonds that comply markets by with the principles of issuing bonds, Credit rating of OeKB the OeKB Sustainable tailored private Interest as a risk for the investor The net risk corresponds Financing Framework 8, 9, raises targeted placements, and similar x pool. This risk is hedged to the risk of the 100% 13 financing for climate and medium-term expenses through the AFFG Republic of Austria. notes, and government guarantee. environmental protection short-term projects, creating jobs, money market ensuring access to basic instruments and social services such as by taking out health care and educaloans. tion, basic infrastructure in developing countries, and affordable housing. Services for the capital market Provision of ­financial data and performance indicators, process and IT solutions for the The availability of the investment fund services is important Secure data with industry, office for a functioning capital state-of-the-art techno­ for the issue market. The risk of dislogy and the strict x 8, 9 100% of government ruptions in the ­capital auditing of all services The services are basic bonds. Payment market is mitigated according to regulatory infrastructure and make office of the through corresponding requirements. a key contribution to Republic, notifisecurity measures. the transparency of the cation office for capital market. Net fee capital market and comBlockchain technology prospectuses, mission has been used together capital gains tax income with the Austrian calculation for funds Treasury (OeBFA) for data notarisasion for government bond The functions of auctions since 2018. OeKB CSD are: Transparency and stable Notary services services are necessary and safekeepfor the functioning of Highly available ing, securities the capital market. services as required by account x 8, 9 Multiple data centres 100% the EU CSD Regulation management, are operated to meet are present. cash account the requirements of the management, CSDR (Regulation [EU] settlement, and No. 090/2014). asset servicing. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 15 OeKB GROUP Item on the OeKB bank Direct environmental and Indirect environmental Positive environmental Negative impacts Share of business Positive impacts Gross risk including Core business segments subject to group income statement social effects* OeKB Group and social effects and social effects mitigation measures Net risk ESG criteria SDG focuses As the central counterparty for clearing and risk management, CCP.A assumes Results of and manages Highly available Risk mitigation for equity-­ the settlement Availability risk as for services as required by ­capital market particiaccounted x 8, 9 100% and default risk the CSD functions the EMIR Regulation are pants (settlement and investfor all securities present. default risk). ments on the Vienna Stock Exchange that are eligible for CCP handling. Services for the energy market Independent settlement agent in the electricity and gas market, hanS ­ ervices for dles financial clearing the Austrian and risk management electricity and and offers transparent gas balancing infrastructure. These energy market, services are rendered the Austrian Net fee for parties including electricity and com8, 9, OeMAG Clearing and x x x Settlement Agency for 100% exchange, the mission 13 settlement income Green Electricity. agent for green Access to the market electricity and for non-clearing memthe European bers (NCM) through energy spot OeKB as a general market. clearing member (GCM) for clearing through ECC, European Commodity Clearing. Services for the hotel and tourism industry ÖHT acts as an intermediary funding Funding and Fee and agent for the handling financing for comComparing the projects of ERDF (European the tourism and mission By executing the federal with the federal govRegional Development leisure industry income funding guidelines, ÖHT ernment’s development Fund) promotion through ÖHT. ensures funding and Interest strategy mitigates measures. Considering Handling of financing in alignment and similar x x x 8, 9 potential negative the overarching 100% commercial with the nationwide income and project impacts on issues of sustainability, tourism prodevelopment strategy expenses ecosystems that may equality of opportunity, motion by ÖHT for the tourism and apply in general in the and non-discrimination for the federal leisure industry. tourism industry. in the implementation government. of projects are binding criteria for ERDF project selection. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 16 OeKB GROUP Item on the OeKB bank Direct environmental and Indirect environmental Positive environmental Negative impacts Share of business Positive impacts Gross risk including Core business segments subject to group income statement social effects* OeKB Group and social effects and social effects mitigation measures Net risk ESG criteria SDG focuses Other services ­Rental of business space Climate-­ Renting the Reitersaal neutral The waste generated Monitoring environhall with zero climate Reitersaal hall by the businesses mental data under impact raises awareness 0% Media moniOther that rent space in the our environmental of the environmental Because 8, 9, toring relating operating xx x x Strauchgasse building management system impact from events. of the low 13 to economic income cannot be influenced enables the regular and Infrastructure is available share of and financial as easily as in general transparent evaluation for holding green events. revenue issues office operations. of waste volumes. Easily accessible by public transportation. SWIFT connection service Services from other subsidiaries IT services of Other OeKB Business operating xx x 8, 9 0% Services GmbH. income ACREDIA assesses the creditworthiness of business partners for Soft factors are taken its customers into account in the credit and insures assessment. The credit receivables assessment is based against the risk Results of Economic importance not only on the balance of insolvency. equity-­ due to its position x x 8 sheet, but also on where 0% It not only accounted as the leading credit the company stands protects against investments insurer in Austria. relative to its peers, bad claims on including in terms of goods deliveries ecological and social and services in aspects. key industrialised countries and in Austria, but especially in emerging markets. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 17 OeKB GROUP Item on the OeKB bank Direct environmental and Indirect environmental Positive environmental Negative impacts Share of business Positive impacts Gross risk including Core business segments subject to group income statement social effects* OeKB Group and social effects and social effects mitigation measures Net risk ESG criteria SDG focuses Operating income All employers in Austria We offer good and including OeKB are secure jobs for nearly facing major challenges: 500 employees. OeKB demographic change; Group considers a good a lack of skilled work-life balance to be a professionals; digital fundamental prerequisite disruption and the asfor motivated and Staff costs x x 4, 8 100% sociated need to rapidly healthy employees. acquire new competenWe have had the cies and skills; and the “workandfamily” audit fundamental cultural certificate since 2006. transformation that has Our customer base changed the way people thus profits from highly view work. specialised experts. GRI 102-9 There is a limited level of risk from the disposal of IT systems that can no longer be Procurement for IT used. We handle such 0% Other This process saves systems and infrastrucdisposals through AfB adminis­ natural resources Because ture to offer customers social & green IT. AfB trative and cuts emissions of the low x x x 9 the best possible offers employment to expenses while also creating share of service. Sustainable persons with disabilities and jobs for persons with expenses. procurement criteria and specialises in the write-downs disabilities. are applied. collection of retired IT hardware, the certified deletion of data, and the refurbishment of the hardware for reuse. The Strategic Asset Interest Management Team Our responsible income and decided that a portion investment team is net gain of the proprietary oriented towards the The portfolio complies Proprietary or loss on investments will be put x x 8 Responsible Investment with the Responsible 100% portfolio financial ininto green bonds, social Policy, which forbids Investment Policy. struments bonds, and sustaina­ investments in the measured bility bonds to facilitate arms industry. at fair value investments that will have a positive impact. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 18 OeKB GROUP Item on the OeKB bank Direct environmental and Indirect environmental Positive environmental Negative impacts Share of business Positive impacts Gross risk including Core business segments subject to group income statement social effects* OeKB Group and social effects and social effects mitigation measures Net risk ESG criteria SDG focuses Administrative expenses The tax expenses Income x 8 consist of actual and 0% taxes deferred taxes. Dividend The dividend fulfils the payments to shareholders interests Dividend 8 0% the owners of of the OeKB bank OeKB group. The retained earnings Retained strengthen the capital 8, 9 0% earnings base for future business growth. * All of our services generate commercial waste similar to household waste and energy and fuel consumption as direct environmental impacts from general office operations and business travel. They are only listed separately in the impacts if they exceed the level of a general effect. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 19 OeKB GROUP Materiality analysis GRI 102-15, 27, 29, The materiality analysis assists the OeKB bank group in identifying the topics that are most important for its operations 40, 42, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, and for its stakeholders. To this end, the economic, ecological, and social impacts of our activities within and outside of GRI 413-1 the OeKB bank group are carefully assessed. Because of the constantly changing conditions and the new EMAS Regulation requirement to complete a context analysis, the materiality matrix was completely revised in 2017. The materiality analysis We involved our stakeholders in this and identified and applied various methods to analyse trends and developments. process is described in detail in the 2017 The results of the context analysis of the material future trends, their effects on and through the OeKB bank group, the ­sustainability report. resulting opportunities and risks, and the material concerns of the stakeholders were evaluated by an expert committee together with the Executive Board, taking the business strategy into account. We evaluated these again in 2019 and made minor changes compared with the previous year. Our society has begun placing an increased focus on sustainable finance and digitalisation. This is reflected in the materiality matrix, with “responsible financing and investment” and “innovation and digitalisation” having gained in importance. The most important stakeholders of the OeKB bank group (in alphabetical order) remained unchanged and were taken into account when evaluating the material topics: Customers, Employees, Federal Ministry of Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs as the coordinator for development financing, Federal Ministry of Finance as the guarantor, Investors, NGOs/the public/the media, Shareholders, and Supervisory bodies/lawmakers. This matrix is not a complete representation of all aspects, but simply depicts the material topics. MATERIALITY MATRIX – IMPORTANT TO VERY IMPORTANT Enabling entrepreneurship and growth very important Environmental and social assessments of projects Infrastructure of capital and Human rights, compliance and energy market business ethics Responsible financing and investment Customer satisfaction Financial stability Influence on ­stakeholder ­assessment and Innovation and digitalisation Employees and diversity decisions important Operational ecology important Significance of economic, environmental very important and social impacts S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 20 OeKB GROUP LIST OF MATERIAL TOPICS OeKB bank group SDG Aspects and topics GRI KPIs focuses Description in the sustainability report Enabling entrepreneurship Management approach – 1, 7, 8, 9,17 Business model of the OeKB bank group and growth described in the report 203-1, 203-2, FS1, FS5, To help business grow FS6, FS7, FS8, FS13, Export Services FS14, FS15 Protecting against credit default risks Development Financing Capital Market Services Sustainable finance Sustainability programme 2020 Environmental and social Management approach – 8, 13 To help business grow auditing of projects described in the report 412-1, 412-2, 412-3, Protecting against credit default risks 413-1, 413-2, FS2, FS3, Development Financing FS9, FS11 Sustainable finance Policies Sustainability programme 2020 Human rights, compliance, Management approach – 8, 17 Protecting against credit default risks and business ethics described in the report 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, To help society succeed 418-1, 419-1 Compliance Sustainability programme 2020 Infrastructure for the Management approach – 7, 9 Business model of the OeKB bank group capital market and described in the report energy market To help business grow Capital Market Services OeKB CSD GmbH Energy Market Services Sustainability programme 2020 Responsible financing and Management approach – 8 To help business grow investment described in the report FS10, FS12, FS16 Sustainable finance Sustainability programme 2020 Customer satisfaction Management approach – 8 Customer satisfaction and customer care described in the report Sustainability programme 2020 Financial stability Management approach – 8 Business model of the OeKB bank group described in the report 201-1, 201-2 To help business grow Development Financing Policies Annual financial report 2018 Sustainability programme 2020 Employees and diversity Management approach – 4, 8 To help employees advance described in the report 401-1, 401-2 401-3, Competencies ­404-1, 404-2, 404-3, Diversity and health management ­405-1, 405-2, 406-1, FS4 Sustainability programme 2020 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 21 OeKB GROUP OeKB bank group SDG Aspects and topics GRI KPIs focuses Description in the sustainability report Innovation and Management approach – 8, 9, 17 To help drive innovation digitalisation described in the report Sustainability programme 2020 Operational ecology Management approach – 7, 13 To help the environment flourish described in the report Sustainability programme 2020 Energy 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, Energy management 302-4 Ecological key indicators Emissions 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, Energy management 305-4, 305-5 Ecological key indicators Sustainable Development Goals Austria has undertaken to implement the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) under the global Agenda 2030. As the official export credit agency and development bank of the Republic of Austria, we see ourselves as one of the central institutions that will enable this commitment to be fulfilled. We also critically monitor trends and assess the resulting opportunities and risks as described in the SDGs. We see the SDGs as a compass for future activities. But they also affirm that we should maintain existing and proven processes such as the environmental and social audits. The SDGs are firmly anchored in our business strategy and business model. The OeKB bank group made an initial assignment of the SDGs to its core business activities in 2016. The SDG ­focuses were expanded during the update of the materiality analysis in 2017. The update in 2018 brought a change in the SDG focuses of OeEB. Due to the large number of renewable energy expansion projects that were made ­possible through the OeKB Export Services, we decided to add SDG 7 – affordable and clean energy – as a focus SDG for OeKB in 2019. In a discussion process with different internal interest groups, we agreed that we can make an important contribution for OeKB in meeting SDGs 1, 4, 7, 8, 9, and 13. SDGs 1, 7, 8, 9, 13, and 17 were identified for OeEB. This focus is a “primary contribution” because projects that are evaluated and financed by our institutions generate additional key contributions towards the attainment of the SDGs. SDG FOCUS IN THE OEKB BANK GROUP: OeKB extends subsidised loans, so-called soft loans, on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Finance. These are earmarked for sustainable projects that are implemented by Austrian companies and that benefit the general public in less-developed countries. This type of financing benefits the recipient countries and domestic companies alike. The OeEB mandate already contains the objective of combating poverty through private sector development. All of its activities are thus aimed at contributing to the reduction of poverty and to sustainable development in developing and emerging countries by strengthening the private sector. OeEB improves access to economic resources for persons at risk of poverty and exclusion above all through its projects in the financial services sector, including microfinance. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 22 OeKB GROUP Further information High-quality education is a fundamental prerequisite for sustainable development. This is why about our corporate volunteering ­activities we support projects with this focus, such as the START scholarship programme and Teach can be found within for Austria. Both initiatives offer children from socio-economically disadvantaged families the chapter Social ­responsibility with long ­access to education and opportunities for their future. We work together with these institutions term benefits. as part of our corporate volunteering programme. Numerous projects of OeKB Export Services contribute to expanding renewable energy and thus to protecting the climate. Export guarantees worth over €1 billion have been issued for renewable energy projects. Read more about the The updated strategy of OeEB for 2019 to 2023 titled “Financing Our Shared Future” also strategy “Financing our Shared Future” in the places a focus on renewable energy. The reason for this is that an estimated one billion chapter Development people around the world still have no access to electricity, most of them in Sub-Saharan Financing and on OeEB’s website. Africa and South Asia. Some 87 per cent of the world’s population without electricity live in rural regions, where an increasing number of off-grid power generation systems are being used alongside traditional on-grid solutions. What’s more, some three billion people around the world still use fuels for cooking that are damaging to the environment and their health. And a lack of access to energy is one of the key barriers to economic development. Many developing countries lack access to affordable, reliable, and environmentally friendly energy services, which in turn impedes the growth of the private sector. The OeKB bank group plays a key role as a central financial services provider and sees its primary task as promoting economic growth and strengthening Austria’s competitiveness at a global level. We meet this challenge by supporting the Austrian export economy, the domestic capital market, the commercial banks, and the Republic of Austria with economically relevant services. In line with its mandate, all of OeEB’s projects are aimed at promoting private sector growth in developing countries. Some 70 per cent of the small and medium-sized businesses in ­developing countries have no access to loans. OeEB strengthens the local financial sectors with long-term financing. To this end, OeEB will also place a focus on the provision of ­financing for MSMEs (micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises) in the coming strategy period. The environmental and social audits of project applications at OeKB and OeEB also evaluate social and human rights aspects. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 23 OeKB GROUP We are an important partner for Austrian exporters and indispensable for the infrastructure of the domestic capital and energy market. Many projects, especially those in developing ­countries, are aimed at building the relevant and necessary local infrastructure. For this ­reason, the topic of infrastructure was added as a focus in the new strategy cycle of OeEB. And as a specialised financial services provider, we have always had to find innovative solutions to meet new challenges and customer expectations and to address all security aspects in handling data. The OeKB bank group also has dedicated innovation managers who coordinate the various innovation processes within the group. We have been actively supporting the weXelerate start-up hub as a corporate leader and mentor since 2017. One member of the OeKB Executive Board chairs the weXelerate advisory committee. Further information Numerous OeKB Export Services and OeEB projects contribute to protecting the climate. about Exportinvest Green can be found Together with the BMF, OeKB launched a new support facility in 2019 to help Austrian exporters within the chapter that make targeted investments to reduce negative environmental impacts and to make ­Sustainable Finance and on OeKB’s website. long-term contributions to environmental improvements. This new Exportinvest Green product enables companies to cover an additional 20 per cent of the total investment at the attractive OeKB terms. Exportinvest Green is intended to be an incentive for more environmentally relevant and forward-looking investments that make a tangible contribution to climate protection. OeEB is the largest provider of international climate financing in Austria. Climate change is one of the two interdisciplinary issues or horizontal objectives in its “Financing Our Shared Future” strategy, the other being gender equality. OeEB is seeking to invest an average of at least 40 per cent of its new business in climate-relevant projects from 2019 to 2023. Read more about this in the chapter To help the environment flourish. We also consider climate protection and CO2 reductions in our day-to-day business. As a development bank with the mission of financing sustainable private sector investments in developing countries, OeEB is one of the many key players that work together in implementing Austrian development policy. We also take account of Austria’s foreign policy and foreign trade interests in this. In addition to financing and equity investments, a key task of OeEB is the effective and targeted expansion of local capacities in developing countries. This lends additional support to a global partnership for sustainable development. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 24 OeKB GROUP Impact measurement OeKB has completed a qualitative high-level mapping of the 17 SDGs since 2019. The concept for this was drawn up in conjunction with the BMF in 2018. In the first step, all export guarantees and bill guarantees worth €10 million or more and with a loan term of at least two years along with all soft loans, Exportinvest Green financing arrangements, and other selected applications with positive environmental effects that are reported as part of the climate financing are assigned to a primary goal. Additional goals that are positively or negatively impacted by the project application are also assigned. After reviewing an application, OeKB prepares a proposal that is submitted to the Advisory Committee of the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) for a final decision by the BMF, and that now also includes the assigned SDGs. The expert knowledge of the SDGs among OeKB’s staff is important in this and is built up in part by advance training and workshops about the SDGs. Information and documents about the SDGs are also available to all employees. Financially successful private-sector companies that act in a responsible manner are a key driver of economic growth. OeEB as an Austrian development bank contributes to a vital economy and sustainable development through tailored financing and targeted consulting for the private sector, and in this way creates better living conditions for people in developing and emerging countries. To evaluate the development effects of its projects, OeEB has used the Development Effectiveness Rating Tool (DERa) developed by Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG) since the beginning of 2019. Oriented towards the Agenda 2030 for sustainable development and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and based on international best practices, DERa assesses what development contribution each project of the entire OeEB customer base makes and shows the changes that have occurred since the investment was made by OeEB. In this way, DERa allows OeEB to report on the development-policy effects of its financing, manage the overall development-policy quality of its portfolio, and generate positive impetus for improvement. DERa is based on a “theory of change”, a method built on depicting the process that will lead to the desired change. It shows the causal relationship between the activities of an OeEB customer (input), its results (output), and one or more of the desired development effects (outcomes) and impacts. In a further step, the role played by OeEB is added to the model. DERa is applied over the entire term of every project financed by OeEB. An initial DERa is created before a project is signed and consists of a baseline with the current metrics before the OeEB investment along with a forecast of the expected effects of the investment over a time horizon of five years. After approval, the DERa is updated with the current metrics every year, which allows the changes in the development contributions of customers since the OeEB investment to be documented and analysed. The development contributions of every project are assessed on the basis of five impact categories. The first three ­categories – “decent jobs”, “local income”, and “market and sector development” – are central development effects (“What has been achieved?”). The categories “environmental stewardship” and “community benefits” relate to the manner in which companies operate (“How were the effects achieved?”). DERa assesses customers on the basis of these five categories. Each category contains different indicators that measure the customer’s contribution to the respective category. These indicators especially contain quantitative ­information, but also qualitative expert assessments. There are static and dynamic indicators to measure the absolute realised effects but also to evaluate the growth processes. The indicators measure either risk-mitigating or direct positive development-policy effects. In addition to scored indicators, DERa also contains overarching indicators that are used for reporting purposes. These indicators evaluate whether a project makes a contribution to the 17 SDGs and whether the financed project is additional from a financial and/or value perspective. Alongside the scored indicators in the categories, there are a number of ­reporting indicators that are needed for the detailed development-policy reporting that is published by OeEB every year. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 25 OeKB GROUP Sustainability strategy To help business grow To help To help society drive succeed innovation OeKB bank group ­sustainability strategy To help the To help environment employees flourish advance We drafted a sustainability strategy for 2017 to 2020 for the OeKB bank group based on the results of the context analysis and in collaboration with our stakeholders. It covers five areas: To help business grow We develop sustainable products and services to contribute to the sustainable operation of the OeKB bank group. To help drive innovation We collect, prepare, assess, and market new possibilities. To this end, we build an environment and internal and external networks to cover this broad topic. To help employees advance We pay attention to the health of our employees, to a good work-life balance, and to imparting necessary know-how. This will enable all of us to make a contribution to the sustainable success of the OeKB bank group. To help the environment flourish We document and optimise the direct and indirect ecological impacts of our activities. To help society succeed We take an active role for the sustainable development of our society as a shaper and educator. The sustainability report is also structured by topic in line with this. The measures that are intended to achieve these goals are shown in the sustainability programme and progress report. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 26 OeKB GROUP Stakeholder relations and dialogue GRI 102-21, 40, 42, Our stakeholders, stakeholder relationships, and stakeholder-specific forms of dialogue are just as diverse as the 43, 44 GRI 413-1, broad range of services of the OeKB bank group. Engaging stakeholders, in other words people and groups who have FS1, FS5 a justifiable interest in or influence on our direct or indirect business activities, is an integral part of our business More information on processes. We view transparent communication and an open dialogue as key to finding common solutions to the most ­important stakeholder controversial, challenging, and critical topics and interests. For this reason, we openly address differing viewpoints. groups can be found We have been active in various networks for many years in order to initiate and realise joint projects for the benefit in the chapter Materiality analysis of the economy, environment, and society. Publications Read RELEVANT The OeKB bank group publishes the magazine RELEVANT every quarter to present well founded, clear information online. from the world of OeKB Group. Each issue has a specific focus. The following topics were covered in 2019: “Intangible Economy – Invisible Capital”, “Difficult Markets – Off to the Land of Opportunity”, “Environment – How Business Can Become Greener”, and “Corporate Culture – The Personality Has To Be Right”. RELEVANT is not only a platform for executive and line managers. Experts from all departments contribute greatly to the contents of each issue. They share their highly specialised knowledge with interested members of the public. You can find our The special issue RELEVANT ANNUAL is also published once per year and provides a concise overview of the finanreports on OeKB’s website. cial year of OeKB Group, including selected highlights and relevant facts and figures. The current reports – annual financial report, Export Services annual report, and the Disclosure Report – can be found on the OeKB website along with brochures and fact sheets. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank (OeEB) contributed the chapter “The Austrian Development Bank as a Climate Bank” to the book “CSR und Klimawandel” (CSR and Climate Change). Andrea Sihn-Weber, managing director of the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative (RNI), and Franz Fischler, former EU agriculture commissioner and chairman of RNI, are the publishers of the book that was released as an e-book by Springer Gabler Verlag in December 2019 and that came out in print in January 2020. The book contains 42 articles on corporate social responsibility by 62 managers from Austria, Germany, and Switzerland. Digital presence The importance of a digital presence and the use of social media as a platform for information exchange and communication with various stakeholders are increasing steadily. It is all the better when the digital presence is targeted and effective. The 2019 Lundquist Report attributes a high degree of awareness for digital stakeholder communication to OeKB and includes it among the top five unlisted companies in Austria. The analysis behind the annual Lundquist Report focuses on how well a company succeeds in fostering stakeholder trust and communicating its business model, company values, and self-image via websites, social media, and other digital channels. The Lundquist Report attests that OeKB maintains comprehensively satisfactory digital communication in which it succeeds in compellingly conveying and not just explaining its company identity in the digital space. Here you can get to our New explanatory videos about different Export Services products are one good example of this approach. The businessvideo series on YouTube. man “Mr. Steiner” is assisted in finding solutions for various problems that exporters could encounter. He discovers the solutions available from OeKB. The videos are intended to provide a simple and entertaining intro­duction to the OeKB Export Services product range. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 27 OeKB GROUP Exchange with employees The Executive Boards of OeKB and OeEB and the management of OeKB CSD value regular, direct dialogue with their employees. The means of this communication range from regular events to video series such as “>Blick voraus!” (Look ahead!), in which the Executive Board members of OeKB AG review the course of business to date, explain the priorities for the future, and answer employee questions. These video updates after the Supervisory Board meetings allow the Executive Board members to inform employees transparently and clearly about current topics and changes in the business segments and about new developments in the company and the sector at large. The “Frühstück mit Weitblick” (Breakfast with a View) series was launched in 2018 and was continued successfully in 2019. Every quarter, employees of the OeKB bank group are given the opportunity to learn about a current topic over breakfast. After the stage is set with a brief speech by an invited presenter or keynote speaker, the participants can discuss the topic of the day with colleagues and external experts. We organised a total of four of these breakfasts in 2019, which were attended by more than 150 employees. They covered the following topics: ▪▪ “ Vision and Mission” with a presentation by the Executive Board on this topic and a keynote speech by Franz Kühmayer, ▪▪ “Collaboration and Leadership” with a presentation by Gregor Fauma, ▪▪ “A Reality Check for New Ways of Working” with a podium discussion about the experiences gained with new methods of working, and ▪▪ “Sustainability Bond Roadshow” in which Elisabeth Schneider, Nastassja Cernko, and Heidrun Schmid, who went on the road to present the first sustainability bond, explained to interested colleagues how such a roadshow for investors runs. New methods of internal communication were also introduced and existing methods expanded in OeEB in 2019 to improve the exchange of information and experiences with employees. This includes: ▪▪ Brown bag lunch The employees of OeEB work on different projects, are involved in due diligence and monitoring trips, address cross-departmental issues, and bring a broad range of experience with them from their previous careers. The regular brown bag lunches that were launched in 2019 give employees the opportunity to present and discuss topics in an informal setting. Twelve of these lunches were held in 2019 and were very well received by the employees. ▪▪ Fit to Develop and leadership feedback The Fit to Develop initiative was launched in 2019 to improve collaboration within the company. Brief interviews and focus groups give employees the opportunity to actively help shape change and operational improvements in OeEB and to contribute their own ideas. The initiative was launched in collaboration with external consultants in September 2019 and is being continued in 2020. A bank-wide leadership feedback process was also introduced with the support of external consultants and is intended to support the internal leadership competence development programme and foster a positive feedback culture in the company. ▪▪ Intranet A separate OeEB page has been set up in the OeKB group intranet to provide OeEB employees with internal OeEB information and is being continuously improved and updated with new content. ▪▪ Executive Board update In addition to regular meetings and events, the OeEB Executive Board also provides updates on current topics and changes by e-mail after the Supervisory Board meetings and international events such as the annual World Bank Conference. During the New Year and summer receptions, OeEB employees are given an update on the development of the company and on current topics. During the regular Executive Board breakfasts, employees have an opportunity to pose questions to the Executive Board members and to discuss content and strategy topics in an informal setting. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 28 OeKB GROUP OeKB ThinkTank event Insights into OeKB’s The inaugural OeKB ThinkTank event was held on 8 October 2019 under the motto of “Rooms for Forward Thinking”. ThinkTank event can be found in this video. The goal of this event was to enable all employees of OeKB Group to attend a conference in the OeKB offices where they can choose from a range of current and important topics. In addition to the networking objective, a focus was also placed on inputs from experts and on practical application in workshops. Dejan Jovicevic acted as the moderator for the morning, which featured engaging keynote speeches by Klaus Gabriel, Nina Tamerl, and Petra Hauser on the topics of sustainable finance, change as an opportunity, and change management. The workshops covered the topics of sustainable finance, innovation and prototyping, exponential change, and new ways of working. Around 150 employees from across OeKB Group participated in the event. Customer satisfaction and customer care GRI 103-1, 2, 3 The OeKB bank group’s customers are diverse and often have different needs and desires. It is essential to be familiar with these wishes in order to continuously refine our product range and adapt our processes to our customers’ requirements. The OeKB bank group’s employees obtain this knowledge in personal conversations, structured interviews, electronic surveys, and at special customer forums and workshops. Read more on the In 2019, OeKB commissioned the market research institute GfK to conduct a study on the topic of “Export prospects, export study on OeKB’s website. future destinations, and sustainable finance”. Austrian exporters were surveyed on the following topics: foreign activities of Austrian companies, export prospects, satisfaction with the framework for foreign activities, and sustainable finance. The core results of this survey showed that exports are the primary revenue driver for around half of the major Austrian ­companies. More than two thirds of Austrian companies are planning to expand their exports. Particular challenges Further information in the coming years will be climate/environmental protection and sustainability, as well as the availability of attractive about Exportinvest financing options for making climate-friendly investments. Some 64 per cent of respondents are certain that the issue Green can be found within the chapter of sustainability will have an impact on future business investments and will play a significant role. OeKB has provided ­Sustainable ­Finance in Austrian exporters with an innovative financing facility for climate-friendly investments since 1 June 2019 under the the OeKB bank group and on OeKB’s ­website. name of Exportinvest Green. Representatives of all business segments of the OeKB bank group come into direct contact with customers by attending external events and appearing on discussion panels. The findings flow into the conception, structuring, and forming of strategies and innovations. The topic of sustainable finance was a focus of attention in 2019. Thanks to our new products Exportinvest Green and sustainability bonds and the increasing importance of impact measurement, representatives of OeKB and OeEB were frequently invited to a broad range of conferences, events, and workshops on these topics. For example, we participated in the 2019 events of the Focal Group Green Finance that was organised by the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) and Federal Ministry for Sustainability and Tourism (BMNT) under the Green Finance Agenda. We also provided inputs and discussion contributions to the capital market union (CMU) round table discussion on the topic of “Sustainable Finance – Green Finance” and to the climate risk workshop titled “Identifying and Managing Challenges of Climate Change” of Oesterreichische Nationalbank (OeNB) and the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (WKÖ). The OeKB Executive Board and the Export Services team also attend corporate client events held by commercial banks and events hosted by the Federal Economic Chamber all over Austria. Here, they report on further developments in our services, explain the benefits of using our instruments, provide information on trends in important target markets for the Austrian export industry, and present concrete ways of mitigating business risk and financing business activities. Experts from OeKB and OeEB also participated in the annual export day, the Latin America day, the Africa day, and the Federal Economic Chamber’s Economy and Development forum, where Austrian companies learned about its services. In addition, OeEB again organised workshops on the topic of “Bankable projects – designing projects attractively for the Austrian development bank” together with AUSSENWIRTSCHAFT AUSTRIA in January and June 2019. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 29 OeKB GROUP The companies in the OeKB bank group also place high value on collecting regular feedback from their customers. Banks were repeatedly invited to participate in the development of a new online tool for determining current interest rates (OeKB Loan Pricer). They were able to communicate their requirements and expectations from the outset and were permitted to test the developed prototypes and give feedback on the functions and usability. Future workshop OeKB sees itself as a think tank in which forward thinking is made possible and where a dialogue with stakeholders can take place in the form of an open and constructive exchange in small groups. As sustainability is considered to be one of the core tasks of OeKB, the future workshop is intended to examine the challenges of global issues in respect of ecological, economic, and social sustainability and the effects that this has on the expectations placed in OeKB. The first future workshop was held in October 2019 and addressed the topic of “Sustainable Development Goals and Sustainable Finance”. Around 20 representatives of government ministries, shareholders, civil society, science, customers, and the OeKB bank group held an engaging discussion after a keynote speech on the topic. The findings gathered at this event will be incorporated into the business and sustainability strategy and will ultimately lead to concrete measures. A key intent was to find out what these stakeholders expect of OeKB in furthering the implementation of the SDGs and sustainable finance agenda. Under the aegis of the Federal Ministry of Finance Austrian exporters have enjoyed the support of OeKB since 1950. It offers export guarantees in the name of the federal government, thus mitigating economic and political risk for business abroad. It also facilitates attractive financing for foreign projects. In this capacity, OeKB acts as the export credit agency (ECA) of the Republic of Austria. OeKB continuously coordinates with the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) with regard to guarantees and financing. The basic parameters for covering export transactions in the individual countries are set based on our proposals and then published on our website in the form of country policies. For soft loans, we submit proposals to the BMF regarding recipient countries and specific terms. The necessary funds are raised and the terms set in coordination with the BMF based on the valid legal framework. OeKB evaluates applications for transactions from a bank perspective and submits a summary opinion to the BMF and from there to the members of the Advisory Committee, and also to the Export Financing Committee in the case of soft loans. OeKB and the BMF exchange information on a regular basis, more intensively with regard to specific, major cases and in the case of critical current developments (such as substantially increased political risk in the target country). We prepare quarterly reports that the BMF uses to inform the parliament. Moreover, we provide basic data to the BMF for the annual report to the Main Committee of the National Council, i.e. the Activity Report of the Advisory Committee pursuant to § 6 Austrian Export Guarantees Act. We also supply the BMF with the information needed to answer enquiries. OeEB was established as the development bank of the Republic of Austria in 2008 and works on behalf of the Austrian government to improve living conditions for people in developing and emerging countries. The legal basis for the activities of OeEB is largely defined in the Export Guarantees Act. It is also bound by the principles of development cooperation as defined in the Development Cooperation Act. It works on behalf of the BMF as well as for the BMEIA (Federal Ministry for Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs). S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 30 OeKB GROUP Investor Relations Regular roadshows are a prerequisite for the diversification and expansion of OeKB’s investor base. An investor roadshow was held in Vienna, Paris, London, Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Helsinki, Copenhagen, and Oslo in advance of OeKB’s first issue of a sustainability bond. Investors in the USA, Great Britain, and Israel were visited and a variety of issuer and investor conferences were attended in 2019, as well. At these events, OeKB meets with central banks, official organisations, insurance companies, asset managers, bank treasuries, and investment funds. These investors are interested in the issues of OeKB due to their very high credit quality, the guarantee of the Republic of Austria, their scarcity value, and their excellent performance on the primary and secondary markets. To measure its success as an issuer in the capital markets, OeKB continuously compares its performance with that of its peer group, which includes sovereign issuers, multilateral organisations, and other export credit agencies. Further information about A Sustainable Financing Framework was drawn up in 2019 to enable OeKB to issue green bonds, social bonds, and our Framework and the first Sustainability Bond can be sustainability bonds. The first OeKB sustainability bond was issued in October 2019 with a volume of €500 million, found within the chapter and 46 per cent of the bond was placed with investors focusing on SRI instruments (socially responsible investments), ­Sustainable Finance in the OeKB bank group.­ thus expanding the OeKB investor base. Rating agencies Find out more The OeKB issues that are guaranteed by the Republic of Austria are rated Aa1/AA+ (long term) and P-1/A-1+ (short term) about our ratings on OeKB’s website. by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Annual due diligence processes are conducted with these rating agencies. Rating reports are published regularly and can be found on the OeKB website. OeKB has been subject to assessment by numerous environmental, social, and governance (ESG) and corporate governance research agencies for years and is one of the leading companies in its sector. ISS-ESG has assigned OeKB a rating of “Prime C+”, and OeKB is ranked seventh of 28 companies in its sector. OeKB holds first place in the entire Sustainalytics1 ESG risk rating universe and received an “AAA” rating (on a scale of AAA-CCC) from MSCI2 in 2019. Dialogue with civil society GRI 102-13, 17, 21 Members of civil society (committed citizens and the groups representing their interests) primarily approach the OeKB GRI 413-1 FS5 bank group in its role as a national export credit agency acting on behalf of and for the account of the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF). More concretely, this pertains to large projects with potentially high impact on the environment, ­social issues, and human rights that OeKB assesses or for which the federal government has either provided a guarantee or indicated the prospect of one being provided. The relevant non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are organised in the platform Finance and Trade Watch (FT Watch) Austria. We have maintained a dialogue with this platform for many years. We actively provide information as soon as project details according to the OECD Common Approaches are published on our website. At the same time, FT Watch Austria asks questions about potential projects. We use this information to ensure a holistic view of a given project and its context in the event that we audit it. As part of the evaluation of the North Stream 2 pipeline, we engaged in an active dialogue with a group of international NGOs. We also actively participated in enquiries for the preparation of academic studies. NGOs came to us with their concerns through this exchange. 1 As of September 2019 2 DISCALIMER STATEMENT The use by OeKB AG of any MSCI ESG research llc or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of OeKB AG by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 31 OeKB GROUP At the invitation of the Austrian National Contact Point in cooperation with the WKO’s AUSSENWIRTSCHAFT international projects network, we participated in the workshop on “OECD Due Diligence Obligations for Responsible Corporate ­Governance” and presented the practical application of the guidelines. The workshop participants discussed the ­relevance of due diligence audits in relation to financing with Heidrun Schmid, OeKB expert for environmental and social audits. OECD expert Barbara Bijelic presented the new OECD due diligence guidelines for responsible corporate governance. The participants also worked through the first steps for practical implementation on the basis of concrete examples. OeEB highly values direct dialogue with its stakeholder groups. OeEB extended an invitation in 2019 to discuss the draft of its new strategy for 2019 to 2023 in a dialogue organised through the umbrella organisation AG Globale V­ erantwortung. The participating NGOs submitted a comprehensive opinion on the draft, which was incorporated into the further development of the strategy. At a separate event, NGOs were also informed about the DERa tool introduced in OeEB in 2019 to measure the development-policy impact of projects, and were given the opportunity to discuss the new tool with experts from OeEB. GRI 102-33 In addition to an internal whistleblower system, an external complaint mechanism has been set up for every credit GRI 413-1 institution in the OeKB bank group. This enables our customers to approach us with their concerns in the form of Read more in feedback, suggestions, or constructive criticism. This in turn allows us to recognise, analyse, and correct recurring the chapter Business Ethics. potential legal and operational risks. This is also required by the legal regulations on complaint processing (§ 39e BWG). The complaints are reported to the Financial Market Authority (FMA) once per year. These can include expressions of dissatisfaction with certain IT services or the manner in which applications are processed, for example. The OeKB, OeEB, and OeKB CSD websites also contain contact options for directly submitting questions and comments. Stakeholder trip to Bosnia and Herzegovina OeEB organised a three-day project trip to Bosnia and Herzegovina in September 2019. The members of the ­Supervisory Board and of the committee and advisory board that review and approve the projects of OeEB in terms of economic efficiency and development-policy effects were invited. A total of 15 representatives of OeEB, the ­Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Chancellery, the Federal Ministry for European and International Affairs, the OeEB Supervisory Board, the Federal Economic Chamber, and the Austrian Development Agency visited under­ takings financed by OeEB and got a first-hand look at the projects and cooperation activities of OeEB. European Forum Alpbach: OeKB discussion on the topic of free trade from a sustainability perspective At the Alpbach economic symposium in August 2019, OeKB provided insights into how free trade can be conducted in a sustainable manner. Central topics of discussion were: ▪▪ What benefits does free trade offer, and what risks? ▪▪ How can free trade be structured in a world with growing trade conflicts and climate change? ▪▪ What role does trade policy play in this, and what companies play a role? A wide variety of speakers took to the podium. Under the moderation of Sandra Baierl, economic journalist at the daily newspaper Kurier, these questions were discussed by Franz Fischler, president of European Forum Alpbach, Heinz Leitner, CEO of the Komptech Group, Julia Wörz, director of Central, Eastern, and Southeastern European analysis at Oesterreichische Nationalbank, and Helmut Bernkopf, Executive Board member of OeKB Group. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 32 OeKB GROUP R20 The third R20 Austrian World Summit was held at Hofburg Palace in Vienna on 28 May 2019 and featured a host of prominent participants. Over 1,000 attendees accepted the invitation of Arnold Schwarzenegger’s climate protection initiative. As Austria’s largest provider of international climate financing, OeEB was an event partner for the first time and provided information about its financing solutions for renewable energy projects in developing countries in the breakout session titled Climate Finance: New Opportunities for Developing Countries, because the world’s poorest countries are also being impacted most by climate change. CSR day The OeKB bank group was represented by its sustainability manager Nastassja Cernko at this year’s CSR day, which was organised by respACT in Innsbruck on 17 October. Together with Max Deml, editor-in-chief of Öko-Invest, and Goran Maric, CEO of Three Coins, she discussed the topic of “Sustainable Development as an Investment Case” under the moderation of Fred Luks, sustainability expert and publicist. Networks and memberships GRI 102-13 The memberships of the OeKB bank group companies focus on organisations and initiatives that are essential for achieving their business and sustainability objectives. The most important memberships are as follows (in alphabetical order): ▪▪ Aktienforum ▪▪ Austrian Bankers’ Association, ▪▪ Berner Union ▪▪ C.I.R.A. – Cercle Investor Relations Austria ▪▪ Club of Rome – Austrian Chapter ▪▪ European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI) ▪▪ ICMA – International Capital Market Association ▪▪ International climate financing working group (AGIK) chaired by the BMNT, ▪▪ Federation of Austrian Industry (IV), ▪▪ respACT ▪▪ Transparancy International – Austrian Chapter ▪▪ UN Global Compact – Austrian Network, ▪▪ UN Women – Austrian National Committee, ▪▪ VÖIG – Association of Austrian Investment Fund Management Companies, ▪▪ WIIW – Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies ▪▪ WIFO – Austrian Institute of Economic Research, ▪▪ WKO – Austrian Federal Economic Chamber. The OeKB bank group attends meetings of the European Union (EU), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and the Paris Club as an adviser to the BMF. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 33 OeKB GROUP Events FS5 The OeKB bank group has organised events for several years to promote an exchange of information between businesses, government, the scientific community, and civil society. We strive to play an active role as a shaper and educator for the sustainable development of our society. This aim is also clearly highlighted in the OeKB mission statements that were presented in 2018: “We serve as a think tank for our stakeholders that creates space for forward thinking and simulations of the future.” In this spirit, we again held a series of events in collaboration with partner organisations and independently in 2019. These included: Short statement videos OeKB in Dialogue > On the Future of the Economy about “OeKB in Dialogue > On the Future of A discussion was held at OeKB on 12 November 2019 with the title of “OeKB in Dialogue – Can the globalised world the Economy” can be be saved?” to address how economic growth, free trade, and climate policy can be brought into harmony on our finite found on YouTube. planet. After a introduction by Mathias Binswanger, Swiss professor of economics, the issue was discussed by Beate Littig, head of the faculty of sociology at the Institute for Advanced Studies (IHS) in Vienna, and Karl Steininger from the Institute of Economics at the University of Graz. The keynote speech by Binswanger on “Why the economy still has to grow even though we have enough” also raised a number of interesting points. This event was moderated by Agnes Streissler-Führer, deputy federal director of GPA-djp Union of Private Sector Employees, Printing, Journalism, and Paper. OeKB >Export academy The OeKB >Export academy is an event for banks, exporters, consultants, and export promotion agencies, intended to raise their awareness of the services offered by the OeKB bank group and to enable them to exchange experiences and make contacts. Participants learn a great deal about OeKB Group’s hedging and financing solutions over a period of two consecutive days. The experts from OeKB Export Services and the subsidiaries ACREDIA and OeEB present their offerings and provide the participants with an overview of the uses and advantages of the financing arrangements, guarantees, insurance, and environmental and social audit tasks for export transactions. Export news in the afternoon Once every year, OeKB organises an information and dialogue event for bank employees in its Reitersaal hall. Here, they see short presentations on current topics in the areas of hedging and financing with OeKB Group. Afterwards, there is an opportunity to pose questions and engage in discussions in smaller groups. Insights into our OeKB Capital Market Services business breakfast Business Breakfast can be found The business breakfast in 2019 gave customers and other stakeholders an opportunity to gain insights into the topic of in this video. “financing sustainable projects”. The political scientist Ulrich Brand from the University of Vienna laid the theoretical groundwork with his keynote speech, which was followed by information about current developments in OeKB Group such as the OeEB financing projects and the issue of the first sustainability bond. Climate change – opportunity or risk for the financial sector? OeKB again supported the workshops of the RiskFinPorto research project, the first Austrian research project on climate risks in the financial sector, this year. The event was attended by experts from the consulting field, public administration, and financial sector and addressed concrete ways in which the Paris climate goals and the corresponding emission pathways can be achieved. Another topic was how climate risks can be measured and managed. Vienna round table discussion The focus of the 29th Vienna round table discussion in the OeKB Reitersaal hall on 11 and 12 November 2019 was on the future of Europe. This annual meeting of high-ranking international economists chaired by OeKB Executive Board members Helmut Bernkopf and Angelika Sommer-Hemetsberger examines current economic and social issues. On the first day of the conference, questions surrounding the future of Europe after Brexit, possibilities for cooperation in a S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 34 OeKB GROUP de-globalising world, and the economic effects of the current trade restrictions were discussed. The keynote speech by Charles Grant, head of the Centre for European Reform (CER) in London, provided a framework for the discussions.­ ­Former chairman of the Austrian central bank Professor Ewald Nowotny prefaced the especially intensive discussions on the second day with his keynote speech titled “Power or Economics?”. The panel discussion after Professor Nowotny’s introduction focused on ways to support economic growth while not losing sight of the risks of climate change. Industry conference “What is the best approach for promoting rail industry exports in the DACH region?” – this question was discussed at a rail industry conference in Munich in November 2019. Close to 100 representatives from the government, industry associations, companies, and banks took part in the conference that was organised by OeKB, Euler Hermes, and SERV. The aim of the event was for the ECAs in Germany (Euler Hermes), Austria (OeKB), and Switzerland (SERV) to present hedging and financing options for the rail industry and to spur joint projects in outside markets. Export credit agencies (ECAs) protect exporters and banks against payment default for economic or political reasons, especially in difficult and higher-risk markets. The following issues, among others, were discussed in presentations and workshops together with attending experts: ▪▪ How are the sales markets for the rail industry developing? ▪▪ What will global competition be like in future? ▪▪ What financing challenges need to be overcome? ▪▪ What is expected of ECAs and what contribution can they make to supporting exporters in the DACH region? This conference was one of the measures derived from the cooperation agreement concluded between the ECAs in the DACH region in the spring of 2019. ECA conference in Uzbekistan The three export credit agencies Euler Hermes, OeKB, and SERV also held a joint export credit insurance conference in Tashkent on 4 December 2019. The objective of the event was to generate business potential in Uzbekistan for companies in the DACH region. Uzbekistan is a developing market with 32 million inhabitants, substantial raw material reserves, and economic growth of over 5 per cent according to the most recent statistics. The earlier companies forge contacts and find potential cooperation partners, the easier it will be to enter the market. Local investors were informed about the advantages of combining high quality products from the companies in the DACH region with attractive financing facilities from the export credit agencies. The hope is to increase the business potential of the many local hidden champions and SMEs in this rapidly growing region. Transparency International – Austrian Chapter review for 2019 OeKB was the host of the Christmas get-together for private and corporate members of Transparency International (TI) – Austrian Chapter and interested persons, where the chairwoman of the executive board and president of the advisory committee of TI – Austrian Chapter presented a review and outlook of relevant topics and activities. The keynote speech this year was given by Federal Chancellor Brigitte Bierlein. Events of Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank As a central figure in Austrian development cooperation, OeEB is a respected expert in the field of sustainable private sector development. OeEB’s experts again contributed their know-how to a large number of events in 2019, including the “Beyond Europe” internationalisation round table discussion in India, the OECD presentation titled “Development Report & Global Outlook on Financing for Sustainable Development”, the “ODA and Its Alternatives – How can we provide sufficient development financing?” round table discussion of AG Globale Verantwortung, and the “Obtaining global commitment from companies” conference of Institut zur Cooperation bei Entwicklungs-Projekten (ICEP). With OeEB being the largest provider of international climate financing in Austria, its green finance expertise was in especially high demand, for example at the R20 Austrian World Summit, the Our Journey conference of the OeEB project partner eco.business Fund, the Lighthouse 8 stakeholder event titled Green Finance, the Post-Paris Navigator – ­ a net­working workshop of WKO’s AUSSENWIRTSCHAFT Austria on the topic of financing options for climate-relevant projects – and Baker McKenzie’s Sustainable Finance Forum. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 35 OeKB GROUP OeEB also demonstrated its Africa expertise at presentations at the Diplomatic Academy, the CFO Forum, various multilogues, CEO round table discussions, and expert panel discussions organised by corporAID, and at the event ­organised by Felder Group and the provincial government and economic chamber of Tyrol for the exchange of practical experiences with economic partnerships. FURTHER FORMS OF DIALOGUE IN ALPHABETICAL ORDER INFORMATION CONSULTATION COOPERATIVE DIALOGUE Objective: create Objective: gather perspectives, Objective: promote open exchange transparency ­expectations, and possible solutions and realise joint projects Employee information events held by the Executive Board members and Advisory Committee meetings Employee visits to exporters and banks senior managers Exchange and collaboration with Gathering expertise, for example as part Export Services newsletter start-ups as part of the weXelerate of the Vienna round table discussion start-up hub Organisation of expert presentations Exchange with the Federal Intranet for employees, for example on learning Ministry of Finance from failure Personal discussions, for example during Expert presentations and exchange performance reviews and small group OeKB press review with academic universities and activities such as “On the right path universities of applied science together” (Gemeinsam gut auf Kurs) Participation in studies and surveys on the topic of sustainability and in the Sustainability meetings of the Information and dialogue events with financial services industry, sustainability focal points employees from OeKB and other banks reporting, environmental management systems, etc. Organisation of and participation RELEVANT magazine in events to discuss with different RELEVANT OeEB Spezial stakeholders (such as European Forum RELEVANT ANNUAL Alpbach, OeKB in Dialogue > On the Future of the Economy) Reports: annual financial report, sustainability report, Export Services annual report, disclosure report, OeKB >Export academy OeEB annual report, OeEB development ­report, OeKB CSD GmbH annual financial statements Social media OeKB ThinkTank event Videos weXelerate UN Global Compact Steering Websites ­Committee member S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 36 OeKB GROUP Sustainability management GRI 102-19, 20, The Organisation, Construction, Environmental Issues, and Security department (OBUS) and the sustainability 26, 27, 28, 31 GRI 103-3 management unit that is located there report directly to the Executive Board. Sustainability affects all segments FS9 and units of the OeKB bank group and is an integral part of the strategic orientation of the Group. For this reason, the Executive Board of OeKB, the Executive Board of OeEB, and the senior managers of OeKB CSD decide on the sustainability strategy and measures. They are updated on the progress of the implementation of the s­ ustainability management activities on a regular basis. This governance group also conducts a management assessment ­according to the EMAS requirements once per year. The business segments in OeKB and the subsidiaries are another focal point of sustainability management. The heads and managers serve as fixed points of contact and communication interfaces between the sustainability management structure and the business segments and subsidiaries. They also help to identify the employees in their units who will implement the measures from the sustainability programme in task-specific working groups. The implementation of the sustainability management objectives and measures and of the management approach is assessed internally at least once per year by Internal Audit/Group Internal Audit. The audit reports are made available to the external auditor that assesses the management system every year. OBUS-SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Focal Points Focal Points Focal Points Task-specific Task-specific Task-specific working groups working groups working groups S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 37 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW To help business grow GRI 102-6, 15 Climate change is no longer a far-off scenario, but reality as shown by the temperature trend since measurements were GRI 103-1, 2, 3 GRI 201-2 first collected and by the natural disasters around the world reported in the media. This means that we have to direct substantially more capital into environmentally friendly investments and establish climate protection standards in all sectors. A study commissioned by OeKB on the topic of “Exporters in Austria – Current challenges for Austrian companies” came to the conclusion that climate and environmental protection is the number one future issue for Austrian exporters. The respondents were certain that the issue of sustainability will have an impact on future business investments and will play a significant role. But climate change is not the only global challenge that we must master. Protectionist tendencies, international political instability and uncertainty, internal and international conflicts on the distribution of resources, human rights violations, resource scarcity, and a loss of biodiversity are just some of the hurdles that we must now overcome in a globalised world. And by “we”, we mean both the stakeholders of the OeKB bank group and all of us as individuals. How closely we are intertwined is also shown by the fact that all of these topics also have further economic, ecological, and social implications at the local, national, and international levels. In its role as the official export credit agency, the development bank of the federal government, and a central service provider for the capital and energy markets, the OeKB bank group bears particular responsibility for the Austrian economy and in respect of its numerous stakeholders. For this reason, the OeKB bank group regularly assesses global and local trends and contexts. In one of our mission statements, we commit to aligning our products and services with global developments. This is the only way for us to ensure that our economic activities have a positive impact on the economy, environment, and society. This also requires that we are constantly ready to refine and adapt our business models, services, and processes. Our sustainable finance commitment is proof of this. In 2019, we were actively involved in drafting Read more about our Sustainable Finance the Green Finance Agenda of the BMF and BMNT, created a Sustainable Financing Framework, issued a sustainability bond, activities in the chapter Sustainable Finance in introduced the new Exportinvest Green product and the African-Austrian SME Investment Facility in collaboration with the the OeKB bank group. BMF, and issued an impact fund through OeEB in collaboration with Bank Gutmann. The management of the OeKB bank group addresses these topics in regular strategy development processes. This is reflected in our business and risk policy, which includes the objective of continuing to act as a responsible partner for the Austrian economy going forward. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 38 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Financing with a holistic view GRI 203-1, 2 There are different motives for companies to invest abroad. The goal is often to tap new sales and procurement ­markets. Another frequent objective is improving competitiveness by accessing lower-cost production opportunities in other countries. A globally operating company is also in a better position to weather regional crises. These benefits are offset by the costs and risks of going abroad. No matter how well a company prepares for the local situation and conditions, there is often still a considerable risk that an investment could lose its value, for example because of political changes. Companies can hedge their foreign investments against political risks by way of a federal guarantee through the OeKB bank group. This type of promotion also entails great responsibility. We take our role seriously in investment guarantees and evaluate the impact of every transaction on the environment, employees, and local population through a screening process and an environmental and social audit. Experience has shown that many Austrian investors set a good example in the target country – for example with codes of conduct for suppliers, extensive training programmes, and excellent environmental protection and safety standards that often go far beyond the local regulations. In many of the lowest-income countries in the world, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and microbusinesses are often the entire economy. They account for as much as 90 per cent of the companies and for half or even two-thirds of all jobs. At the same time, they are often the “missing middle” in development financing. Microfinance has enjoyed great prominence since the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Muhammad Yunus, one of the pioneers of this movement. Large companies have the capacity and know-how to develop projects whose economic benefits are easy to communicate, and therefore have an easier time accessing financing. This is why Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) strives to maintain a focus on those in the middle. We provide venture capital to enable smaller companies to start or expand through investments managed by OeEB as a fiduciary for the Republic of Austria. OeEB reacts to the lack of capital in developing countries by providing financing for SMEs, and can also combine this financing with local training measures and with measures to improve the capabilities of local partners. This transfers crucial know-how to small companies and especially creates jobs and better living conditions for people in these countries. FS10 Responsible financing and investment also pertains to our proprietary portfolio. This means pursuing the three economic objectives of security, liquidity, and return. We also evaluate the effects that our investments have on others by accounting for the non-economic objectives of ethical action and sustainability. The OeKB bank group uses exclusion criteria to avoid conflicts between the consequences of an investment and the purpose of our institutions, and also to avoid risks. For this reason, companies in the arms industry are currently precluded from proprietary investment by the OeKB bank group. The exclusion list is updated very year. The decision was taken in 2019 to allocate part of the proprietary investments to green bonds, social bonds, and sustainability bonds. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 39 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Export Services GRI 102-2, 6 Good risk management and attractive financing are crucial for the lasting success of export business and investGRI 203-1, 2 ments abroad. We have specialised in this since 1950. We offer instruments that make companies stronger in global competition and that help them overcome challenges stemming from global developments on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF). In this context, we launched the Exportinvest Green product in collaboration with the BMF Further information about in 2019. It is aimed at Austrian exporters that make targeted investments to reduce harmful impacts on the environExportinvest Green can be found within the chapter ment and to make a sustainable contribution to improving the environment. The key feature is always the assumption Sustainable Finance in the OeKB bank group and of default risks to create a basis for attractive financing. In this, we stay true to the values of the OeKB bank group on OeKB’s website. by serving all sectors, acting impartially, and adhering to our sustainability policy. GRI 203-2, GRI 413-1, 2 FS6, FS9 Protecting against credit default risks Administration of guarantees by OeKB on behalf of the Republic of Austria A statistical overview of OeKB is a reliable partner of the Republic of Austria and the Austrian export industry. As an agent of the Republic of the guarantees pursuant to the AusfFG can be found Austria, it provides guarantees for export sales and domestic and foreign investments by Austrian exporters. The e­ xport in the OeKB 2019 Export guarantees are limited to non-marketable risks. Cover for marketable risks is available from private export credit ­Services annual report insurers. The guarantee system is based on the provisions of the Export Guarantees Act (AusfFG) and the respective regulations. https://www.oekb.at/­ The guarantees for covering political and commercial risks and the bill guarantees give customers access to the export-services.html Export Financing Scheme (EFS). The EFS facilitates the easier low-interest refinancing of exports and foreign direct investments. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 40 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW GUARANTEES BY REGION AND COUNTRY GROUP Valuated guarantee e­ xposure Valuated guarantee e­ xposure Commitments 2018 31 Dec 2018 Commitments 2019 31 Dec 2019 Million Million Million Million Number euros % Number euros % Number euros % Number euros % Europa (including Turkey/CIS) 265 470 8.2% 721 3,675 13.9% 241 504 8.2% 713 3,412 12.1% EU 56 124 2.2% 211 627 2.4% 53 182 2.9% 217 620 2.2% North America 7 4 0.1% 18 19 0.1% 7 5 0.1% 23 19 0.1% Latin America 90 169 3.0% 297 784 3.0% 85 325 5.3% 292 858 3.0% Asia 136 576 10.1% 663 3,454 13.1% 145 676 11.0% 659 3,488 12.4% Australia. Ozeania 1 10 0.2% 2 28 0.1% 2 28 0.1% Africa 63 311 5.4% 164 1,095 4.1% 51 298 4.8% 172 1,243 4.4% Blanket guarantees (BG) 6 1,040 3.9% 6 1,040 3.7% Total of guarantees 562 1,539 26.9% 1,871 10,096 38.1% 529 1,808 29.3% 1,867 10,087 35.8% Guarantee ­commitments (GC) 453 3,927 68.7% 3,926 15,282 57.7% 606 4,045 65.6% 4,114 16,794 59.7% Guarantees for OeEB 18 254 4.4% 100 1.089 4.1% 24 316 5.1% 111 1,267 4.5% Total 1,033 5,720 100.0% 5,897 26,467 100.0% 1,159 6,169 100.0% 6,092 28,149 100.0% Thereof (without BG. GC. OeEB): OECD 102 323 5.5% 346 1,107 4.2% 92 404 6.5% 342 1,139 4.0% Developing countries 527 1,472 25.7% 1,770 8,782 33.2% 449 1,444 23.4% 1,601 7,960 28.3% OPEC 47 77 1.3% 114 492 1.9% 31 304 4.9% 104 676 2.4% Environmental and social aspects GRI 102-11, 29, 31 OeKB reviews every application by a company for a federal government guarantee for various environmental and GRI 203-2 GRI 304-2, 4 social risks. In its capacity as fiduciary, OeKB is obligated to accept all applications for review. Products that are GRI 412-1, 2, 3 subject to the War Material Act or the Nuclear Energy Security Monitoring Act are ineligible. OeKB is not entitled GRI 413-1, 2 FS2, FS3, FS9 to define its own exclusion criteria. This screening determines whether the applications (may) entail risks in terms of negative environmental and social impacts. A decision is also made as to what review procedure to apply. More information When assessing the compatibility of the environmental and social aspects, OeKB (as the Austrian export credit agency) about environmental audits, the Common must adhere to the Common Approaches of the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development). Approaches, and These rules stipulate how to proceed with project assessments, thus establishing standardised conditions for the projects can be found on OeKB’s competition among the export credit agencies represented in the OECD. Human rights have taken on an even higher website. weighting in the assessment requirements since the revision of the Common Approaches in 2016. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 41 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Projects that do not fall under the Common Approaches due to their scope or duration but that will presumably have an environmental and social impact are evaluated separately using the watchful eye principle that was designed in conjunction with the BMF. This ensures that as many of the submitted projects as possible are evaluated for their impacts in these areas. A total of 35 projects were evaluated for their environmental and social impact in 2019. The assessment procedure divides projects into the categories of A, B, C, and E depending on the extent of the project’s potential impact. Project financing in Category A must be accompanied by monitoring at regular intervals. For all other projects, the experts conducting the assessment decide whether monitoring is appropriate. After its review, OeKB prepares a proposal that is submitted to the Advisory Committee comprised of representatives of various stakeholders for a final decision by the BMF. OeKB only plays a consulting role in the Advisory Committee. Screening of application Transaction exporting capital goods with a credit period ≥ 2 years YES Transaction value ≥ €10 million NO NO YES Sensitive area YES NO Type I: Procedure in accordance with OECD Common Approaches Type II: „Watchful Eye” procedure We decide which environmental and social audit procedures are necessary when screening the applications. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 42 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW 2019 2018 2017 2016 Category A 7 2 7 4 Category B 6 8 10 7 Category C 7 5 7 6 Category E 15 10 9 3 Total 35 25 33 20 Sectors 2019 2018 2017 2016 Thermal power plant 2 Hydroelectric power plant 7 3 6 2 Renewable energy 1 3 Chemicals (plastic) 1 1 1 Pulp and paper 5 1 4 Iron and steel 9 7 3 4 Drinking water, water treatment 3 2 5 Transport Agriculture, lumber 1 1 Transport infrastructure 2 2 2 1 Other * 8 7 13 6 Total 35 25 33 20 *Other: health care, (4), others (4) Projects under review Projects that are assigned to Category A in the assessment according to the environmental and social standards of the Common Approaches of the OECD can have significant negative, irreversible effects on the environment and society. We present Category A projects that may be awarded a federal guarantee on our website at least 30 days before a guarantee is issued. OeKB evaluated possible involvement in the Nord Stream 2 project in 2018 and 2019. This is a gas pipeline from Russia to Germany. The objective of the evaluation was to determine whether the project meets all requirements and prerequisites for the involvement of OeKB as an agent of the Republic of Austria. We attach considerable importance to dialogue with all stakeholders, including relevant NGOs, to come to a comprehensive understanding of the environmental and social impacts of a project. This dialogue took place as part of the evaluation. The environmental and social audit for Nord Stream 2 was terminated because the project was cancelled. OECD Recommendation on Bribery and Officially Supported Export Credits GRI 205-1 The international community is working to fight corruption and bribery. The OECD adopted the Action Statement on Bribery and Officially Supported Export Credits to this end in 2000, and then expanded it and converted it into an OECD recommendation in 2006. The OECD Council formally adopted an extended anti-bribery recommendation in 2019. It generally applies a broader definition to the term bribery, which now not only includes the offering of illicit consideration to foreign officials but also illicit consideration to domestic officials and business partners. This new recommendation is currently in implementation. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 43 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW The new recommendation aims to prevent bribery relating to officially supported export credits. OECD intends to further raise awareness for preventing corruption with this recommendation. To this end, exporters are also called upon to set up internal control systems in their management organisation to preclude potential cases of bribery. The OECD recommendation calls upon export credit insurance agencies such as OeKB to enact further measures to effectively prevent bribery in connection with export transactions. The Republic of Austria has committed to adhere to all of these anti-corruption measures. In its capacity as national export credit agency acting on behalf of the Republic of Austria, OeKB fully complies with the regulations set forth in the OECD Recommendation on Bribery and Officially Supported Export Credits. Information on preventing For the export guarantees, this means that the applicant must confirm for every application according to the Austrian corruption is available on the OeKB-website. Export Guarantees Act (AusfFG) that no officials will be bribed by the applicant or, to his knowledge, by his representatives or agents in connection with the transaction or transactions to be covered. In the so-called debarment check, The International Chamber of we ascertain whether the applicant is included on any exclusion lists of certain international financial institutions (IFI) Commerce (ICC) such as the World Bank or European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The new recommendation stipulates recommendations on preventing corruption that the debarment check should also include representatives and agents and any other relevant parties to the export transaction. If entries are found in a relevant debarment list, an extended review is initiated. Here, the structure of the underlying transaction and the internal rules of the applicant, agent, and/or representative are evaluated for corruption prevention aspects. We do not process the application for the issue of a guarantee until all concerns have been rectified. In future, the applicant will be required to confirm that payments (commissions) will only me made for legitimate services. There is also an ongoing monitoring process. An intensified assessment can also be conducted here, if appropriate. The OeKB bank group assists its customers in their efforts to proactively fight corruption. One primary instrument in this is raising awareness. Country reports on risk assessment Our country reports have contained social, development, and ecological indicators in addition to the corruption perception index since 2018 to make the country risk more transparent when evaluating projects. If such metrics are available for the country in question, the report also includes the Human Development Index (HDI) ranking, the Gini coefficient, and the rankings in the World Risk Index for Natural Disasters and the ease of doing business index. OeKB’s Export Financing Scheme (EFS) Information about OeKB’s Export Financing Scheme provides funding for exports and domestic and foreign investments by Austrian OeKB’s EFS can be found here: export companies. It is available to domestic and foreign banks as a source of refinancing, subject to certain criteria www.oekb.at/­ (such as a suitable credit rating). We are bound by Austrian laws and also international regulations in this, in particular export-services EU guidelines and OECD agreements. Financing at commercial terms The current EFS interest Financing for bank supplier and buyer loans and for equity investments is extended in euros and in foreign currencies rates can be found here: https://loanpricer. at variable and fixed interest rates. Until the end of 2019, the interest conditions were set based on the weighted oekb.at/public average life (WAL) of the refinancing loan. In the case of euro financing, the interest rates were published on our Read more about website, where a WAL calculator was also provided to calculate the interest conditions. Starting on 1 January 2020, ­financing special ­projects – soft loans the interest rates in the Export Financing Scheme (EFS) are calculated daily. This ensures that the EFS interest in the ­Development Financing section rates are in line with the market conditions, fair, and transparent. Furthermore, the refinancing products are simple, standardised, and strongly orientated towards market practices. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 44 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Current developments in 2019 Further information The product launched in 2017 for the financing of investments needed in Austria to fulfil export orders was expanded in about Exportinvest Green can be found within the 2019. In collaboration with the BMF, OeKB has created the option to take on additional refinancing if the new or replacechapter Sustainable ment investment entails environmentally relevant and forward-looking aspects. For example, the investment could be Finance in the OeKB bank group and targeted at reducing a company’s energy consumption by using geothermal heat pumps, HVAC systems with heat recovery on OeKB’s website. systems, solar collectors, complete LED lighting, and sophisticated insulation. This represents a new milestone in supporting the export economy. Because every domestic investment made by an exporter invigorates exports and thus ­improves Austria’s current account balance, generates additional value, and creates jobs in the country. Exportinvest Green provides a new incentive to reduce negative impacts on the environment and make a lasting contribution to improving the environment. A total of 1,159 new guarantees were issued in 2019 (a 12 per cent increase in annual comparison). The total of used guarantee facilities came to €28 billion. This reflects not only the growth of Austrian export activity, but also the commitment of the employees of OeKB to successfully process this high volume of new guarantees and loans. GRI 201-2, GRI 203-1, 2 FS7, FS8 Development Financing Financing for special projects through soft loans from OeKB The criteria for New and less-developed markets offer great opportunities for Austrian companies. In order to allow these to be seized the extension of soft loans and the more easily, OeKB also offers soft loans for certain countries under the Export Financing Scheme in collaboration with financing conditions the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF). These development cooperation loans, which can be offered at very low cost can be seen here: www.oekb.at/softthanks to government assistance, are also intended to promote the sustainable development of the target country. loan This is subject to the relevant provisions of the OECD arrangement and dependent on the approval of the Export Financing Committee. Federal funds used for this purpose are viewed as part of Austria’s official development assistance. GRI 102-2, 6, 7, 29, 31 Financing stable development through Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank (OeEB) GRI 203-1, 2 GRI 412-1, 2, 3 GRI 413-1, 2 FS2, FS3, FS7, FS8, FS9, FS11, FS13, FS14, FS15 As an agent of the federal government and the official development bank of the Republic of Austria, OeEB supports the establishment and expansion of private sector projects in developing and emerging countries and is committed More information on the to ­furthering the objectives of Austria’s development cooperation policy. It is one of the 15 European Development European Development Finance Institutions Finance Institutions (EDFI) who complement one another with their wide range of development policy and financing can be found here. activities. Further information The share capital totals €5 million and is entirely held by OeKB. The company focuses on its core business: the on OeEB’s projects and services identification, structuring, implementation, and management of eligible projects. All supporting functions such as on OeEB’s website. accounting, IT, human resources administration, internal audit, and asset management have been outsourced to OeKB on a paid basis with the approval of the Financial Market Authority (FMA). This lean organisation allows for high efficiency. The development bank has been incorporated in the sustainability management system of the OeKB bank group since its establishment. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 45 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Financing sustainable development As measured by its portfolio, OeEB has become the sixth-largest development bank in Europe over the past ten plus years. In addition to its broad geographical mandate, which enables appropriate risk diversification, OeEB puts forth the specific expertise that it has built up and the ability to structure complex international private sector projects in developing countries bilaterally and in collaboration with international entities as key advantages. A lack of access to long-term financing and capital is a major impediment to opening private businesses in developing countries. But it is in fact private businesses that create important direct jobs and a wide variety of indirect jobs through value creation chains, generate local revenue especially through higher tax receipts, and that bring foreign currency into the country. A key factor in customer selection is the concept of “responsible financing”, which refers to OeEB’s focus on international environmental and social standards, transparency, good corporate governance, and especially the creation of development policy value. OeEB acts as a complement to domestic and foreign commercial banks in its activities. It offers credit financing at near-market terms (senior loans, subordinated loans, risk sub-participation, etc.) with the required long terms and higher risk profile on the basis of guarantees from the BMF. The development bank can also invest capital in funds or companies in a fiduciary capacity on behalf of the federal government. Under the business advisory services, ­technical aid is also offered in advance of and during projects in the form of lost grants as another instrument intended especially to increase the development policy effects. OeEB strategy for 2019 to 2023 Read more about the In its new strategy period from 2019 to 2023, OeEB has above all positioned itself as a development bank that strategy “Financing our Shared Future” on focuses on specific topics in a broad regional area to diversify risk and to flexibly address the needs of its partner OeEB’s website. countries. OeEB is permitted to act in all developing countries according to the OECD’s Development Assistance Committee (DAC) list, but is obligated to assist the poorest countries. In line with our mandate, all projects of OeEB are aimed at promoting private sector development in the developing countries and in this way at contributing to the attainment of the SDGs. To this end, the following three focus areas have been defined for the 2019 to 2023 strategy cycle: ▪▪ Renewable energy, ▪▪ Micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSME)/financial inclusion, and ▪▪ Infrastructure. Around 80 per cent of new business for OeEB is to be in these three focus areas over the next five years. Beyond these focus areas, OeEB can also engage in projects with high development-policy value or that are in Austria’s foreign-policy interests and that make a valuable contribution to private sector development. These projects are assigned to the “other topics” category and are limited to a target share of 20 per cent of new business. Two overarching topics in particular are to be taken into account for all measures completed by OeEB in the coming years: ▪▪ Climate protection, and More on OeKB’s con▪▪ Gender equality. tribution “The Austrian Development Bank as a Climate Bank” OeEB sees a high degree of comparative strength in efficiently and effectively contributing to international climate to the book CSR und Klimawandel (CSR and financing goals with its instruments, and wishes to continue its role as a key provider of international climate financing Climate Change) in the chapter ­Stakeholder in Austria. OeEB is seeking to invest an average of at least 40 per cent of its new business in climate-­relevant relations and ­dialogue. projects from 2019 to 2023. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 46 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Women are more strongly affected by various dimensions of poverty (education, income, health care, etc.) than men. This is why gender equality is defined as a core objective in the SDGs (SDG 5), the EU Gender Action Plan 2016–2020 (GAP II), and Austria’s development cooperation policy. OeEB feels obligated to pursue these objectives and has begun to systematically implement gender equality measures. OeEB has defined gender equality as an overarching topic in the current strategy cycle. In this, OeEB is striving to structure all business activities (loan and equity financing, technical assistance – projects, environmental and social audits, training, etc.) in a way that prevents discrimination and strengthens the position of women in a targeted manner. OeEB will continue to finance and assist with private sector projects when they are economically feasible and contribute to the attainment of the development policy goals. The projects of OeEB contribute to the creation of jobs and national income, to the improvement of access to modern infrastructure, and to the improvement of the energy supply (especially through renewable energy projects and energy efficiency projects). Adherence to international environmental, social, and labour standards is a focus for all projects. Human rights issues are also taken into account, as is gender equality. Environmental and social standards In addition to the local and national environmental and social regulations of the country in question, OeEB also strives to bring financing projects in line with international environmental, social, and human rights standards. I­f necessary, OeEB prepares a measures catalogue with its customers in the form of an action plan that then becomes a binding requirement for the credit agreement. Compliance with the environmental and social standards is verified at regular intervals over the course of the project. OeEB views the environmental and social standards adopted by the EDFI Group, the Association of bilateral European Development Finance Institutions, as a benchmark. These include the Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability drafted by the World Bank subsidiary IFC, which have become a market standard; the Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines of the World Bank Group; and the international conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Renewable energy for developing countries FS8 More than one billion people around the world still have no access to an electrical grid. More than half of them live in Sub-Saharan Africa. With investments in off-grid solar power systems, OeEB has provided thousands of people in this part of Africa with the ability to turn on the lights at night and to charge their mobile phones. In addition to the improved quality of living, a core goal of the OeEB projects is spurring the economy, because economic growth is not possible without power. And the demand for power is rising especially rapidly in the emerging and developing countries. At the same time, developing countries are being impacted especially significantly by climate change. OeEB’s objective is to leverage the potential of renewable energy to create jobs and enable entrepreneurial activity. In order to promote growth and climate protection at the same time, it is important to bank on renewable energy sources from the start. This is why promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency in developing countries is a core focus of OeEB. The report on international climate financing, which breaks down the contributions of all relevant Austrian entities, was concluded at the end of 2019. OeEB signed contracts for international climate financing worth around €135 million in 2018, and the private climate financing mobilised through OeEB in the same year accounted for another €87 million. This makes OeEB the largest Austrian provider of eligible climate financing for developing countries by far. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 47 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Microfinance and SME financing: creating jobs FS7, FS13, Since OeEB’s founding in 2008, microfinance has been part of the bank’s toolkit for improving access to financial FS14, FS15 services in developing countries. The instrument is not a panacea for reducing poverty. But when taken beyond mere lending and viewed as a way of building up savings and obtaining insurance, it makes a sustainable contribution to development in the financial sector. More information It is critical for the success of small-loan programmes that the loans are granted responsibly and that customers about the projects of OeEB can be found are protected from accumulating excessive debt. Both goals are realisable through transparency in the m ­ icrofinance on their website ­sector. This makes it important to not only provide capital, but also to focus on capacity building, to provide ­consulting and training, to establish financial knowledge, and to support local banks and funds in better assessing risks and developing tailored products. Micro loans make it possible for many people to build their own small businesses. Micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSME) are the backbone of the economy in many developing countries. OeEB thus not only provides capital for microfinance, but also for the development of SMEs. In India, for example, OeEB has extended a loan of $15 million to Satin Creditcare Network, one of the leading microfinance institutions in the country. Women in India often have only limited access to banking services and loans because they cannot provide collateral. Thus, Satin Creditcare has made it its mission to provide financial support for low-earning female entrepreneurs to improve their household budgets and to promote an economically productive environment. With an average micro loan volume equating to €400 per borrower, Satin Creditcare facilitates the procurement of farming equipment and tools (such as tractors and sewing machines) or livestock, the opening of new businesses, and the expansion of existing micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Satin Creditcare is certified according to the Smart Campaign client protection principles, one of the most respected distinctions for microfinance institutions that protects borrowers against excess debt and that ensures responsible lending. The loan provided by OeEB enables Satin Creditcare to expand its business, especially in rural areas. This will not only make a contribution to strengthening the private sector and reducing poverty in the country, but will also improve equality in an area with one of the the largest gender gaps in the world. Gender issues The focus on gender-relevant issues has been implemented in multiple areas. A Gender Action Plan was developed in 2019 and covers internal and external gender aspects. The first step covered the development of the Gender Smart Finance product under the “MSME/financial inclusion” focus area and the integration of gender equality into the ­social and environmental audit. For this, OeEB was able to set up internal capacities, arrange training for all employees, and develop standardised tools for the OeEB customers with external support. The Development Effectiveness Rating Tool (DERa) ensures the collection of gender-relevant data. At the customer level, the number of jobs for women (including the subset of women in leadership positions), the resulting share of female staff, and special measures and benefits for female employees are documented. At the OeEB level, additionality can be enhanced by setting a special gender focus in technical assistance measures or in financing requirements. The goal is to increase awareness for gender issues among OeEB’s employees and customer base and to have them take appropriate steps to ensure gender equality. This can make a contribution to the qualitative additionality of OeEB. Development policy effects FS9 A results framework was drawn up in 2011 to allow the various objectives pursued by OeEB to be measured. This planning and management tool contains indicators including targets, and in this way provides information about to what extent OeEB is fulfilling its legal mandate. A new results framework was also drawn up on the basis of the new OeEB strategy for 2019 to 2023 and contains only a limited number of core indicators. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 48 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Different indicators were defined for the development policy, economic, and strategic goals of OeEB – for example newly installed renewable energy capacity, the regional project breakdown, and the number of people who have benefited from capacity building measures – and are evaluated at the portfolio level. This allows goal attainment to be tracked continuously and operational changes to be made at an early stage when needed. Further i­nformation on To evaluate the development-policy effects, all financing projects are assessed with a version of the Development impact measurement can be found in the Effectiveness Rating Tool (DERa) from Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG) that we have chapter ­Sustainable specifically adapted for our needs. DERa applies international best practices by primarily using quantitative and ­Development Goals. harmonised indicators, and has been applied to the entire portfolio and new business of OeEB since the beginning of 2019. DERa assesses what development contribution our customers make and show the changes that have taken place since our investment. In this way, DERa allows us to report on the development-policy effects of our financing, manage the overall development-policy quality of our portfolio, and generate positive impetus for improvement. The development contributions of each customer are evaluated in five impact categories based on the SDGs: decent jobs, local income, market and sector development, environmental stewardship, and community benefits. The “Business and Development” committee is composed of representatives from the finance ministry, the Federal Chancellery, the foreign affairs and economic ministries, the Austrian Development Agency (ADA), the Austrian F­ ederal Economic Chamber, the Chamber of Labour, and OeEB and assesses these development policy effects. This also ensures close contact with our principal, the Republic of Austria, and with representatives of interest representation Our publications groups and development cooperation organisations. such as the OeEB ­Development Report or the OeEB annual r­ eport can be found on The various indicators in the results framework are compiled on an annual basis and shown in the OeEB’s website. OeEB Development Report. Operating Principles for Impact Management As one of 60 organisations, OeEB was one of the first signatories to the Operating Principles for Impact Management, which were officially launched at the spring meeting of the IMF World Bank Group in Washington, D.C. on 12 April 2019. Impact investing has become increasingly important in recent years and more and more investors are adding impact investments – investments that generate measurable social and ecological effects in addition to the financial return – to their portfolios. However, there are not yet uniform standards for the management of impact investments and no clear distinction between impact investing and other forms of responsible investment. To address this, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) collaborated with leading asset managers, development banks, and financial institutions to draw up the Operating Principles for Impact Management. The goal is to create a clear common market standard for impact investing and thereby to achieve greater transparency, credibility, and discipline. Gutmann OeEB Impact Fund The first joint project of OeEB and Bank Gutmann was launched successfully in 2019. This cooperation between OeEB and a private bank broaches new territory and opens up new avenues for institutional investors. Impact investing refers to the simultaneous striving for financial return and predefined social and/or ecological objectives. With the Gutmann OeEB Impact Fund, the private bank and OeEB have brought a product to the market where an investment makes a contribution to achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. These include fighting poverty, gender equality, fair working conditions, and responsible production. The joint impact approach makes these goals more concrete, and above all measurable by means of the DERa tool. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 49 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW What makes this cooperation so unique is that each financial institution can fully apply its respective competencies. OeEB boasts more than ten years of experience in impact investing in the private sector in developing and emerging countries as well as know-how and experience in the field of impact measurement. Bank Gutmann has 20 years of private equity expertise and currently manages five funds-of-funds with over 50 executed investments to date and a volume of €260 million. The division of tasks is clear: Experts from OeEB draw up proposals, and the investment committee consisting of independent impact experts and financial professionals from Bank Gutmann makes the final decision and approves the investment. In addition to the financial return, the primary goal is improving the living conditions for people in developing and emerging countries. The Gutmann OeEB Impact Fund will invest in around ten private equity funds that in turn invest in three continents, 20 to 30 countries, and around 100 companies. Developments in products and services in 2019 GRI 102-8 The year 2019 saw highly positive growth and also brought many requests for financing from new and existing FS8 ­customers as a result of intensified project acquisition activities, with a number of deals being signed. There were 65 employees as at 31 December 2019. The total transaction volume based on contracts signed in 2019 was around €322.2 million. The profit for the year was €5.756 million. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 50 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Capital Market Services GRI 102-2, 6 As a central service provider for the capital market, we strive to strengthen Austria’s competitiveness in a global GRI 103-2, 3 GRI 203-2 ­environment and thus to make a material contribution to the success of our economy. We see ourselves as a neutral intermediary between the various market participants. Our goal is to support the Austrian capital market More information on all our services and and to enhance Austria as an internationally respected financial market by offering economically relevant services. responsibilities can ­Commissioned by the federal government to complete a number of different tasks, we develop infrastructure be found on OeKB’s website. ­services that result in greater efficiency for all market participants. Organisation and administration of Austrian government bond issues More information OeKB is the agent for the issuance of bonds of the Republic of Austria through auctions. The auctions are held according to is ­available on www.oekb.at/govbonds a clear procedure. The special Austrian Direct Auction System platform (ADAS) that was developed by OeKB is used for this. At the end of every year, the Austrian Treasury (OeBFA) announces the expected issuance volume of Austrian government bonds and the auction calendar for the next year. The auctions are generally held monthly. Besides being issued through the auction procedure, bonds are also issued through a syndicate of banks. Furthermore, OeKB acts as the paying and calculation agent for government bonds of the Republic of Austria. The use of blockchain technology for issuing government bonds OeKB has used blockchain technology for the purposes of data notarisation in Austrian government bonds auctions since October 2018. This notarisation service documents the authenticity of the reports sent to the auction participants, thus ensuring maximum data security. Notarisation by means of blockchain technology is a new, supplementary support process for the auction procedure. Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) More information on the As a service partner of one of the world’s largest LEI registration agents, WM Datenservice, OeKB reviews LEI applications range of data of OeKB’s Capital Market Services from Austrian companies and funds, providing this agent with an experienced contact in Austria. OeKB currently manages is available on around 18,000 LEIs of Austrian applicants and entities. WM Datenservice manages some 145,000 LEIs, and roughly OeKB’s website. 1.5 million LEIs have been assigned worldwide to date. The increasing use of the LEI in reporting shows how important this identification number is becoming. Notification office under the Capital Market Act and issue calendar The notification office provides information about compliance with the publication requirements for entities offering products on the capital market as specified in the Capital Market Act. A list of investment prospectuses and investment supplements filed with the notification office can be called up on the Internet. Copies of the filed prospectuses according to the Capital Market Act (KMG), Investment Fund Act (InvFG), and Real Estate Investment Fund Act (ImmoInvFG) can be obtained for a fee upon request. The coming into force of the EU Prospectus Regulation resulted in the following changes: The notification office publishes the securities prospectuses approved by the FMA and submitted to the Austrian ­authorities on or after 21 July 2019 at https://meldestelle-online.oekb.at under the tab “Prospectus D ­ ocumentation”. These ­securities prospectuses no longer need to be filed. All planned and past issues can be viewed in the issue calendar free of charge via the online notification office at https://meldestelle-online.oekb.at. The issue calendar has proven to be an important source of information for the capital market. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 51 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW NUMBER OF FILED PROSPECTUSES FOR FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OFFERED IN AUSTRIA 250 200 150 100 50 0 2017 2018 2019 Base prospectuses of Austrian issuers Base prospectuses of non-Austrian issuers Fund prospectuses of Austrian issuers Fund prospectuses of non-Austrian issuers Investment prospectuses of Austrian issuers Investment prospectuses of non-Austrian issuers Notices and calculations for investment funds The exact calculation of the tax assessed against a fund is a complex task that OeKB conducts centrally on the basis of its legal mandate and the reported data. The calculated tax treatment is published on the OeKB’s Profitweb data portal and forwarded to the banks through interfaces to enable the exact assessment of the capital gains tax. Tax-relevant data were forwarded and the income tax treatment determined for around 45,000 domestic and foreign funds in 2019. The OeKB bank group over the life cycle of a security OeKB Capital Market Services and the OeKB subsidiaries OeKB CSD and CCP.A offer highly specialised services at every stage in the life cycle of a security. We have been commissioned by the federal government to offer part of these services, and we also independently develop infrastructure services that are attractive alternatives to proprietary developments for capital market participants. In this way, we boost the efficiency and cut the costs of our customers’ processes. Our innovations are driven above all by the requirements of our customer base, suggestions from our employees, and the advancing harmonisation of the European internal market for securities. When refining our services, we collaborate closely with the Vienna Stock Exchange and the participants on the capital market and coordinate with the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF), the Financial Market Authority (FMA), and Oesterreichische Nationalbank (OeNB). S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 52 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW ISIN-Allocation OeKB allocates an ISIN for new securities and records the master data. RY ­Notification Office – New-Issue Calendar/Prospectuses UTO STAT LE OeKB Preparations RO receives capital market prospectuses and mandatory notifications to the new-issue for Issues calendar as the statutory notification office. Global Certifi­cates OeKB CSD verifies the authenticity of the global ­certificate and accepts it for safe custody. First Time Credit OeKB CSD Primary first time credits to a securities account (in accordance with settlement instructions from the market participants). Market Clearing & Risk Management Settlement CCP.A OeKB CSD is responsible for the clearing & risk books securities & cash in accordance management for transactions on W ­ iener with the settlement instructions of the Secondary Market ­Börse and manages the settlement and market participants or CCPs. default risk. Asset Servicing OeKB CSD manages the securities accounts of the market participants and processes interest and dividend payments, redemptions and corporate actions. RY OAM Issuer Info UTO STAT LE RO OeKB saves and publishes m ­ andatory and optional information of listed issuers via OAM I­ssuer Info: issuerinfo.oekb.at Ongoing Services RY Notification Office – Filing Documents UTO STAT LE RO OeKB receives supplements to prospectuses and key investor information ­documents and provides information on these as the statutory notification office. UTO RY Notification Office – Tax Data STAT LE RO OeKB receives tax-relevant data for Austrian and international tax-reporting funds and determines the income-tax treatment from this before publishing the data. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 53 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW OeKB CSD GmbH GRI 102-2, 6 OeKB CSD GmbH (OeKB CSD) is a 100 per cent subsidiary of OeKB and acts as the central depository of t­ ransferable GRI 103-2, 3 securities in Austria. The customers of OeKB CSD consist primarily of banks and issuers. It conducts its b­ usiness in More information close cooperation with the Vienna Stock Exchange and CCP Austria Abwicklungsstelle für Börsengeschäfte GmbH (CCP.A). on all services and ­responsibilities can be found on OeKB CSD draws on its expertise to support the legislative process and the implementation of EU Directives. OeKB CSD’s website. It provides infrastructure for capital market transactions and thereby supports Austria as a place to do business. Simple and reasonable financing is offered to Austrian companies via the capital market within the legal framework. This supports the competitiveness of Austrian companies in a globalised environment. At the same time, a functioning domestic capital market secures highly qualified jobs. Notary services and safekeeping Taking delivery of securities into the safekeeping and custodianship of OeKB CSD and the registration in OeKB CSD’s IT system are a precondition for being able to settle securities transactions electronically. Collective custody offers the banks that hold securities at OeKB CSD a high level of efficiency and security in the safekeeping of their assets, thereby saving them time and reducing costs in their in-house securities account business. 31 Dec 2018 31 Mar 2019 30 June 2019 30 Sept 2019 31 Dec 2019 Issuer CSD 312,390 310,614 309,515 314,320 308,516 Securities with nominal value in million euros Investor CSD 14,032 12,068 11,952 11,326 10,791 Issuer CSD 263,565 266,740 253,648 259,929 268,348 Market value Unit-listed in million euros Investor CSD 1,827 1,944 1,964 2,042 2,038 securities Issuer CSD 7,801 7,566 7,425 7,421 7,429 Units in million Investor CSD 398 406 393 419 396 Issuer CSD 14,285 14,642 14,261 14,481 13,885 Number of securities categories Investor CSD 1,383 1,216 1,223 1,204 1,200 The number of securities categories held as an issuer CSD came to 13,885 at the end of the year. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 54 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Settlement A transfer effected by book entries on deposits at OeKB CSD replaces the movement of actual securities certificates. The platform TARGET2-Securities (T2S) facilitates the harmonised settlement of securities transactions in central bank money throughout Europe. This eliminates barriers in cross-border settlement and increases security and efficiency. Av./m Av./m Ø M 01Ø M 04Ø M 07Ø M 10Σ 012018 2019 03/2019 06/2019 09/2019 12/2019 12/2019 Number of Intra 106,759 112,059 113,743 112,255 111,407 110,829 1,344,703 transactions Cross/ 2,978 3,102 3,249 3,066 3,081 3,013 37,226 external Settled Volume Intra 54,580 38,153 45,807 35,207 31,313 40,286 457,838 Nominal Value in Cross/ 272 341 683 137 267 275 4,088 Euro million External Settled Volume Intra 675 555 501 582 523 615 6,663 Units in million Cross/ 8 17 9 26 20 13 206 External OeKB CSD processed more than 1.3 million intra transactions in 2019, 5.0 per cent more than in 2018. This equated to a settled volume of €457.84 billion for securities with a nominal value, a 30 per cent decrease over 2018, and a 17.7 per cent year-on-year decrease in the volume of unit-listed securities to 6.66 billion units. The number of cross and external transactions rose by 4.2 per cent in annual comparison to just over 37,000 ­transactions. This equated to a settled volume of €4.09 billion for securities with a nominal value, a 25.3 per cent increase over 2018, and a more than two-fold year-on-year increase in the volume of unit-listed securities to 0.21 billion units. Asset servicing OeKB CSD does all the administrative work that can arise in the course of a complete securities cycle for the national and international securities placed in its safekeeping. This includes the fulfilment of maturing claims such as coupon payments and redemptions. Redemption of maturing claims in 2019: 10,740 cases (mainly for earnings payments). This figure only pertains to securities held in a vault. Current developments in 2019 The year 2019 saw a steady to positive business trend. The existing projects were continued successfully and new projects were launched. Significant milestones for our customers included the improvements in the automated processing of capital measures and new functions for securities settlement. Together with our customers, OeKB CSD GmbH (OeKB CSD) was actively involved in the definition of the concrete national implementation of the SRD II (revised Shareholder Rights Directive) and of the settlement discipline pursuant to the CSDR (Central Securities Depositories Regulation). As set forth in the CSDR, the Financial Market Authority as the competent authority completed the first annual audit of OeKB CSD. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 55 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW The “MegaCor Phase 2” project was continued. The objective of this project is to replace the existing IT systems for capital measures by expanding the existing MegaCor system, as well as to facilitate the more efficient, secure, and customer-friendly settlement of capital measures. The project is expected to be completed in the middle of 2020. OeKB CSD also launched the “Settlement Discipline” project to implement the extensive measures defined in the CSDR (Central Securities Depositories Regulation) to prevent failed settlement, for reporting, and for penalties for failed settlement. The corresponding provisions of the CSDR will come into force on 14 September 2020 (or in November 2020 in some cases). The SRD II (revised Shareholder Rights Directive) requires banks managing securities accounts to provide stock companies with the names of the holders of securities accounts (shareholders or depositories) containing their shares upon request by these companies. In addition, issuers are required to submit event data relating to securities to the respective issuer CSD in electronic form. The “SRD” project was launched to meet these requirements and is to be completed in the second half of 2020. In the “3i” (3 Issuer CSD) project, the provider selection was concluded under a preliminary project. The objective here is the digitalisation of notary lifecycle management taking into account the de-materialisation of securities set forth in the government programme for 2020 to 2024 and the fulfilment of maturing claims, and also the creation of standardised electronic interfaces to issuers and their agents. Energy Market Services GRI 102-2, 6 Since the Austrian energy market was liberalised, OeKB has been commissioned to conduct financial clearing, risk GRI 103-2, 3 GRI 203-2 management, and credit rating services by the following companies as a central and neutral agency: ▪▪ A&B Ausgleichsenergie & Bilanzgruppen-Management AG, More information is available on ▪▪ AGCS Gas Clearing and Settlement AG, OeKB’s website. ▪▪ APCS Power Clearing and Settlement AG, ▪▪ EXAA Energy Exchange Austria, ▪▪ OeMAG Abwicklungsstelle für Ökostrom AG. Financial clearing includes posting, invoice creation, invoice dispatch, and payment processing. The individual settlement agents and the electricity exchange provide all master and billing data. OeKB calculates and posts the receivables and payables on the basis of these data. The value of the required collateral is recalculated on an ongoing basis as part of our risk management service. We manage collateral pledged for the settlement agents and the electricity exchange and realise this collateral when payment obligations are not met. During the credit check, OeKB evaluates the economic, legal, financial, and staff situation of the market participant and assigns it to a rating class. As an additional service for the market participants, OeKB also offers the management of cash deposit and settlement accounts. OeKB’s tasks have also included the settlement of tariff receivables for green electricity for some time already. OeKB has also been providing clearing bank services with European Commodity Clearing AG (ECC) since 2012 and is an active general clearing member (GCM). ECC is an important European clearing house that handles settlement for a number of energy exchanges. As a GCM, OeKB handles collateral management and financial spot transaction clearing on selected energy exchanges for non-clearing members (NCM) of the ECC. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 56 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW SMOOTH AND COST-EFFICIENT PROCESSING OeMAG Clearing and Settlement Agency for Green Electricity A&B/AGCS/APCS Balance Group Coordinator OeKB Financial Clearing Risk Management EXAA Energy Exchange Market participants Traders on the energy market, facility operators, generators, suppliers, utilities, grid operators The participants in the Austrian energy market profit from the processing by OeKB – including the settlement agents and NCM that trust in OeKB as a GCM. Cost-efficient processing ultimately benefits all consumers. And the environment benefits from an attractive promotion system for alternative energy, which OeKB also helps to drive forward. Current developments in 2019 OeKB has been handling the payout of the provincial subsidy for biomass for OeMAG since October 2019. EXAA has been providing its traders access to the common European day ahead market through the 12:00 auction since July 2019. We ensure secure and efficient payment processing as a partner of EXAA. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 57 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW Sustainable finance in the OeKB bank group 102-2, -15 With the signing of the Paris Agreement on climate change in 2015, the international community set the goal of limiting 103-1,-2,-3; 203-2, FS16 the global temperature increase compared with the pre-industrial level to well below 2°C by the end of the 21st century, and of striving to keep the increase below 1.5°C. Meeting this 1.5°C limit will require zero net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by no later than 2050, and the financial industry has a key role to play here. Article 2 paragraph 1c of the Paris Agreement sets forth the explicit goal of aligning capital flows with climate-friendly and resilient development. The efforts being undertaken by governments and the financial industry in the areas of green finance and sustainable finance are aimed at turning this into reality. #mission2030 Lighthouse 8 – Green Finance Agenda The Austrian climate and energy strategy titled #mission2030 was adopted by the federal government on 28 May 2018 and is intended to mark the end of the fossil-fuel age. The topic of green finance has been defined as a specific focus in #mission2030, Lighthouse 8. The Federal Ministry for Sustainability and Tourism (BMNT) and the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) as the responsible ministries initiated an intense dialogue between financial market participants, other stakeholders, and the public sector in 2019 to draft a joint Green Finance Agenda. Several workshops, a major stakeholder event, and working groups on the focus areas of “green finance pact”, “green financial literacy”, and “climate risk management” were held as part of the green finance focal group. The OeKB bank group participated in all meetings and made an active and significant contribution to the EU action plan for the promotion of sustainable finance and to the Austrian Green Finance Agenda with its new products. Exportinvest Green More information on Austrian exporters have had access to this new and especially attractive financing option for new and replacement important preconditions and the application investments in Austria since 1 June 2019. The facility is aimed at Austrian exporters that make targeted investments to form are available on reduce negative environmental impacts and to make long-term contributions to environmental improvements. Through OeKB’s website. Exportinvest Green, companies with an export ratio of at least 20 per cent and an investment sum of over €2 million are given the opportunity to cover an additional 20 per cent of the investment sum and thus more easily up to 100 per cent of their Exportinvest financing sum at the attractive OeKB conditions. Exportinvest Green is intended as an incentive to make more environmentally relevant and forward-looking investments, for example targeted at reducing a company’s energy consumption by using geothermal heat pumps, HVAC systems with heat recovery systems, solar collectors, complete LED lighting, and sophisticated insulation. This new avenue of support was realised in collaboration with the BMF. Exportinvest Green was one of the first measures implemented under the Green Finance Agenda of the Austrian federal government. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 58 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW OeKB Sustainable Financing Framework Our Sustainable According to an EU Commission estimate, at least €180 billion in additional EU funding will be needed every year to achieve Financing Framework and the ­corresponding the climate and energy goals in the Paris Climate Agreement and to thus limit global warming to well below 2°C by 2030. Second Party Opinion The OeKB bank group will be making a contribution to this as part of the new sustainable finance programme. We adopted by Sustainalytics can be downloaded from a Sustainable Financing Framework with mandatory guidelines for the issue of sustainable bonds and clear regulations OeKB’s website. for the use of the generated proceeds in 2019. This Sustainable Financing Framework now allows OeKB to issue green bonds, social bonds, and sustainability bonds. These are bonds whose proceeds can only be used for the (re)financing of environmental and social projects, or a combination of both. This framework was drawn up by a team of experts from different departments of OeKB and OeEB (Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG) and is oriented towards the Green Bond Principles, Social Bond Principles, and Sustainability Bond Guidelines of the International Capital Market Association (ICMA). This framework was reviewed and approved by Sustainalytics, one of the leading independent ESG (environmental, social and governance) and corporate governance research agencies. OeKB’s Sustainable Financing Framework defines criteria for eligible projects in seven “green” and four social categories and focuses on the following topics: renewable energy, energy efficiency, pollution prevention, ecologically sustainable resource management, sustainable water use, clean transport, adaptations to climate change such as flood protection and reforestation, measures for job creation, access to basic social services such as health care and education, basic infrastructure in developing countries, and affordable housing. First sustainability bond OeKB’s presentation for OekB issued its first sustainability bond on 1 October 2019. The bond features the unconditional and explicit investors including our Sustainability Bond can guarantee of the Republic of Austria and has a term of seven years and a nominal value of €500 million. The bond was be downloaded from presented to investors by way of a roadshow covering Vienna, Paris, London, Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Oslo, Copenhagen, OeKB’s website. and Helsinki. The issue was significantly oversubscribed and the order book was closed with a commitment of nearly €1.7 billion and 72 investors. In this way, OeKB is making a further contribution to the EU action plan for the promotion of sustainable finance and to the Austrian Green Finance Agenda. The net issue proceeds of the sustainability bond are being allocated to the (re)financing of social projects (70 per cent) and to the (re)financing of environmental projects (30 per cent). A substantial 38 per cent of the capital is earmarked for improvements to the health care and education systems in developing countries. For example, this will allow the creation of 622 new hospital beds for basic medical care and the modernisation of 5.110 hospital spaces for 1.8 million people. Educational opportunities will also be improved for more than 1,500 students. Thirty per cent of the issue proceeds are earmarked for renewable energy in the form of the construction of climate-friendly electricity generation systems with a capacity of 142 MW. Twenty per cent of the proceeds or €100 million will go to SME financing in Austria to create new jobs. The remaining 12 per cent will be used to modernise the drinking water supply and refurbish and expand 74 km of water lines for around 54,000 people. Broken down by region, 48 per cent of the net issue proceeds are going to Europe, followed by Asia (31 per cent), Africa (15 per cent), and Latin America (6 per cent). Examples of financed projects Further information The construction of a water supply system in the city of Altai in Mongolia is one of the projects that falls under about Tiroler Rohre GmbH, their business the category “basic infrastructure for developing countries” in the bond. The project is supporting the Millennium areas and services development programme in Mongolia and will contribute to improving the water supply in Altai. The drinking water is availabe on their website. was previously taken from the groundwater, which receded as a consequence of climate change and which was also contaminated with a range of chemicals. The Austrian cast pipe manufacturer Tiroler Rohre GmbH is completing this project as general contractor together with the Viennese planning specialist ÖSTAP Engineering. The project covers water extraction from the reservoir close to the city of Taishir, a water purification system, roughly 55 km of transport pipes including a pump station, and a water reservoir with a capacity of 2,000 m3. In addition to the ­mechanical, electrical, and control equipment and the construction and engineering services, the local technicians are being trained in the installation of the pipes and the proper operation of the system. The climatic conditions in Mongolia and very low winter temperatures that can reach minus 40°C are a particular challenge in this project. The pipes had to S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 59 TO HELP BUSINESS GROW be laid four meters below the surface to be beneath the frost line. Ductile cast pipes with the proven VRS-T connection system were used to cope with the high water pressures and the difficult installation conditions. Around 18,000 inhabitants in the city of Altai will have access to high-quality water. This project addresses the SDGs 1, 3, 6, and 9. An example of a project in the category of “renewable energy” is the construction of a wind farm in Serbia. The Serbian electricity supply is still based largely on coal. When energy demand increases, especially in the winter, bottlenecks are frequent and require the import of electricity from other countries. The 69 MW wind farm co-financed by OeEB is being built near the town of Zagajica, which is close to the Romanian border. This is the largest wind power project in Serbia and is intended to be a model for further renewable energy projects in the country. Increasing the share of renewable energy in the electricity mix will sustainably improve the country’s power supply and contribute to protecting the climate. This project addresses the SDGs 1, 7, 9, 13, and 17. Oesterreischische Entwicklungsbank Read more The Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) took the high-ranking Africa-Europe forum that was held under the title of “Taking about OeEB’s Sustainable cooperation to the digital age” in December 2018 as an opportunity to launch the African-Austrian SME Investment Finance activities Facility. OeEB was commissioned to manage the investment facility for which €100 million has been allocated for smaller in the chapter ­Development investments by Austrian SMEs in Africa. The goal is to facilitate sustainable projects in Africa, thus contributing to Financing employment and stabilisation in these countries. OeEB received around 100 inquiries pertaining to the African-Austrian SME Investment Facility in 2019, confirming the high level of interest in this product among Austrian businesses. Many of these projects are still in the preparation and structuring phase. OeEB also intends to expand its activities in Africa to around 20 per cent of its new business, which equates to roughly €55 million per year. EU action plan on financing sustainable growth After receiving recommendations from the High-level Expert Group on Sustainable Finance in March 2018, the Commission passed a set of measures in May 2018 for the implementation of a number of key actions that had been announced in its action plan for sustainable finance. The measures include: ▪▪ Proposal for a regulation creating a framework to ease sustainable investment. This regulation is to create the prerequisites and foundation for the gradual creation of a uniform classification system (taxonomy) for what qualifies as ecologically sustainable business activity. ▪▪ Proposal for a regulation on the disclosure of information about sustainable investment and sustainability risks. ▪▪ Proposal for a regulation amending the Benchmark Regulation. The proposed amendment will create a new category of benchmarks covering low-carbon activities and positive impacts on carbon emissions and will provide investors better information about the carbon footprint of their investments. The regulations on the taxonomy, disclosure, and benchmarks were completed and adopted in 2019. The disclosure and benchmark regulations were already published in 2019. The taxonomy regulation is to be published in the first half of 2020. Heidrun Schmid, OeKB employee and experienced expert in the area of environmental and social audits, was recruited for a working group addressing the creation of the taxonomy after an applicant screening process. Over a period of several months, weekly teleconferences, one meeting in Brussels, e-mail correspondence, and independent research all contributed to the creation of the technical report on the EU taxonomy containing the criteria that a sustainable investment must meet. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 60 TO HELP DRIVE INNOVATION To help drive innovation GRI 102-15 It is our mission to bolster the local economy and Austria as a place to do business in global competition through our GRI 103-1, 2, 3 services. In order to ensure that the OeKB bank group and Austria as a place to do business remain strong in future, our innovation management team addresses a variety of forward-looking topics. And true to our open innovation ­approach, we collaborate with external partners such as start-ups and universities and leverage the innovative potential of our employees. In times where digital disruption is shaking up the financial world, we have set ourselves the goal of assessing innova­tions on the financial market in terms of compatibility with our business model and incorporating them into our operations. The effects of digitalisation impact not only our own business models, but also those of our customer base and other stakeholders. That said, effectively handling the digital transition is a top priority for the OeKB bank group. This attitude allows us to ideally design and expand our services in step with market changes. The Austrian capital market and the Republic of Austria have trusted in our competence in capital market-related securities services for decades. Since the liberalisation of the Austrian electricity and gas market, there have been independent settlement agents that use our know-how. As an extremely specialised service provider of capital market and energy market services, we help to shape and drive the capital and energy markets by developing innovative infrastructure. You can read In the areas of Export Services ad development financing, we work continuously to make a contribution to meeting more about our Sustainable Finance the global challenges of our time with innovative products and services, for example to improve climate and e­ nvironmental activities in the ­protection and to fight social inequality. Our sustainable finance activities in 2019 included the publication of a chapter ­Sustainable finance in the OeKB Sustainable Financing Framework, the issue of our first sustainability bond, and the offering of additional support to bank group. companies that invest in environmental improvement measures through the Exportinvest Green product that was developed in collaboration with the BMF. Exportinvest Green is one of the first measures implemented under the Green Finance Agenda of the Austrian federal government. Together with Bank Gutmann, OeEB issued the first Impact Fund, a product that allows investment in instruments that make a contribution to reaching the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This cooperation between OeEB and a private bank broaches new territory opens up new avenues for institutional investors. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 61 TO HELP DRIVE INNOVATION Innovation management Further information The innovation management team at the OeKB bank group began its work in September 2017 and is a source of i­mpetus, on our Innovation ­Management is especially in topics such as digitalisation, corporate culture, trend analyses, and co-creation. The activities are ­available on coordinated by the innovation manager of the OeKB bank group, who reports directly to the OeKB Executive Board. OeKB’s website. In this way, the Executive Board defines the strategic orientation of the OeKB bank group together with the department heads and top management of the subsidiaries. The results of the individual measures are evaluated regularly to ensure that innovations play a central and active role in OeKB. And true to its open innovation approach, OeKB also cooperates closely with weXelerate, Central Europe’s largest innovation hub, and other external partners. New ways of working are applied for internal and external projects on a regular basis to reach our objectives efficiently with the help of modern project management methods. This not only helps us to optimise internal processes, but also leads to a high degree of satisfaction among our customers. In co-creation projects, the customer’s needs are evaluated on site and taken into account in how we complete our work. All employees can use our InnoSpace as a place for creative thinking and innovation. These rooms at the Strauchgasse site are intended to be an innovation hub where modern, productive creation is not fettered. Since its opening, the InnoSpace has been used by many employees for workshops and project group meetings. Our employees play a decisive role in sustainably anchoring innovations in the company. For this reason, at least one contact person for innovation, called a mentor, has been appointed in each department. This allows trends, technologies, methods, and ideas to be discussed quickly with the respective peers to evaluate and refine them or to end their assessment. All employees are invited to contribute – because every change, idea, or incident can trigger new innovative ­solutions. A key task for the innovation manager is recognising internal potential and communicating innovations within the Group. The innovation manager and his team handle the collection, collation, evaluation, coordination, initiation, and marketing of new possibilities. Ongoing exchange and communication with the various stakeholders is crucial in this and takes place through meetings with the mentor network, in face-to-face meetings, at internal events, and also through the dedicated intranet site. It is key at all times to look beyond the boundaries of one’s specific area to recognise potential, and we constantly strive to convey this. Cultural change Read more about Innovation management is also important in the organisational development of OeKB for and with its employees. OeKB’s ThinkTank event in the chapter The focus here is placed on creating a conducive framework for innovation. Cross-departmental work is promoted Stakeholder relations through networking measures, which also fosters an open attitude towards new ideas. This involved the introduction and dialogue. of two new events in 2019, for example. At the first OeKB ThinkTank event, expert presentations and workshops More about our expanded participant’s horizons. And through Knowledge Coffee inspired by the Dutch development bank FMO, ­Know­ledge Coffee can be found in the chapter ­employees were provided with a platform for knowledge exchange and networking that is used across all departments ­To help employees advance. and subsidiaries. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 62 TO HELP DRIVE INNOVATION Collaboration with weXelerate More information is We have been active in the weXelerate start-up hub as a corporate leader and mentor since 2017. Executive Board available on www.wexelerate.com member Angelika Sommer-Hemetsberger has been chairwoman of the advisory board of weXelerate since the autumn of 2018. The objective of weXelerate is to bring start-ups, established players, and investors together to move forward with innovative business models. OeKB is involved as a corporate leader together with the subsidiary ACREDIA. The ­exchange with the innovation and strategy managers at other companies regardless of sector is very valuable for building common knowledge. It also forms the basis for cross-company collaboration. A three-month proof of concept project was launched with a start-up in 2018 and yielded a feedback tool for employees. A number of hurdles were encountered during this proof of concept, especially relating to the user-friendliness of the tool and its compatibility with the existing IT systems and user habits. For this reason, the proof of concept was ended without subsequent collaboration. The experiences gathered from the proof of concept project were subsequently used for the redefinition of the criteria for start-up selection. This led to the initiation of collaboration with a different start-up, whose feedback tool met the more stringent requirements. Talks were also conducted on potential collaboration with two other start-ups, one a Swiss firm that offers comprehensive and innovative authentication solutions for digital products and portals, and another from America that may be able to resume the use case pilot project that was terminated in 2018. Decisions about proof of concept projects and collaboration with these start-ups will be made at the beginning of 2020. The OeKB customer platform The winning idea from the 2018 lean innovation workshop, which was turned into the digital prototype STELLA, was the spark for a major innovative project: the OeKB customer platform. The OeKB customer platform has an ambitious vision: All OeKB services are to be handled centrally and digitally over this platform in future. The primary driver for this vision is the benefits for our customers. All services are to have a uniform look and feel with a single login and are to be centrally available and processed on a single platform. This approach and the interim results generated by the different project stages are tested regularly with customers, and the feedback we receive is implemented immediately. The second phase of the project, which consists of the implementation of the basic portal functions and the integration of the first services, is currently under way. Initial results are expected at the beginning of the third quarter of 2020. Online Identifikation via MICK OeKB introduced an online identification function for efficient and secure identity verification for banking transactions in 2019. This eliminates the need for personal identification with local notarisation and international authentication. Now, identification at OeKB is also possible online by means of video identification, or Video ID. In this way, we offer our customers an additional, modern way to verify their identity in over 137 countries by means of the highly secure video identification method MICK (My Identity Check) from the Austrian technology provider youniqx Identity AG. This makes banking transactions more efficient, quicker, and less expensive. The process only takes a few minutes and is handled by specially trained employees of youniqx Identity AG. MICK meets all legal requirements of the Financial Market Authority for online identification according to the Financial Market Anti-Money Laundering Act. Video ID can be used on desktop and laptop computers, Android smartphones, iPhones, Android tablets, and iPads. OeEB has used the highly secure MICK video identification method since November 2018. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 63 TO HELP DRIVE INNOVATION Industry 4.0 research project – data trust and escrow services for machine data In the factories of tomorrow, machines are to work together efficiently and exchange information independently – in other words communicate. When this machine-to-machine (M2M) communication takes place between companies, clear rules and data exchange models are needed to enable efficient manufacturing logistics while at the same time treating key business information such as (raw materials) recipes or specific manufacturing details as confidential assets. Escrow agents and due diligence experts are used for this in other sectors of the economy. OeKB Group provides escrow services in many areas, including: ▪▪ Central depository function for securities through OeKB CSD, ▪▪ Data custodian and provider for fund data in connection with FundsXML, ▪▪ Service provider for electronic Austrian government bond auctions at the behest of OeBFA and the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF), and ▪▪ Data and project preparations for the processing of export guarantees and export financing as an agent of the BMF. Now, OeKB Business Services GmbH (IT subsidiary of OeKB Group) has been tasked with technically and organisationally transforming OeKB Group’s expertise in handling confidential business information so that machine data from Industry 4.0 networks can also be effectively held in safekeeping and protected, and made available in accordance with the rules when needed. The Comet Center for digital production (CDP) that was established in August 2017 is one of the leading research and development platforms for flexible manufacturing automation, machine-to-machine communication, and digital production networks. It is used for the research and refinement of digital, smart product development processes, which are now called Industry 4.0. The Industry 4.0 pilot factory is available at the Vienna University of Technology campus at Seestadt Aspern. In addition to institutes of the Vienna University of Technology, international institutions such as ETH Zurich and the Karlsruhe Institute for Technology are also participating in this Industry 4.0 project. The business partners include over 40 respected users and technology providers in the research areas of the centre. Companies now use the digital production system created by CDP to form a virtual production network. This connects the companies for detailed data exchange in order to optimise production. A group of companies can appear as a single entity, but remain autonomous. This results in better production output and faster workflows. Data exchange between operating units is a sensitive business policy matter. To eliminate friction and thus ensure more reliable planning from the outset, technical production-relevant data are extracted from the full set of data, and only these technical data are fed into a “production framework”. As an IT subsidiary of OeKB Group, OeKB Business Services GmbH (OeKB BS) acts in this case as an intermediary data custodian and ensures that each parter has the data it needs but can also trust that no sensitive data will be passed on. The project was started in 2018 and will go online in 2020. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 64 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE To help employees advance GRI 102-15 Demographic change; a lack of skilled professionals; digital disruption and the associated GRI 103-1, 2, 3 GRI 401-1, 2 need to rapidly acquire new competencies and skills; and the fundamental cultural transformation that has changed the way people view work; are all major challenges for every employer in Austria. We are also facing this challenge, but see opportunities at the same time. Companies that succeed in creating a good work-life balance have a distinct advantage in recruiting suitably qualified employees. Our human resources policy is based on long-term cooperation with our employees, high standards in training and education, and social measures that allow for an outstanding work-life balance. Digitalisation is changing not only our economy, but also the way we work. Our Future Work programme that was launched in 2018 and that was continued with a number of different activities in 2019, is one facet of our active response to this change. The goal is to adapt HOW we work so that we are better equipped to master the evolving challenges in the workplace and in society and so that we can seize the opportunities that arise from this. The HR strategy for 2020/2021 that was drawn up in 2019 addresses these topics. For example, we have defined promoting digital competencies and inter-generational cohesion in the company as focuses, along with the development of a new leadership culture. Knowledge management and knowledge transfer form another strategic focus. TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE Our promise as an employer GRI 401-2, 3 We have had the “workandfamily” audit certificate since 2006. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) was also audited for the first time as part of the recertification process in 2018. The “workandfamily” process actively involves employees and helps to continuously improve the work environment in the OeKB bank group in a targeted manner. Measures that were implemented in the past years and that have become part of our working world include: ▪▪ Ongoing, comprehensive training and development in Austria and abroad; ▪▪ Offering flexible working time models, telework, and sabbaticals; ▪▪ Company daycare centre and holiday care for school-aged children. ▪▪ Health promotion measures at the workplace such as expanded check-ups, immunisation campaigns, ­physiotherapy, massages, and yoga; ▪▪ Employee assistance programme; ▪▪ Occupational re-integration programme for employees after extended illnesses; ▪▪ Special presentations on psychological health; ▪▪ Organisation of common sport and cultural activities outside of work from games such as table tennis, football, squash, tennis, and volleyball to theatre performances and guided tours of exhibitions. We defined the following focuses for future action during the 2018 recertification process: ▪▪ Further promotion of telework, ▪▪ Strengthening the trust culture, ▪▪ Programme for promoting future talents, ▪▪ Promotion for parental leave for fathers and the father month, and ▪▪ Evaluation of possibilities to facilitate caring for family members. Read more about further We already negotiated and signed the new works agreement that will allow even more flexibility in telework in 2019. ­implemented measures in the sections Competencies and We also established an additional day of special paid leave to care for immediate family members not living in the same Training here in the report. household on a trial basis. Vacancies for The relationship with existing employees is just as important to us as becoming known to potential applicants as an i­nternships can also be found on the OeKB attractive employer. The OeKB bank group offers vocational days for secondary school pupils, mandatory job placements website under for students from universities of applied science, and general holiday work placements. This also reflects our attitude Jobs and Careers. that we need to make a social contribution to training young people. The corporate volunteering programme that was launched in 2019 has extended this commitment. As part of cooperative arrangements, our employees are also active More information on the corporate volunteering as lecturers and speakers at universities of applied science and the Vienna University of Economics and Business. programme can be We also place image videos on recruiting platforms where interested persons can get an initial overview of us as an found in the chapter To help society succeed. employer. The in-house job portal is a good place to find out about new vacancies. Many specialist and management positions are filled by existing employees in this manner. Colleagues looking for a change can embark on a new path in-house, thus preserving their experience and know-how for the Group. Management personnel are selected in a multi-stage potential analysis procedure to ensure that well founded, objective decisions are made. The wide range of services and activities conducted by the OeKB bank group is a further benefit for our employees. Well trained employees who are looking for new professional challenges can find new and interesting opportunities within the Group. We expanded the “expert” career path as an offering for the experts in our Group and also defined and introduced the role of a purely technical manager, so-called team leads. The job satisfaction level of the OeKB bank group’s employees is evident not just from the low turnover rate, but also from the high employee recommendation rate. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 66 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE GRI 102-7, 8 GRI 401-1 Employee statistics EMPLOYEE STATISTICS OeKB BANK GROUP 1 As at 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Total employees 505 466 445 Of whom women 282 263 248 Of whom men 223 203 197 Of whom younger than 30 46 44 40 Of whom 30-50 years of age 254 246 243 Of whom over 50 years of age 205 176 162 Of whom part-time employees 139 125 119 Of whom women 111 101 99 Of whom men 28 24 10 Of whom younger than 30 16 12 10 Of whom 30-50 years of age 62 61 61 Of whom over 50 years of age 61 52 48 Of whom employees with permanent contracts 491 456 438 Of whom women 273 259 243 Of whom men 218 197 195 Of whom younger than 30 36 35 34 Of whom 30-50 years of age 250 245 242 Of whom over 50 years of age 205 176 162 Of whom employees with temporary contracts 14 10 7 Of whom women 9 4 5 Of whom men 5 6 2 Of whom younger than 30 10 9 6 Of whom 30-50 years of age 4 1 1 Of whom over 50 years of age Of whom new employees (hired in the reporting period) 39 35 28 Of whom women 20 18 10 Of whom men 19 17 18 Of whom younger than 30 13 18 7 Of whom 30-50 years of age 25 16 20 Of whom over 50 years of age 1 1 1 In full-time equivalents 458 424 405 Average age 46.1 45.7 45.5 Average length of service 16.4 16.7 16.3 Sick days per year and full-time employee 9.6 8.3 8.1 1 Including fully consolidated companies Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, Österreichische Hotelund T­ ourismusbank GmbH and OeKB CSD GmbH; including employees delegated to ACREDIA AG. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 67 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE Proportion of total positions held by women 55.8% 56.4% 55.7% Share of women among part-time employees 79.9% 80.8% 83.2% Share of women among employees 55.6% 56.8% 55.5% with permanent contracts Share of women among employees 64.3% 40.0% 71.4% with temporary contracts Share of women among new employees 51.3% 51.4% 35.7% Proportion of managerial positions held by women 34.8% 39.0% 35.0% Share of managerial positions filled by 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% employees under the age of 30 Share of managerial positions filled by 26.1% 32.2% 29.5% employees aged 30-50 Share of managerial positions filled by 73.9% 67.8% 70.5% employees over the age of 50 Total resignations excluding retirement² 32 25 21 Of whom women 22 15 8 Of whom men 10 10 13 Of whom younger than 30 14 11 4 Of whom 30-50 years of age 16 9 14 Of whom over 50 years of age 2 5 3 Turnover rate excluding retirement 2 6.5% 5.5% 4.7% Of whom women 68.8% 60.0% 38.1% Of whom men 31.2% 40.0% 61.9% Of whom younger than 30 43.8% 44.0% 19.0% Of whom 30-50 years of age 50.0% 36.0% 66.7% Of whom over 50 years of age 6.2% 20.0% 14.3% Total turnover rate including retirement² 42 26 28 Of whom women 29 15 14 Of whom men 13 11 14 Of whom younger than 30 14 11 4 Of whom 30-50 years of age 16 9 14 Of whom over 50 years of age 12 6 10 Turnover rate including retirement 2 8.2% 5.7% 5.9% Of whom women 69.1% 57.7% 50.0% Of whom men 30.9% 42.3% 50.0% Of whom younger than 30 33.3% 42.3% 14.3% Of whom 30-50 years of age 38.1% 34.6% 50.0% Of whom over 50 years of age 28.6% 23.1% 35.7% The turnover rate is calculated as follows: the number of people leaving during the year x 100 divided by the average 2 headcount. A beakdown by region is not sensible. 99% of the employees work in Vienna. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 68 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE EMPLOYEES IN THE OeKB BANK GROUP ON PARENTAL LEAVE 1 As at 2019 2018 2017 Total employees (as at 31.12.) 505 466 445 Of whom on parental leave 21 22 20 Of whom women 15 19 18 Of whom men 6 3 2 Total employees returning from parental leave 9 14 6 Of whom women 6 11 3 Of whom men 3 3 3 Number of employees still employed 12 months 13 6 7 after returning from parental leave Of whom women 10 3 6 Of whom men 3 3 1 Share of women returning to work 96.6% 96.4% 100.0% Share of men returning to work 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Share of women remaining with the Group 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Share of men remaining with the Group 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Including fully consolidated companies Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank GmbH and 1 OeKB CSD GmbH; including employees delegated to ACREDIA AG. Competencies GRI 102-8 Technically and socially capable managers and employees are a fundamental prerequisite for sustainable business and the GRI 401-1, 2 long-term success of the OeKB bank group. We have defined four areas of competence: entrepreneurial spirit, leadership, teamwork, and generating positive energy. Within these general skill sets, 15 individual abilities have been identified by which management and technical staff are measured. The competency model forms the basis for self-assessment and assessment by supervisors as well as for our structured selection procedure when filling managerial positions. We also constantly refine our concept of leadership. To this end, we launched workshops for employees and managers to improve and refine our leadership principles. “Leading from the middle” is the guideline for leadership in the future and will be finalised in 2020 and then incorporated into the competence model. Our managers see themselves as service providers for our customers, employees, and shareholders in this. Managers must balance the various expectations and interests to which they are exposed. They fulfil three key functions in their leadership role: performance orientation, supporting employees and promoting their advancement, and planning effectively for the future. In the OeKB bank group, we believe that respect and constructive feedback create a positive working environment. This promotes trust, loyalty, and therefore productivity. And we expect this respect and constructive feedback to be a cornerstone of daily work. Annual performance reviews are held to discuss individual and Group goals relating to the specific position, training needs, risk objectives, and goals relating to work-life balance, health, innovation, and s­ ustainability. Working together means each employee taking individual responsibility with regard to their co-workers. Both are intended to allow the employees of the OeKB bank group to realise their full potential to ensure the long-term success of the Group. We launched our Culture Club in 2019 to promote and refine this team culture together. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 69 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE The Culture Club is a cultural transformation that everyone can participate in. All employees and managers are invited to actively contribute to the change and to present new ideas and try new approaches in their own areas. We believe that change is shaped at every level in the company. We launched Knowledge Coffee in 2019 to promote networking, information exchange, and knowledge transfer between the employees of the OeKB bank group. Knowledge Coffee is platform aimed at preserving, disseminating, and multiplying know-how in the company. Employees are provided with the opportunity to contact colleagues who are experts in their field and request a meeting on a specific expert topic. Training GRI 404-1, 2, 3 The OeKB Academy provides a wide range of in-house seminars for all employees of the OeKB bank group. The focuses FS4 are on developing the capabilities of specialist staff and managers and on personal development. Managers completed Read more on the topic „Leadership of people training in the areas of learning from failure, leading different generations, leaders as coaches, and leading and inte­grating with disabilities” in the people with disabilities during the reporting period. Especially employees who were assigned new tasks received ­chapters Gender equality and ­diversity and Safety extensive training. and health management. We are placing a new training focus on digitalisation and mobile work (such as mobile work with laptop computers and Skype, or the digitalisation of processes). Employee development is directly linked with the development of the company. Employees who we have identified as having particular potential play a crucial role in this. With that in mind, we place considerable value on offering them the best technical and personal development opportunities. Because our success is rooted not only in these technical and personal qualifications, but also in entrepreneurial thinking, a sense of responsibility, responsible action, and teamwork. To this end, we started our first talent programme in 2019 and registered 17 participants, nine of them women, from the various departments of OeKB. In full-day modules, the participants addressed topics such as recognising and using personal strengths, discovering and testing different elements of effectiveness, and how changes and conflicts can be perceived as opportunities. A core element of the programme is discussion and the sharing of technical know-how between the participants. We launched our Group-wide onboarding process for new hires and university interns in 2019. This process provides targeted support for new colleagues during their first 12 months at OeKB Group and allows them to familiarise themselves with all business segments in OeKB and the subsidiaries. The objective is to integrate new personnel well into the company and to allow them to establish networks and rapidly begin working effectively. The process already included a breakfast with the Executive Board during which the new employees had an opportunity to report on their initial experiences in OeKB Group. Read more about the The export credit agencies in Germany (Euler Hermes), Austria (OeKB), and Switzerland (SERV) took the decision in 2019 country and industry conferences in the to collaborate more closely. In addition to joint country and industry conferences and financing offerings, this also includes chapter ­Stakeholder a training programme with international job rotation. One Export Services employee has already spent one month in ­relations and dialogue. Switzerland and one a month in Germany. Two employees from the sister companies spent a month at OeKB in Vienna. Good governance and compliance are key priorities for the OeKB bank group. Every year, four mandatory online training sessions are held on subjects such as the activities of the business segments and new regulatory developments. Managing directors, members of Supervisory Boards, and other people in key positions receive intensive internal and external training on legal topics like supervisory law and corporate law as well as on technical finance subjects. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 70 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE GRI 404-1, FS4 EMPLOYEE TRAINING BY OeKB AG INCLUDING OeKB CSD* As at 31 Dec 20191 31 Dec 20181 31 Dec 20171 Total OeKB employees 404 406 379 Training costs in euros 624,691 491,674 400,292 Total training hours 12,494 5,910 7,718 Per employee in euros 1,546 1,211 1,056 Per employee in hours 31 15 20 Per employee in days 3.9 1.8 2.6 Senior managers 51 50 50 Training costs in euros 103,433 98,639 109,897 Training in hours 2,178 1,119 1,926 Per employee in euros 2,028 1,973 2,198 Per employee in hours 43 22 39 Per employee in days 5.3 2.8 4.8 1 Only the training hours of OeKB AG including OeKB CSD were recorded. * The OeEB’s education and training figures are currently being compiled. EMPLOYEES IN TRAINING 2019 Employees in training Headcount Women 205 222 Men 154 182 TRAINING COSTS AND HOURS 2019 Training costs: 48% Women Training hours: 53% Training costs: 52% Men Training hours: 47% S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 71 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE Gender equality and diversity GRI 102-35, 36, 37 People are becoming more mobile – and so are companies. The megatrends of globalisation, mobility, and connectivity GRI 103-3 GRI 405-1, 2 are opening up new business opportunities. But they also mean that companies are operating in environments that are becoming less and less predictable. This makes diversity and the associated openness crucial for ensuring that traditional business risks and unforeseen developments can be addressed effectively. Diversity is decisive for the creativity and resilience of the OeKB bank group. We adopted our gender and diversity policy in 2017 to codify our attitude and implementation strategy. The implementation status is reported regularly to management as part of the sustainability strategy monitoring. We live diversity and mutual respect We understand diversity to mean the commonalities and differences that we at the OeKB bank group encounter in our markets, with our customers, and with our employees. Diversity stands for a central conviction of the OeKB bank group: sincere respect, open dealings, and using our diversity to our advantage. In its activities in different sectors and parts of the world, the OeKB bank group encounters very different ideas about how to live and also different cultures. Diversity factors include gender, culture, religion, sexual orientation, nationality, education level, and also age, different ways of life, and special physical or psychological needs. And for us, respect means valuing these differences, which in turn gives rise to trust, loyalty, and team spirit as well as potential for creativity and innovation. The OeKB bank group also tolerates no discrimination whatsoever. We apply this attitude of respect every day within the Group and in all external dealings, following the principles set forth in our human rights policy. In order to improve further in this area, we began an internal project aimed at increasing the employment of persons with disabilities in 2019. We held a management workshop together with myAbility. The participants were given not only a general introduction into the issue of disabilities, but also had the opportunity to discuss and work with three people with different disabilities. Gender equality Read more about We make all of our personnel decisions based solely on social and technical qualifications and competencies. Our OeEB’s gender focus in the chapter remuneration policy is based on strict gender equality, with the same payment for the same performance – as regularly ­Development shown in the mandatory income report. The goal is to pay the employees of the OeKB bank group a fair wage in line ­Financing. with the market conditions. At the OeKB bank group, the traditionally high ratio of female employees was around 56 per cent at 31 December 2019. The share of female managers is 34.8 per cent. These figures include all fully consolidated companies, and thus Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank. Investments in a good work-life balance, promotional measures on the way to middle management, and continued transparent job descriptions, including for managerial positions, will also be necessary in future. And we place a focus on balance in our talent program, with nine of the total 17 participants being women. The targeted appointment of women as project managers was planned as part of the promotion programme. At present, over 48 per cent of all projects are managed by women. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 72 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE Women are to account for at least 30 per cent of the Supervisory Board and executive management members by 2020. Any works council members appointed to the Supervisory Board are included in this figure (current shares: OeKB 35 p­ er cent, OeEB 50 per cent, OeKB CSD 43 per cent, ÖHT 45 per cent). One of the two managing directors at OeEB and at OeKB is a woman. OeKB CSD and ÖHT are exceptions here. Awareness for our policy must still be raised in the Supervisory Board. GRI 405-1 DIVERSITY IN OeKB BANK GROUP 1 As at 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Total employees 505 466 445 Of whom persons in controlling bodies 19 16 18 In full-time equivalents 458 424 405 Average age 46.1 45.7 45.5 Average age of new employees 34.2 32.3 35.1 Average length of service 16.4 16.7 16.3 Sick days per year and full-time employee 9.6 8.3 8.1 Proportion of total positions held by women 55.8% 56.4% 55.7% Proportion of women on the supervisory board 39.0% 28.0% 27.0% and management board Share of women among part-time employees 79.9% 80.8% 83.2% Share of women among employees with permanent contracts 55.6% 56.8% 54.6% Share of women among employees with temporary contracts 64.3% 40.0% 71.4% Share of women among new employees 51.3% 51.4% 35.7% Proportion of managerial positions held by women 34.8% 39.0% 35.0% Turnover rate excluding retirement 2 6.5% 5.5% 4.7% Turnover rate including retirement 2 8.2% 5.7% 5.9% Including fully consolidated companies Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank GmbH (ÖHT) and 1 OeKB CSD GmbH; including employees delegated to ACREDIA AG. The proportion of women on the supervisory board and management board for the years 2018 and 2017 is shown without ÖHT. The turnover rate is calculated as follows: the number of people leaving during the year x 100 divided by the average headcount. A beakdown by 2 region is not sensible. 99% of the employees work in Vienna. Safety and health management Healthy and motivated employees are a key success factor for the future of OeKB bank group. This is why we have demonstrated a commitment to safety and health protection that goes beyond the legal requirements for many years. Our establishment of a safety and health management system (SHM) has codified this approach and clearly defined the associated responsibilities. This involves the systematic, forward-looking evaluation of occupational safety and health in connection with operational performance processes. The SHM is part of the sustainability management system and thus systematically expands the activities relating to operational environmental protection and social r­ esponsibility by adding aspects of the safety and health of our employees. Our employees had the opportunity to attend the presentation by Dr. Bardia Monshi titled “The role of mental vitality in happiness”, or to watch the recorded video of the presentation on the intranet. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 73 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE The Future Office employees were given specific ergonomics training by our safety specialist to learn how to properly adjust their desks and chairs because the desk sharing and the height-adjustable desks allow regular workstation changes and standing while working. We have set up a re-integration management programme. This enables our employees to transition back into the work environment on a part-time basis after an illness, for example, at the same wages as before their illness. Our occupational physician is involved in this process. Remuneration policy Remuneration in the OeKB bank group conforms with market norms, with variable remuneration throughout the Group accounting for less than 10 per cent of overall remuneration on average. Employee benefits such as additional health insurance and the employee restaurant are intended to ensure good health and sustainability. Initial salaries of holders of academic degrees correspond to the market level. These are published on the intranet, making them transparent for all employees. We make all decisions on new hires, promotions, and wage increases based solely on social and technical qualifications and competencies. The internal benchmarking of salaries at the OeKB bank group is conducted according to eight salary bands, divided into one scheme for experts and one for management. The scheme an employee belongs to is decided primarily based on the kind of problem solving and the complexity of the activities their ­position involves, and on their leadership function. This ensures comparable pay for comparable jobs in a fair and transparent manner according to the qualifications required, the responsibility involved, and actual performance. In addition, compensation is regularly benchmarked against the market – most recently in 2019. Our remuneration policy is published on our intranet and clearly presents the remuneration strategy, remuneration components, and all allowances and fringe benefits. The Executive Board of OeKB defines the remuneration policy of OeKB, which serves as a guideline for the entire OeKB bank group. This satisfies the requirements of the BWG and the corresponding memo of the Financial Market Authority. This remuneration policy is reviewed once per year, most recently in March 2019. The Supervisory Board of OeKB has a Remuneration Committee that evaluates and approves the remuneration policy and that monitors compliance with this policy including reporting to the Supervisory Board. External experts from Deloitte were consulted in the definition of the remuneration policy and various reviews. The design of the variable remuneration policy ensures that the incentive structure is aligned with the long-term interests of the OeKB bank group. Variable remuneration is only applied if certain minimum requirements for calculating a bonus pool are met (such as an operating profit or a certain minimum duration for the survival period). The variable remuneration represents a reasonable share of the total remuneration and is oriented towards individual performance and towards singleand multi-year performance parameters of the company and Group. The total bonus volume that is paid out to employees and managers is calculated on the basis of a combination of company performance indicators. These include the operating profit, the risk-adjusted profit, the risk-bearing capacity, and the liquidity. These metrics are applied in a slightly modified form in OeEB and OeKB CSD. The individual variable remuneration for managing directors is limited to 85 per cent of the fixed annual remuneration. The variable share is limited to 25 per cent of the fixed remuneration from the second level (department heads) downward. If the variable remuneration exceeds 25 per cent of the total remuneration or the materiality threshold of €30,000 gross as defined by the FMA, deferred payout is applied to comply with the regulatory requirements for sustainability and risk orientation, with 40 per cent of the variable remuneration (or 60 per cent for particularly high sums) being paid out over a period of five years. The employee only has a non-binding entitlement to the deferred amount until actual payout. The portion of the entitlement coming due each year is re-evaluated in that year. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 74 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE In the event of a poor or negative financial and earnings situation, the executive management and Supervisory Board (Remuneration Committee) reserve the right to reduce the variable remuneration and the deferred bonus payments, up to the cancellation of the entire entitlement in accordance with the legal requirements. For executive management and all employees in the OeKB bank group in general, the fixed salary is the primary com­ponent of overall remuneration, which means that the variable remuneration allows for a flexible remuneration policy in all regards and that the payment of the variable portion can be waived if necessary. In line with the Group’s solid and effective risk management system, this ratio of fixed to variable remuneration ensures that no one is given an incentive to assume risks that exceed the specified risk appetite or tolerated degree of risk. Guaranteed variable remuneration is not compatible with the performance-based approach at OeKB and is therefore not offered. GRI 402-1 Employee representation Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG’s Staff Council represents the interests of all employees, supports them in matters relating to employment law, and concludes works agreements with OeKB. Six of the seven Staff Council members are appointed to the Supervisory Board. The Staff Council manages the sports centre and offers various sports classes, organises annual ski championships and a company excursion, and promotes participation in athletic and cultural events. The Staff Council makes an important contribution to the company culture and climate with all of its activities. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG A Staff Council was elected to represent the interests of the employees at Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank for the first time at the end of November 2017. It consists of three female members and one male member and one substitute member (who is currently on parental leave). Two of its members have been delegated to the Supervisory Board in accordance with the legal requirements. Works agreements were concluded on the subjects of “performance reviews and assessment”, “telework”, and “management feedback” in 2019. The works agreement on the “use of information and communication technology” was revised. Members of the Staff Council are also involved in the certification for the “workandfamily” audit. OeKB CSD GmbH All employees of OeKB CSD GmbH are delegated by OeKG AG and are therefore represented in the Staff Council of OeKB AG. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 75 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE Future Work Our goal is to be at least as successful in 2030 as we are today. Our vision is the basis for this and formulates the target state that we are working towards. The mission statements are our guidelines and provide us with orientation as to how we can achieve the vision. The Future Work programme that we launched in 2018 and continued intensively in 2019 aims at adapting HOW we work so that we are well positioned to master the challenges in business and society. The ongoing process of transformation plays a key role in this. We must continually adapt to make use of the potential that these changes offer for our business, our customer base, and Austria as a place to do business while at the same time maintaining attractive working conditions. The core focus of Future Work is determining how we can best achieve this. We grouped the broad spectrum of aspects that play a role in this into five categories: New ways of working together We need productive collaboration now more than ever. The requirements posed by our environment are changing, so we also need new skills, new methods of working together, and a management style that matches. Managers will have to adopt more of a partnership, advisory approach and less of a strict hierarchical approach than before. The exchange of know-how and finding better solutions in concert with other organisational units will require a new ­partnership between employers, employees, external service providers, and customers. This new leadership approach is described as “leading from the middle”. Read more about We took a number of key steps in this focus area in 2019. Special seminars, training, and “leadership nuggets”, for „Frühstück mit Weitblick” in the chapter example on the topic of successful leadership in a mix of generations, placed a focus on new ways of working together. Stakeholder relations One “Frühstück mit Weitblick” breakfast event provided insights into various aspects of behavioural research through and dialogue and about Culture Club in the presentation by Gregor Fauma. The seven workshops of our Culture Club are another highlight. the chapter To help employees advance. Sustainability The sustainability strategy is a key aspect of Future Work. We must take a critical approach to future topics to remain successful in our core business activities over the long term and to live up to our social responsibility. Climate change, resource scarcity, and sustainable finance are key challenges, but also harbour equally great opportunities. We engaged in a variety of activities in 2019 to promote an examination of these topics. The following events played a key role in this: The new OeKB ThinkTank event series, a kind of internal conference, dealt with the topics of digitalisation and ­innovation, change, and sustainable finance. Around 150 employees from throughout OeKB Group attended the event, which consisted of keynote speeches in the morning and interactive workshops in the afternoon. There was also a “Frühstück mit Weitblick” breakfast event where the employees who went on the road to present the first sustainability bond explained to interested colleagues how such a roadshow for investors runs. In the public OeKB in Dialogue > On the Future of the Economy event, experts discussed the topic of of “Can the globalised world be saved? Growth, free trade, and climate policy being put to the test.” with the audience. A future workshop was held on the topic of “Sustainable development goals and sustainable finance” for the first time to provide a discussion platform for selected internal and external stakeholders. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 76 TO HELP EMPLOYEES ADVANCE Digitalisation It is becoming increasingly important for companies to recognise and use the options provided by highly networked, interactive information and communication technologies in order to remain competitive. This pertains to the manner in which we work as well as to the refinement of our services and the development of new products. The in-depth evaluation of the opportunities and challenges of digitalisation is a matter of course for us. We continued with digitalisation projects including the customer relationship management (CRM) system, the document management system (DMS), the INFA central reporting platform, and the preparations for an e-learning platform for employees during the reporting period. We implemented online loan applications for main banks, made progress in our “customer platform” project, and created an online tool that allows main banks to determine reference interest rates called Loan Pricer, which went live on 1 January 2020. Future Office We have drawn up a pilot concept for a modern office environment that promotes networking, provides room for creativity, and that brings the digitalisation of our working processes forward. This creates the ideal framework for the various forms of “new ways of working together”. Traditional workplaces are replaced with rooms for projects, interaction, and focused work, as well as zones for rest phases. The concept was implemented in a pilot space in 2019. The Organisation, Construction, Environmental Issues, and Security department (OBUS) moved into the newly designed space in the summer after drawing up an office policy to define the parameters for collaboration in the team. All employees were also able to access an office area where they can try the new concept and give feedback. A “Frühstück mit Weitblick” breakfast event was also held on the topic of “A Reality Check for New Ways of Working” in 2019. Innovation More information Innovation is becoming an increasingly crucial success factor in day-to-day business. The innovation management about our Innovation Management can be system that was launched at OeKB in 2017 is not only part of the Future Work concept, but also a commitment to found in the chapter actively addressing and promoting innovation within and outside of the Group. The mission of the innovation management To help drive ­innovation. staff is to generate, support, and accompany innovative ideas and solutions. The mission is to modernise products and procedures, develop new services, and optimise processes. In addition to the OeKB ThinkTank event that was organised in collaboration with the sustainability team, the new Knowledge Coffee platform that promotes knowledge exchange and networking between employees was a highlight in 2019. Participation in an the coordination of projects was again a major focus of the innovation team in 2019, alongside exchange with external and internal stakeholders. Future Work 2020 We again defined focus topics for 2020 that will be actively addressed through a variety of measures. The focus in the first quarter will be on strategy topics, especially “the OeKB brand”, digitalisation, process management, and sustainability. The focus in the second quarter will be on the management approach and leadership style. The third focus topic of our Future Work activities in 2020 is process management. As during the previous year, the OeKB ThinkTank event will be a highlight of the fourth quarter with its character of opening and exchange. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 77 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH To help the environment flourish GRI 102-15 The topic of ecology moved into the political, economic, and media spotlight in 2019, in large part due to the Fridays for GRI 103-1, 2, 3 Future movement. Our planet and the environment in and with which we work and live is at the precipice. Will we as a More information can collective, as a society manage to effectively address the challenges of climate change, resource scarcity, and the loss of be found in the chapter To help business grow. biodiversity? These are just some of the challenges and tasks that we have to tackle as a society. And the economy, or more precisely each individual business, is called upon to assume responsibility, just as all other members of society. More information on As a group of private-sector companies with a government mandate, we must act as role models and live up to our social our new Sustainable finance products responsibility. This is why economic, ecological, and social issues play an important role in our organisation and activities. can be found in the In connection with the investment guarantees that we issue, we are obligated to evaluate not only the economic effects but chapter Sustainable finance in the OeKB also the ecological and social impacts of every transaction. We fulfil this responsibility through our environmental and social bank group. audits, among other things. We are certain that we will only be able to master the global challenges by working together, so we actively participate in cross-stakeholder initiatives such as the Green Finance Agenda of the BMF and BMNT. Our chosen approach and commitment also led to us launching new sustainable finance products in 2019. In addition to the key activities in our core area of business specified above, we have also been long committed to using resources wisely and protecting the environment in the day-to-day operations at all of our sites. And even though the aspects of operational ecology do not go beyond well managed office operations, the absolute metrics do represent a considerable impact on the environment. The conscious management of our resources raises awareness among our employees, who then apply similar standards to their actions in our core activities. Since 2001, we have been continuously improving our environmental ­performance through a certified environmental management system. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 78 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH Ecology in day-to-day operations FS9 The OeKB bank group is an EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) registered and certified company. The analysis of the direct and indirect environmental aspects required by EMAS showed that energy and fuel consumption are among the most material direct environmental aspects. We thus report on the corresponding GRI Indicators in the sustainability report. All other indicators that are relevant for the environmental report according to the EMAS Regulation can be found in the overview of indicators and in the GRI index. The maintenance and continual improvement of the environmental management system in accordance with the requirements of EMAS and ISO 14001:2015 are handled by the Group sustainability management organisation in coordination with the executive boards and management of the OeKB bank group. This organisation is part of the Organisation, Construction, Environmental Issues, and Security (OBUS) department, which is also responsible for all operational ecology processes such as procurement and waste, energy, and facility management. Internal audits are conducted every year to assess our environmental management system. As part of the management assessment, executive management also evaluates the effectiveness of the implemented measures and further options for improvements and changes. This includes an evaluation of the sustainability policy, the objectives, and the provision of resources. Energy management The OeKB bank group continuously monitors and optimises its energy consumption at all of its sites. With the introduction of the Energy Efficiency Act (EEffG), companies were obligated to take measures between 2015 and 2020 to improve their energy efficiency and to document and report these to a newly established monitoring body. We employ an internal energy auditor who intensively investigates ways of reducing the energy required for the buildings of the OeKB bank group. The savings in the past years were reported to the monitoring office, and the savings in 2019 were prepared for reporting in 2020. GRI 302-1, 2, 4 The energy management covers all locations of the OeKB bank group, including the off-site emergency data centre. GRI 305-1, 2, 3, 4, 5 A particular focus is placed on the Strauchgasse building because the OeKB bank group has the greatest ability to act here as the building owner. As part of the Future Office project, all of the lighting in the pilot office space was converted to LEDs, most of which is controlled by occupancy detectors. As a result of optimisation measures, the Strauchgasse building can now be heated solely using waste heat down to an outside temperature of 6°C. Because of the in part low outside temperatures and the change in the automation process, the share of waste heat use was lower in 2019 than in the previous year. This is reflected in the higher district heating usage at the Strauchgasse site. The significant fluctuations are the result of the need to switch entirely to district heating operation when the outside temperature remains below the threshold for longer periods. Optimisation measures were implemented for the automated switching process. Because of renovations in the building, the free-cooling system at Am Hof had to be taken offline around four years ago. The system was put back into operation in December 2019. This should increase efficiency by around 20 MW of cooling energy (a roughly 10 MW reduction in the input energy needed for cooling) in 2020. The fact that the power consumption is equivalent to 588 households (based on a four-person household with an annual power consumption of 4500 kWh) means that we must remain vigilant. We revised our data collection and analysis system in 2019 with the goal of refining the data quality so that we can better identify suitable measures for continuously improving our environmental performance. This has led to significant deviations for some figures compared to the previous year and has limited the comparability of the figures between the two years in some cases. The comparison figures for the previous years were adapted to the current system as far as possible. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 79 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH ENERGY CONSUMPTION Change to All numbers in kWh 2019 2018 2017 2000 previous year Electricity Strauchgasse 2,161,036 2,132,463 2,090,931 2,970,060 +28,573 Am Hof 266,380 289,500 272,970 821,900 -23,120 Wallnerstr., Wipplingerstr. 42,046 43,286 45,359 -1,240 Data center Vienna 21 146,375 159,151 169,999 -12,776 Produced electricity (solar roof) 31,610 31,400 31,490 +210 Electricity total 2,647,447 2,655,800 2,610,749 3,791,960 -8,353 District heating Strauchgasse 333,969 203,079 316,344 1,496,750 +130,890 Am Hof 194,112 283,050 228,115 359,453 -88,938 District heating total 528,081 486,129 544,459 1,856,203 +41,952 Cars Diesel 31,147 38,981 9,430 -7,834 Petrol 41,272 44,268 -2,995 Electricity 476 747 944 -271 Car fleet total 72,896 83,996 10,374 -11,101 Sold district heating energy -58,654 -125,410 +66,756 Sold cooling (kWh electricity) -239,373 -325,083 +85,710 Energy consumption total 2,950,397 2,775,432 3,165,582 5,648,163 +174,965 Change to Cooling generation 2019 2018 2017 2000 previous year Generated cooling quantity Strauchgasse (kWh) 1,448,175 +1,448,175 Thereof cooling quantity sold (kWh) 382,078 +382,078 Average performance rate Strauchgasse 1.89 +2 Electricity for cooling generation (kWh) 766,230 +766,230 Electricity for cooling quantity sold (kWh) 202,158 +202,158 Generated cooling quantity Am Hof (kWh) 188,674 +188,674 Thereof cooling quantity sold (kWh) 59,544 +59,544 Average performance rate Am Hof 1.60 +2 Electricity for cooling generation (kWh) 117,921 +117,921 Electricity for cooling quantity sold (kWh) 37,215 +37,215 Change to Optimization of energy 2019 2018 2017 2000 previous year Produced cooling 1,636,849 1,490,684 1,402,196 +146,165 Used waste heat 476,447 611,318 550,867 -134,871 Used waste heat per kWh 29% 41% 39% -12% produced cooling S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 80 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH Change to Total energy consumption in kWh [GRI 302-1] 2019 2018 2017 2000 previous year Total electricity consumption 2,647,923 2,656,547 2,611,693 3,791,960 -8,624 Purchased electricity 2,615,837 2,624,400 2,579,259 3,791,960 -8,563 Produced electricity 31,610 31,400 31,490 +210 Electricity consumption e-mobility 476 747 944 -271 Non-renewable energy consumption 600,501 569,378 553,889 1,856,203 +31,123 Gasoline and diesel 72,420 83,249 9,430 -10,829 District heating 528,081 486,129 544,459 1,856,203 +41,952 -Sold energy 298,027 450,493 -152,466 -Sold district heating energy 58,654 125,410 -66,756 -Sold cooling (kWh electricity) 239,373 325,083 -85,710 Total energy consumption 2,950,397 2,775,432 3,165,582 5,648,123 +174,965 Emissions Motor vehicles represent an impact on the environment and health risks. At the same time, mobility is a key requirement for economic and social development in modern industrialised and service economies. Around 20 per cent of worldwide greenhouse gas emissions come from transport, so this sector makes a significant contribution to climate change. Our travel guidelines first require our employees to evaluate whether their presence on site is important and necessary, or if a phone call or Skype for Business chat would be just as effective. For all travel, trains or public transportation are preferred over automobiles and aeroplanes. Our employees choose the mode of transport in each situation based on aspects of economy, ecological footprint, and the social considerations of health, safety, and work-life balance. We place a high value on making business travel as cost efficient, environmentally friendly, and pleasant for the employees as possible. An electric bike and electric car are also available to our employees for trips within Vienna in addition to public transportation. GRI 305-5 BUSINESS TRAVEL All numbers in km 2019 2018 2017 2000 Change to previous year Flight 2,050,733 1,605,945 1,581,959 984,663 +444,788 Train 108,681 54,628 31,487 14,117 +54,053 Cars 217,362 234,546 18,816 39,237 -17,185 Thereof CO2-free, E-mobility 2,690 4,223 5,333 0 -1,533 Total business travel 2,376,775 1,895,119 1,632,262 1,038,017 +481,656 Thereof CO2 compensated 2,376,775 839,254 870,412 +1,537,521 Our vehicle fleet consists of one pool car that is available to all employees for business travel and one electric car that is primarily used for courier trips if it is not sensible to make the trip with public transportation. We have reported the driven kilometres of the OeKB bank group including the three Executive Board cars and the business trips completed with private vehicles since 2018. This reveals an increase since 2017, and we decided to compensate for our business travel in 2019. This explains the substantial increase in the compensated flights in annual comparison. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 81 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH GRI 302-4 GRI 305-1, 2, 3, 5 CO2 EQUIVALENTS Change to Tonnes of CO2-equivalents 2019 2018 2017 2000 previous year Scope 1 Fleet 14.89 19.04 2.30 10.52 -4 Refrigerants 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 +0 Scope 1 total 14.89 19.04 2.30 10.52 -4 Scope 2 – Market based* Electricity 19.26 20.94 22.37 -2 District heating 95.29 73.23 110.53 376.81 +22 Scope 2 total 114.56 94.17 132.90 376.81 +20 Scope 2 – Location based* Electricity 589.36 570.23 639.66 940.41 +19 District heating 95.29 73.23 110.53 376.81 +22 Scope 2 total 684.66 643.46 750.19 1,317.22 +41 Scope 3 Cars 12.95 12.31 0.52 2.37 1 Flight OeKB und CSD 367.60 318.10 295.22 408.54 49 Flight OeEB 258.10 194.4 188.41 64 Train 1.57 0.79 0.45 0.20 1 Scope 3 total 640.21 525.60 484.60 411.11 115 Thereof CO2 compensated -640.21 -194.40 -188.41 0.00 446 Total greenhouse gases Market based 129.44 444.41 431.39 798.44 -315 Total greenhouse gases Location based 699.54 993.70 1,048.68 1,738.85 -294 * The market-based approach reflects emissions from electricity that companies have purposefully chosen (or their lack of choice). The location-based approach reflects the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs (using mostly grid-average emission factor data). Read more about the The business travel of OeKB in 2019 was compensated for the first time in 2020. We decided in 2019 to compensate projects on the respective for the 382.11 tons of CO2 equivalents that were generated by OeKB business travel by air, car, and train through two webpages: Ökoregion Kaindorf and myclimate projects: the Kaindorf eco-region and myclimate. The Kaindorf eco-region has set the objective of ensuring the long-term sequestering of carbon in humus by implementing targeted humus formation measures with farms. And the myclimate project is financing efficient cookers in Rwanda that are produced locally from recyclable materials and that thus create jobs, that use two-thirds less wood and thus protect the habitat of the mountain gorillas in the region, and that provide for better health, a higher quality of living, and time and money savings for the families. More information about The air travel emissions of OeEB have been compensated since 2010 because flights are unavoidable for OeEB employthe CO2 compensation system of BOKU can be ees due to the international projects. OeEB compensates for the resulting CO2 emissions through climate protection found on its website. projects of the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences in Vienna. In 2019, OeEB supported the Uganda – Clean Air and Safe Drinking Water for Soroti project. The reduction of firewood use for drinking water treatment by boiling reduces CO2 emissions and improves the air quality in the homes. The switch to solar drinking water disinfection ensures clean water for around 12,000 people in Soroti, reducing waterborne diseases. The project also relies on the close involvement of the local population through training and participation activities to ensure the comprehensive improvement of the sanitary facilities and hygiene situation. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 82 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH Source: The breakdown into individual scopes is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Scope 1 contains all direct emissions https://ghgprotocol.org/ calculationg-tools-faq from combustion in internal plants and in the engines of motor vehicles. Scope 2 contains indirect emissions from ­consumption of purchased energy, and Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions from upstream and downstream processes. The current emission figures of the Federal Environment Agency are used to calculate the CO2 equivalents. To determine flight-related greenhouse gas emissions, OeKB uses the values of the Federal Environment Agency (airplane/person-km international). This year, the emission factor of the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences was used for OeEB flights. Starting next year, all flight-related emissions of the group will be calculated and offset uniformly with the emission factor of the Federal Environment Agency. There have already been changes this year as well: On the one hand, OeKB now uses the entire emission factor of the Federal Environment Agency, including direct and indirect emissions in this report. On the other hand, the emissions of OeEB are presented according to the emission factor of BOKU that was applied for the offsetting. In order to maintain comparability and to properly show the offset emissions, the previous years were also updated. At the locations in the first district of Vienna (Am Hof and Strauchgasse, Wallnerstrasse and Wipplingerstrasse), the OeKB bank group uses electricity obtained exclusively from hydroelectric power plants. The off-site emergency data centre uses the standard power mix, which is reflected in significantly higher emission values. The photovoltaic system with a capacity of 31 kWp is making a small contribution towards energy production in the building, which came to 31,610 kWh in 2019. A highly redundant green IT data centre offers a high level of availability, the required reliability, and optimises the use of electrical energy. Emissions Unit 2019 Source 2019 Rail travel (electric)/km per person kg CO2e/pkm 0.0144 Federal Environment Agency www.umweltbundesamt. at/fileadmin/site/umweltthemen/verkehr/1_verkehrs­ mittel/EKZ_Pkm_Tkm_Verkehrsmittel.pdf Aeroplane travel/km per person kg CO2e/pkm 0.7195 Federal Environment Agency www.umweltbundesamt. domestic at/fileadmin/site/umweltthemen/verkehr/1_verkehrs­ mittel/EKZ_Pkm_Tkm_Verkehrsmittel.pdf Aeroplane travel/km per person kg CO2e/pkm 0.4149 Federal Environment Agency www.umweltbundesamt. international at/fileadmin/site/umweltthemen/verkehr/1_verkehrs­ mittel/EKZ_Pkm_Tkm_Verkehrsmittel.pdf Aeroplane travel/km per person kg CO2e/pkm 0.2216 University of Natural Resources and Applied Life domestic international Sciences. CO2 compensation system. averaged emission factor. link: https://boku.ac.at/ en/nachhaltigkeit/boku-co2-kompensationssystem/ berechnungsgrundlagen Diesel direct emissions kg CO2e/kWh 0.252 Federal Environment Agency https://secure.umweltbundesamt.at/co2mon/co2mon.html Diesel indirect emissions kg CO2e/kWh 0.066 Federal Environment Agency https://secure.umweltbundesamt.at/co2mon/co2mon.html Petrol direct emission kg CO2e/kWh 0.255 Federal Environment Agency https://secure.umweltbundesamt.at/co2mon/co2mon.html Petrol indirect emissions kg CO2e/kWh 0.072 Federal Environment Agency https://secure.umweltbundesamt.at/co2mon/co2mon.html Car vehicle km kg CO2e/km 0.2165 Federal Environment Agency www.umweltbundesamt. at/fileadmin/site/umweltthemen/verkehr/1_verkehrs­ mittel/EKZ_Pkm_Tkm_Verkehrsmittel.pdf Electricity for data centre kg CO2e/kWh 0.1316 Wien Energie (Contract ODC Contact via IBM) Hydroelectricity kg CO2e/kWh 0 Energie Allianz (according to contract and certificate) Electricity mix Austria kg CO2e/kWh 0.248 Federal Environment Agency https://secure.umweltbundesamt.at/co2mon/co2mon.html District heating kg CO2e/kWh 0.203 Federal Environment Agency https://secure.umweltbundesamt.at/co2mon/co2mon.html R410a kg CO2e/kWh 2088 www.linde-gas.com R407c kg CO2e/kg 1744 http://btga.de/almanach/2015/092-095.pdf R134A kg CO2e/kg 1430 BAFU Overview of the most important refrigerants R22 kg CO2e/kg 1810 Refrigerants Product Data Summary Linde (2013) S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 83 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH Ecological key indicators With regard to operational ecology, key indicators for energy, heating energy, water, and paper are for the main locations at Am Hof 4 with 50 employees and Strauchgasse 1–3 with 412 employees. The collection of waste statistics that began in 2018 was continued at the Am Hof site in 2019 as well. The calculation of key indicators per employee for operational ecology goes beyond the limits of the system as it includes the CCP.A staff (12 employees). GRI 102-4 LOCATIONS Strauchgasse Am Hof Space in m² 14,124.49 1,847.35 Main locations 15,971.84 The metrics show that energy use increased slightly in annual comparison. The employees at Am Hof have been included in the collection of the waste statistics for paper, glass, plastic, metal, and non-recyclable waste since 2018. The volumes attributable to the tenants in the Strauchgasse building have also been deducted from these figures since then. Overall, we were able to continue our substantial reductions in the volumes of recyclable materials, hazardous waste, and non-recyclable waste compared with the previous years. The high level of waste generated in previous years despite all measures to the contrary was countered by a new waste separation system as part of the Future Office conversion. Waste collection at the Future Office pilot space was moved from the work stations to central collection sites, where sufficient containers are available for the various waste categories. We expect the roll-out of the Future Office concept at the Strauchgasse site to improve the separation discipline and to reduce the volume of waste overall in the coming years. The further reduction in the volumes of paper and non-recyclable waste was driven by the continuous involvement of the employees at all sites, who are responsible for this success following targeted awareness-raising measures and the switch to follow-me printers. We launched a pilot project for the collection of the used coffee grounds in the department as part of the Future Office project in 2019. The goal is to find out if the quality of these grounds is high enough to give them to Hut & Stiel, which uses such grounds to grow mushrooms. Hut & Stiel is a company that wishes to produce food where it is needed so as to be able to supply the growing population of Vienna with food and to boost awareness for the importance of an intact environment and good health. The decision was made in 2020 that a company-wide cooperation project between OeKB and Hut & Stiel would make sense. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 84 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH GRI 301-1, 2 GRI 302,1, 2, 3, 4 GRI 303-1 GRI 306-2 ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS Change to Unit 2019 2018 2017 2000 previous year Energy (Strauchgasse, Am Hof) Electricity consumption kWh/MA 5,323 5,345 5,545 11,088 -22 Thereof own production kWh/MA 68 68 73 0 +0 District heating consumption kWh/m2 29 20 30 111 +9 per m² District heating consumption kWh/MA 1,016 786 1,260 5,427 +230 per employee Energy consumption (electricity, kWh 2,928,453 2,814,082 2,939,850 5,648,163 +114,371 district heating, renewable energy) Energy consumption (electricity, kWh/MA 6,339 6,131 6,805 16,515 +208 district heating, renewable energy) per employee Business travel (all EMAS sites) Train, flight and cars km/MA 5,146 4,129 3,778 3,035 +1,018 CO2 Equivalents Total (market based) kg CO2-eq/MA 283.87 1,188 1,202 2,335 -904 Total (location based) kg CO2-eq/MA 1,534.09 2,657 2,921 5,084 -1,123 Water (Strauchgasse, Am Hof) Water consumption l/MA.d 49.86 51 54 116 -1 Paper (Strauchgasse, Am Hof) Paper consumption Blatt/MA.d 15.00 20 22 41 -5 Share of recycled paper % 99.1% 97.0% 100.0% +2.1% Waste (Strauchgasse including tenants) Paper kg/MA 101 154 182 98 -53 Residual waste kg/MA 84 123 119 337 -39 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 85 TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT FLOURISH GRI 301-1 WASTE Change to All numbers in kg 2019 2018 2017 2000 previous year Recyclables Paper 46,831 70,479 69,999 26,288 -23,648 Glass 1,888 1,639 3,954 1,824 + 249 Plastics waste 754 1,413 2,619 1,248 659 Metal scrap 507 600 650 480 93 Fat separator contents 13,180 24,700 13,920 20,410 11,520 Electronic scrap 697 4,070 1,707 715 3,373 Bulk waste 8,440 15,290 13,934 0 6,850 Kitchen and canteen waste 17,930 17,832 17,350 0 + 98 Waste oil (from canteen) 187 208 292 0 21 Building waste 76,650 150,928 101,150 0 74,278 Other non-hazardous waste 1 0 0 0 +1 Recyclables 167,066 287,159 225,575 50,965 120,093 Recyclables per employee 405 630 586 191 225 Hazardous waste Mobile phones 0 5 5 0 -5 Batteries 112 1,882 1,073 774 1,770 Fluorescent tubes 141 116 105 129 + 25 Dye residues 0 0 0 800 +0 Developer, fixer 0 0 0 540 +0 Oils 0 0 0 0 +0 Monitors 234 87 19 0 + 147 Electric & electronic scrap 4 0 0 0 +4 Refrigerators, air conditioners 48 14 0 0 + 34 Cooling agents 0 0 0 0 +0 Othzer hazardous waste 59 0 0 0 + 59 Hazardous waste 598 2,104 1,202 2,243 1,506 Hazardous waste per employee 1 5 3 8 -4 Household-type commercial waste 38,646 56,263 45,900 17,617 Total waste 206,309 345,526 272,677 53,208 139,217 Total waste per employee 447 753 708 536 306 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 86 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED To help society succeed GRI 102-15 We adhere to national laws and international standards in the OeKB bank group. We treat the environment and society GRI 103-1, 2, 3 with respect and a strong sense of responsibility. We are aware that we are held to a higher standard as a private company with a public mandate and therefore fulfil our responsibilities with particular care. The aspects of transparency; preventing corruption, money laundering, and terrorist financing; and respecting the internationally proclaimed human rights and complying with all legal regulations are important to us and a fundamental ­prerequisite for our business activities. We have defined corresponding processes and responsibilities to ensure and monitor compliance with all external and internal requirements. Through our work, we wish to make a tangible contribution to the well-being of the Austrian economy and society. We do this through our economically relevant activities. We also wish to ensure that our social commitment has strong effects, and want to encourage our employees to join us in these efforts. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 87 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED Human rights GRI 412-1 The OeKB bank group has been actively addressing the topic of human rights for years. We demonstrate our foresight and sense of responsibility in the evaluation of projects by also taking project-related human rights issues such as the protection of cultural assets, involuntary relocation, and impacts on local populations into account. As part of our intensive evaluation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we also assessed how these rights that have been in force for over 70 years are relevant to our business segments and how we can apply them to our daily operations. We summarised the results in our human rights policy. We are also committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the labour rights according to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We participate in discussions about compliance with and the protection of human rights in ECA-guaranteed and EDFI-financed projects as part of the OECD practitioners meetings and the working group of the European development financial institutions (EDFIs). Corporate Governance The entire original text The companies of the OeKB bank group are not listed companies, but are nevertheless guided by the Austrian Code of of the code is available on www.corporate-­ Corporate Governance in so far as the Code’s principles are applicable. For non-listed stock companies, L-rules (rules based governance.at on legal requirements) are to be interpreted as C-rules (comply-or-explain rules). Cooperation between the Supervisory Board and Executive Board GRI 102-26, 28, 36 The companies of the OeKB bank group are directed by an Executive Board or executive management. They provide their Supervisory Board with regular, prompt, and comprehensive reports on all relevant business developments, including the risk situation and risk management in their company and the significant Group companies. The aim of managing the Group’s business in accordance with the principles of good corporate governance is achieved in part through open discussion between the Executive Board or management and the respective Supervisory Board and within each of these bodies. GRI 102-35 The Executive Board or management sets the company’s strategic direction together with, and subject to the approval of, the respective Supervisory Board and regularly discusses the progress made on implementing the strategy with them. The Supervisory Board meets at least four times per financial year. The disclosure of the ­aggregate compensation of the Executive Board foreseen by L-rule 29 of the Austrian Code of Corporate ­Governance is omitted pursuant to § 241 (4) of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB). GRI 102-18 The detailed composition of the Supervisory Board, the Staff Council, the state committee, and the government ­committee can be found in the 2019 annual financial report of OeKB AG. The composition of the Executive and ­Super­visory Boards of OeEB and OeKB CSD can be found on the corresponding websites. Supervisory Board of OeKB AG GRI 102-22, 23, The Supervisory Board supervises the Executive Board and supports it in managing the company, especially in reaching 24, 25, 35, 36, 37 decisions of fundamental importance. At the end of 2019, the Supervisory Board was composed of 15 shareholder representatives and six members delegated by the Staff Council. This constitutes a deviation from C-rule 52, which stipulates a maximum of ten members excluding the employee representatives, legitimated by an agreement among OeKB’s shareholders. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 88 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED Supervisory Board remuneration is determined at the Annual General Meeting and is shown in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The employee representatives perform their function on the Supervisory Board within the scope of their ordinary employment. The Austrian Stock Corporation Act requires that the chairman of the Supervisory Board be independent from the operations of the company. All Supervisory Board members aside from the employee representatives are independent from the operations of the company. Committees The Remuneration Committee approves the remuneration policy and variable compensation rules and monitors the implementation of these policies in practice. In matters of remuneration policy and in particular the compensation of the Executive Board, the employee representatives do not attend or vote at the meetings of the committee. The Remuneration Committee met once in 2019. The Audit Committee is especially responsible for the auditing of and the preparations for the adoption of the annual financial statements, the proposal for the distribution of profits, and of the company management report, reviewing the consolidated financial statements and group management report, submitting a proposal for the selection of auditors to the Supervisory Board, and monitoring the effectiveness of the company-wide internal control system and risk management system. The Audit Committee met twice in 2019. The Working Committee oversees borrowing to fund the Export Financing Scheme (EFS), lending under the EFS, lending under § 3 of the internal procedural rules (related debt restructuring facilities and purchase of accounts receivable), and the use of the amounts in the interest stabilisation account. The Working Committee met once in 2019. The Nomination Committee (pursuant to § 29 of the Austrian Banking Act) not only regularly evaluates the balance and variety of the know-how, skills, and experience of the managing directors but also that of the individual Supervisory Board members. Issuing recommendations, it monitors and supports the course of the Executive Board with regard to appointing senior management. The Nomination Committee met once in 2019. The Risk Committee (pursuant to § 39d of the Austrian Banking Act) monitors the implementation of the OeKB risk strategy, among other matters. The Risk Committee met twice in 2019. The legally required committees have also been set up in the subsidiaries. Transparency and auditing Openness and transparency in communication with our shareholders and stakeholders is particularly important to us. In 2019, the Executive Board as well as the Marketing and Corporate Communication and Investor Relations departments upheld these principles. Up-to-date information on the company and its business segments is always available on the OeKB website at www.oekb.at. This site also contains all information on director’s dealings. Executive Board members and Supervisory Board members must report when they or a related party purchase financial instruments issued by OeKB. Details can be found The OeKB bank group promotes the development of women in managerial positions for all functions (L-rule 60). within the chapter To help employees advance. The publication of motions under L-rules 4 to 6 of the Code is not considered expedient, as this information is reserved for shareholders. This means that only shareholders may examine these documents and the right to confidentiality of the shareholders introducing a motion must be maintained. This applies to motions submitted to the Annual General Meetings and all related official documents, including shareholder motions and countermotions, as well as the list of candidates nominated for election to the Supervisory Board and the resolutions passed at the Annual General Meetings. The audit reoprt can The annual financial statements, company management report, consolidated financial statements, and group management be found in the section “­Auditor’s Report” in the report were audited by KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft, Vienna, the auditor 2019 annual financial report. appointed by the Annual General Meeting. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 89 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED GRI 102-18, 22 ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES ON THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF OEKB AG MAG. ANGELIKA SOMMER-HEMETSBERGER MAG. HELMUT BERNKOPF Member of the Executive Board Member of the Executive Board (since 1 January 2014) (since 1 August 2016) ▪▪ Accounting & Financial Control ▪▪ Export Services ▪▪ Human Resources Client Advisory ▪▪ IT Services Products & Services ▪▪ Capital Market Services International Relations & Analyses ▪▪ Treasury ▪▪ Organisation, Construction, Environmental Issues and Securitiy The Board of Executive Directors ▪▪ Internal Audit/Group Internal Audit ▪▪ Marketing & Corporate CommunicationLegal & Compliance ▪▪ Risk Controlling/Legal Compliance ▪▪ Board reporting ▪▪ Legal Affairs The two-member Executive Board of OeKB is responsible for managing the company. Its decisions comply with all relevant laws, the Articles of Association, and the Executive Board’s internal procedural rules. The division of responsibilities and how the members of the Executive Board should work together are set out in these internal procedural rules. This is also the case at Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank (OeEB), OeKB CSD GmbH (OeKB CSD), and Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank GmbH (ÖHT). Risk management and internal control system GRI 102-11, 29, Risk measurement and management are key processes within the business strategy of the OeKB bank group and 30, 31 GRI 103-3 are designed to ensure the long-term stability and profitability of the company. Our risk policy is therefore intended to ensure a stable return on equity on the basis of a conservative approach to business and operational risks. As a group of special-purpose banks, the OeKB bank group bears special responsibility. This also drives our business and risk policy, and we have installed a holistic risk management framework whose individual components are closely integrated. These include the risk policy and strategy; risk identification, measurement, and management; compliance; an internal control system; and Group Internal Audit. Further information about Given the OeKB bank group’s key business activities and its specific business and risk structure, we have adopted a our Risk Management can be found within the 2019 clear functional organisation for our risk management process with well defined roles. annual financial report. The growing importance of the ESG (environmental, social, and governance) factors and especially of climate change and the associated social and political reactions are a source of rising reputation and business model risks. At the same time, this harbours opportunities for future growth. Thus, OeKB Group has increased its focus on climate risks in its risk management and business strategy. In 2020, climate-based risks and opportunities will be explicitly integrated into the risk policy and strategy of OeKB Group, and the implementation of the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure) recommendations will be steadily improved on the basis of a gap analysis. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 90 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED More information The aim of the internal control system is to support the management in such a way that it is in a position to ensure about the ICS can be found within ever better and more effective internal checks. The internal control system covers all material business processes so the 2019 annual that the economic efficiency and effectiveness of business activities, the reliability of the financial and non-financial financial report. performance information, and adherence to guidelines and regulations (compliance) can be guaranteed. The ICS in the OeKB bank group is based on the COSO framework (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission), which has five components: the control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring activities. The Supervisory Board is briefed at least every quarter with a comprehensive report on the balance sheet, income statement, and other controlling and risk data. Highly detailed reports about this information are submitted to the Executive Board. These are created at least once per month. The Executive Board monitors the appropriateness and effectiveness of the ICS. The Executive Board also established an Asset and Liability Management Committee and a Risk Management Committee that receive, analyse, and monitor this data. Financial statements intended for publication undergo a final review by management and staff of the Accounting and Financial Control department and by the Executive Board before being forwarded to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. By monitoring compliance with all rules and regulations, we aim to make all business processes as reliable as possible and ensure Group-wide conformity with policies and procedures. The staff members responsible manage identified risks and shortcomings through prompt mitigative and preventative measures. The implementation of these measures is monitored. Group Internal Audit evaluates compliance with the requirements in accordance with the annual audit plan. Compliance and legal requirements GRI 102-16 In accordance with our fundamental values, we manage all of our companies with integrity and comply with the relevant GRI 205-2 laws. Our values determine the actions of all of our employees. The Legal and Compliance department with the four teams Securities Supervision Act (WAG) Compliance, Banking Act (BWG) Compliance, Money Laundering Prevention, and Legal is responsible for compliance with all legal regulations and reports directly to the Executive Board. The head of the Legal and Compliance department and the respective compliance officers (Securities Supervision Act, Banking Act, money laundering) exercise an advisory and coordinating function and ensure that there are no gaps in the internal regulations. Activities focus on the identification of the ­material legal regulations and requirements so as to ensure compliance. Another responsibility is raising awareness among the employees of the OeKB bank group for regulatory issues. Data protection GRI 418-1 The OeKB bank group has taken a prudent approach to the protection of data for many years, on the one hand to meet the requirements of the banking act concerning bank secrecy, and on the other as specified in the Data Protection Act and the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation. We have appointed a Data Protection Officer and data protection coordinators in every department and in the subsidiaries to ensure the smooth implementation of the requirements. The GDPR 2016 was implemented in a comprehensive project lasting until May 2018. The business processes are continuously documented in procedure indexes to identify the data types and protection requirements according to the current standard. Processes are defined for information obligations, information disclosure requests, and data protection violations, and supplier contracts are amended to include processing agreements. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 91 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED The data protection impact assessments were revised and expanded in 2019, as were the procedures for data subject rights and data protection violations. Training and comprehensive operating procedures were prepared for all employees. A management system for ­maintenance and regular audits was adapted to meet the current requirements. The following requirements apply as the basis for handling data in the OeKB bank group: ▪▪ Data is only transparent within the OeKB bank group to the extent that it is absolutely necessary for the ­settlement of the transaction and the assessment of risk. ▪▪ For risk management purposes in the OeKB bank group, customer exposures are combined and considered together. The Data Protection Officer received one request for information relating to data protection in 2019 (no data were on hand). Preventing money laundering and terrorist financing Money laundering refers to bringing illegally obtained assets into legal circulation. The act of money laundering is defined in the Austrian Criminal Code (StGB). It covers the holding, investment, management, conversion, or use of assets stemming from a crime or illegal activity, as well as obfuscating the source of assets. The international community significantly increased its efforts to prevent terrorist financing after the attacks in the USA on 11 September 2001. The act of terrorist financing is also defined in the Criminal Code and covers the provision of assets with the intent that they be used for terrorist purposes. Unlike with money laundering, the financial assets that go into terrorist financing can stem from legal sources. To prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, the Financial Market Anti-Money Laundering Act (FM-GwG) stipulates special diligence and reporting obligations for credit and financial institutions. Banking transactions may only be ­conducted with known customers – the “know your customer” principle. Credit and financial institutions must determine the identity of their customers pursuant to the FM-GwG before they enter into a customer relationship. GRI 205-2 The various activities of the OeKB bank group were evaluated to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and to identify potentially sensitive areas. Detailed operating procedures were created for the sensitive areas. The legal regulations are monitored on a continuous basis and the internal processes adapted when necessary in the event of changes. Employees in the OeKB bank group who fulfil functions that are relevant to money laundering complete regular training. Those who do not fulfil relevant functions are informed about the money laundering prevention regulations. Internal Audit verifies compliance with these provisions on an annual basis. The Money Laundering Officer and deputy are responsible for implementing the money laundering prevention ­regulations. They advise and inform all employees in accordance with their duties. Suspicious transactions must also be reported to them. The OeKB bank group collaborates directly with the money laundering coordination office of the Austrian Bankers’ ­Association in this. We also implemented the anti-money laundering principles of the Wolfsberg Group. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 92 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED Business Ethics Because of the central role that the OeKB bank group plays in the Austrian capital market and as a national and international export credit agency and Austrian development bank, we feel that it is appropriate to orient ourselves towards the stricter provisions of the anti-corruption laws that apply to public officials even though our employees are not public officials pursuant to § 74 Austrian Criminal Code (StGB). Relevant behavioural rules and other requirements for us and our activities are defined in our Code of Conduct. Code of Conduct The Executive Board, senior managers, and employees are committed to acting reliably, according to the pertinent laws, and with due care and adhere to the clear rules in the Code of Conduct. This code contains ethical and legal rules and guidelines that promote individual responsibility and an open, respectful, and responsible working climate. The Code of Conduct not only sets forth the rules under which we act, but also what we expect from others. For this reason, we decline transactions that violate the Code of Conduct and welcome it when our stakeholders operate under similar rules. The OeKB bank group began updating its Code of Conduct in 2019. Measures for employees have already been planned for 2020 to invigorate communication about the Code of Conduct. Complaint handling system GRI 102-33, 34 Pursuant to § 39e Austrian Banking Act (BWG), the OeKB bank group has set up transparent and appropriate procedures for processing complaints from all persons with which it conducts business. The goal is to identify, analyse, and remedy recurring and potential legal and operational risks. The OeKB bank group adheres to the guidelines of the Joint Committee for complaints-handling for the securities (ESMA) and banking (EBA) sectors. ÖHT is not subject to the provisions of § 39e BWG. Customers of the OeKB bank group are generally asked to address their complaints directly to their customer adviser. If the complaint cannot be resolved directly by this person, the issue can be directed to the central complaint management office of the respective bank. This can be done by means of a web form, in person, by telephone, or by regular mail. The Joint Conciliation Board of the Austrian Banking Industry can also be involved. OeKB bank group customer advisers are required to report any complaints that they receive and the measures they take to address the complaints to the central complaint management office. The data protection regulations of the GDPR and the Data Protection Act must be followed in this. There were 11 relevant complaints to OeKB that were reported to Oesterreichische Nationalbank (OeNB) in 2019. One relevant and reported complaint was submitted to OeKB CSD. No relevant complaints were submitted to OeEB or ÖHT. The whistleblower systems pursuant to § 99g BWG employ the immediate supervisors, the Staff Council, those responsible for the relevant rules in the Code of Conduct, and a law office, always maintaining the required confidentiality. There were no reports in the internal whistleblower systems in 2019. Enquiries were submitted, for example to the Staff Council, to the typical extent. None of the enquiries triggered an internal audit. There is no material pending administrative or legal action against the OeKB bank group. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 93 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED Preventing corruption Minor invitations and the exchange of gifts may be part of the local customs or part of local business practice. Benefits that lead to a conflict of interests or that could cause the impression of partiality may not be accepted under any circumstances, especially when this would put the neutral position of the OeKB bank group at risk. It is sufficient in such cases when even just the appearance or expectation of return consideration is raised. Every gift and invitation that an employee receives while performing his or her duties must be seen as consideration for the function being exercised, and not as a personal gift. We make no donations whatsoever to political parties. Sustainable action and risk management GRI 102-15 The responsible handling of risks is an integral part of our management approach and culture, and therefore of all Read more about Risk Management decision-making. This can also be seen in the manner in which we approach ecological and social issues. in the ­chapter ­Corporate ­Governance. As EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) registered and certified companies, OeKB, OeEB, and OeKB CSD have undertaken to account for resource consumption, climate protection, and social developments in their core business and operations and to pursue annual goals for improvement. A key quality feature of the business and risk policy is the ­conservative approach to business and operational risks without jeopardising the necessary returns. Subsequent steps after a gap analysis are aimed at the gradual implementation of the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure) recommendations. This is intended to evaluate the effects of climate change on our business model and to enhance the resilience of our business strategy. GRI 102-11 The Executive Board of OeKB employs a comprehensive management system to ensure the long-term success of the Group, transparent management, and compliance with the due diligence obligations. The OeKB bank group has a comprehensive system of internal guidelines that enables the Executive Board of OeKB to manage Group-level risks and risks at the level of OeKB AG as an individual company. Top level: The policies and guidelines adopted by the Executive Board of OeKB. These include the following guidelines that are binding for OeKB, OeEB, and OeKB CSD: business policy and strategy, risk policy and strategy, Code of Conduct, Fit & Proper policy, group guidelines for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, and the r­ emuneration policy principles. Middle level: The guidelines created by the downstream organisational units that are responsible for risk management as needed on the basis of the top-level policies and guidelines. Bottom level: The work instructions, standard operating procedures, and method and process documentation that are derived from the adopted guidelines and policies, which are generally under the responsibility of the department heads. The management bodies of the companies in the OeKB bank group ensure the implementation of the guidelines of the OeKB bank group in their areas of responsibility depending on their scope of application. Policies GRI 102-14, 16 The OeKB bank group has adopted its own policies on socially relevant topics. These reflect our attitude and standards GRI 201-2 GRI 412-2, 3 of behaviour, which are adhered to by management and all employees in day-to-day business. FS1 Our Sustainability The sustainability policy of the OeKB bank group reflects our responsibility for the positive development of the economy and Human rights ­policies are available over the long term and for our stakeholders within and outside of the Group. It is submitted to the Executive Board once on OeKB’s website. per year as part of the management assessment and is adapted when needed. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 94 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED The human rights policy breaks down the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the company level and specifies how each article is to be implemented in practice in the OeKB bank group. The climate policy stipulates that adequate measures be taken in all business processes aimed at a sustainable climate policy and therefore at a reduction in CO2 emissions. It applies to all OeKB bank group companies that are EMAS registered and certified. Additional information Our gender and diversity policy states: We understand diversity to mean the commonalities and differences that on our Gender and ­diversity policy, Risk we at the OeKB bank group encounter in our markets, with our customers, and with our employees. Diversity stands policy and ­Remuneration for a central conviction of the OeKB bank group: sincere respect, open dealings, and using our diversity to our policy can be found in the chapter To help advantage. ­employees advance. We also have a communication policy and a donation and sponsoring policy. These set forth our principles of behaviour in dealing with the media, at public events, and when making donations and sponsoring arrangements. Social responsibility with long term benefits Many services of the OeKB bank group are socially relevant. Because of this, our Group bears special responsibility, which we also live up to through our sponsoring and donation activities. Donations and sponsoring in the OeKB bank group The sponsoring activities of the OeKB bank group generally involve activities related to our business, which allows the sponsoring to support our business, communication, and marketing objectives. It also improves the motivation of our employees and their identification with the OeKB bank group, and offers us an opportunity to strengthen our profile as an attractive employer for potential employees. Specific services to be provided in return are set out in writing and compliance is verified for each sponsoring activity. We as the OeKB bank group donate to projects and organisations that focus on people and that are dedicated to ensuring that people can lead dignified lives with ample opportunity – regardless of their origin, ethnicity, or gender. When selecting projects, we attach particular importance to conformity with our corporate principles and sustainable benefits for society. Our donations are not tied to business goals and are not made in exchange for return consideration, but simply stipulate a purpose for which the funds must be used. Donations may be made only if the identity of the recipient and intended purpose are known. These may not be used to avoid external or internal regulations and must be fully documented for the sake of transparency. We are certain that we can achieve the greatest impact when we set focuses for our sponsoring and charity activities. We thus decided in 2016 that our sponsoring and charity activities are to focus on SDGs 1, 4, and 8. SDG 1 covers donations to charitable organisations that focus on reducing poverty in Austria and abroad, for example. In the area of high-quality education, SDG 4, we support organisations such as Teach for Austria and the START scholarship programme, which aim at providing education opportunities to all children, regardless of their background or education or the income level of their parents. Thanks to our corporate volunteering programme, we have been working even more closely with Teach for Austria and the START scholarship programme since 2019. Our support for a scholarship of the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute reflects our SDG 8 focus – decent work and economic growth. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 95 TO HELP SOCIET Y SUCCEED Teach For Austria OeKB has been supporting the Teach For Austria programme since 2016. This independent charitable initiative creates better education opportunities and prospects for children and youths from socio-economically disadvantaged families. By promoting education for pupils who are experiencing difficulties in school, Teach for Austria contributes to enabling every child to grow in accordance with his or her strengths. One member of the OeKB Executive Board was also personally involved in the initiative and taught a biology class in one of the focus schools during the “Teach for Austria Week”. During this week, successful people from business, the government, and other pursuits inspire the pupils through their own stories and show what they can achieve through hard work and perseverance. START scholarship programme The vision and core idea of this support programme is an open and socially fluid society that provides equal opportunities and in which interculturality is perceived as an enrichment. START Austria makes a contribution to this as a sustainable initiative by assisting the educational path of talented students with a migration background and by promoting their social engagement. The scholarship programme has been implemented in Austria in collaboration with various cooperation partners since 2007. The OeKB bank group has been part of this cooperation partnership since 2018 and funded a scholarship in the amount of €5,000 in the 2019/20 academic year. We also donated a number of smaller prizes for the tombola that START held at the annual punch gathering at the Vienna Stock Exchange in 2019. Corporate Volunteering GRI 413-1 Corporate volunteering opens up new perspectives for employees by providing a glimpse of “other worlds” and by facilitating identification with OeKB as an employer that assumes comprehensive responsibility. Because corporate volunteering provides employees of a company the opportunity to engage in good causes during their working time. The OeKB bank group feels that its responsibility includes playing an active role as a shaper and educator for the sustainable development of our society. One element of this is the focused corporate volunteering programme, which went into the pilot phase in 2019. Alongside this social engagement, the OeKB bank group also places a strong focus on promoting employee loyalty through “shared values” and actively assuming social responsibility itself by helping to improve and enhance the social and other skills of its employees. By participating in a corporate volunteering programme, the employees of the OeKB bank group have the opportunity to gain new perspectives and make a valuable contribution to our society during their working hours. They willingly contribute their working time, their professional expertise, and their personal experience in the name of the OeKB bank group and expand their own horizons. We held two corporate volunteering events in 2019: ▪▪ Geography and economics day with Teach for Austria Six employees of the OeKB bank group visited the third class at the modular Aspern – Eibengasse middle school in cooperation with Teach for Austria. Together with the roughly 25 pupils and the teacher, a Teach for Austria fellow, they held a project day in the subject of geography and economics. These volunteers assisted the pupils in preparing a presentation about a geographical region of Austria. The volunteers helped the groups conduct research on the Internet, helped them design a poster, and offered them tips on giving their presentation. The class members were well prepared and motivated to tackle the topic. The presentations were given to the class at the end of the project day. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 96 ▪▪ Workshop for START scholars Fifteen of the young adults being assisted through the START scholarship programme learned about the activities and careers in the OeKB bank group during a workshop with Group employees. The scholars were given the opportunity to visit seven different stations in an informal setting and were able to discuss with employees the technical aspects of the different jobs and what a typical working day looks like. The scholars were also highly interested in the life paths of the employees and collected personal tips and tricks for the job hunt and successful interviews. Employee volunteering Volunteering has a long tradition in the OeKB bank group, as OeKB AG already seized the initiative in the 1980s and set up the charitable Christmas market on Freyung square in Vienna. The market is now organised by the association OeKB karitativ, which is run by employees of the OeKB bank group. Our employees and supporters of the association again served punch at the stand during the 2019 holiday season: in two-hour shifts, ten hours per day, seven days a week, for five weeks. Four of the five stands at the charitable Christmas market are available for social organisations, which can use the proceeds that they generate entirely for their charitable activities. OeKB karitativ covers the stand operating costs. The net earnings of the association are donated to specially selected non-profit projects. Further employee commitment projects: OeKB donates old OeKB BlackBerry devices to the Ö3 Wundertüte programme. Our employees support this programme by donating private mobile phones that they no longer use. Employees who are volunteer members of fire brigades or other emergency services receive a limited period of special leave in the event of disasters (also for taking care of refugees). This is governed in a works agreement. Our Staff Council holds a blood donation drive once per year. Small groups of OeKB bank group employees also cooked at the Gruft shelter of Caritas and distributed the food to the homeless persons there twice in 2019. OeKB provided the food for this. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 97 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK Review and outlook Implementation of the programme of measures in 2019 To help business grow We develop sustainable products and services to contribute to the sustainable operation of the OeKB bank group. Objective Measure Progress report Set up a Future Advisory Council as Create a concept for a Future The first future workshop on the topic an element of stakeholder manageAdvisory Council and hold the first of “Sustainable Development Goals and ment to secure the acceptance of the meeting. Sustainable Finance” was held in October OeKB bank group’s mandate over 2019. The findings will be incorporated the long term. into the revision of the 2020 sustainability strategy. Issue the first sustainable bond. Create a sustainable bond framework A sustainable financing framework was targeted at a first issue in 2019. drawn up and the first sustainable bond was issued in October 2019. Expand the projects in the fields Evaluate whether the extended Increased communication through our of renewable energy and climate terms according to the OECD sector customer advisers, the OeKB website, protection. agreement have led to an expansion and our newsletter was sensible. and whether further measures are The communication is being continued. sensible. The OeKB bank group makes an Provide expertise for the technical OeKB was represented in a subgroup of active contribution to sustainable working group of the European the technical working group for the finance. Commission for taxonomy. creation of the taxonomy by one of its employees, who contributed her technical expertise. Actively support research projects in The RiskFinPorto research project was the field of sustainable finance. actively supported, as were further workshops and events on this topic. Introduce a gender smart Create a concept, conduct training, Three training measures were conducted finance tool at OeEB. and develop a financing tool for and the Gender Smart Finance product gender-balanced financing through was developed for financial institutions. an external consultant. Gender equality was also incorporated into the environmental and social analysis and a technical assistance product was developed. Measure and assess the contribution Introduce the content and implement Final implementation and refinement of of the customers/projects to the the technical aspects of the new the Development Effectiveness Rating protection of the environment and Development Effectiveness Rating (DERa) tool, including the complete improvement of the social situation in (DERa) for the projects of OeEB. digitalisation of the environmental and the target countries. social audit process for OeEB projects. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 98 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK Operationalise an innovative new Following the High-level Africa Forum OeEB was commissioned by the BMF in financing instrument for the BMF that in Vienna in December 2018, talks 2019 to implement and manage the mobilises investments of Austrian were initiated with the BMF about African-Austrian SME Investment Facility. companies in Africa for the benefit of the concrete design of an Africa SME both sides. Investment Fund. Mobilise private capital to finance Cooperate with a private Austrian December 2019 saw the first closing SMEs and financial services providers bank to establish an impact fund that of the Gutmann OeEB Impact Fund, the in developing countries through an primarily invests in SMEs and first private equity impact fund in Austria innovative partnership with a private financial inclusion funds in developing that arose from a cooperation between Austrian bank. countries in parallel to OeEB. Talks OeEB and Bank Gutmann. In addition to began in 2018. Objective: first closing the financial return, the primary goal is of the impact fund in 2019. improving the living conditions for people in developing and emerging countries. To help drive innovation We collect, prepare, assess, and market new possibilities. To this end, we build an environment and internal and external networks to cover this broad topic. Objective Measure Progress report Develop a value system and a ▪▪ Communicate the vision and The vision and mission statements were new way of working in the OeKB mission for the OeKB bank group; visualised and clearly communicated bank group – Future Work. ▪▪ Implement the prepared through various channels. Steps were programme; taken to inspire the active application ▪▪ Implement the Future Office pilot of the vision and mission statements in project; daily work. ▪▪ Depending on the results: roll out and/or adapt the Future Work The Future Office pilot space was criteria (2020). completed and occupied, and feedback was collected for further improvement. The roll-out was planned. Establish a cross-corporate initiative. Joint organisation of the weXelerate weXelerate developed and expanded the Cross-Corporate Initiative to create Cross-Corporate Initiative programme the basis for exchange between throughout the year and closed the first companies on technical and industry cycle of presentations organised and topics. held by corporate partners at the end of 2019. OeKB held a presentation and workshop on the topic of “HR of the future”. Feedback was collected and improvement suggestions drafted for implementation during the next cycle of the Cross-Corporate Initiative in 2020. Digitalise securities to increase Participate in the FinTech Advisory An amendment to the Securities Deposit the efficiency of the capital market Committee to create a book-entry Act has been formulated. It is likely to infrastructure. security law as the basis for the be implemented by the new government de-materialisation of transferable soon as the project is included in the securities. government declaration. This will pave the way for the evidencing of rights to assets without paper when this is not necessary. Improve the transparency, processes, Develop a digital customer platform. The base project was concluded in 2019, and accessibility of our customer and the first follow-up project containing services and digitalise the relevant the initial implementation steps began in processes. early 2020. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 99 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK To help employees advance We pay attention to the health of our employees, to a good work-life balance, and to imparting necessary ­know-how. This will enable all of us to make a contribution to the sustainable success of the OeKB bank group. Objective Measure Progress report Joint target share of women on the Persuade the shareholders. Added to the gender and diversity Executive and Supervisory Boards of policy as a strategic goal. 30 per cent by 2020. As at 31 December 2019: ▪▪ OeKB bank group in total: 39 per cent ▪▪ OeKB: 35 per cent ▪▪ OeEB: 50 per cent ▪▪ OeKB CSD: 43 per cent Improve health and productivity Implement a company health The focus of occupational health through an integrated safety and concept and continue the promotion ­management in 2019 was offering therahealth management system. of sports and other activities that peutic yoga to employees through improve health. Conduct a spinal a physical therapist. health campaign. The alkaline foods regimen is still on the Reorganise safety management with menu, and around eight meat-free days an eye to new forms of work and were offered in the OeKB restaurant. their health and safety effects. Increase the use of internal Promote dialogue between the The OeKB ThinkTank event, the first ­communication channels subsidiaries and departments, for conference for OeKB Group employees, to disseminate socially and example in the form of a cross was held in October 2019. ­sustainability-relevant topics. conference and open space events as part of the Future Work programme. Online training in the subject of susConduct online training on the topic of tainability management and sustainable sustainability with an existing or new finance was created for OeKB bank tool (possibly a gamification pilot). group employees. Implement a future talents promotion Create a concept and curriculum and The future talents promotion programme programme to identify and assist identify future talents. Start of the was launched in February 2019, and suitable candidates for expert and first group with 12 to 15 candidates. the first three of six modules have managerial positions at an early stage already been completed. The first talents (at least 50 per cent women). programme runs until May 2020. Support the cultural transformation Hold a workshop series to identify The exchange of knowledge between to promote identification with the concrete challenges in day-to-day work employees is a key success factor. future topics of the OeKB bank and develop solutions together. The Knowledge Coffee platform was group. Achieve as high an employee launched to this end and is designed participation rate as possible. to preserve and disseminate know-how in the company. Address the topic of and explore Hold workshop with MyAbility. A management workshop was held how to manage persons with mental with MyAbility. or physical disabilities. Collect the missing statistics for Add the OeEB training measures The figures were expanded to include employee training. to the employee training statistics OeEB training. However, the evaluation starting in 2019. for 2019 revealed the need for improved data quality, and the figures will therefore be reported for the first time in 2020. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 100 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK To help the environment flourish We document and optimise the direct and indirect ecological impacts of our activities. Objective Measure Progress report Optimise the operational Include the company cars of the Was implemented in 2018 already. ecology process. Executive Board members in the environmental statistics. Implement an environmental data An environmental data tool was tool to improve the quality of the implemented. ecological statistics. Reduce non-recyclable waste. Test new waste separation systems A new waste separation system was as part of the Future Office project. introduced. The volume of non-recyclable waste generated in OeKB was reduced overall. The new waste separation system was added to the roll-out of the Future Office concept. Reduce CO2 emissions by also Select a project/partner to Two projects were selected to compensate compensating for the air travel of ­compensate for the air travel. for the distance travelled by air. OeKB AG. Further reduce the CO2 emissions of Discuss and make a decision on The evaluation of the company car the company and fringe benefit cars. hybrid or electric cars. policy is being discussed. Reduce the power consumption at Reactivate the free-cooling system The free-cooling system was put back the Am Hof location by around at the Am Hof location (after the into operation in December 2019. 10 MW starting in 2020. renovation and sub-letting of space). To help society succeed We take an active role as a shaper and educator for the sustainable development of our society. Objective Measure Progress report Update the human rights policy for Update the human rights policy The topic was discussed at the ­meetings OeEB and the entire OeKB bank and communicate it internally and of the environmental and social group based on the amendment to to external stakeholders. practitioners in the OECD and at the EHS the Austrian Export Guarantees Act practitioners workshop of the financial (AusfFG). institutions (and development financial institutions – [E]DFIs). The results will be included in the update. Create and implement a concept Research implementation options Contact has been established and a for financial literacy relating to the (including digital solutions). Create ­coordination meeting held with the capital market. implementation concept. individual responsible for financial literacy at the OeNB. The contacts with the OeNB and WBAG that are aimed at financial literacy will be continued. Joint activities with the Austrian Association of Share Issuers and Investors (Aktienforum) are also being considered. Financial literacy is also a focus of our corporate volunteering activities. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 101 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK Evaluate a corporate volunteering ▪▪ Draw up a proposal for the most A corporate volunteering concept was (CoVo) programme for the OeKB bank suitable CoVo form for the OeKB created and the first events held with group and implement by 2020. bank group (action day, time credit, the project partners Teach for Austria partnership, etc.). and the START scholarship programme. ▪▪ Implement a CoVo pilot project, The next activities for 2020 have been for example in combination with a planned. ­future talents promotion programme or together with OeKB karitativ. ▪▪ Depending on the results: roll out and/or adapt the CoVo programme. Bolster the association ▪▪ Prepare best practices and A stakeholder forum was held with the OeKB karitativ. lessons learned from the involved associations, adjacent markets, Christmas market. and the district authorities to identify ▪▪ Actively contact associations for potential for improvement, which was future activities. then partially implemented during the ▪▪ Identify further activities for the 2019 Christmas market. External comassociation. munication about the Christmas market was intensified and the social benefits presented in a tangible manner. Harmonise and update the Revise the documents to create The revision process has begun with all Code of Conduct and the policies. a harmonised Group-wide code; relevant departments and companies publish and internally communicate in the OeKB bank group. Finalisation is a common Code of Conduct for planned for the end of Q1 2020. the OeKB bank group. Done In implementation Sustainability programme 2020 To help business grow FS 16 We develop sustainable products and services to contribute to the sustainable operation of the OeKB bank group. Objective Measure Responsibility Issue of further sustainability bonds. Identify possibilities for the issue of Organisation, Construction, further bonds under the Sustainable Environmental Issues, and Security Financing Framework. Treasury Publish the allocation and impact Create and publish the allocation Organisation, Construction, report on the first sustainability bond. and impact report on the first Environmental Issues, and Security sustainability bond. Treasury Consider green, social, and Allocate a portion of the proprietary Treasury sustainability bonds in proprietary investments to green, social, and investments. sustainability bonds. Actively participate in sustainable Actively participate in the working Organisation, Construction, finance initiatives. groups relating to the Green Finance Environmental Issues, and Security Agenda of the BMF and BMNT and further initiatives. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 102 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK Update the sustainability strategy. Prepare the sustainability strategy Organisation, Construction, for 2021 to 2023. Environmental Issues, and Security Integrate ÖHT into the sustainability Plan the steps for the integration Organisation, Construction, management system. of ÖHT into the sustainability Environmental Issues, and Security ­management system of the OeKB bank group. ÖHT Implement the TCFD Complete a gap analysis and Organisation, Construction, Environmental recommendations. ­gradually implement the improveIssues, and Security ments recommended by TCFD. Risk management Add the topic of climate risk to Organisation, Construction, the risk policy. Environmental Issues, and Security Risk management Expand the sustainability criteria Participate in the discussion process Capital Market Services in the categorisation data of within VÖIG to explore the e­ xpansion Austrian funds. of the categorisation data for A ­ ustrian funds to include sustainability criteria (EFAMA). Implement the strategic Achieve 80 per cent of new business OeEB focuses of OeEB. in the focus areas of renewable energy, financial inclusion, and infrastructure by 2023. Invest an average of at least 40 per OeEB cent of new OeEB business in eligible climate-relevant projects in the period from 2019 to 2023. Improve the data relating to Define and implement a method to OeEB ­renewable energy. document the CO2 emission savings in tonnes. Implement a gender action plan. Adopt a multi-year gender action plan OeEB and begin its implementation. Update the human rights policy. Formulate a position paper to account OeEB for human rights standards in the work of OeEB. A workshop with representatives from civil society is planned in this context. Draw up rules of conduct for a Formulate values and rules of OeEB responsible corporate culture. conduct for a responsible corporate culture. Support young talents. Support young talents through the OeEB co-financing of trainees in Uganda, Ethiopia, Kosovo, and Georgia in coope­ration with the BMF, WKO, and ADA. IFC impact principles. Certify the IFC impact principles OeEB to establish a market standard in the field of impact investing. Sustainable capital market. Conduct discussions with Vienna OeKB CSD Stock Exchange (WBAG) on the topic of a “sustainable stock exchange Organisation, Construction, initiative” and potential cooperation Environmental Issues, and Security projects in the field of sustainability management. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 103 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK To help drive innovation We collect, prepare, assess, and market new possibilities. To this end, we build an environment and internal and external networks to cover this broad topic. Objective Measure Responsibility Refine the feedback culture. Collect feedback on sustainability Organisation, Construction, management in the OeKB bank group Environmental Issues, and Security through Loopline. Continue the Future Work process Follow the four defined focuses for Human Resources to implement new ways of working in 2020: strategy, leadership, processes, the OeKB bank group. and think tank. Hold a series of Innovation Management ­activities such as workshops, Marketing and Corporate Communications information events, and seminars. Organisation, Construction, Continue the conversion of Environmental Issues, and Security the office space in line with the Future Office concept. Support cultural transformation. Improve and continue the various Human Resources measures launched in 2019 to support cultural transformation and Innovation Management promote knowledge exchange and Marketing and Corporate Communications networking. Organisation, Construction, Environmental Issues, and Security To help employees advance We pay attention to the health of our employees, to a good work-life balance, and to imparting necessary know-how. This will enable all of us to make a contribution to the sustainable success of the OeKB bank group. Objective Measure Responsibility Improve health and productivity The physical therapist is offering Human Resources through an integrated safety and courses such as “Give your back health management system. a break” in line with the motto of Organisation, Construction, “sitting is the new smoking”. Environmental Issues, and Security The physical therapist is also visiting workspaces to prevent poor posture. The menu in the OeKB restaurant will offer two meat-free days per month. We will offer a presentation in collaboration with the Austrian Traffic Safety Board (Kuratorium für Verkehrssicherheit) to promote a higher level of concentration when driving. Increase the use of internal Organise the OeKB ThinkTank event Human Resources ­communication channels to as a conference for OeKB Group ­disseminate businessand employees. Innovation Management ­sustainability-relevant topics. Organisation, Construction, Environmental Issues, and Security S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 104 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK >Blick Voraus! (Look ahead!) Marketing and Corporate Communications video category The Executive Board updates employees regularly about current business developments and strategy issues via video messages and answers employee questions by video. Announce the revised Code of Organisation, Construction, Conduct to the employees through Environmental Issues, and Security various internal communication channels such as a “Frühstück mit Weitblick” breakfast and online training. Organise internal events to sensitise Human Resources employees to working with persons with disabilities. Integrate persons with disabilities. Plan internships for persons Human Resources with disabilities. Refine the diversity management Develop a concept to refine the Human Resources framework. diversity management framework in the OeKB bank group. Organisation, Construction, Environmental Issues, and Security Assess cooperation possibilities Human Resources with organisations focusing on the i­ntegration of persons with disabilities. To help the environment flourish We document and optimise the direct and indirect ecological impacts of our activities. Objective Measure Responsibility Hold green events. Promote the holding of green events. Marketing and Corporate Communications Organisation, Construction, Environmental Issues, and Security Provide information on the holding Organisation, Construction, of green events and the relevant Environmental Issues, and Security infrastructure to outside renters of Reitersaal hall. Sustainable procurement. Implement measures to raise Organisation, Construction, awareness among purchasing agents Environmental Issues, and Security in the OeKB bank group. Reduce non-recyclable waste. Complete a pilot project with Organisation, Construction, Hut & Stiel to use coffee grounds to Environmental Issues, and Security grow mushrooms. Reduce CO2 emissions through Evaluate how OeKB could Organisation, Construction, compensation. become CO2 neutral. Environmental Issues, and Security S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 105 REVIEW AND OUTLOOK Reduce the power consumption at Evaluate whether the reconnection Organisation, Construction, the Am Hof location by around of the free-cooling system at Am Hof Environmental Issues, and Security 10 MW starting in 2020. brought the desired reduction in energy consumption. Optimise the operational Ensure continuous data Organisation, Construction, ecology process. improvement. Environmental Issues, and Security Create and expand awareness. Raise awareness among OeKB OeKB CSD CSD employees for the specific environmental data and sustainability Organisation, Construction, measures at OeKB CSD during a Environmental Issues, and Security OeKB CSD informational breakfast. To help society succeed We take an active role as a shaper and educator for the sustainable development of our society. Objective Measure Responsibility Continue the corporate Intensify the collaboration with Teach Human Resources volunteering programme. for Austria and the START scholarship programme under the framework Organisation, Construction, of the corporate volunteering Environmental Issues, and Security programme. Bolster the association Evaluate improvement measures and OeKB karitativ OeKB karitativ. the Christmas market and initiate further changes. Vienna, 30 March 2020 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft Executive Board Mag. Helmut Bernkopf Mag. Angelika Sommer-Hemetsberger S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 106 GRI-INDEX GRI-Index GRI 102-54, 55 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive Option. The following table provides an overview of how the reporting requirements for the GRI indicators were treated in the report and where the disclosures can be found. The sustainability report also serves as a progress report for the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and satisfies the high standards required for its Advanced Level. The content index provides an overview of where disclosures can be found about the measures employed to implement the UNGC and the outcomes of these measures. material not material, but reported not material The ten principles of the UN Global Compact Principle 01: Human rights – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 02: Human rights – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 03: Labour – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 04: Labour – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 05: Labour – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 06: Labour – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 07: Environment – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 08: Environment – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 09: Environment – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Anti-corruption – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. NACHHALTIGKEITSR E P ORT 2019 | 107 GRI-INDEX GRI 101 Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Organizational profile Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organization About the report 6;10 Disclosures 2016 OeKB Group 102-2 Activities, brands, products, OeKB Group Principle 01 10;12f; and services Business model of the OeKB bank group and material shareholdings Principle 02 40f;45ff; Export Services Principle 04 51ff;54f Development Financing Principle 05 56f Capital Market Services Principle 06 OeKB CSD GmbH Principle 07 Energy Market Services Sustainable finance 102-3 Location of headquarters OeKB Group 10 Publication information 102-4 Location of operations Ecological key indicators 84 102-5 Ownership and legal form OeKB Group 10;11 Shareholders and share capital of OeKB AG 102-6 Markets served Business model of the OeKB bank group and material shareholdings 12f;38; To help business grow 40;45ff; Export Services 51ff;54f; Development Financing 56f Capital Market Services OeKB CSD GmbH Energy Market Services Reported in detail in the 2019 Export Services annual report. 102-7 Scale of the organization Development Financing 45;67f To help employees advance Reported in detail in the 2019 annual financial report. 102-8 Information on employees Development Financing SDG 8.5 Principle 06 50;67ff and other workers To help employees advance SDG 10.3 102-9 Supply chain Effects of the business model on environmental and social issues Principle 02 18 Principle 04 The OeKB bank group also assesses its suppliers in terms of their sustainability. A Principle 05 pre-screening is generally conducted for the acquisition of new fixtures, fittings, equipPrinciple 09 ment, and working materials. The Sustainable Procurement in OeKB criteria catalogue contains all the principles that must be taken into account from a sustainability perspective in procurement in addition to the general commercial purchasing terms. In addition to measurable criteria (power consumption, share of recyclable components, etc.), certificates and (product) quality seals are also taken into account for all product groups in this. The OeKB bank group purchases no products that contain PVC and prefers renewable, recyclable, repairable, regional products and providers that orient their actions towards social criteria as defined in the UN Global Compact. 102-10 Significant changes to the Preface by the Executive Board and Management 8f organization and its supply chain There were no significant changes in the supply chain. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or OeKB Group Principle 01 10;41ff; approach Export Services Principle 02 90;94 Business ethics Principle 03 Risk management and internal control system Principle 06 Principle 07 102-12 External initiatives About the report 6 Social responsibility with long-term benefits 102-13 Membership of Dialogue with civil society 31ff associations Networks and memberships Strategy Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page 102-14 Statement from senior Preface by the Supervisory Board of OeKB AG 7;8; decision-maker Preface by the Executive Board and Management 94 Policies 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Preface by the Executive Board and Management 8f;20; opportunities Materiality matrix 38;61ff; To help business grow 65;78; Sustainable finance 87;94 To help drive innovation To help employees advance To help the environment flourish To help society succeed Business ethics Risk management and internal control system Ethics and integrity Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page 102-16 Values, principles, standCompliance and legal requirements SDG 16.3 Principle 01 91;94f ards, and norms of behavior Business ethics Principle 02 Policies Principle 03 Principle 04 Principle 05 Principle 06 Principle 07 Principle 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Dialogue with civil society SDG 16.3 Principle 10 31f and concerns about ethics Business ethics S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 108 GRI-INDEX Governance Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance 88ff 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability management 37 102-20 Executive-level Sustainability management 37 ­responsibility for economic, ­environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders Stakeholder relations and dialogue SDG 16.7 27ff;31 on economic, environmental, and Dialogue with civil society social topics 102-22 Composition of the Corporate governance SDG 5.5 88ff highest governance body and SDG 16.7 its committees The detailed composition of the Supervisory Board, the Staff Council, and the state committee can be found in the 2019 annual financial report. 102-23 Chair of the highest Corporate governance SDG 16.6 88ff governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting Corporate governance SDG 5.5 88ff the highest governance body SDG 16.7 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate governance SDG 16.6 88ff 102-26 Role of highest Preface by the Supervisory Board 7;37; ­governance body in setting Sustainability management 88 ­purpose, values, and strategy Corporate governance 102-27 Collective knowledge of Materiality analysis 20;37 highest governance body Sustainability management 102-28 Evaluating the highest Preface by the Supervisory Board 7;37; governance body’s performance Sustainability management 88 Corporate governance 102-29 Identifying and managing Materiality analysis SDG 16.7 20ff;41ff; economic, environmental, and Export Services 45ff;90f social impacts Development Financing Risk management and internal control system 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Risk management and internal control system 90f management processes 102-31 Review of economic,­ Sustainability management 37;41ff; environmental, and social topics Export Services 45ff;90 Development Financing Corporate governance Risk management and internal control system 102-32 Highest governance The Executive Board and senior managers review and approve the sustainability report body’s role in sustainability and ensure that the identified material topics have been addressed. reporting 102-33 Communicating Dialogue with civil society 31f;93 critical concerns Business ethics The Austrian Stock Corporation Act stipulates the reporting obligations of the Executive Board to the highest governance body, in other words to its Supervisory Board. Ad hoc meetings can be held in addition to the legally mandated quarterly Supervisory Board meetings. No additional meetings of the Supervisory Boards of OeKB AG, OeKB CSD, or OeEB were needed in 2019 aside from the mandatory meetings. 102-34 Nature and total number Business ethics 93 of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies Gender equality and diversity 72ff;88 Remuneration policy Corporate governance 102-36 Process for determining Gender equality and diversity 72ff;88 remuneration Remuneration policy Corporate governance 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement Gender equality and diversity SDG 16.7 72ff;88 in remuneration Remuneration policy Corporate governance 102-38 Annual total Ratio of compensation to highest-paid individual : compensation ratio median of all salaries – confidential. 102-39 Percentage increase in Percentage increase in the compensation to the highest-paid individual : annual total compensation ratio median of compensation for all employees – confidential. Stakeholder engagement Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality analysis 20;27ff Stakeholder relations and dialogue 102-41 Collective bargaining All employees are subject to the collective bargaining SDG 8.8 Principle 03 agreements agreement for the banking industry. 102-42 Identifying and selecting Materiality analysis 20;27ff stakeholders Stakeholder relations and dialogue 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Materiality analysis 20;27ff engagement Stakeholder relations and dialogue 102-44 Key topics and Materiality analysis 20;27ff concerns raised Stakeholder relations and dialogue S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 109 GRI-INDEX Reporting practice Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page 102-45 Entities included in the OeKB Group 10 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content Materiality analysis 20ff and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis 20ff 102-48 Restatements of Materiality analysis 20 ­information 102-49 Changes in reporting Materiality analysis 20 102-50 Reporting period About the report 6 102-51 Date of most recent report About the report 6 102-52 Reporting cycle About the report 6 102-53 Contact point for questions About the report 6 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in About the report 6;107 accordance with the GRI Standards GRI content index 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 107ff 102-56 External assurance Audit certificate 119f Material topics Management approach Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Business model of the OeKB bank group and material shareholdings 12ff;38f ­Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary To help business grow Material topic: 103-2 The management approach Capital Market Services 51;54; Infrastructure for and its components OeKB CSD GmbH 56 Energy Market Services the capital market and energy market 103-3 Evaluation of the Capital Market Services 51;54; ­management approach OeKB CSD GmbH 56 Energy Market Services Management approach Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Customer satisfaction and customer care 29f ­Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach Customer satisfaction and customer care 29f Customer and its components ­satisfaction 103-3 Evaluation of the Customer satisfaction and customer care 29f ­management approach Management approach Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material To help drive innovation 61 Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help drive innovation 61 Innovation and and its components digitalisation 103-3 Evaluation of the To help drive innovation 61 ­management approach Management approach Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material To help business grow 38f Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Sustainable Finance Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help business grow 38f Responsible and its components Sustainable Finance ­financing and 103-3 Evaluation of the To help business grow 38f ­investment ­management approach Sustainable Finance S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 110 GRI-INDEX Economic standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 201: Economic 103-1 Explanation of the material To help business grow 38f ­Performance 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help business grow 38f Financial stability and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability management 37ff management approach To help business grow Risk management and internal control system 201-1 Direct economic value Highlights SDG 8.1 2;12 generated and distributed Business model of the OeKB bank group and material shareholdings SDG 8.2 SDG 9.1 Reported in detail in the 2019 annual financial report. SDG 9.4 SDG 9.5 201-2 Financial implications and To help business grow SDG 13.1 38f;45; other risks and opportunities due Development Financing 94 to climate change Policies 201-3 Defined benefit plan obli­ Contributions are paid into an umbrella pension fund for all employees gations and other retirement plans based on the collective pension fund agreement. 201-4 Financial assistance There were no public subsidies for construction measures or for the received from government training of employees in 2019. Economic standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG Target UNGC Page GRI 202: Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry Entry level wages are governed by the collective bargaining agreement for the banking SDG 1.2 Principle 06 2016 level wage by gender compared to industry, which covers all employees of the OeKB bank group. SDG 5.1 local minimum wage SDG 8.5 202-2 Proportion of senior SDG 8.5 ­management hired from the local community Economic standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 203: Indirect Economic 103-1 Explanation of the material To help business grow 38f Impacts 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help business grow 38f Enabling and its components ­entrepreneurship 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability management 37ff and growth ­management approach To help business grow 203-1 Infrastructure investments To help business grow SDG 5.4 Principle 07 39ff;45 and services supported Export Services SDG 9.1 Development Financing SDG 9.4 SDG 11.2 203-2 Significant indirect Business model of the OeKB bank group and material shareholdings SDG 1.2 12ff;39ff; ­economic impacts To help business grow SDG 3.8 45;51; Export Services SDG 8.2 56;58ff Protecting against credit default risks SDG 8.3 Development Financing SDG 8.5 Capital Market Services Energy Market Services Sustainable finance Economic standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on SDG 8.3 ­Practices 2016 local suppliers Economic standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material To help society succeed 87 topic and its Boundary Material topic: Human rights, 103-2 The management approach To help society succeed 87 ­compliance, and and its components business ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability management 37;87 ­management approach To help society succeed 205-1 Operations assessed for Protecting against credit default risks SDG 16.5 Principle 10 43f risks related to corruption Corruption risk in Export Services is assessed based on the implementation of the OECD Recommendations on Bribery and the provisions of Austrian criminal law. Regular information relating to criminal law is provided to all employees in writing, and OECD-specific information is also provided regularly to employees involved with export guarantees. 205-2 Communication and training Compliance and legal requirements SDG 16.5 Principle 10 91f about anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of No violations are known. SDG 16.5 Principle 10 corruption and actions taken S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 111 GRI-INDEX Economic standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-­ No legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, SDG 16.3 Behavior 2016 competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly practices are known. and monopoly practices Environmental standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by Ecological key indicators SDG 8.4 Principle 07 85 weight or volume SDG 12.2 Principle 08 Principle 09 301-2 Recycled input materials Ecological key indicators SDG 8.4 Principle 07 85 used SDG 12.2 Principle 08 SDG 12.5 Principle 09 301-3 Reclaimed products and Not applicable: Because the business activities consist of the provision of services in the SDG 8.4 their packaging materials financial industry, there are no reclaimed products or packaging materials. SDG 12.2 SDG 12.5 Environmental standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material To help the environment flourish 78 topic and its Boundary Material topic: Operational ecology 103-2 The management approach To help the environment flourish 78 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the manageSustainability management 37;78 ment approach To help the environment flourish 302-1 Energy consumption within Energy management SDG 7.2 Principle 07 79ff;85 the organization Ecological key indicators SDG 7.3 Principle 08 SDG 8.4 Principle 09 SDG 12.2 SDG 13.1 302-2 Energy consumption outside Energy management SDG 7.2 Principle 07 79ff;85 of the organization Ecological key indicators SDG 7.3 Principle 08 SDG 8.4 Principle 09 SDG 12.2 SDG 13.1 302-3 Energy intensity Energy management SDG 7.3 Principle 07 85 Ecological key indicators SDG 8.4 Principle 08 SDG 12.2 Principle 09 SDG 13.1 302-4 Reduction of energy Energy management SDG 7.3 Principle 07 79ff;85 consumption Ecological key indicators SDG 8.4 Principle 08 SDG 12.2 Principle 09 SDG 13.1 302-5 Reductions in energy Not applicable due to the nature of the activities in the financial services sector. SDG 7.3 requirements of products and SDG 8.4 services SDG 12.2 SDG 13.1 Environmental standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Ecological key indicators SDG 6.4 Principle 07 85 The total water consumption for the Strauchgasse and Am Hof sites in 2019 came to Principle 08 5,759,000 litres (2018: 5,805,000 litres). 303-2 Water sources significantly Not applicable: Due to the location of the site and the nature of the activities as a service SDG 6.4 affected by withdrawal of water provider, no water sources are significantly affected by the withdrawal of water. 303-3 Water recycled and reused Not applicable: Due to the location of the site and the nature of the activities as a service SDG 6.3 provider, the recycling and reuse of water is not sensible. SDG 6.4 SDG 8.4 SDG 12.2 Environmental standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, Not applicable: The sites are not located in such areas. SDG 6.6 leased, managed in, or adjacent SDG 14.2 to, protected areas and areas of SDG 15.1 high biodiversity value outside SDG 15.5 protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of Environmental and social aspects SDG 6.6 Principle 07 41ff activities, products, and services SDG 14.2 on biodiversity The impacts on biodiversity are assessed as part of the environmental and social audits. SDG 15.1 SDG 15.5 OeEB invested USD 25 million in the eco.business Fund – Sub-Fund I in September 2017. This investment was increased by a further USD 25 million in November 2019. The objective of the fund is to maintain biodiversity and promote the sustainable use of natural resources in Latin America. 304-3 Habitats protected Not applicable: There are no protected or restored habitats. SDG 6.6 or restored SDG 14.2 SDG 15.1 SDG 15.5 304-4 IUCN Red List species and Environmental and social aspects SDG 6.6 Principle 07 41ff national conservation list species SDG 14.2 with habitats in areas affected by The impacts on biodiversity are assessed as part of the environmental and social audits. SDG 15.1 operations SDG 15.5 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 112 GRI-INDEX Environmental standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material To help the environment flourish 78 topic and its Boundary Material topic: Operational ecology 103-2 The management approach To help the environment flourish 78 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability management 37;78 ­management approach To help the environment flourish 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) Energy management SDG 3.9 Principle 07 79;82 GHG emissions SDG 12.4 Principle 08 SDG 13.1 Principle 09 SDG 14.3 SDG 15.2 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Energy management SDG 3.9 Principle 07 79;82 GHG emissions SDG 12.4 Principle 08 SDG 13.1 Principle 09 SDG 14.3 SDG 15.2 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Energy management SDG 3.9 Principle 07 79;82 GHG emissions SDG 12.4 Principle 08 SDG 13.1 Principle 09 SDG 14.3 SDG 15.2 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Energy management SDG 13.1 Principle 07 79;82 SDG 14.3 Principle 08 SDG 15.2 Principle 09 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy management SDG 13.1 Principle 07 79;82 SDG 14.3 Principle 08 SDG 15.2 Principle 09 305-6 Emissions of ozone-­ Not applicable: Because of the nature of the activities as a service provider, there are no SDG 3.9 depleting substances (ODS) emissions of ozone-depleting substances. SDG 12.4 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Not applicable: Because of the nature of the activities as a service provider, there are no SDG 3.9 oxides (SOX), and other significant relevant emissions. SDG 12.4 air emissions SDG 14.3 SDG 15.2 Environmental standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality Because of the site location and the activities as a service provider, water is only SDG 3.9 Waste 2016 and destination discharged into the public sewage system and the quality requirements are complied with SDG 6.3 in all cases. SDG 6.4 SDG 6.6 SDG 12.4 SDG 14.1 306-2 Waste by type and Ecological key indicators SDG 3.9 Principle 07 85 disposal method SDG 6.3 Principle 08 The employees at Am Hof have been included in the collection of the waste statistics for SDG 12.4 paper, glass, plastic, metal, and non-recyclable waste since 2018. The volumes attributable SDG 12.5 to the tenants in the Strauchgasse building were deducted from these figures. The waste generated in the employee restaurant has been included in these figures since 2016. This waste is disposed of separately. All hazardous waste is disposed of in compliance with statutory requirements. Every batch of waste handed over for processing is documented using a stamped and signed certificate. All of these data are recorded in Excel. The total cost of waste disposal amounted to € 32,237 in 2019. Construction work generated 76,650 kg of waste in 2019 (2018: 150,928 kg). 306-3 Significant spills Not applicable: Because of the nature of the activities as a service provider, SDG 3.9 there were no spills of hazardous substances. SDG 6.3 SDG 6.6 SDG 12.4 SDG 14.1 SDG 15.1 306-4 Transport of Not applicable: The OeKB bank group does not transport hazardous waste. SDG 3.9 hazardous waste SDG 12.4 306-5 Water bodies affected by Not applicable: The waste water corresponds to that of a typical service business and is SDG 6.6 water discharges and/or runoff discharged through the public sewage system. SDG 14.2 SDG 15.1 SDG 15.5 Environmental standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with In 2019, as in previous years, no breaches of environmental law are SDG 16.3 Principle 07 ­Compliance 2016 ­environmental laws known that resulted in legal action. Principle 08 and regulations Environmental standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were The screening procedure for new suppliers is being set up. Principle 07 ­Environmental screened using environmental All current material suppliers are assessed according to sustainability criteria. Principle 08 criteria Principle 09 Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental There are no substantial actual or potential negative environmental impacts Principle 07 impacts in the supply chain and in the supply chain or related actions taken. Principle 08 actions taken Principle 09 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 113 GRI-INDEX Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 401: Employment 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material To help employees advance 65 topic and its Boundary Material topic: Employees and 103-2 The management approach To help employees advance 65 diversity and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability management 37;65 ­management approach To help employees advance 401-1 New employee hires and To help employees advance SDG 5.1 Principle 06 65;68f employee turnover Competencies SDG 8.5 SDG 8.6 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time To help employees advance SDG 3.2 Principle 06 65f;69 employees that are not provided to Competencies SDG 5.4 temporary or part-time employees SDG 8.5 All benefits are available in full to part-time employees of OeKB, as well. The subsidiaries are only covered by the voluntary benefits in part. The benefits primarily consist of: Inclusion in the pension fund solution, occupational medical services, collective accident insurance, offer of supplementary medical insurance, daycare centre, and the employee assistance programme. 401-3 Parental leave Our promise as an employer SDG 5.1 Principle 01 66;69 Employee statistics SDG 5.4 Principle 06 SDG 8.5 Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 402: Labor/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods Employee representation SDG 8.8 Principle 03 75 Relations 2016 regarding operational changes Because the Staff Council is represented on the Supervisory Board, the Staff Council has comprehensive information about the ongoing business operations at all times. Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 403: Occupational Health 403-1 Workers representation in The Work Safety Committee consists of 14 persons, one of whom is an external SDG 8.8 and Safety 2016 formal joint management-worker ­occupational physician and one an external safety expert. health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates There were five accidents during travel to and from work or travel for business SDG 3.3 of injury, occupational diseases, purposes and two work accidents in the OeKB bank group in 2019. SDG 3.9 lost days, and absenteeism, and SDG 8.8 number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence All workstations are regularly inspected by trained safety experts and occupational SDG 3.3 or high risk of diseases related to physicians with regard to potential for the development of disease in accordance with the SDG 3.9 their occupation Labour Protection Act. This enables us to ensure ergonomically sound workstations to a SDG 8.8 great extent. The increased consideration of psychological factors required by the law as of 1 January 2013 has been implemented for all employees. 403-4 Health and safety topics There are no health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. covered in formal agreements with trade unions Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 404: Training and 103-1 Explanation of the material To help employees advance 65 ­Education 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help employees advance 65 Employees and and its components diversity 103-3 Evaluation of the To help employees advance 37;65 ­management approach Sustainability management 404-1 Average hours of training Competencies SDG 4.3 Principle 06 70f per year per employee SDG 4.4 SDG 4.5 SDG 5.1 SDG 8.2 SDG 8.5 SDG 10.3 404-2 Programs for upgrading Competence SDG 8.2 Principle 06 70f employee skills and transition SDG 8.5 assistance programs If needed, we offer support in career transitions outside of the company in the form of outplacement consulting for reorientation and relevant vocational training. Our employees can access coaching and assistance in all professional and private matters through our Employee Assistance Programme. 404-3 Percentage of employees All employees have at least one performance review with their immediate supervisor SDG 5.1 Principle 06 70f receiving regular performance and every year. SDG 8.5 career development reviews SDG 10.3 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 114 GRI-INDEX Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 103-1 Explanation of the material To help employees advance 65 Opportunity 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help employees advance 65 Employees and and its components diversity 103-3 Evaluation of the To help employees advance 65;72 ­management approach Gender equality and diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance Gender equality and diversity SDG 5.1 Principle 06 72f bodies and employees SDG 5.5 SDG 8.5 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Gender equality and diversity SDG 5.1 Principle 06 72f remuneration of women to men SDG 8.5 SDG 10.3 Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material To help employees advance 65 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help employees advance 65 Employees and and its components diversity 103-3 Evaluation of the manageTo help employees advance 65;72 ment approach Gender equality and diversity 406-1 Incidents of discrimination There were no known incidents in the reporting period. SDG 5.1 Principle 06 and corrective actions taken SDG 8.8 Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 407: Freedom of 407-1 Operations and suppliers in The right to collective bargaining is legally guaranteed in Austria. SDG 8.8 Principle 03 ­Association and which the right to freedom of asThe OeKB bank group has a Staff Council. sociation and collective bargaining Collective Bargaining may be at risk 2016 Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers Not applicable: Because of the site location and the activities as a service provider, there SDG 8.7 Principle 05 at significant risk for incidents of are no suppliers at risk of incidents of child labour. SDG 16.2 child labor Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers Not applicable: Because of the site location and the activities as a service provider, there SDG 8.7 Principle 04 ­Compulsory Labor at significant risk for incidents of are no suppliers at risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour. forced or compulsory labor 2016 Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 410: Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained Not applicable: All security personnel are bound by clear instructions. SDG 16.1 Principle 01 2016 in human rights policies or They participate in regular training. procedures Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous 411-1 Incidents of violations Not applicable: No incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples are SDG 2.3 Principle 01 Peoples 2016 ­involving rights of indigenous known. We assess the potential effects of projects on the local population in advance as peoples part of our environmental and social audits. Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 412: Human Rights 103-1 Explanation of the material To help society succeed 87 ­Assessment 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help society succeed 87 Environmental and and its components social auditing of 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability management 37;87 projects ­management approach To help society succeed 412-1 Operations that have been Protecting against credit default risks Principle 01 41ff;45ff; subject to human rights reviews or Development Financing Principle 02 88 impact assessments Human rights A separate human rights policy was defined for implementation in the Group. We assess the impacts on society and the environment as part of the provision of our services. S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 115 GRI-INDEX 412-2 Employee training on human Protecting against credit default risks Principle 01 41ff;94f rights policies or procedures Policies Principle 02 Our employees regularly participate in events to remain up-to-date on changes in human rights standards. The topic of human rights was regularly discussed at the meetings of the OECD environmental and social practitioners and at the EDFI meetings. This knowledge is disseminated internally through various measures such as regular meetings and brown bag lunches. 412-3 Significant investment Protecting against credit default risks Principle 02 41ff;45ff; agreements and contracts that Development Financing 94f include human rights clauses Policies or that underwent human rights screening All guarantee applications were screened for human rights aspects in 2019. Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG Targte UNGC Page GRI 413: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material To help business grow 38f 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help business grow 38f Environmental and and its components social auditing of 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability management 37ff projects ­management approach To help business grow 413-1 Operations with local Materiality analysis 20ff;27ff; community engagement, impact Stakeholder relations and dialogue 31ff;40f; assessments, and development Dialogue with civil society 45;96 programs Protecting against credit default risks Development Financing Social responsibility with long-term benefits 413-2 Operations with significant Protecting against credit default risks SDG 1.4 Principle 01 40f;45ff actual and potential negative Development Financing SDG 2.3 Principle 02 impacts on local communities Principle 07 Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were SDG 5.2 Assessment 2016 screened using social criteria SDG 8.8 SDG 16.1 414-2 Negative social impacts in SDG 5.2 the supply chain and actions taken SDG 8.8 SDG 16.1 Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions Not applicable: No contributions were made to political parties. SDG 16.5 Principle 10 Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 416: Customer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health Not applicable: We are not aware of any health or safety impacts from our services in the and Safety 2016 and safety impacts of product and financial sector. service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Not applicable: We are not aware of any violations relating to health or safety impacts SDG 16.3 concerning the health and safety from our services in the financial sector. impacts of products and services Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product The services are described in detail in the general terms and conditions. SDG 12.8 ­Labeling 2016 and service information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance The services are described in detail in the general terms and conditions. SDG 16.3 concerning product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-comThere was no known legal action relating to non-compliance with marketing regulations. SDG 16.3 pliance concerning marketing ­communications Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 418: Customer Privacy 103-1 Explanation of the material To help society succeed 87 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: Human rights, 103-2 The management approach To help society succeed 87 ­compliance, and and its components business ethics S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 116 GRI-INDEX 103-3 Evaluation of the To help society succeed 87 ­management approach 418-1 Substantiated complaints Compliance and legal requirements SDG 16.3 Principle 01 91f concerning breaches of customer SDG 16.10 Principle 02 privacy and losses of customer data Social standards Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page GRI 419: Socioeconomic 103-1 Explanation of the material To help society succeed 87 Compliance 2016 topic and its Boundary Material topic: 103-2 The management approach To help society succeed 87 Human rights, and its components ­compliance, and 103-3 Evaluation of the To help society succeed 87 business ethics ­management approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws No charges were filed relating to non-compliance. SDG 16.3 and regulations in the social and economic area Sector-specific performance indicators A series of indicators was incorporated into the Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) during the adaptation of the sector supplements to GRI G4. This was accounted for in the following in that these indicators are now shown in brackets. The previous list has been maintained for better clarity. Aspect: Management approach Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page (FS 1) Corporate policies relating to Stakeholder relations and dialogue 27; 94f Material topic: environmental and social aspects Policies Enabling entrein the individual business fields preneurship and growth (FS 2) Procedures for analysing Protecting against credit default risks 41f;45 Material topic: environmental and social risks in Development Financing Environmental and the business fields social auditing of projects (FS 3) Procedures for determining Protecting against credit default risks 41f;45 compliance with environmental Development Financing and social standards in customer projects (FS 4) Procedures for improving Competencies 70f Material topic: employee competence in the Employees and implementation of environmental diversity and social policies (FS 5) Interaction with customers, Business model of the OeKB bank group and material shareholdings 12ff;27ff; Material topic: investors, and stakeholders regardStakeholder relations and dialogue 31ff;33ff Enabling ing environmentally and socially Dialogue with civil society ­entrepreneurship relevant opportunities and risks Events and growth Aspect: Product portfolio Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page FS 6 Percentage breakdown of the Highlights 2;41 portfolio of the business fields by Export Services Material topic: region, size (such as micro/SME/ large), and economic sector Details can be found in the 2019 Export Services annual report Enabling ­entrepreneurship FS 7 Internally developed services Development Financing 45ff and growth with social benefits FS 8 Internally developed services Development Financing 45ff with environmental benefits Aspect: Product portfolio Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page FS 9 Scope and frequency of auSustainability management 37;40f; Material topic: dits that assess the implementation Protecting against credit default risks 49f;79 Environmental of the environmental and social Development Financing and social auditing policies and the risk management To help the environment flourish of projects procedures S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 117 GRI-INDEX Aspect: Active ownership approach Sustainability report of the OeKB bank group SDG targets UNGC Page FS 10 Percentage and number of Financing with a holistic view 39 Material topic: companies in the portfolio of the Responsible organisation with which there were ­financing and direct contacts regarding environinvestment mental and social aspects FS 11 Share of the equity holdings Development Financing 45ff Material topic: that have been analysed on the Environmental and basis of environmental and social social auditing of aspects projects FS 12 Policies for the exercise of Fully consolidated and equity-method holdings are included in the reporting. OeKB standvoting rights in relation to environards are followed for the energy clearing companies and interests in listed companies. Material topic: mental and social aspects Responsible­ financing and FS 13 Supply security of banking Development Financing 48 services in sparsely populated investment or economically disadvantaged regions FS 14 Initiatives to improve access Development Financing 48 to banking services for persons Material topic: with special needs Enabling ­entre­preneurship FS 15 Policies for the fair developDevelopment Financing 48 and growth ment and sale of financial products and services Material topic: FS 16 Initiatives to improve Sustainable finance 58;102f ­knowledge about financial Sustainability programme 2020 Responsible ­products, by target group ­financing and investment S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 118 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE Independent Assurance To the Management of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft, Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, OeKB CSD GmbH Vienna Report about the Independent Assurance of the Non-financial Reporting 2019 Attention: This letter has been translated from German to English for referencing purposes only. Please refer to the officially legally binding version as written and signed in German. Only the German version is the legally binding version. We have performed a limited assurance engagement regarding the Sustainability Reporting 2019 (hereafter “Reporting”) in accordance with the requirements of the GRI Standards, Comprehensive Option of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (hereafter „OeKB KI-Group“), Vienna. The Sustainability Reporting covers Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB) with the fully consolidated subsidiaries Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) and OeKB CSD GmbH (OeKB CSD), called OeKB Kreditinstituts-Group (OeKB KI-Group). The assurance engagement covers the Sustainability Reporting 2019 as follows: “Sustainability Report 2019” concerning information in and references linked from the GR Content Index to sustainability disclosures and data for the reporting period 2019. The “EMAS Environmental Statement” is part of the Sustainability Report. We base the scope of our assurance on the fact that no information relevant for the assurance is outsourced to the homepage. Responsibilities of the Legal Representatives OeKB KI-Groupʼs legal representatives are responsible for the proper compilation of the Sustainability Reporting 2019 in accordance with the GRI-Standards1. The legal representatives have signed the Letter of Representation, which we have added to our files. Responsibilities of the Assurance Providers Based on our assurance procedures deemed necessary, it is our responsibility to assess whether we have noted issues which cause us to believe, that in all material matters the Sustainability Reporting 2019 is not in accordance with the GRI-Standards. Our assurance engagement has been conducted in accordance with the “International Federation of Accountants’ ISAE 3000 (Revised)” Standards. Our professional duties include requirements in relation to our independence as well as planning our assurance ­engagement based on the materiality considerations in order to allow us to obtain a limited level of assurance. 1 https://www.globalreporting.org/standards S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 119 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE According to the “General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions” our liability is limited. An accountant is only liable for violat-ing intentionally or by gross negligence the contractual duties and obligations entered into. In cases of gross negligence, the maximum liability to-wards the client and any third party together is EUR 726,730 in the aggregate. Our procedures have been designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering proce-dures performed is less than for that of a reasonable assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. We have performed all the procedures deemed necessary to obtain the evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclu-sions. Our main procedures were: ▪▪ Obtain an overview over the industry as well as the operational and organizational structure of the organization; ▪▪ Interview a selection of senior managers and executives to understand systems, processes and internal control procedures related to the con-tent of the Sustainability Reporting assured, which support the data collection; ▪▪ Review relevant group level, board and executive documents to assess awareness and priority of issues in the Sustainability Reporting and to understand how progress is tracked and internal controls are implemented; ▪▪ Examine risk management and governance processes related to sustainability and critical evaluation of the ­disclosure in the Sustainability Reporting; ▪▪ Perform analytical procedures at group level; ▪▪ Perform site visits in Vienna (Strauchgasse 1-3) to obtain evidence on performance indicators. In addition, we reviewed data samples of the selected disclosures in the Sustainability Reporting at site level for completeness, reliability, accuracy and timeliness; ▪▪ Review data and processes on a sample basis to assess whether they have been collected, consolidated and reported appropriately at group level. This included obtaining an opinion whether the data had been reported in an accurate, reliable and complete manner; ▪▪ Review the coverage of material issues which have been raised in stakeholder dialogues, in media reports and environmental and social reports of peers; ▪▪ Evaluate the company’s materiality assessment, including sector specific megatrends and aspects of GRI; ▪▪ Assess completeness of UNGC reporting against the links with the „10 principles“ of the UNGC as outlined in the GRI guidelines;2 ▪▪ Challenge a sample of statements and claims in the Sustainability Reporting against our work steps and the GRI Standards principles; ▪▪ Review whether the GRI Standards were consistently applied for the Comprehensive Option and ▪▪ Review whether the requirements of EMAS3 have been appropriately applied. The objective of our engagement was neither a financial audit nor a financial audit review of past-oriented financial information. We did not perform any further assurance procedures on data, which were subject of the annual financial audit, the corporate governance report and the risk reporting. We merely checked this data was presented in accordance with the GRI Guidelines. Neither the detection and investigation of criminal offenses, such as embezzlement or other fraudulent actions, nor the assessment of effectiveness and efficiency of management were subject to our engagement. We did not test data derived from external surveys or prospective information. Our assurance engagement solely covers references directly specified in the GRI Content Index. It does not cover any further web references. We submit this report based on our assurance engagement for which, also regarding third parties, the “General ­Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions”, are binding. 2 https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/UNGC-G4-linkage-publication.pdf 3 R  EGULATION (EC) No 1221/2009 on the voluntary participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), repealing Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 and Commission Decisions 2001/681/EC and 2006/193/EC, https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32009R1221&qid=1548408230316&from=DE COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) 2017/1505 of 28 August 2017 amending Annexes I, II and III to Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the voluntary participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32017R1505&qid=1548408584918&from=DE S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 120 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE Conclusion Based on our assurance procedures we haven’t noted any issues that causes us to believe that in all material matters the Sustainability Reporting 2019 is not in accordance with the GRI-Standards. Vienna, 30 March 2020 Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. Mag. Stefan Uher ppa. Dr. Christine Jasch 4 Version from 18 April 2018, published by the Chamber of Public Accountants, Chapter 7, http://www.kwt.or.at/PortalData/1/Resources/aab/AAB_2018_de.pdf Environmental Verifier’s Declaration On ­Verification And Validation Activities Attention: This letter is for referencing purposes only. Please refer to the officially legally binding version as written and signed in German. Only the German version is the legally binding version. Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. with EMAS environmental verifier registration number AT-V-0025 accredited for the scope 64.92-0 other credit granting declares to have verified whether the OeKB – Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft with its fully consolidated subsidiaries, Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) and OeKB CSD GmbH (OeKB CSD), called OeKB Kreditinstituts-Group (OeKB KI-Group), Strauchgasse 1-3, 1010 Vienna as stated in the Sustainability Report 2019 meets all requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 as amended to the Regulation (EU) No 2017/1505 on the voluntary participation by organizations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS). By signing this declaration, we declare that: ▪▪ the verification and validation has been carried out in full compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009, ▪▪ the outcome of the verification and validation confirms that there is no evidence of non-compliance with applicable legal requirements relating to the environment, ▪▪ the data and information of the environmental statement (as integrated part of the Sustainability Report) reflect a reliable, credible and correct image of all the activities, within the scope mentioned in the environmental statement The next comprehensive Environmental Statement will be published for the reporting period 2021. An updated Environmental Statement is published every year. This document is not equivalent to EMAS registration. EMAS registration can only be granted by a Competent Body under Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009. This document shall not be used as a stand-alone piece of public communication. Vienna, 30 March 2020 Mag. Stefan Uher ppa. Dr. Christine Jasch Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H.1220 Wien, Wagramer Strasse 19, IZD Tower EY registration number: AT-V-0025, Certificate Registration number: 01/2019 Date of validation: 30 March 2020 S USTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 | 121 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG 1011 Wien, Am Hof 4 Tel.: +43 1 531 27-0 Fax: +43 1 531 27-5233 info@oekb.at www.oekb.at Impressum Imprint Owner and publisher: Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft, registered office: 1010 Vienna, ­ Am Hof 4 company register no. FN 85749b, Commercial Court of Vienna DVR: 0052019 VAT ID: ATU 15350402 Bank code: 10.000, SWIFT BIC: OEKOATWW LEI: 5299000OVRLMF858L016; FATCA-GIIN: YS6TGM.00000.LE.040 Tel. +43 1 531 27-0 e-mail: info@oekb.at, www.oekb.at Editorial team: Eveline Balogh, Nastassja Cernko, and Christine Steinwider, in collaboration with the sustainability focal points of the OeKB bank group and the reporting team from the Human Resources, Finances and Planning, and Marketing and Corporate Communication departments, reporting@oekb.at and nachhaltigkeit@oekb.at Design, editing assistance, graphics, production: Egger & Lerch GmbH, Vordere Zollamtsstraße 13, 1030 Vienna, www.egger-lerch.at The information in this report is current as of: 30 March 2020
