SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 The Andriani Group's Sustainable Development Report takes up and updates the activities described in the ﬁrst 2018 Sustainability Report, presents new strategies and new projects undertaken in various areas, and outlines future scenarios that will be pursued. The guidelines along this path remain the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda, concrete reference points for integrating sustainable operations into daily business decisions. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 Table of contents 1 2 6 Introduction 16 The Andriani Group for 50 Governance Sustainable Development 6 Letter to the stakeholders 21 Commitment to the fight against 52 Corporate governance and compliance Coronavirus 8 Methodological note 60 The Benefit Society project 26 The strategic plan for sustainable 11 Materiality analysis 61 Risk Management development 63 Fight against corruption 28 Our milestones 63 Respect for human rights 32 Competitive challenges in the innovation food sector 34 The Smart Building 3 4 5 64 Economic accountability 74 Accountability towards 92 Product accountability employees 66 Our business model 76 Diversity and equal opportunities 94 Nutrition and well-being 68 Economic and financial performance 80 Development and protection of human 98 Security and traceability capital 70 Creating value for stakeholders 102 Client and end customer satisfaction 82 Corporate welfare 104 Reports and complaints 87 Shared company culture 105 Research, innovation, and product 88 Health and safety in the workplace quality 6 7 8 108 Supplier accountability 114 Community accountability 124 Environmental accountability 110 Sustainable management of the supply 116 Involvement and support of local 126 Management of energy and resources in chain communities the atmosphere 111 Ethical-social procurement 123 Dialogue with associations and 128 Sustainable investments institutions 112 Procurement from local suppliers 129 Management of waste, recyclability, and reduction in food waste 130 Protection of the area and respect for biodiversity 134 Responsible management of water resources 135 Conscious consumption of raw materials 136 Attachments 137 Global Reporting Initiative Content 148 Assurance Report Index 145 Global Compact principles and GRI 6 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Letter to the stakeholders GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-14 Dear stakeholders, It is an honour for me to share with you, for the sechold back, and worked with passion to ensure producond consecutive year, this precious document through tion continuity. which we take on the responsibility of reporting and Today, despite the country facing a period of economofficially certifying our commitment to increasingly ic difficulties, the Andriani Group is proceeding with sustainable, transparent, and, above all, shared entrevigour, proud of the results achieved thanks to the preneurial management. commitment of all and to the courage, foresight, and In fact, we believe that informing you all of the actions commitment to innovation and sustainability that distaken in to integrate the Global Compact and its printinguish it. ciples in the strategy, culture, and operations of the Proof of this is the new Smart Building, equipped with Andriani Group is the first, essential condition for conwork environments based on sustainability and staff sistently reaffirming our support for the Ten Principles wellbeing, whose construction began well before of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Covid-19 forcefully brought out the need for a new way Human Rights, Labour, the Environment, and Anti-corof approaching work, and the start of the transformaruption. tion into a Benefit Company, which marks a profound Starting from this edition, we have chosen to define the evolution and aims to be the expression of a new entrereport as a Sustainable Development Report, both to preneurial paradigm aimed at integrating the purpose more effectively express our tangible contribution to of generating a positive impact on society and the biothe 17 goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, and to sphere in the corporate purpose, in addition to profit outline its role as a map of past and future goals. objectives. The Group looks to the future with clarity and strengthAll of this would not have been possible without the ened by a new awareness: if the events of this year have support of you and of the people who make up the Anput all of us to the test, undermining certainties and driani team, whose testimonies are collected in this habits that we took for granted, looking at the most difpublication. ficult moments of the health emergency that involved To all of you, I dedicate this edition of the Sustainable not only the country, but the whole world, I am proud to Development Report and my heartfelt thanks. be able to affirm that Andriani has shown an extraordinary resilience in facing the dramatic situation. The Company, in compliance with its sustainable commitment focused on environmental and social protection, immediately took the front line, with concrete actions for the community and focusing on the well-being of its people who, with a great sense of duty, did not SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 7 Michele Andriani Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO 8 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Methodological KEY note External link on the web External link to Andriani website Internal link to the document GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-45 102-50 102-52 102-53 102-54 2019 is the second year in which the Andriani social, environmental, and anti-corruption Group has responsibly chosen to continue components. along the sustainability path it has underAndriani's contribution to the SDGs is presenttaken, communicating to its stakeholders the ed in the letter to the stakeholders (p. 6), in passion and commitment that the company the materiality analysis (p. 11), in the business and its collaborators pour into the constant model (p. 66), in the sustainability plan (p. pursuit of sustainable development goals. 26), in the various chapters that describe the The decision to name the sustainability report Group's commitment to its stakeholders, in the Sustainable Development Report derives GRI Content Index (p. 137). from a specific desire of the Group to comThis information is enriched by the importmunicate its commitment to sustainability to ant challenges that the Group has chosen to stakeholders through the tangible contribupursue in 2019 and in the first months of 2020 tion to the Sustainable Development Goals with courage and determination, aware of the (SDGs) approved by the United Nations. importance they have in the field of sustainability. These initiatives, all based on SDGs, The 2019 Sustainable Development Report concern: is the result of a process of organisational change in which sustainable development is • the Covid-19 emergency (p. 20), an expression of the creation of shared value • the Smart Building (p. 34), which, as such, needs to be reported in an ac• the carbon neutrality plan (p. 128), countable and transparent way, or through an accountability process that is in line with the and constitute specific sections of the Report told through the storytelling activity disclosed provisions of target 12.6 of the 2030 Agenda. through various social channels (Facebook, For Andriani, accountability means communiYoutube, Twitter, Linkedin). cating in an intelligible way how the Group is Hypertext links allow you to guide the reader contributing to the goals of the United Nations, in a more fruitful reading that is, on the one choosing to do so through non-misleading inhand, facilitated by the presence of internal formation based on what the Group is actually links that refer to information reported in the doing for sustainable development. report and, on the other, deepened by links The 2019 Report, in line with the 2018 sustainthat refer to other documents on the web or ability report, presents numerous references in specific sections of the Andriani Group corto the SDGs reporting non-financial informaporate website. tion on governance, human rights, personal, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 9 The reporting period coincides with the 2019 on the best methods available and approprifinancial year and with that of the Group's conately reported. solidated financial statements (data as of 31 To provide a faithful representation of the December 2019), as well as the reporting perimcompany's management and the impacts of eter of the non-financial information coincides the Andriani business as part of the drafting with that of the same financial statements, exprocess of the 2019 Sustainable Development cept for the two subsidiaries. Amendola Center Report, they: S.r.l. and Cardo Rosso S.r.l., whose exclusion • applied the reporting principles envisaged from the non-financial consolidation period by the most widespread international standoes not affect the full understanding of the dards, Group's business, its performance, its results, • collected the data and context information in and general impacts. which the Group operates, Each of the companies included in the report• identified and reported on material issues, or ing perimeter presents, for various reasons, identified them in the light of the materiality information relating to environmental, social, analysis as was relevant. page 11 personnel, respect for human rights, and the fight against corruption, which is useful for Also this year, the non-financial reporting better understanding the performance of the process saw the participation of an interdisbusiness, its results and, above all, the Group's ciplinary team which, in addition to taking care impact on these issues. of the collection and wording of information drawn from specific company documentation, In order to compare data over time and evaluactively participated in the engagement and ate the performance of the Group's activities, definition of material topics, taking up the new the information relating to 2019 is compared reporting challenges that management has set to the previous year's where possible and, only for the 2019 financial year. in some cases, with that of the two previous years. The use of estimates has been limited, as far as possible, which, if present, are based The team that collaborated for the preparation of this report The interdisciplinary team that oversaw the drafting of the Sustainable Development Report saw the participation of the representatives of the respective functions: Planning and control, CSR & Sustainability, Legal and corporate affairs, Marketing, Communication, Human resources, Research and development, Industrialisation, Production, Supply Chain, Quality, Logistics, General Affairs, Information Technology, Accounting and Budget, Treasury and Tax Affairs. The head of the working group is Mr Filippo Capurso (Engineer). The editing and graphic layout was carried out by Interno15 S.r.l. English translation by EBL Italia. Comments and opinions on the Sustainable Development Report can be sent to the e-mail: csr@andrianispa.com 10 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The report was prepared in compliance with the GRI Standards: Core option, published in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and for the added value prospectus, according to the Standard GBS 2013 Principles for drafting the social report , prepared by the Group study for the social report (GBS). The Board of Directors of Andriani S.p.A. approved this Sustainable Development Report in September 2020. The relationship was subject to a limited examination ( limited assurance engagement ) according to the criteria indicated by the ISAE 3000 Revised standard by Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. The periodicity of the publication of the Sustainable Development Report will be set on an annual basis. The methodological part of the report is enriched by the following references: • GRI Content Index with details of the contents reported in compliance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the related omissions of information. With regard to the speciﬁc Standards GRI 403 (Health and safety at work) and GRI 303 (Water and water discharges), the most recent version of 2018 was used. In addition, the Food Processing Sector Disclosures were taken into consideration, as deﬁned by GRI in 2013; • 10 principles of the Global compact which inspired Andriani to prepare the Communication on progress which this year also coincides with this report; • Linking the SDGs and the GRI Standards in the new version amended in March 2020 which links the contents of the GRI Content Index with the SDGs; • AccountAbility 1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard process standard for stakeholder engagement. For a better reading of the 2019 Sustainable Development Report, the two correlation tables between the GRI Content Index and, respectively, the 17 SDGs of Agenda 2030 and the 10 principles of the Global Compact are attached to the charts. page 137 page 145 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 11 Materiality analisys GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-40 102-42 102-43 102-44 102-47 The reporting of non-financial information requires a stakeStandard Accountabilility 1000. holder selection process upstream that inclusively defines Customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders, the commuthose subjects or individuals who can be influenced by the nity (universities and schools, media, associations, and othcompany business and can affect the company's ability to er public institutions), and the environment are the priority implement its strategies. stakeholders for the Group, stakeholders with whom there is For the Andriani Group, the selection of stakeholders and the constant participation in dialogue. process of involving them is in line with the provisions of the Key Topics Main dialogue initiatives • Creation of business value and presence on the market • Assembly and councils Shareholders • Anti-corruption • Budgets • Ethics and responsible business • Meetings with the Board of Statutory Auditors and SB 231/01 • Diversity and equal opportunities • Periodic newsletter • Development and protection of human capital • Secure channel 231/01 Employees • Employee welfare • Climate monitoring • Occupational health and safety • Team Building • COVID-19 • Resilience brochure • Shared corporate culture • Useful number for emergency situations • Respect for human rights • Improved safety • Meetings with trade union representatives • Product safety and traceability • Direct contacts • Customer Satisfaction • Customer care and market analysis • Responsible labelling • Pre-sale and post-sale support Clients • Price • Management of digital channels • Innovation and quality • Research centre • Nutrition and well-being • Research, innovation, and control • Compliance with Laws • Quality and safety of the raw material • Audit on suppliers Suppliers • Sustainable management of the supply chain • Technical, periodic visits, and meetings • Respect for human rights • Quality feedback • Supplier evaluation • Local suppliers • Involvement and support of local communities • Collaboration projects with universities and training schools in Italy and abroad • Food education • Cultural and artistic institutions Community • Respect for human rights • Conferences and co-organisation of events • Transparency towards the media and the community • Support and participation in local events • Research and development, education, art and culture • Participation in thematic institutional tables • Participation in projects, calls or research • Periodic invitations to the main Authorities and institutional offices • Waste management, recycling, and food waste reduction • Participation in category tables and initiatives on the subject of circular economies • Atmospheric emissions • Participation in national and international corporate projects Environment • Water • Production process • Management/protection of the territory and respect for biodiversity • Conscious consumption of raw materials • Investments in environmental protection • Packaging • Sustainable agriculture 12 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Stakeholders were once again involved in the The survey questionnaire, administered anonyselection of the issues to be reported this year, mously to external and internal stakeholders in following an initial benchmarking activity on the the first three months of 2020, recorded 63 remain issues reported by other national and intersponses, 46 of which were from external stakenational players in the sector. holders. In light of the results that emerged from this surThe collection and analysis of results, carried out vey, the working group decided to expand the by selecting a materiality threshold value of 4.4, number of topics on which to ask for feedback, in line with that of the 2018 Sustainability Report, bringing them from 26 to 30 (with the addition of led to the identification of 21 material topics. The the topics sustainable investments , sustainable most relevant topic that emerged from the analyagriculture , transport and sustainable mobility , sis relates to sustainable agriculture, a new topic responsible management of water resources ), diintroduced in the 2019 survey. vided into seven areas, each of them is linked to the 2030 Agenda targets. GRAPH d Materiality matrix 2019 5.00 4.90 4.80 24 22 4.70 8 7 9 20 RELEVANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS 12 11 4.60 17 10 6 21 25 23 15 5 27 4.50 13 14 3 2 4.40 4.25 4.50 4.75 5.00 RELEVANCE FOR THE ANDRIANI GROUP Governance and Compliance Product accountability Environmental accountability Employee accountability Supplier accountability Economic accountability Community accountability SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 13 From the comparison between the 2019 and 2018 materialienvironmental accountability ( energy and emissions manty analysis, the material topics that are confirmed for both agement , waste management, recyclability, and waste rerelevant years mostly concern the two areas of product duction , Protection of the territory and biodiversity , conaccountability ( product safety and traceability , customscious consumption of raw materials ). The topics present in er satisfaction , responsible labelling , innovation and both surveys that are growing in importance are: nutrition product quality , research, innovation, and control ) and and well-being and corporate welfare . Materiality Materiality Code Topic Andriani Stakeholders 2019 2018 2019 vs 2018 1 Corporate Governance 4.24 4.13 = 2 Ethics and responsible business 4.47 4.4 • • = 3 Anti-corruption, fair competition, and legality 4.35 4.4 • • = 4 Dialogue with associations and institutions 4.06 4.2 = 5 Energy and emissions management 4.59 4.51 • • = Waste management, recyclability, and waste 6 4.59 4.58 • • = reduction Management/protection of the territory and respect 7 4.41 4.64 • • = for biodiversity 8 Responsible management of water resources 4.47 4.66 • New 9 Conscious consumption of raw materials 4.59 4.63 • • = 10 Nutrition and well-being 4.53 4.58 • + 11 Product safety and traceability 4.76 4.6 • • = 12 Customer satisfaction 4.59 4.62 • • = 13 Responsible labelling 4.47 4.49 • • = 14 Innovation and product quality 4.65 4.42 • • = 15 Research, innovation, and control 4.47 4.51 • • = 16 Economic performance 4.29 4.36 = 17 Sustainable investments 4.47 4.58 • New 18 Market presence and economic impacts 4.18 4.33 = 19 Diversity and equal opportunities 4.18 4.29 = 20 Development and protection of human capital 4.71 4.62 • • = 21 Employee welfare 4.59 4.56 • + 22 Management of Health & Safety at work 4.76 4.71 • • = 23 Shared corporate culture 4.29 4.51 • = 24 Sustainable agriculture 4.76 4.76 • New 25 Sustainable management of the supply chain 4.47 4.53 • • = 26 Transport and sustainable mobility 4.29 4.36 New 27 Working conditions and human rights 4.59 4.51 • • = 28 Procurement from local suppliers 4.06 4.2 = 29 Involvement and support of local communities 3.88 4.2 = 30 Food education 4.35 4.18 = 14 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT To improve the degree of active participation of The feedback received formed the starting point stakeholders in the reporting process, the Andrifor the drafting of the 2019 Sustainable Developani Group asked them to find out if, in addition to ment Report. being aware of the publication of the 2018 SusBy reading the 2018 report, the stakeholders rectainability Report, they wanted to evaluate: ognise that the Andriani Group mainly contributes • appearance (transparency, completeness, releto Agenda 2030 to goal 3 (Health and Wellness), vance, accuracy, clarity, graphic layout); goal 8 (Decent work and economic growth), goal 12 • the sections of interest (introductory part and (Consumption and responsible production), goal related specific disclosure chapters); 13 (Climate change), goal 15 (Life on earth), and • the contribution to sustainable development (i.e. goal 4 (Quality education). which of the 17 goals). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 15 The table below shows the link between the 21 material topics and the GRI aspects, as well as the related boundary and impact. TABLE d Material topics identified COD. Material topic GRI aspect Boundary Type of impact SDGs Ethics and responsible Economic performance Market 2 business presence Public policy Andriani Group Caused by the Group Caused by the Group Anti-corruption Anti-competitive Anti-corruption, fair and directly connected 3 competition, and legality behaviour Socio-economic Andriani Group through a business compliance relationship Energy and emissions 5 management Energy Emissions Andriani Group Caused by the Group Waste management, 6 recyclability, and waste Effluents and waste Andriani Group Caused by the Group reduction Management/protection of 7 the territory and respect for Environmental compliance Andriani Group Caused by the Group biodiversity Responsible management of 8 water resources Water effluents Andriani Group Caused by the Group Conscious consumption of raw Materials 9 materials Andriani Group Caused by the Group 10 Nutrition and well-being Customer health and safety Andriani Group Caused by the Group Product safety and traceability Customer Health and Safety Customer Andriani Group 11 Privacy Caused by the Group 12 Customer satisfaction Topic-specific Standards not present Andriani Group Caused by the Group 13 Responsible labelling Marketing and labelling Andriani Group Caused by the Group Innovation and product 14 quality Topic-specific Standards not present Andriani Group Caused by the Group Research, innovation, and 15 control Topic-specific Standards not present Andriani Group Caused by the Group Caused by the Group and directly connected 17 Sustainable investments Topic-specific Standards not present Andriani Group through a business relationship Development and protection Employment Training and education Andriani Group 20 of human capital Diversity and equal opportunities Caused by the Group 21 Employee welfare Diversity and equal opportunities Andriani Group Caused by the Group Management of Health & Employees of the 22 Safety at work Occupational health and safety Andriani Group 1 Caused by the Group 23 Shared corporate culture Topic-specific Standards not present Andriani Group Caused by the Group Caused by the Group Andriani Group, and directly connected 24 Sustainable agriculture Topic-specific Standards not present suppliers through a business relationship Caused by the Group Sustainable management of Andriani Group, and directly connected 25 the supply chain Procurement practices suppliers through a business relationship Caused by the Group Non-discrimination Labor/ Working conditions and Andriani Group, and directly connected 27 human rights Management relations Child labor suppliers through a business Forced or compulsory labor relationship 1 The company will deepen the analysis with respect to the significance of workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization , in order to assess the need to collect data from the employers of external collaborators and suppliers who operate at the Group sites and/or under the control of the Group, evaluating the quality and accuracy of such data over which it does not exercise direct control. 1 The Andriani Group for Sustainable Development Key numbers 21 INITIATIVES ACTIVATED BY ANDRIANI during the Covid-19 emergency, that can be traced to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. The commitments taken implementing the 10 Principles of the Global Compact speech by Patrizia Stano “The commitments undertaken by our company by joining the Global Compact are to integrate the principles of the Global Compact into the company's culture and activities”. Video created during the TUTTOFOOD International Trade Fair Milan, May 6-9, 2019 In this chapter 21 Commitment to the fight against Coronavirus 26 The strategic plan for sustainable development +20million 28 Our milestones 32 Competitive challenges in the innovation foot sector 34 The Smart Building NET WORTH (as of 31/12/2019) The Andriani S.p.A. holding company manufactures gluten free foods. Stakeholder: all €4million SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Cost of Smart Building between design activities, construction, and technological equipment. Planning time for design and implementation: about 2 years. 18 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-12 102-16 The path undertaken by the Andriani Group is abased on an For each of these drivers, the Andriani Group is carrying approach on several levels, based on 4 distinctive drivers: out concrete actions through a rapidly expanding network of national and international partners that probably find a Choice of a business model aimed at sustainable common DNA in Andriani of an organization aware of convalue creation page 67 tributing to the welfare of people and the planet through its business. Definition of a strategic plan with specific goals broken down by area and related SDGs page 27 For the Andriani Group, the partnerships for pursuing the 2030 Agenda goals, become the means through which the Adoption of transparent governance focused on the three value dimensions – economic, social, and environmenSDGs page 52 tal – are not conflicting. In fact, it is quite the opposite. They Creation of a reporting and communication system operate in symbiosis in full respect of the areas (labour, hubased on the SDGs according to a multi-stakeholder man rights, anti-corruption, and environment) on which the approach page 137 Global Compact's commitment is based. CHART d The 3 value dimensions Chart formatted by Folke, C., R. Biggs, A. Norström, B. Reyers, and J. Rockström. 2016. Social-ecological resilience and biosphere-based sustainability science. Ecology and Society 21(3):41. This is why Andriani chose to join the Global Compact, fo• strong commitment on the part of its CEO; cusing on: • yearly report on the progress achieved through the Com• sharing the Group’s commitment on the 10 principles and munication on Progress. SDGs through a public profile on the UNGC website; page 6 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 19 CHART d The 10 principles of the Global Compact Principle 10 Principle 1 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Businesses should support and respect the protecforms, including extortion and bribery. tion of internationally proclaimed human rights in their spheres of influence. Principle 9 Principle 2 Businesses should encourage Businesses should make sure the development and diffusion that they are not, even indirectof environmentally friendly ly, complicit in human rights technologies. abuses. Principle 8 Global Compact Principle 3 Businesses should unTEN PRINCIPLES Businesses should updertake initiatives to hold the freedom of assopromote greater environciation and the effective mental responsibility. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 7 Principle 4 Businesses should support a preBusinesses should eliminate all cautionary approach to environforms of forced and mandatory mental challenges. labour. Principle 6 Principle 5 Businesses should support the elimination of all Businesses should effectively eliminate child labour. forms of discrimination related to employment and occupation. During 2018, the Andriani Group, while recogGroup intends to: nizing the relevance of all 17 goals, chose to • identify which SDGs are the most compatible commit to certain objectives and related tarwith its company profile and what level of ingets that have been the starting point for the terconnection exists between them; strategic plan for sustainability. • Identify not only the impacts, but also the related risk areas at the supply chain and busiIn this perspective, the Group intends to make ness model level; precise measurements of the impact its busi• encourage the spread of an internal collaboness has on sustainable development and that rative environment that carries forward posis why it has chosen to join the SDG Action sible improvement actions to achieve better Manager web-based initiative launched in Janeconomic, social, and environmental perforuary 2020 by B Lab and the Global Compact to mance; assess the impact of the company’s contribu• improve reporting of sustainability information to the SDGs. tion. Through this self-assessment, the Andriani 20 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Mandatory use of PPE for employees on company premises SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 21 1.1 Commitment to the fight against Coronavirus The Covid-19 Pandemic affected the national and international socio-economic context in which the Andriani Group operates. The impacts from the emergency are currently being defined and concern not only aspects related to the wealth produced, but also issues related to sustainable development since the emergency could change, among other things, the value system, people’s habits, consumer preferences, and future choices by policymaker. In fact, the shock generated by Covid-19 generated negative external effect in terms not only of economic capital (reduction in production capacity, decline in investments, less current and prospective wealth, etc.), but also of human capital (unemployment, training of young people, adults, and workers, etc.) and social capital (relational distancing, operational difficulties in the non-profit sector, etc.). By firmly endorsing the content of the proposals made in the two documents on Covid-19, recently published by the United Nations, “Shared responsibility, global solidarity: responding to the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19”, and by ASVIS (The Italian Alliance for Sustainable Development), “Policies for tackling the COVID-19 crisis and implementing Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development”, the Andriani Group gave impetus to a series of initiatives to deal with this emergency, which are consistent with its sustainable commitment focused on environmental and social protection. The 10 principles of the Global Compact and the SDGs once again inspired Andriani’s commitment, as it believes strongly in a project for a new economy and society that is more resilient, healthy, fair, and able to live in balance with nature. The 21 initiatives that the Andriani Group activated during the Covid-19 emergency in March 2020 can, in fact, be traced back to the 10 principles of the Global Compact and the specific SDGs. The Andriani Group’s commitment to stem the negative external effects of Covid-19, however, not only concerns the emergency phase managed during March 2020, but also the post-Covid phase. This commitment emerges strongly from the contribution that Andriani Group intends to give to at least 4 goals (3-4-8-9) that are directly impacted by the pandemic emergency at to another 3 (7-11-15) whose impact cannot be currently assessed. The contribution to these 7 goals is, for that matter, recalled in the Group’s strategic plan for sustainability. page 27 22 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TABLE d Actions implemented by Andriani to deal with the health emergency Field Human Rights Global Compact 1 Principle Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in their spheres of influence. Proposed Protect the right to health of its emWhere possible, favour “flexible When remote working is not possible, Actions ployees and partners through actions working” , making all equipment and ensure safe entry and exit to and from to increase the awareness fo the technology available, performing suitareas in which production activities are risks connected to the pandemic and able coordination, and facilitating comcarried out and exceptional sanitizing information on contagion prevention munication between remote resources, of work environments; promote the measures and techniques. without penalties in regards to salaries adoption of safe conduct by employees and the granting of assets. (hand sanitizing, safe distances, use of medical/protective devices, etc.). All this, while staying on top of the companies that are part of its supply chain. Actions • Creation of the “Resiliency Brochure” • Activation of flexible working for all • Definition of the company’s internal Andriani Group Implemented for the staff. office employees. Crisis Committee. • Creation of the internal communi• Implementation of hand sanitizing cation plan regarding the Rules of systems and mapping of sanitizing Conduct set forth by the Authorities locations. and to support the staff. • Mandatory use of PPE for employees on company premises. • Regulating the movement flow of production personnel to ensure a safe distance. • Expanding the changing rooms for the production personnel. • Adoption of a specific procedure for haulers. Stakeholders Employees and Collaborators Employees and Collaborators Employees, Collaborators, and Suppliers Impacted Goal Agenda 2030 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 23 Field Human Rights Global Compact 2 Principle Businesses should make sure that they are not, even indirectly, complicit in human rights abuses. Proposed Where access is open to the public for Public awareness, sharing the Support the World Health Organization Actions the supply of essential services, ensure World Health Organization’s (WHO) (WHO) through contributions to the a safe environment for users (sanitizing instructions for preventing the spread COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund or areas, maintaining a safe distance, of infections from COVID-19. offer support to the local community cleaning surfaces, supply of personal through financial or in-kind donations protective equipment upon entry, etc.). aimed at national health systems or other agents working to manage the Ensure that any measure implemented pandemic. against COVID-19 is accessible to all individuals, without any type of discrimination such as ethnicity, skin colour, disability, age, gender, religion, political or other affiliations, national or social origin, ownership, origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, or other status. Actions • Preparation of a special sanitizing • External communication: message • External Communication: Andriani Andriani Group Implemented plan for all environments. from the CEO, Michele Andriani, urging donation of €50,000 to Hospitals in a positive attitude and cooperation. Puglia + actions for employees. • External Communication: Felicia donation of €30,000 to the Bergamo Hospital / North&South Initiative. Stakeholders Internal and external Internal and external Local community Impacted Goal Agenda 2030 24 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Field Work Global Compact 3 4 5 6 Principle Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should uphold the freeeliminate all forms effectively eradicate support the elimidom of association of forced and manchild labour. nation of all forms and the effective datory labour. of discrimination recognition of the related to employright to collective ment and occupabargaining. tion. Proposed Offer economic support to Offer further insurance covFlexibly manage the emActions its employees through salerage specifically to cover ployees needs specifically ary increases, bonuses, and contagion from COVID-19. connected to the emergency ad hoc incentives to cover situation (holidays, leave, extraordinary expenses conparental leave, scheduling, nected to the emergency. etc.). Actions • €300 reward to employees • Guarantees and insurance • Creation of a list of useful Andriani Group Implemented present in the company. services packet as an contact numbers for the additional benefit for all staff. • Activation of service for employees. Receiving Grocery Deliveries at the Company Premises. • Activation of service for Receiving Medicine Deliveries at the Company Premises. Stakeholders Employees and Collaborators Employees and Collaborators Employees and Collaborators Impacted Goal Agenda 2030 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 25 Field Environment AntiGlobal Compact Corruption Principle 7 8 9 10 Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should support a precauundertake initiaencourage the work against cortionary approach tives to promote development ruption in all its to environmental greater environmenand diffusion of forms, including exchallenges. tal responsibility. environmentally tortion and bribery. friendly technologies. Proposed Encourage telecommuting In a short period of time, Promote a climate of trust Actions and virtual meetings that the COVID-19 crisis has had inside the organization, can reduce the negative a positive impact on the enpromoting the integrity of impact on the environment vironment, reducing global action and communication caused by travel. Make carbon emissions. Even travtransparency between sure to keep track of the el and transfers are restored leadership and among the positive environmental without a doubt, encourage employees themselves. impacts of telecommuting people to consider travel and virtual reunions on the options that are less damcarbon footprint to evaluate aging to the environment which practices could be such as travel by train, bus, encouraged long-term to or vehicle sharing, possibly reduce emissions. electrical. Actions • Daily support of flexible • Suspension of business travel. • External communication: Andriani Group Implemented working staff to improve • Suspension of customer visits message from the CEO, the organization of work Michele Andriani, urging and meetings. at home and personal a positive attitude and well-being. • Suspension of activities percooperation. formed by outside companies. Stakeholders Employees and Collaborators Internal and external Internal and external Impacted Goal Agenda 2030 26 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1.2 The strategic plan for sustainable development Strategic planning in terms of sustainability is entrusted to the Andriani Group’s CSR & Sustainability Supervisor (Board of Directors staff function). In addition to overseeing monitoring and compliance with the obligations and voluntary standards on quality, safety at work, and the environment, this individual supports the Group's governing bodies in forecasting and implementing business objectives with limited environmental impact on the territory, as well as in implementing initiatives aimed at encouraging sustainable business styles and promoting ethical and socially active behaviour. The Strategic Sustainability Plan is made up of: 5 intervention areas 19 fields/issues 11 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 60 Specific activities scheduled in the 2020-2022 three-year period The CSR Supervisor, as part of the coordination of the cross-functional project team, was also supported in 2019 by Green Reset S.r.l., a consulting company specializing in strategic consulting regarding sustainability and the circular economy. The support activity, which began during the 2018 fiscal year, produced a three-year sustainability plan, today called the plan for sustainable development, which is broken down by intervention areas, SDGs, and specific activities. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 27 As of the date of publication of the report, the update status of the plan is as follows. CHART d Strategic plan. Intervention areas STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY PLAN 2020 2022 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE & COMPLIANCE PRODUCT FIELD FIELD FIELD Corporate Governance and transparency in decisionEconomic performance Research, innovation, and control making processes Monitoring and reporting Product safety and traceability Ethics and responsible business Presence on the market and economic impacts Responsible labelling ENVIRONMENTAL STAKEHOLDER RESPONSIBILITY ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ISSUE FIELD ISSUE Employees Development and protection of Biodiversity Management and protection of human resources the community and respect for biodiversity Organization and internal communication Mobility Impacts from logistics Company welfare Emissions Management of energy and atmospheric emissions Shared company culture Waste Management of waste, Health and safety at work recyclability, and reduction in food waste Supply Chain Sustainable management of the supply chain Water Responsible water management Procurement from local suppliers Raw materials Knowledgeable consumption of raw materials Customers Customer involvement in the Sustainability Strategy Responsible packaging Customer retention Circular Recovery of materials economy Local Food education Reduction of waste communities 28 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1.3 Our milestones GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-1 102-2 102-3 102-4 102-5 The Andriani project began in 2009 as an initiative by the The Andriani Group operates in the food sector as both a family of the same name to carry out the ambitious project copacker for major international brands as well as on its own to innovate the pasta manufacturing and marketing industry behalf with the production and distribution of Felicia Bio® by producing a complete range of gluten free pasta that is and Biori® brand products. innovative and with a unique flavour, using a variety of inThe founding partners of the Andriani S.p.A. holding comgredients such as rice, maize, quinoa, buckwheat, amaranth, pany are Michele and Francesco, the sons of Felice Andriani, lentils, peas, and other ingredients, all naturally gluten free. who inherited the expertise from his more than 40 years of The Andriani Group has always used product and process experience in the milling industry and, particularly, in the innovation in its approach to management. From its very design, creation, assembly, and maintenance of the primaorigins it launched itself into the many challenges imposed ry traditional pasta plants in the country (Barilla, De Cecco, by the food innovation sector due to increasing competitive Divella, Casillo, etc.). tension on an international level. The technical partnership developed over decades with the Combining competitiveness with sustainability is the “winmultinational Bühler (headquartered in Uzwil, Switzerland) ning recipe” that the Andriani family always sought to impart has permitted the creation of the first facility in the world to its employees and stakeholders that, today, recognize its entirely dedicated to the production of gluten free pasta. role as a leader and trend-setter in the food industry. ORGANIZATIONAL CHART d Andriani Group Felicia S.r.l. Cardo Rosso S.r.l. Company that sells Andriani’s Felicia brand Innovative start-up that will operate in the products. production and sales of gluten free couscous. Net equity of €3,199,184 (as of 31/12/2019) Net equity of €365,353 (as of 31/12/2019) Registered office in Gravina di Puglia (Bari). Registered Office in Bologna. 100% 60% 66.7% 70% Andriani S.p.A. Holding company in the gluten-free pasta manufacturing industry. Net equity of €20,759,692 (as of 31/12/2019) Registered office in Gravina di Puglia (Bari). Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. Amendola Center S.r.l. Operates in the processing and marketing of Company operating in the real estate sector. fertilizers and organic food products in generNet equity of €3,275,893 (as of 31/12/2019) al, as well as in the processing and cleaning of Registered office in Bari. legumes. Net equity of €217,375 (as of 31/12/2019) Registered office in Gravina di Puglia (Bari). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 29 This history of the Andriani Group, albeit brief, is popprinciples and values that the Group has been able ulated by numerous milestones and recognitions that to articulate even in an emergency such as the one make up today’s strong, recognizable corporate idencaused by Covid-19 during the “reassurance and optitity. A reputation that is based, in addition to solid mism campaign”. economic and financial performance, on a system of 30 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The History of the Andriani Group 2009 The Andriani family founds Mo2017 lino Andriani S.r.l. Warehouse opening in Matera. 2016 Acquisition of the industrial 2013 mill where the Company’s registered and operating office is Construction of the gluten-free located. facility in Gravina di Puglia. Molino Andriani S.r.l. becomes Andriani S.p.A. through a transaction to increase the share capital to €1 million. 2015 Andriani S.p.A. receives the Andriani S.p.A. is admitted Smau Innovation Award for to the Italian Stock Market’s Italian excellence for the com“Elite” program. puterization of its packaging and product storage processes. Andriani S.p.A. receives the Founding of Felicia S.r.l, com“Company to watch” award pany owning the brand of the from Cerved for its good persame name, dedicated to the Construction of the Multigrain formance in the gluten-free distribution of gluten-free. milling plant. foods industry. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 31 2019 Andriani S.p.A. is awarded by 2018 Linkedin for the “Employer branding” project as a virtuous example of company welfare. Andriani S.p.A. wins the prestigious Felix Industrial Award during the fifth edition of “Felix Industrial Award – Puglia comAndriani S.p.A. acquires the petes”. controlling share in Holos Italia S.r.l. (now Cardo Rosso S.r.l.). Andriani S.p.A., together with the SAI Platform, supports the development of sustainable agricultural practices, hosting Andriani S.p.A. acquires 33% of the 1st International Executive the share capital (today 66.7%) Programme on Sustainable 2020 preview of Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. Sourcing and Trade. Andriani S.p.A. is recognised by AIDP for the innovative comAndriani S.p.A. is selected as pany welfare project, Bike to one of the 50 best companies Work. for its brand portfolio and for its positioning in the Food InMichele Andriani wins the “EnInauguration of the Smart novation sector trepreneur of the Year” award Building. from Ernst & Young in the CRIBIS rates Andriani S.p.A. as Food&Beverage category for Start of the project for transhaving the highest economic his great commitment to susformation to a Benefit Corpoand commercial reliability. tainability. ration. 32 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1.4 Competitive challenges in the innovation food sector As is well known, the Coronavirus emergency has had a devIn order to attempt to answer these questions, we must start astating impact on all sectors, in Italy and throughout the from a basic observation, that organic food can no longer be world. However, it is known that some sectors have been afconsidered a niche market, but could have become a mass fected less than others by the health emergency and will be market and as such being competitive there has become far less impacted in the future by the contraction in demand for more complex than in the past. Some factors that certainly goods and services. contribute to increasing this complexity are: • diversification and integration of the distribution channels The agro-food sector, in particular, is in the “privileged conthat lead those specializing in organic food to suffer comdition” of having to guarantee continuity in terms of producpetition from supermarkets and giants in the e-commerce tion and of having to preserve safety levels for all operators. field; This safety can only be obtained by focusing on digital inno• huge investments in product and process innovation (comvation that, today, effects the various parts of the agriculmunication) that agri-food companies must make to differtural world. entiate their products from those of the growing number The bio food market is grafted into this market that has been of direct competitors (especially if you look at companies growing exponentially for years throughout the world and producing organic pasta). in Italy where, however, now more than ever we must ask Large companies have consolidated market power and sharp ourselves: marketing techniques. The thing that makes a company in • what does the future competitive panorama look like? the organic food market credible is if they make quality • in which food segments is competition more visible? products, but even more so if they make sustainable choices • what are the success drivers for the big players? SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 33 for the company as a whole, i.e., if they follow a strategic and United Kingdom, Germany, France, United Arab Emirates. not tactical approach to the organic market. Felicia Bio® and Biorì® products have only be on the gluFor those who are no longer pioneers in the sector, they ten-free market for a few years and have an even more marmust focus on investments in innovation and research that ginal presence in pharmacies and specialized stores. They reward the origin of the raw materials, dedicated organic are distributed by the subsidiary, Felicia S.r.l., on the EU (24%) supply chains, the transition to biodynamics, and the ethical, and Extra EU (7%) markets with excellent results, although in social, and solidarity footprint. the last year they have not registered significant increases compared to the previous fiscal year. The reference market is In looking at the potential of the market, which would seem still the domestic one (68%) with a focus on the Hyper+Super not to show signs of maturity at all, it would appear in the channel. medium to long term to show growth margins despite the impact of the crisis caused by Covid-19. The real challenge is Renewed marketing policies, strengthening of the e-comnot how the current market share is divided among the varimerce channel, an increasingly widespread presence in the ous distribution channels, but the expansion of the number large distribution sector, and the development in the pharof people interested in organic food and food innovations macy and OTC pharmacy market, allow Andriani management (new ingredients, new products, and new types of pasta). to estimate a 8% growth (CAGR) in the next two years and the Growth margins in markets that perform more than others in achievement of a turnover for 2020-2021 of about €7.0 7.5 segments as these would seem to be more promising: Italy, million for the subsidiary, Felicia S.r.l. 34 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1.5 The Smart Building GRI CONTENT INDEX 403-6 The Smart Building arose from the need to create a new work facility in line with the company philosophy based on innovation and sustainabilityLike other initiatives implemented by the Andriani Group in the Sustainable Development field, the Smart Building may represent a driving force to achieve some of the Agenda 2030 SDGs. To enhance the impact of sustainable construction on the SDGs, the Andriani Group, in fact, began a collaboration with the Italian Green Building Council in March 2020. This non-profit organization is part of the World Green Building Council, a network of national GBCs in more than 70 countries representing the largest international organization in the world in the field of sustainable construction and whose scope is to promote and accelerate the diffusions of a sustainable construction culture that combines, in the best possible way, the market demands with social well-being and environmental protection. In this perspective, Andriani has chosen to participate in two specific initiatives during 2020: • the Advancing Net Zero project for the selection of praise-worthy Italian projects related to buildings constructed with decarbonization requirements; It is “zero emissions” and focused on the • the Level(S) framework of the European Comenergy exchange mission to measure and evaluate the sustainprinciple. The primary source of ability of buildings and SDGs at a European thermal energy is level. the ground thanks to the installation of a geothermal plant. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 35 It is the result of a trade-off between organizational development and energy efficiency in which the three ingredients were beauty, design, and requalification of the territory. 36 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In strictly architectural terms, Smart Building is the result of employment and expertise has been created, is the best a trade-off between organizational development and energy return that the Andriani Group could obtain. The highly efficiency (also in consideration of the solar exposure) challenging scope of the Smart Building project has also in which the three ingredients were beauty, design, and fostered the consolidation of strategic partnerships requalification of the territory. with leading companies in integrated home automation, To become promoters of architectural beauty and a source innovative design, and energy efficiency that have worked in of inspiration for other companies operating in the Gravina synergy with local companies in the Gravina area. industrial area, constructing a building entirely made in Italy with local skill and craftsmanship in an area where How green offices can provide the Green offices can enhance employee's foundations towards meeting several health, wellbeing & productivity Sustainable Development Goals Green offices can use renewable energy, making them cheaper to operate Building green offices creates jobs and boosts the economy Green offices can catalyse innovation and be resilient to climate change risks Green offices are a key part of sustainable cities and communities Green offices use 'circular' principles, where resources are not wasted Green offices produce fewer emissions, helping to combat climat change Green offices can enhance biodiversity, save water resources and help to protect forests Through building green offices, we create strong, global partnerships SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 37 Materials Cement was used to limit the exponential use of iron (a large quantity of CO2 is emitted to extrude iron) No laminates were used The walls have natural wood sheets The fabrics are a result of a recycling formula that uses nanotechnology. The floors are acoustic and stress-free when walking on them. They are also less pollutant, from recycled material, and are completely recyclable (as well as sound absorbing). 38 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The three basic concepts that characterize Andriani’s Smart Building Discretionality Transparency Well-being Understood as individual freeSupported by the absence of barSince everything that was condom at the centre of a project that riers and the importance of air and structed inside and outside of the translates into flexible working light as essential components of a Building was designed to improve hours and choice of workplace. place to do your best work. the physical and mental well-being of those who work there (desks, seats, lights). In fact, the company chose to focus on improving employee motivation and engagement, not by simply reducing any negative elements, but by enhancing the positive ones that can generate good mood and happiness, with a direct impact on performance and productivity standards. The Smart Building arose from the need to create a new work facility in line with the company philosophy based on innovation and environmental and social sustainability. In line with the “Positive Life” Social Purpose that is the basis of the Business Strategy, Andriani introduces “Happiness at work, positive thinking” in the People Strategy Employee Value Proposition. In this perspective, the company has chosen to focus on improving employee motivation and engagement, enhancing factors that can generate good mood and happiness, in full respect of performance results and productivity standards. The Smart Building project, starting from considering the workplace as a meaningful experience that can contribute to the improvement of the state of well-being, satisfaction, and positivity of the people working there, was designed with a focus on 6 key drivers: • ergonomics and comfort; • liquid space; • aesthetics; • collaboration; • concentration; • creativity. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 39 40 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Ergonomics and comfort Thermal comfort thanks to the combination of temperature, air circulation, and humidity Height-adjustable desks to allow work while standing Adjustable seats with ergonomic lumbar and back support One of the biggest enemies of well-being is being same position for a long time. sedentary and poor posture. Every year, seven work Thermal comfort is essential and is provided by the days are lost due to musculoskeletal problems. In the right combination of temperature, air circulation, and Smart Building, the first step was to equip workstahumidity The balance between these elements is funtions with the necessary comfort – adjustable seats damental for physical well-being in the work environequipped with lumbar support and ergonomic backment. rest. The desks can be raised to make it possible to Also, the “light” aspect becomes essential in the work while standing and to avoid maintaining the proper balance between natural and artificial light. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 41 Liquid Space Single and modular upholstered furniture systems have been inserted forming islands, linear or curved compositions, and modules that can be transformed into shelves or occasional seating. Partitions and mobile elements are abandoned: from containers to archives. In the common areas, sofas become an integral part of the work focus. The work area needs versatile, resistant, and functional objects that are also beautiful enough to be able to be used as domestic or decorative solutions. The areas are designed to be able to transmit the comfort and well-being of a living room through the use of tactile materials, textiles, finishes and colours, lighting, and acoustics. Aesthetics 42 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Collaboration Communication and collaboration take on a primary role for good business operation. The common areas and open spaces were designed for this purpose and, with the introduction of unassigned desks, facilitating teamwork, exchange, and interaction between individuals working on common projects. Concentration Capsule office with accessories (e.g., power outlets, USB ports, and work surfaces) Sound insulation with focus work areas guaranteed by phone booth and independent spaces as well as through one or more seats, designed as a capsule office with accessories such as power outlets, USB ports and work surfaces. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 43 Creativity Thinking “out of the box” leads to new, original, difof an orange grove so that the colour and fragrance ferent, and winning results. Therefore, promoting crestimulate ideas and thoughts, especially since, acativity and lateral thinking is fundamental for achievcording to psychology, orange is the colour of creativing high innovation standards and the environment is ity and enthusiasm. It transmits strength and courdefinitely a stimulating factor to be considered. age, symbolizes glory, health, joy, and progress, and is In fact, specific colour choices were made to enhance linked to positive messages of balance and openness concentration and creativity. In particular, a thinking towards the outside world. pad was created outside of the building in the style Efficiency energy The Smart Building was designed in and better manage passive solar compliance with the ITACA Protocol, gains). The power for climate control which measures the environmental is produced by a control unit with energy sustainability of buildings. geothermal heat pumps, the elecThe outside of the building was detricity is ensured by a cogeneration signed with typical attention to the system along with a system of photoarchitectural design, orientation, and voltaic panels. shielding (to favour natural lighting 44 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 4 The overall cost of the Smart Building, includ(reduction of direct impacts, energy efficiency, € million ing design, construction, and technological instrumentation, amounts to about €4 million circular economies) terms. The Smart Building solutions available to all Overall cost and design to construction took about 2 years. employees who carry out office and operaSmart Building Since March 2020, the Building has been availtional activities inside the building, have, in able to the Andriani Group's management and fact, promoted not only the implementation 2years employees, who are gradually moving docuof change management actions aimed at both ments and devices from the offices in the premanagers and employees (including for examvious facility. ple training plans, communication, involveThe Andriani management is aware of the conment in work tables, etc.), but also the adopSTAFF siderable financial outlay of the investment tion of new organizational policies in the field from design and is certain of the return that this investof flexible work (including, for example, days to construction ment will bring in economic (cost savings, proworking remotely, places where work is perductivity at work), social (welfare and safety formed, desk sharing, hourly flexibility, etc.). of staff, work-life balance), and environmental SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 45 The following is a simplified representation of the physical environments, work spaces, and technologies installed in the body of the Building. 2 FLOOR Board of Directors Lounge Administration Board of Directors Toilets Audit Room Relaxation Terrace 1 FLOOR Reception Print Area Coffee area Phone Area Toilets Relaxation Terraces Library Server Room Work Station 0Reception FLOOR GROUND Canteen Area Toilets Bar+Toilets 3 Account Rooms Guest Room 3 Meeting Rooms 1 FLOOR BASEMENT Reception Kitchen with services Toilets (elevators, dressing 3 Meeting Rooms rooms, toilets, storage rooms) AREA OUTDOORS Perimeter garden with 3 bioclimates Botanical garden with aromatic plants Thinking Pad with organic Orange Grove 46 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Where and when to work The staff can opt to spend a minimum of 10% and a The Smart Building is open with reception service maximum of 20% of monthly work hours (based on from 8:00 to 20:00. During office hours, the clerical the National Collective Labour Agreement) in a locastaff may enter and exit flexibly, according to the action other than the work facility that is chosen freely tivities to be carried out and the goals to be achieved. provided that it meets the requirements for safety Communication and collaboration take on a primaand confidentiality. In compliance with the maximum ry role for good business operation. These aspects hours established, flexible work activity can be carwere the basis for the concept of the new work areas. ried out in full or half days, from Monday to Friday, The common areas and open spaces were designed excluding public holidays. During flexible work activfor this purpose and, with the introduction of unasities, the employee must refer to the normal working signed desks, facilitating teamwork, exchange, and hours of the company headquarters, in line with orinteraction between individuals working on common ganizational needs. Also, overtime work is not authoprojects. rized. There are focus work areas guaranteed by phone During flexible work within normal business hours, booth and independent spaces as well as through company staff must be available for contact using one or more seats, designed as a capsule office with the company devices made available (PC and mobile accessories such as power outlets, USB ports, and phone), while safeguarding the right to disconnection. work surfaces. Statistics for 60 8 flexible working people out of 160 may perform flexible average work days per month working in 2020. per person. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 47 How technology helps Staff were supplied with a mobile phone and person• ability to contact the sender of an invitation via al computer and collaboration solutions and mobile Skype and/or mail phone; apps were launched along with IT projects to support • management of staff presence with bookings for flexible working. canteen, etc.; With the designed automation system, the Smart • management of out-of-office work through the Building guarantees on-demand lighting, dimming, Cloud. and activation of heating with efficiency algorithms The EVOKO booking system for meeting rooms and in the hybrid system. The automation solutions are other areas was designed to make the meeting exdesigned to offer practicality, comfort, and energy perience easier. Intelligent management of meeting efficiency, which allow employees to maximize their room bookings uses a new generation touch panel. potential in an optimized, safe, comfortable, and conThe meeting rooms are equipped with advanced sysvenient work environment. tems for the following functions: In addition, the PLEXA user and access control man• integrated video conference with all-in-one monitor; agement system designed for the office building al• wireless content sharing with Click Share; lows the following functions: • 4K motorized video cameras for show cooking sta• booking desks and activating them through personal tions; RFID; • video archiving with the creation of graphic tem• guest management with automatic registration (Virplates for Podcasts and YouTube channels; tual Reception); • live video for webinars and live channels (e.g., Face• accreditation through personal badge with video inbook, YouTube). formation on company internal path; 48 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT There is also quality audio distribution a chef and a nutritionist; and the presponic garden in all environments with the selection ence of plants, which contribute to A partnership has begun with a nutriof audio channels and custom schedule the regularization of biological cycles, tionist and through an App, guidelines for each area; video content on moniconcentration, and stress reduction, will be created to monitor nutritional tors and video walls in common areas along with a hydroponic garden in the needs, which will be managed through with customization depending on the canteen area where vegetables can be each person’s badge. One of the maclocation, time, and event; and internal grown to eat during the lunch break. ro objectives of the canteen could be, information displayed on monitors poIn the welfare field, the implementafor example, to achieve the concept of sitioned in the relaxation areas. tion of a nutritional improvement proa balanced diet (reduction of sugar or gram for employees through individual The company is seeking to evalusalt). paths with biometric data collection is ate the reaction of its employees to being studied, as well as the introducAnother important concept is the rethe Building and it would seem that tion of new coaching and team building duction of food waste, which will be there is a very high level of satisfacactivities with Lego Serious Play. managed through the implementation tion. Some quality interviews that were of 3 initiatives: conducted showed an improvement There is an internal canteen available • leftover food is taken to the office; in work-life balance, which is also due to all employees and it is managed by • leftover food is taken home; to the introduction of projects aimed trained and dedicated staff using job • food that cannot be re-used becomes at employee well-being and work-life rotation, with employees who were inorganic material for the garden via a balance. These include Andriani Wellvolved in packaging for years. The idea composter. ness, dedicated to physical and menmaterialized through cooking classes, tal well-being with muscle awakening, which were welcomed with great enAs far as the environmental benefits stretching, cardio-fitness, and tranthusiasm and satisfaction. are concerned, it should be noted that, scendental meditation courses taught in terms of emissions produced, the In the canteen, only Felicia pasta is by an athletic trainer; the high quality Smart Building is zero emissions and eaten and the walls will host a hydroof the canteen service offered, run by is focused on the principle of energy SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 49 exchange. The main source of thermal co-generator that greatly contributes the green areas of the facility. energy is the ground, which, thanks to the reduction of energy consumpA further contribution to the reduction to a geothermal plant that exploits tion, especially in relation to the therof potable water consumption is enits capacity to ensure stable temmal energy produced that is used for sured by the installation of jet breaker peratures above the first layer (about industrial process, the heart of the aerators for taps and double capacity 15mt), allows the geothermal probes facility (electricity and superheated and reduced water flushing tanks. to exchange enough thermal energy to water). meet the facility’s heating needs. The flat roofs are made of materials In order to decrease thermal disperwith a reflection coefficient greater In order to reduce the number of sion while ensuring high air quality, the than 78%, which along with the green probes to be installed in the ground, building was equipped with a mechanareas, lead to a reduction of the “heat an innovative system was used that ical ventilation system that ensures island” effect. allows the use of the solar field as an the necessary air exchange, defined for additional probe, through a hybrid sospecific intended uses. It is estimated To reduce paper waste, the Building has lar system (photovoltaic and thermal). that, thanks to the geothermal system, a document digitalization process that The energy to be dissipated is yielded about 4,170 TEP per year will be saved, is not aimed at completely eliminating to the solar modules, which guarantee equal to 10,533 kg of CO2. the use of paper but rather to use it the free production of hot water, simore conscientiously and with more In terms of water savings, on the othmultaneously cooling the photovoltaawareness. To allow more responsier hand, the building is equipped with ic solar modules and increasing their ble use of the material, a machine has rainwater collection tanks that accuefficiency. A control system recognizes been purchased that will whiten paper mulate the water collected from the the energy available in the field, priorrather than destroy it and allow it to be roofs during storms and, after meitizing renewable energy. In terms of reused (4-5 times per sheet). chanical purification treatment, use it thermal and electrical energy autonoinside the water drains and in irrigating my, the facility has a high-performance 2 Governance Key numbers 5 MEMBERS OF ANDRIANI S.P.A. BOARD OF DIRECTORS +2 compared to 2018. Awareness on the path towards Sustainable Development speech by Michele Andriani “Sustainability, for Andriani, means operating on a daily basis with respect for the protection of our human resources, the community, and the quality of the product.” Video created for the UBS Conference The Vocabulary of Sustainability, Smart Investing, Sustainable Investing Rome, October 7, 2019 In this chapter 52 Corporate governance and compliance 60 The Benefit Corporation project 61 Risk Management 63 Fight against corruption 98% 63 Respect for human rights PARTICIPATION of members of the board of directors and the board of statutory auditors at the Board of Directors Meetings. 5drivers Impacting on the empowerment process: Stakeholder: shareholders and community · expansion of the number of members of the Andriani S.p.A. Board of Directors; · approval of the Group’s Corporate Governance Regulations; · approval of a new organizational SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) structure; · establishment of the Management Board; · establishment of the Nutritional Observatory. 52 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2.1 Corporate governance and compliance GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-18 102-22 102-23 102-32 The Andriani Group voluntarily subscribes to the new Italian Stock Exchange Self-Discipline Code and shares the idea of placing greater emphasis on integrating sustainability in strategies, risk management, and remuneration policies. In this perspective, the sustainable success concept is a key element for the Andriani Group, and is understood as an objective that must guide the actions of the board of directors and that must be substantiated in the creation of long-term value for the benefit of shareholders and other strategic stakeholders. According to the recent report “Non-financial information as a driver of transformation” published by the Italian Securities and Exchange Commission, the board’s involvement in non-financial themes (i.e., social, environmental, governance, and risks) combined with a high level of knowledge and skill are the three phases of ESG/multicapital integration in governance and the corporate strategy. In line with what has been highlighted, the Andriani group has chosen, therefore, to initiate a transition process (not yet complete) towards a new “good governance” model aimed at improving specific aspects of corporate governance and the decision-making process that involves, among other things, the differentiation of skills, delegation areas and related responsibility levels, the balance between levels and remuneration, independence, diversity, transparency, integration, and compliance. The drivers with greater impact on those empowerment processes were: • expansion of the number of members of the Board of Directors of Andriani S.p.A. (Group holding company); • approval of the Group’s Corporate Governance Regulations; • approval of a new organizational structure; • establishment of the Management Board and related regulations; • establishment of the Nutritional Laboratory and related regulations. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 53 Andriani S.p.A.’s corporate governance system, as well as those of its subsidiaries, is founded on a traditional model, comprised of the following company bodies: Shareholders’ meeting Body that has the broadest powers provided for by the Italian Civil Code in terms of: appointment and dismissal of directors, approval of the financial statement, distribution of profits, appointment of members of the Board of Statutory Auditors, appointment of independent auditors, and definition of the related remuneration. Board of Directors Body that performs of strategic guidance, organisational coordination, as well as verification of the existence of the necessary controls to monitor the Company’s performance. This body is vested with the broadest powers for the ordinary administration of the Company and, more precisely, has the power to perform all the acts it deems appropriate for the achievement of the Company's objectives, excluding only those acts which are exclusively reserved to the Shareholders' Meeting. In addition to the specific matters assigned by the Italian Civil Code, the Board of Directors makes resolutions on the following matters: quarterly/annual financial statement, annual budget, investment plan, strategic plan, acquisition of corporate shareholdings, real estate investments. Board of Statutory Auditors Body that supervises the observance of the current regulations and the corporate by-laws, the observance of the principles of correct administration, the adequacy of the organisational structure for the aspects falling within its competence, the internal control system and the administrative and accounting system, as well as the reliability of the latter in representing management events and the adequacy of the instructions given by the parent company to its subsidiaries. The Board of Statutory Auditors acquires knowledge of and supervises the company's activities falling within its competence. 54 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The Board of Directors, with a Shareholders’ resolution on 31 auditors, and, in addition to ordinary management issues, March 2020, was expanded from three to five members. it dealt with issues related to governance and sustainability, In 2019, the Board of Directors met 8 times for an average including the approval of the Sustainable Development Reduration of about 2 hours for each sitting, with an average port and the sustainable investments plan. 98% participation of the directors and board of statutory The Andriani S.p.A. Board of Directors Michele Andriani 39 years old, with a degree in Corporate Economics, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Managing Director, founding shareholder and Director of Andriani S.p.A. (formerly Molino Andriani S.r.l.) since its establishment. In recent years he has developed particular experience in R&D, marketing, sustainability and management control. In the past, he was the managing director of the operations division. He is also a Member of the Board of Directors of the subsidiary Cardo Rosso S.r.l. Francesco Andriani 37 years old, high school graduate, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors and Managing Director, founding shareholder, formerly manager responsible for the Sales, Marketing & Business Development Division of Andriani S.p.A. He also is Sole Administrator (Chairman) of the subsidiary Felicia S.r.l. In recent years he has developed particular experience in the marketing sector and sales of branded products on both the national and international level. Tommaso Marvulli 41 years old, Director and Managing Director, formerly manager responsible for the Administrative and Finance division and Andriani family partner since 1999. In recent years he has developed particular experience in general accounting, treasury, management control, ordinary and subsidized finance. He also holds the position of Sole Director (Chairman) of the subsidiary Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. as well as Member of the Board of Directors of the subsidiary Cardo Rosso S.r.l. Attilio Mazzilli 53 years old, with a degree in Business Economics, Managing Director, chartered accountant, former board member of large companies, and expert in extraordinary finance operations (M&A), corporate and tax law, and corporate restructuring and reorganization. In recent years he has developed particular experience in the field of management consulting for companies operating in the food sector. Michele Di Paolo 43 years old with a degree in Engineering, Managing Director, manager, and business consultant for the Healthy gluten-free products sector, with twenty years of experience in multinational mechanical and industrial engineering companies in the pasta sector (Bühler Group). In recent years he has developed particular experience and held multiple roles in the industrial sector, developing managerial skills in governance, operations, and commercial functions. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 55 Other Andriani S.p.A. corporate bodies Board of Statutory Auditors Supervisory Board Statutory Auditor Dr. Alberto Longo Giovanni De Pascale Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. Chairman 62 years Chairman 39 years Prof. Andrea Venturelli Attorney Vincenzo Acquafredda Statutory auditor 43 years Member 46 years Dr. Francesco Paparella Attorney Francesco Andriani Statutory auditor 52 years Member 53 years Dr. Salvatore Scaltrito Member 42 years On 31 March 2020, the Board of Directors The line departments are responsible for of Andriani S.p.A. approved the Corporate business implementation and, therefore, Governance Regulations that, inspired by are aimed at achieving the typical and prithe Self-Discipline Code for companies on mary objectives of the Group’s companies. the stock exchange, apply exclusively to the These are the Operations Division, Technicompanies over which Andriani S.p.A. percal Division, and Commercial and Marketing forms management and coordination activDivision. The last one mentioned is broken ities. The document addresses the precise down by business unit, identified by market description of the subjects and bodies, as sector, and includes the Marketing Departwell as the governance rules and methods, ment. and is based on the assumption of the exThe staff functions are responsible for proisting interdependence between strategic viding the services necessary for the most effectiveness and management efficiency. efficient implementation of the primary In March 2020, the new corporate organibusiness purposes. These are the funczational chart was also approved, which tions: Human Resources and Organization uses a functional hierarchical model, diDivision, Administration and Finance Divivided into organizational structures with sion, Corporate Secretary's Office, Planning decreasing complexity (Divisions, Offices/ and Control Division, Legal and Corporate Departments), corresponding to as many Affairs Division, CSR (Corporate Social Reareas of homogeneous activities as there sponsibility) Division, Compliance, and Inare skills and specializations, directed by a ternal Audit. Department Manager. 56 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Sustainability governance The Board of Directors oversees management aspects environment. In particular: (a) supports the Group's related to sustainability issues in its various forms. In governance bodies in forecasting and implementing carrying out this governance action, the Board of Direcbusiness objectives with limited environmental impact tors works with company management (CSR Division), on the territory, as well as in implementing initiatives also interacting with the various internal stakeholders aimed at fostering sustainable business styles and who are involved with the relevant sustainability ispromoting ethical and socially active behaviour; (b) imsues, also using other communication methods (meetplements management models that comply with the ings, specific focus groups, etc.). most up-to-date voluntary social sustainability stanThe Board of Directors monitors the Strategic Sustaindards (SA 8000, etc.); (c) oversees and implements the ability Plan and approves the Group’s Sustainable Deobligations set forth in the applicable legislation and velopment Report. voluntary standards regarding quality, safety, and the The CSR & Sustainability Manager oversees both the environment, monitoring and controlling the compadivision’s internal monitoring activities as well as nies activities in those areas that fall under their juriscompliance with binding obligations and voluntary diction. The Prevention and Protection Service Superstandards in terms of quality, safety at work, and the visor also works in close interaction with this function. The decision-making process, in line with the structure, is • knowledge, transparency, and publication of the powers the pyramid hierarchy type. Decision-making responsibility granted (within the Group and to third parties); and reporting lines are therefore focused vertically. In any • clear and formal delimitation of roles, with a complete decase, cross-functional integration from the establishment of scription of the tasks for each function and their powers the Management Board, which is not only a support body for and responsibilities. the Board of Directors, promotes communication and sharIn view of the profitable interaction with the market and the ing of information between organizational structures. coherent and sustainable development of strategic objecIn order to facilitate the decision-making process, the orgatives and internal organization, the Andriani S.p.A. Board of nizational tools (organization chart, job description, etc.) are Directors recognized the fundamental importance of the adbased on the following general principles: visory bodies without decision-making power: the Manage• clear description of the reporting lines; ment Board and the Nutritional Observatory. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 57 The Management Board The Management Board plays an investigative, confor the internal risk management and control system; sultative, and proactive role with the Board of Di(c) contributes to the implementation of the Group's rectors of the Parent Company in the preparation of, strategy, as well as the preparation of the Industrial among other things, the strategic plan, planning and budget, monitoring performance, and business develresolutions to the Board of Directors on corporate isopment in line with the strategic objectives. The body, sues relating to strategies, extraordinary operations, appointed by the Board of Directors, is composed of policies for the development and growth of human resources, as well as for the achievement of the expected operating result emerging from the Industrial sees special projects at the Group level; (b) formuPlan and annual budgets. The Nutritional Observatory The Nutritional Observatory was created for multidisciplinary coordination of the initiatives related to with research bodies (public and private), in order to sustainable nutrition for mankind and the planet. It is a consulting body of the Andriani S.p.A Board of Direcfects on the human body from the consumption of tors with purely consulting and technical and sciencertain foods; (e) investigates the effects of modern processing and pasta-making techniques on the nuactivities and the promotion of initiatives related to tritional quality of raw materials; (f) establishes edthe goals of the Parent Company, and with the task of ucational and training guidelines for a balanced and making assessments and suggestions about the scisustainable diet; (g) implements responsible communication, which allows consumers to make informed the Company and its partners. The Nutritional Obserfood choices and to understand the importance of vatory is made up of ten members appointed by the active lifestyles and a balanced diet (i.e., responsible marketing); (h) analyzes the characteristics of the years. It carries out the following tasks: (a) promotes the use of methodologies and tools for the company's health claims; (i) performs a consultative and evaluative function through the elaboration of reasoned of food policies or operational programmes in the opinions for each new ingredient investigated; (j) ensectors in which the company operates; (c) promotes courages and promotes the company's participation the sustainable development of quality and nutritionnity. 58 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GRAPHIC d Andriani Group Organisation and Management Model Board of Directors Nutritional Observatory Chairperson: Planning and Rossella Labarbuta Control Luigi Montemurro Management board Chairperson: Luigi Montemurro Corporate Secretary's Office AREA Directors Salvatore Scaltrito (ad interim) CSR & Sustainability Raffaele Raso Legal and Corporate Affairs Director Attorney Francesco Andriani Governance Risk Management Compliance (GRC) Marsh Consulting Risk Services Deputy Managing Chairperson Chairperson and Managing Managing Director and Managing Managing Director Director Director Attilio Mazzilli Director Michele Andriani Tommaso Marvulli Michele Di Paolo Francesco Andriani Commercial Human Resources General Affairs Operations Division and Marketing and Organization Tommaso Marvulli Paolo Tassinari Department Department Domenico Mazzilli Mariangela Candido Personnel Supply Chain Administration Luigi Manfredi Creative Facility Manager Department Office Business Office Ezio Giampietro Vito Raguso Production 6.14 S.r.l. Raffaella manager Moliterni R&D Division IT Office Paolo Tassinari Rossella Labarbuta Luigi Scaltrito Communication Insurance and Marketing and Quality Department Treasury Division Management Francesca Laddaga Patrizia Stano Nunziata Pellegrino Technical and Receivables Technical Division Commercial Office Office Michele Di Paolo Michele Spinelli Rosita Ferrarese Administration Purchasing and Project Management Salvatore Scaltrito Engineering Office Product Innovation Filippo Laddaga Annamaria Todisco Accounting and Financial Statement Maintenance Leonardo Casino and Automation Department Tax Affairs Piero Lasalvia Michele Gravina SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 59 In order to ensure timely compliance with the strinprinciples are: respect for the law, honesty, transgent regulations on economic, governance, social, parency and integrity, correctness in corporate manand environmental aspects, the parent company has agement and the use of resources, confidentiality, also set up a Supervisory Board, consisting of 4 memrespect for the individual, prevention of conflicts of bers, 2 external and 2 internal figures with different interest, environmental protection, safety, and susand compatible expertise, which has the task of sutainable development. pervising the functioning and observance of the 231 As is well known, Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 inOrganisation and Management Model. With regard troduced administrative responsibility of the compato the Organisation and Management Model pursuny regarding crimes committed by subjects such as ant to Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001 issued directors, employees, agents, consultants, and partby the Company, the Supervisory Body is responsiners if those crimes were committed in the interest ble for constantly monitoring: (a) its compliance by and to the benefit of the company. the recipients; (b) its effectiveness in preventing the Italian Legislative Decree 124/2019, however, recentcommission of offences; (c) the implementation of the ly added to the 231 crimes by introducing crimes of provisions contained therein; (d) updates to it in the a tax nature, i.e. crimes similar to the following casevent of the need for adjustments related to changes: fraudulent declaration by means of invoices for es in the organizational structure or the Applicable non-existent operations, fraudulent declaration by Legislation. means of other devices, issue of invoices for non-exAndriani S.p.A.’s 231 Organisation and Management istent operations, concealment or destruction of Model, prepared in accordance with the indications accounting documents, and fraudulent deductions contained in the Confindustria Guidelines, was apfrom tax payments. In order to respond to these reproved by the Board of Directors on March 29th, 2019 quirements and protect the interests of the governing and is comprised of a general section and a special bodies, the parent company is carrying out an assesssection, in turn broken down into specific sections ment of the levels of risk associated with these types dedicated to the various types of predicate offences. of offences, which will make it possible to rapidly upAn integral part of the 231 Organisation and Mandate the 231/01 Model. agement Model is the Code of Ethics whose founding 60 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2.2 The Benefit Corporation project In line with the provisions of the strategic suscorporate welfare initiatives, food education, tainability plan, the parent company Andriani external effects for the community, energy S.p.A. launched a project to transform the savings, the supply chain, and biodiversity procompany into a benefit corporation, pursutection, believes, therefore, that it can adopt ant to Italian Law Decree 1882 of 17 April 2015, the Benefit Corporation model, protecting its which should allow it to acquire this status by mission and values, and measuring its ecothe end of 2020. nomic, social and environmental impact, using the Benefit Impact Assessment tool. Andriani The decision to transform itself into a benefit S.p.A.’s goal is to achieve eligibility as a cercorporation responds to a precise purpose that tified B Corp, falling within that small circle is strongly consistent and in continuity with (about 100) of virtuous and resilient Italian the vision, mission, and values of the Andriani companies. Group, which aims to enhance and strengthen the path already taken in recent years in terms In order to undertake this challenging project, of sustainability and sustainable development, the Group has chosen the support of Nativa, launching it with additional, more formalized the first benefit corporation in Italy and the first effort to ensure greater depth. Certified B Corp in Europe, which supports Italian companies towards advanced sustainability In this perspective, the Andriani Group, in light projects in their business models that generate of the considerable investments made in inpositive impacts on people and the planet. novation and sustainability, the promotion of Governance (accountability, ethics, and transparency) Impact on the Mission and customers involvement Environment Our people (impact of facilities, input (wages and benefits) and output) Suppliers Our people (company relationships (training, work climate, with suppliers, flexibility, health and involvement and impact) safety) Community (diversity & inclusion, service to the community, donations) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 61 2.3 Risk Management GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-11 102-15 The Andriani Group's approach to managing business risks Group operates and intends to operate (new regulations, can be represented by providing a reconstruction of the partechnological innovations, changes in demand, competiticipants' system, the types of risks, and the actions taken to tors' strategies, etc.); mitigate these risks. • strategic i.e., risks associated with the deterioration of the company's equity position and profitability resulting from The risk management system participants include: erroneous business decisions, or inadequate implementa• the Board of Directors, which by its very nature defines the tion of company plans and strategies, as well as poor reguidelines for the internal risk management and control sponsiveness to changes in the external environment; system in line with the company's strategies and assesses • operational i.e., risks associated with the inadequacy the adequacy of the system, at least once a year, with reof internal processes, technological systems, the supply spect to the company's characteristics and the risk profile, chain, the sales network, or, more generally, resulting from as well as its effectiveness; violations of laws or regulations, contractual or extra-con• the Management Board which, in assisting the Board of Ditractual responsibilities, or from cases of nonconformity; rectors in detection, identifies, measures, and evaluates • non-financial or related to sustainability i.e. risks that rethe degree of compatibility of the risks with company manlate to: agement that is consistent with the defined strategic obthe environment (climate change, nonconformities with jectives; environmental regulations, waste and hazardous sub• the specific functions of staff, Legal and Corporate Affairs, stances management, water management, inefficient enCompliance, and Internal Audit, which in support of the ergy management, etc.); Board of Directors oversee the specific business risks, i.e., social (cyber security, quality and safety of products/ legal risks, nonconformity risks, and risks associated with services, customer and complaints management, IT risks, the internal control system; etc.); • the Board of Statutory Auditors, which, as the subject the staff (nonconformities to standards related to health and oversees management performance and the proper adminsafety in the workplace and workers’ rights, loss of reistration, monitors the probability and magnitude of the sources in key positions, etc.); risks associated with the business community; corruption (active and passive crimes of corruption, i.e., • the Supervisory Board, which, as part of the analysis of admoney laundering and terrorism financing, fraud and illeequacy of the 231/01 Organisation and Management Model, gal activities, etc.); assesses its effectiveness in mitigating the risks and prehuman rights (human rights violations, inadequate diverventing the commission of the offences associated with sity management, discrimination, etc.); them. the supply chain (social, environmental, and reputationOn the basis of that highlighted, the various participants in al risks connected to careless management of the supply the Andriani Group approach the business risks by identifychain); ing them effectively, and by measuring, managing, and moncompliance (besides the previous ones, other types of itoring them. risks of nonconformity with regulations regarding taxes, The types of risks monitored by the Andriani Group are: free competition, privacy, etc.). • external i.e., risks arising from the country in which the 62 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Enterprise risk 1 Governance & Culture for ESG-related risks management 2 Strategy & objective-setting for ESG-related risks 3 Performance for ESG-related risks identifying risks assessing & prioritizing risks implementing risk responses 4 Review & Revision for ESG-related risks 5 Information, communication & reporting for ESG-related risks To manage and mitigate sustainability risk, the Andricommunications, risks related to health and safety in ani S.p.A. Holding Company, while drawing inspiration the workplace, IT risk and illegal data processing, and from the integrated approach proposed by the interrisk of tax offences (in the assessment phase). national guidelines on ESG risks published by COSO With regard to the management and mitigation of opand WBCSD, uses the 231/2001 model, which estaberational risks, in the first months of 2020, Andriani lished a model for the prevention of the primary crimS.p.A. initiated an external assessment with an interinal risks set forth in Italian Legislative Decree 231/01, national player to analyze the risk of damages resultas amended. ing from business interruptions to which the CompaThe types of risk mapped out in Model 231 and manny might be subject in relation to direct damages that aged through specific prevention protocols are: licould occur within the organization (Gravina plant) or quidity risk, market risk, credit risk, risk of corruption externally (raw material supply channels and customin relations with Public Administrations and between er network). private parties, environmental risk, risk of false social SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 63 2.4 Fight against corruption The Group is committed to the fight against corruption activities involving contacts and relations with the Public through the identification, prevention, and control of risks of Administration. corruption that are part of the 231 Organisation and ManageAlso, in order to establish and maintain any relationship with ment Model and the Code of Ethics, which is as an integral representatives of the Public Administration based on the part of it. criteria of maximum fairness and transparency, the AndriMore precisely, in the Organisation and Management Modani Group sets out a series of prohibitions for executives, el Andriani S.p.A. identified the areas at risk of corruption employees, and consultants in various capacities. At the crimes and the controls put in place to protect against them. beginning or renewal of any type of relationship, they must To this end, it calls for the scrupulous observance of the law, sign declarations of formal acceptance of the rules set in the the Code of Ethics, and the regulations and procedures govModel. erning the company's activities, with particular reference to 2.5 Respect for human rights GRI CONTENT INDEX 406-1 The Andriani Group undertakes to uphold, within its sphere In particular, the Group applies the provisions of the law of influence, the global standard of conduct in human rights (Constitution and Workers' Statute) regarding non-discrimmatters by providing: ination on the grounds of race, language, gender, disability, • human resources management policies and procedures age, sexual orientation, and personal beliefs. in line with Italian regulations and the main international The Group leverages the skills and potentialities of each one, standards on the subject (principles 1 and 2 of the Global firmly believing that only exchanges between generations, Compact); genders, and cultures can guarantee true success. • ethical standards referred to in agreements with suppliers; • ethical parameters such as integrity and respect for human Today, while the Group does not have specific procedures in and labour rights in the process of selecting suppliers of place in terms of human rights, it adopts company policies raw materials; in the same category both in human resources management • channels for receiving reports on violations of the princiand in hiring (Empowering People policy, Family Day, Career ples in the Code of Ethics. Day, etc.). 3 Economic accountability Key numbers €64,7m BUSINESS TURNOVER 2019 +16.2% COMPARED TO 2018 For the Andriani Group, 2019 was characterised by a positive growth in turnover and production volumes. Wellbeing for our consumers speech by Annamaria Todisco Nutrition and well-being of our consumers are the objectives that Andriani has always been pursuing . Video created during the TUTTOFOOD International Trade Fair Milan, May 6-9, 2019 In this chapter 66 Our business model 68 Economic and financial performance 70 Creating value for stakeholders +23.9% GROWTH OF PRODUCTION VOLUMES The volumes of pasta production for the year 2019 amounted to approximately 27.7 thousand tonnes. €17,8m Stakeholder: shareholders – customers – employees and suppliers VALUE ADDED PRODUCT +9.6% COMPARED TO 2018 The value added represents the measure of the increase in value deriving from the use of resources which, due to SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) the realisation of the technical-production cycle, have been transformed into generated wealth . 66 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3.1 Our business model GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-6 102-7 The Andriani Group's proactive approach to Susmanagement and planning of investment projects. tainable Development is represented in a business For the Andriani Group, the sustainability-competimodel that integrates inputs, business activities, tiveness trade-off materialises in the benefits illusand outputs with impactful results associated with trated in the Confindustria document “Guidelines the 17 goals of the 2030 Agenda. for sustainability reporting for SMEs” which provides a review of the potential benefits that an SME In this perspective, Sustainability represents a can achieve by carrying out a proactive approach to strategic driver that produces competitiveness and Corporate Social Responsibility, choosing to volungenerates value through the management of operational risks and the assessment of potential reptarily report non-financial information. utational sustainability risks linked to corporate Corporate Social Responsibility Creation of a Attraction and Partnership between Risk assessment sustainable development of companies with the and risk mitigasupply chain human capital same value system tion The adoption of responA good corporate reputaCompanies driven by the Reporting non-financial sible corporate behaviour tion favours an effective same principles (ethical, information triggers a risk can also encourage virtupolicy of finding qualified social, and environmental) monitoring activity capaous behaviour along the and motivated resources, are naturally led to develble of assessing the level entire supply chain. as well as a more relaxed, op mutual synergistic and of probability and its iminnovative, and incencollaborative relationpact. tive-based work climate. ships. Corporate Social legitimacy by Better access to credit identity and stakeholders system resources brand reputation The selection and reportSustainable business deIn a context such as the ing of the right informavelopment, in balance with current one restricting the tion capable of describing environmental and social bank credit market, it rethe corporate approach to promotion needs, set off wards the pursuit of polisustainability can generate mechanisms of social legitcies in the field of sustainimportant competitive reimacy that make it possible ability that require the use turns, which can be transto better manage particiof financial resources in a lated, among other things, patory relationships with responsible way. in terms of product/serstrategic, internal, and exvice differentiation and ternal stakeholders. customer loyalty. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 67 Production lines Long pasta Short pasta Nests and lasagna Asset Flour 1 Production plant 8 Storage warehouses Supply markets 1 Processing warehouse Italy 50 Silos EU Non-EU Raw material handling Grinding Raw material Grains Legumes Brand Pseudograins Felicia Handling of the Biorì finished product Private label Mixing Quality certification 3 companies Sales 10 production Biological Quality Control Mainstream Transformation Packaging Corporate Social Outlet markets Responsibility Italy 2030 Agenda North America GRI EMEA Global Compact APAC Delivery Channels Direct Mass distribution Small distribution E-commerce Indirect Copacker 68 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3.2 Economic and financial performance GRI CONTENT INDEX 201-1 The Andriani Group closed 2019 with a consolidated net profit of €2.76 million. Below is a summary of the main economic and financial data of the Group relating to 2019, compared with 2018 (values in thousands of euros). Items 2019 2018 Variation Variation % Production value 66,396 55,799 10,597 19.0% Production costs 61,474 50,247 11,227 22.3% Gross operating margin (EBITDA) 9,718 9,498 220 2.3% Net operating margin (EBIT) 4,922 5,552 (630) -11.3% Pre-tax result 3,651 4,593 (942) -20.5% Result after tax 2,758 4,105 (1,347) -32.8% Group shareholders' equity 20,399 17,654 2,745 15.5% Net financial position 21,962 18,923 3,039 16.1% Cash flow from operating activities 9,507 7,409 2,098 28.3% Cash flow investment activities (9,719) (10,285) 566 -5.5% Cash flow from financing activities 7,977 6,086 1,891 31.1% For the Andriani Group, 2019 was characterised by positive euros/ kg vs 2.38 euros/kg in 2018). growth in turnover amounting to 64.7 million euros (+16.2% The Group's consolidated turnover trend shows a +70% incompared to the previous year's financial statements) and crease in the comparison between 2019 and 2016 and a +16% in the volumes of pasta production, which amounted to apincrease in the comparison between 2019 and 2018. proximately 27.7 thousand tonnes, with a +23.9% increase compared to the same period of the previous year. Moreover, CHART d Consolidated 64,662,603 from the analysis of the provisional data as of 30 June 2020, turnover (Euros) a further growth in turnover and production volumes is not55,648,976 ed, which amounted to 38.9 million euros respectively (+17.2% 51,320,767 compared to 30/06/2019) and about 15.4 thousand tonnes of pasta. 38,088,882 Specifically analysing Andriani S.p.A., it should be noted that the parent company recorded a positive trend in terms of characteristic revenues, equal to 62.3 million euros (vs 53.1 million euros in 2018), with an increase (+17.3%) attributable, in part, to the greater quantities of product sold and also to 2016 2017 2018 2019 a tendential increase in sales prices (with an average of 2.39 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 69 GRAPH d 2019 turnover divided by markets (geographical areas) Italy 39,838,407 4,143,893 Europe 12,189,445 1,486,530 The Americas 9,851,711 403,325 Other Countries 374,266 Andriani S.p.A. 25,563 Felicia S.r.l. Felicia S.r.l. (Legal Entity of the Group, previous years, the growth in 2019 was the same, eroded the value of producwhose business is oriented towards accompanied by a simultaneous maintion by about 43.5%, thus recording an the sale of own brand products) contenance of margins. In fact, an EBITDA efficiency increase of about 6.5 pertributed 6.1 million euros in aggregate of 9.7 million euros emerges, a value centage points compared to the previturnover, an improvement on the prewhich is reflected in an EBITDA margin ous year. vious year. of 14.6%. More specifically, there is a lower incidence of purchases of raw Despite having occurred more than materials which, net of the change in proportionally with respect to the two 70 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3.3 Creating value for stakeholders The Andriani Group contributes to the of resources which, due to the realisa+9.6% development of the local community tion of the technical-production cycle, by increasing collaborations and relahave been transformed into generattionships with suppliers of raw materied wealth . als, in particular, of the legume family. This wealth rewards the corporate INCREASE IN ADDED VALUE During 2019, through the project for stakeholders, who in various ways the development of the sustainable COMPARED TO 2018 have supplied raw materials, labour, legumes supply chain, the Andriani services, investments, public utility, Group purchased approximately half and other tangible and intangible cora million euros' worth of raw material porate production factors. from local suppliers. The following table shows the “ConIn order to acquire the economic resolidated Added Value” scheme of the sources necessary for the manageAndriani Group calculated according ment of its business, the Group uses to the methodology proposed by the the proceeds deriving from core and standard of the Study Group for the ancillary operations. Social Report (GBS) which provides for In this perspective, the added valthe two distinct statements: ue represents the measure of the in• the added value assessment sheet; crease in value deriving from the use • the Added Value distribution sheet. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 71 In 2019, the added value produced was 17.8 million euros, with an increase of 1.5 million euros (+9.6%) compared to the same period of the previous year. Below is the analysis with the amounts: PROSPECTUS FOR DETERMINING THE ADDED VALUE 2019 (Euros) 2018 (Euros) Delta (Euros) A) Production value 65,121,962 55,125,587 9,996,375 Revenues from sales and services 64,662,603 55,648,976 9,013,627 Changes in inventories of finished goods 138,187 (672,526) 810,713 Increases in fixed assets for internal operations 60,667 60,667 Other revenues and income 260,505 149,137 111,368 B) Intermediate production costs 47,310,349 38,878,489 8,431,860 Raw, ancillary, and consumable materials and goods 27,772,692 25,782,960 1,989,732 Costs for services 17,019,732 13,022,280 3,997,452 Costs for leased assets 540,124 393,868 146,256 Provisions for risks Sundry operating charges 678,495 701,995 (23,500) Variations in inventories for raw, ancillary, consumable goods and commodities 1,104,227 (1,107,595) 2,211,822 Impairment of receivables included in current assets and cash equivalents 195,079 84,981 110,098 C) Characteristic gross added value (C = A-B) 17,811,613 16,247,098 1,564,515 Foreign exchange gains and losses 11,477 (39,563) 51,040 Characteristic added value net of exchange rates 17,823,090 16,207,535 1,615,555 Balance for ancillary management 18,779 22,123 (3,344) Total income from equity investments 203 1,643 (1,440) Total other financial income 18,576 20,480 (1,904) Value adjustments to financial assets (83,040) (19,407) (63,633) Total revaluations 38,193 (38,193) Total impairments 83,040 57,600 25,440 TOTAL GROSS ADDED VALUE 17,758,829 16,210,251 1,548,578 72 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ADDED VALUE DISTRIBUTION SHEET 2019 (Euros) 2018 (Euros) Delta (Euros) Personnel Remuneration 9,444,827 7,468,852 1,975,975 Wages and salaries 6,344,699 4,736,798 1,607,901 Social security expenses 1,638,035 1,387,497 250,538 Severance package 476,144 358,960 117,184 Provisions for pensions and similar Other costs 53,405 5,189 48,216 Non-employee personal remuneration 932,544 980,408 (47,864) Public Administration Remuneration (157,152) (95,178) (61,974) Income taxes for the year 975,530 1,103,776 (128,246) Taxes relating to previous years 3,363 (558,556) 561,919 Contributions in the financial year (1,185,224) (673,495) (511,729) Indirect taxes 49,179 33,097 16,082 Credit Capital Remuneration 1,217,645 921,920 295,725 Interest expenses 1,217,645 921,920 295,725 Differential from financial instruments Company Remuneration 4,600,835 3,861,181 739,654 Depreciation and impairment of fixed assets 4,600,835 3,861,181 739,654 Risk Capital Remuneration 2,672,438 4,047,776 (1,375,338) Profit (Loss) for the year attributable to the Group 2,758,292 4,105,594 (1,347,302) Profit (loss) for the year attributable to minority interests (85,854) (57,818) (28,036) Donations and sponsorships (19,764) 5,700 (25,464) Donations and sponsorships 69,050 5,700 63,350 Contributions to scientific research (88,814) (88,814) TOTAL GROSS ADDED VALUE 17,758,829 16,210,251 1,548,578 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 73 The table showing the distribution of added value by reference stakeholder is shown, which compares the data between 2019 and 2018. GRAPH d Distribution of value added 2019 2019 2018 Personnel Remuneration 53% 46% 2018 2019 Risk Capital Remuneration 15% 25% Company Remuneration 26% 24% Credit Capital Remuneration 7% 6% Public Administration Remuneration -1% -1% In the comparison between the two if compared with the percentage of 2018 to 2019, the Group transferred the years, the Group shows a significant added value of the risk capital which, added value produced by the credit inimprovement (+7%) in the share of addin the comparison between 2019 and stitutions to its employees. ed value distributed to employees; this 2018, decreased by approximately 10%. data takes on even more relevance In other words, in the transition from In addition to the above, the main eco31/12/2019 31/12/2018 nomic, equity, and financial indicators of the financial statements are given Economic Indices in detail, once again as a comparison ROE, net 0.12 0.30 between 2019 and 2018. ROE, gross 0.16 0.34 ROI 0.06 0.08 Balance Sheet Ratios Primary structural margin (24,570,867) (19,190,949) Primary structural ratio 0.45 0.48 Secondary structural margin (2,564,471) (125,267) Secondary structural ratio 0.94 1.00 Financial Indices Treasury Index 0.82 0.83 Financial autonomy index 0.26 0.26 TABLE d Comparison of financial statement ratios Index of fixed assets coverage 0.45 0.48 4 Accountability towards employees Key numbers 151 EMPLOYEES IN 2019 +4 COMPARED TO 2018 150 employees have open-ended contracts. In 2019, the rate of new hirings was 8%, while the outgoing turnover rate was 5%. Well-being for our employees speech by Mariangela Candido “For Andriani, the concept of well-being concerns not only our consumers and the surrounding environment, but above all at our employees, which is why for some time we have been running Andriani Empowering People”. Video created during the TUTTOFOOD International Trade Fair Milan, May 6-9, 2019 In this chapter 76 Diversity and equal opportunities 80 Development and protection of human capital 82 Corporate welfare +81% 87 Shared company culture 88 Health and safety in the workplace HOURS OF TRAINING COMPARED TO 2018 With a view to the continuous valorisation of the competence of its workforce, in 2019 the HR department set up a number of training courses aimed at defining interdisciplinary and technical abilities. 45 Stakeholders: employees BICYCLES DISTRIBUTED SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) IN 2019 added to those distributed in 2018, a total of 85 electric bicycles have been given, which are used both for travelling to and from work and also for leisure use. 76 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 4.1 Diversity and equal opportunities GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-7 102-8 202-2 401-1 405-1 The Group has an overall workforce of 151 people as of 31/12/2019, which has increased by approximately 3% (4 people) compared to figures for the previous year of 147 people1. Figures regarding the percentage of women employed has also improved, reaching 21% as of 31/12/19 compared to the 18% as of 31/12/18. The Andriani Group strongly believes in its contribution to local community employment, 89% of managers hired from the local community (Puglia Region). The composition of the workforce by professional role is as follows: 6% 1% 36% 57% Composition of workforce by professional role directors management office staff workers TABLE d Number of employees by gender and employee category 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Employee category Men Women Total Men Women Total Directors 9 (100%) (0%) 9 3 (100%) (0%) 3 Management 1 (100%) (0%) 1 1 (100%) (0%) 1 White collar 29 (53%) 26 (47%) 55 30 (58%) 22 (42%) 52 Blue collar 81 (94%) 5 (6%) 86 86 (95%) 5 (5%) 91 Total 120 (79%) 31 (21%) 151 (100%) 120 (82%) 27 (18%) 147 1 For purposes of comparison, the 2018 data regarding the total number of employees and relative divisions have been restated following an update to the calculation methods employed. For previously-published data, reference is made to the 2018 Sustainability Report, published in the Sustainability section of the website www.andrianispa.com. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 77 TABLE d Employees by age group and employee category 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Employee category <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total Directors (0%) 5 (56%) 4 (44%) 9 (0%) 3 (100%) (0%) 3 Management (0%) 1 (100%) (0%) 1 (0%) 1 (100%) (0%) 1 White collar 9 (16%) 39 (71%) 7 (13%) 55 10 (19%) 34 (63%) 10 (19%) 54 Blue collar 9 (10%) 60 (70%) 17 (20%) 86 11 (12%) 62 (70%) 16 (18%) 89 Total 18 (12%) 105 (70%) 28 (18%) 151 (100%) 21 (14%) 100 (68%) 26 (18%) 147 Figures regarding average age, 41, is essentially in line with the previous year (42 for men and 37 for women). TABLE d Average age of employees by gender and employee category 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Variation Employee category Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Directors 50 50 39 39 11 11 Management 33 33 32 32 1 1 White collar 42 36 40 42 36 40 0 0 0 Blue collar 41 44 42 40 43 40 1 1 2 Total 42 38 41 41 37 40 1 1 1 TABLE d Number of employees by gender and employment contract 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Variation Employment contract Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Temporary 1 1 5 2 7 -4 -2 -6 Permanent 119 31 150 116 24 140 4 6 10 Total 120 31 151 121 26 147 0 4 4 78 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TABLE d Number of employees by gender and employment type 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Variation Employment type Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Full-time 118 31 149 5 2 7 -3 -2 -5 Part-time 2 2 116 24 140 3 6 9 Total 120 31 151 121 26 147 0 4 4 TABLE d Details of new employees by gender and age group 2019 2018 Gender <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total Men 1 3 4 8 (7%) 3 11 3 17 (15%) Women 1 3 4 (13%) 2 3 0 5 (23%) Total 2 (11%) 6 (6%) 4 (14%) 12 (8%) 5 (25%) 14 (14%) 3 (3%) 22 (16%) TABLE d Details of terminations by gender and age group 2019 2018 Gender <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total Men 1 5 1 7 (6%) 1 8 4 13 (11%) Women 1 1 (3%) 1 3 0 4 (18%) Total 1 (6%) 6 (6%) 1 (4%) 8 (5%) 2 (10%) 11 (11%) 4 (20%) 17 (12%) In 2019, the rate of new hirings was 8%, while the outgoing turnover rate was 5%. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 79 CAREER DAY 3 October 2019 3 October 2019 saw the holding of the Job Meeting event at the Polytechnic of Bari in collaboration with the Cesop HR Consulting Company, which saw an entire day of interviews held with hundreds of students and new graduates from various departments at the University of Bari. Gender balance 35% WOMEN POSITIONS IN RESPONSIBILITY Andriani aims to protect gender balance and provide equal opportunities in access to resources and roles within the organisation, independent of gender. In 2019, 35% of responsibility positions are held by women. 80 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 4.2 Development and protection of human capital GRI CONTENT INDEX 404-1 Training With a view to the continuous valorisation of the competence of its human capital, in 2019 This is a fundamental and the HR department set up a number of training courses aimed at defining interdisciplinary strategic element for Andriani and technical abilities. in terms of internal growth as well as the valorisation and This aspect emerges clearly from the increase in hours of training, +81%, shown in the development of skills and pocomparison between 2019 and 2018. tential. GRAPH d Hours of staff training subdivided by type Technical skills 2,000 4,500 1,917 TOT 4,038 IT 4,000 Law 3,500 1,500 Languages 3,000 Quality 1,107 2,500 TOT 2,229 1,000 Soft Skills 2,000 81% 633 624 1,500 583 500 472 + 392 1,000 240 500 105 92 101.5 HOURS OF TRAINING 0 0.00 COMPARED TO 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 The total number of hours of training provided amounted to 4,038 for 122 employees (out of a total of 151) and 90 hours for 36 employees of an external cooperative. The training was organised on the basis of the results of an analysis of the training requirements of department heads and collaborators in terms of hard and soft skills. 4,038 10 hours 82 hours 1,728 hours 2,218 hours hours OF TRAINING FOR OF TRAINING OF TRAINING OF TRAINING OF TRAINING PROVIDED IN 2019 MANAGEMENT FOR DIRECTORS FOR OFFICE STAFF FOR WORKERS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 81 Below are outlines of the types of training provided in 2019 for employees, set out by gender. Type of training Type of training women Type of training men Technical skills 15.68% Technical skills 14.74% Technical skills 16.00% IT 47.47% IT 13.78% IT 59.24% Languages 15.45% Languages 16.08% Languages 15.24% Quality 11.69% Quality 33.21% Quality 4.18% Soft Skills 9,71% Soft Skills 22,20% Soft Skills 5,35% Average number of hours Average number of hours Average number of hours of training of training women of training men 26.7 33.7 24.9 Hours Average Hours Average Hours Average Directors 82 9.1 Directors 0 0 Directors 82 9.1 Managers 10 10.0 Management 0 0 Management 10 10.0 Office staff 1,728 31.4 Office staff 839 32.3 Office staff 889 30.7 Workers 2,218 25.8 Workers 206 41.2 Workers 2,012 24.8 82 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 4.3 Corporate welfare A positive atmosphere can play both mediate pleasure, and eudemonic, rein other words a reasonable balance an adaptive and motivational role, ferring to long-term well-being from between positive and negative emoencouraging individuals to focus their the positive self-realisation of persontions, an increase in self-confidence efforts on current tasks and prepare al potential. Considering the second and efficiency, the encouraging of optifor future challenges and determintype to be longer-lasting, it is theremism and the redefinition of objectives ing engagement and commitment. For fore necessary to implement welfare with a view to the future. Andriani, the concept of welfare is asinitiatives that focus on the manageTo this end, the Company has consolsociated with that of well-being and ment of shortcomings, the promotion idated the projects set in motion in happiness in the workplace. Nowadays, of a positive psychological and phys2018 and has added others. the term Happiness is interpreted in ical balance, valorisation of personal two ways: hedonistic, referring to imstrengths, self-regulation of emotions, Bike to Work In 2019, 45 bicycles were distributed, which in addition to those distributed in 2018 come to a total of 85 electric bicycles, which are used both for travelling to and from work and also for leisure use. 49,106 7thousand 4,634kg 20.5k€ KM TRAVELLED LITRES OF FUEL SAVED OF CO2 NOT EMITTED TOTAL BONUSES 14,747 in 2018 2,000 LITRES in 2018 1,391 KG in 2018 ISSUED IN 2019 34,359 in 2019* 5,015 LITRES in 2019* 3,243 KG in 2019* *DATA AS OF 7/02/2020 To calculate the litres of fuel saved, the average l/km consumption data in the DataOpen system was used with reference to the registrations made for cars of the Puglia Region. For the calculation of the CO2 not emitted, data from the OpenData system of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport were used. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 83 Arts Academy In October 2019, Andriani inaugurated the Andriani Arts Academy. The initiabetween 4 and 9 years of age and a more specialised level for children of tive, aimed at increasing the economic between 10 and 18 years of age. and social well-being of employees by The lessons were held from October providing artistic education for their 2019 to June 2020, with a duration of children, is considered to be an in3 hours per week, with the following strument for well-being and cultural workshops: growth, with a firm belief in the impor• Theatre workshop tance of art as an instrument for per• Singing workshop sonal expression, self-narration and • Comic strip and illustration workshop cultural enrichment, as well as a factor • Musical instrument workshop in the fight against social deviance and • Contemporary dance workshop. bullying. The workshops, held by sector proThe Arts Academy saw the creation of fessionals, featured organised trips to Sowing, a course aimed at developing theatres and encounters with theatre expressive arts set out in two forms acactors and musicians which gave the cording to the age of the participants, children first-hand experience of the with a standard focus for children of artistic subjects studied. Family DAY 14 September 2019 saw the second ty and tradition, the event saw a numsharing, which is by definition an eleAndriani Family Day, a company event ber of team games. The games chosen ment for aggregation and socialisation. aimed at participation, sharing and were all traditional, dating back to the Traditional games are a goldmine of friendliness, which saw the participapre-digital era. This choice was based knowledge, skill and community, group tion of more than 1,000 people. The on the idea that traditional games are and individual practices, a symbol of theme of the event was a local celebraa cultural right, promoting a sense of fair play between people and commution, with the reproduction of a farm belonging and social enrichment, and nities bound by a sense of respect, unand typical Puglia town square with ilacting as a universal language that derstanding and reciprocal knowledge luminations and wooden food stands. overcomes the obstacles of cultural formed through play. Focusing on the values of simplicity, diversity, becoming a tool for inclusion naturalness, sustainability, authenticiand global citizenship. Play also means 84 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Team Building Andriani believes strongly in the value of relationships, sharing, reciprocal and language and working together in order to reach a common goal. support and the perception of being With the aim of underlining this conpart of a large community of practices, cept, the Group organises a range of in which to share values and knowlannual Team Building activities. edge in order to create shared intelliIn February and March of 2019, 45 emgence and learning. ployees took part in various types of Being part of a team, or rather of a Escape Room exercise. “tribe”, means sharing a single culture Escape Room An Escape Room is an interactive work situations. Usually a team of roles, spontaneously electing a team game in which a group of particibetween 4 and 10 people is involved, leader, in other words the person pants need to work together and simulating a company work group, who best represents the individfoster team spirit in order to escape who are locked in a room, representual members and is able to guide from a locked room by solving a ing a problem to be solved. In order the various opinions, someone who range of puzzles that gradually open to escape, the team has to collect a lends support to the others, organa series of key elements. The rooms series of clues and answer a range ising the various options according are themed, reproducing various of puzzles in order to avoid looming to priority. These are natural group fantasy scenes, and there is a time danger if time runs out, thus simudynamics that emerge in particular limit within which the team has to lating serious company problems. when mutual dependence is estabescape from the room (60 minutes). Staff members therefore find themlished, as noted by Lewin. selves called on to bring into play First created in the United States, Each group aims to develop a “senstrategies and skills that lead to imEscape Rooms are not only fun, but sation of us” that indicates the level provements in performance almost also allow for the creation of a posof belonging felt by an individual to without even realising. itive level of cooperation between the group, which is more than the the participants, as well as a deepIn the process of play, the group sum of its parts. ening of reciprocal trust. It is a gamtends to unwittingly organise itself ing experience that symbolises daily into covering the various necessary SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 85 The skills that may therefore be which would lead to failing the • Positive thinking: As the minutes developed during an Escape Room test. pass, it is important to never session are: give up, making the most of one’s • Lateral thinking and exploitation abilities right until the very end. • Efficient communication: in orof differences: Thinking outside Even if in the end the team is not der to successfully escape from of the box is at times seen as a successful, everyone can still be the room, it is necessary to find a quality that needs to be hidden certain that they did their very solution, solve the puzzle. One of rather than highlighted, while best. the strengths of Escape Rooms within a team it is right for all is that it highlights true intellipossibilities to be considered • A sense of solidarity: With every gent and intuitive leaders who before a solution is reached. Esstep resolved, the team comes are capable of listening to others cape Rooms are full of pitfalls together in a symbolic embrace, and not only to themselves, inwhich are not easy to avoid, and increasing the spirit of particivolving all of the participants of it is therefore necessary to aspation and creating a sense of the game actively. By communisess all suggestions, even those mutual support. This friendly cating, it is possible to exchange that are apparently the most climate is a strong element for a opinions and theories, practice strange or unusual. Learning this solid company team. active listening, and brainstorm skill in company life may lead • Admission of mistakes: It is often without limiting intuition or creto a notable improvement in difficult to apologise, admit one’s ativity, thus reaching a definitive achieving much more ambitious mistakes and listen to somedecision. A good team knows and challenging results. one else. In Escape Rooms, once how to listen and evaluate all • A sense of community: Individualthing is certain; if the solution is points of view. ism is the worst enemy in a team, wrong it will lead to a dead end, This goal is fundamental in comas it risks leading to a situation while time passes relentlessly. In pany life in order to grow and where everyone loses. In Escape these situations, the group is enimprove moods and productivity. Rooms, those that think only of couraged to quickly admit their • Leadership: The Escape Room themselves without listening to mistakes and not pass judgeallows for the natural and sponothers have no chance of escape, ment. taneous identification of a true as it is usually only by working leader, avoiding authoritariantogether and trusting each other ism, conflict and wasted time that escape is possible. 86 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Partnership On 1 September 2019, Andriani became a Partner of the Pollenzo University of University of Pollenzo, the Company has had the opportunity to take part in Gastronomic Sciences. The Club of Strameetings with the other partner comtegic Partners of the University of Gaspanies, sharing goals, strategies and tronomic Sciences is made up of some lines of action. Via the UNISG career of the most important companies and centre, an apprenticeship programme institutions operating in various sechas also been set up, which focuses on tors of the world of production, sale the Ho.Re.Ca project that the company and consumption of food, all sharing is following in collaboration with the the commitment and strategic vision of University of Pollenzo. The aim of the UNISG and playing an active role alongproject is to develop a specific prodside the University in planning and conuct for the Ho.Re.Ca channel which restructing new scenarios of sustainable sponds to sector requirements, placing growth and innovative alimentary and the company on the cutting edge even cultural models. in this yet unexplored area. Thanks to this collaboration with the Awards received On the occasion of the 48th National the prestigious AIDP AWARD 2019 “Le Congress of the AIDP, on 10 June 2019 aziende si raccontano”. Andriani was the Italian Association for People Manplaced third for the company welfare agement awarded the Company with project “Andriani Bike to Work”. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 87 4.4 Shared company culture In line with the Social Purpose “Posiis therefore of the utmost importance piness. To this end, it is necessary to tive life” which forms the foundation of to improve the well-being of People, associate the concept of Well-being the Business Strategy, Andriani introidentifying all of the factors that may with Happiness, as set out in “Positive duced as part of its People Strategy have a positive effect, and those that Psychology” by Martin Seligman, who the Employee Value Proposition (a may undermine it. maintains that the cultivation of poscollection of associations and values A workplace that does not favour itive emotions and full involvement in that a company offers to its staff in well-being has a negative effect on meaningful activities are fundamental exchange for their skills, abilities and levels of engagement, with strong reelements to this end. commitment) “Happiness at work, pospercussions on performance. In Andriani, this involvement is supitive thinking”. However, it is fundamental not only ported through an efficient system of It is in fact nowadays more necessary to simply focus on the reduction of internal communication which continthan ever to concentrate on factors negative elements, but also on the ues to be driven by the channels prethat may influence the motivation and valorisation of positive elements that sented in the previous edition of the level of engagement of personnel. It can generate good humour and hapAndriani Group Sustainability Report. Company Newsletter A vehicle for the promotion of inCompany Noticeboard ternal culture, the company newsThe noticeboard is used to share letter is sent on a monthly basis to Suggestion box useful information for staff memstaff members with company email The box is a valid instrument for bers in the carrying out of their addresses with a view to involving the collection of ideas and sugjobs, and is constantly updated them in organisational life, commugestions that Andriani Group staff with news, service messages, comnicating news, events and company members can contribute through a pany regulations and the publicasuccesses, and updating them on process of active involvement. tion of internal company events relative themes of interest. and initiatives. These channels were also further strengthened during the health crisis, in March 2020, in order to provide operational and moral support to the families of company employees. 88 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 4.5 Health and safety in the workplace GRI CONTENT INDEX 403-1 403-2 403-3 403-4 403-5 403-6 403-7 403-8 403-9 403-10 The parent company Andriani S.p.A., This assessment process may, for each 81/2008. as described in chapter 2, has implework environment or place under conAccess by workers to medical sermented an organisation, management sideration, lead to the following revices is provided in a dedicated room, and control model pursuant to Legislasults: and said services are provided during tive Decree 231/2001 for all employees • absence of risk of exposure working hours. and collaborators whose work and/or • presence of exposure held within acIn order to facilitate participation of workplace is controlled by the organceptable limits established by reguworkers and consultation with the isation itself. lations same as part of the development, imIn particular, the activity of identify• presence of risk of exposure. plementation and assessment of the ing and assessing risks in the workIn the first case, there are no problems occupational health and safety manplace is based on careful and systemregarding the carrying out of processagement system, and in order to proatic examination of all the aspects of es. In the second case, the situation vide access and communicate relevant work-related activities, which is aimed needs to be kept under periodical occupational health and safety inforat establishing: control. In the third case, necessary mation to employees, the company • what can provoke harm or damage preventative and protective measures organises periodical risk prevention • if, in the presence of hazards, these need to be applied in accordance with and protection meetings pursuant to can be eliminated the priority scale imposed by Legislaarticle 35 of Legislative Decree 81/2008 • if elimination is not possible, an inditive Decree 81/08. The identification and successive modifications and intecation of what preventative and proof the measures to be adopted for the grations. These meetings are attended tective measures are or need to be reduction of hazards not yet under by executives, the Prevention and Proimplemented in order to limit and/or control represent the fourth and final tection Officer, the Company Physician control the risks. phase, which is fundamental for the and Workers’ Safety Representatives purposes relative to the D.V.R., which who are elected in a meeting in which “Risk assessment” in the Andriani includes: all company employees are present. Group is a complex operation that for a) a report on the risk assessment carAs provided for by articles 36 and 37 each work environment or place conried out in the company’s various of Legislative Decree 81/08, Andriani sidered necessarily requires a sework environments or places, inS.p.A. ensures that each employee reries of successive and consequential cluding the criteria adopted for its ceives sufficient and adequate inforphases that provide for: definition mation and training regarding health • the identification of sources of risks b) the description of the Preventative and safety, with specific focus on their present in the work cycle and Protective measures impleown workplace and role. This training • the identification of the consequenmented in line with the results of is repeated with every change in role, tial potential risks of exposure in rethe risk assessment. every transfer, for new employees and, lation to the carrying out of processThe framework of the system for safety periodically, with every change in risks es, in terms of both risks for safety in the workplace is completed by ocor emergence of new risks. and for health cupational medical services regularThe content of the information and • the estimating of the level of risks of ly provided by a company physician training courses is based on: exposure identified related to health responding to the obligations speci• the rights and obligations of employand safety management. fied in article 25 of Legislative Decree ees with regards to health and safety SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 89 Obligations of consultants, partners and suppliers in the workplace Any form of behaviour assumed by consultants, partners • safety in the company, with particular or suppliers that contrasts with the guidelines set out focus on health risks and the proceby model 231/01 to an extent that said behaviour constidures regarding first aid, fire preventutes the risk of a crime being committed may, according tion and employee evacuation to the previsions of the specific contractual clauses in• safety and hygiene cluded in the mandate or partnership agreement, lead • tasks and responsibilities of specific to the resolution of the contractual relationship or the figures provided for by regulations, application of any other contractual sanction provided such as: Workers’ Safety Represenfor, without prejudice to any requests for compensation tative, Occupation Health and Safety in the event that said behaviour causes tangible damage Officer, members of the Health and to the company, such as the application by a judge of the Safety Department, first-aid staff, measures provided for by the Decree. fire-prevention staff Employees, collaborators, suppliers and partners are • risks regarding the workplace and obliged to guarantee all clients/users/consumers: roles, as well as possible hazards and • services of elevated professionalism, excellence and consequential preventative and proquality tective measures and procedures. • decent environmental conditions in respect of mandaContinuing with the theme of employtory regulations regarding health and safety ee health, the company protects the • complete and transparent information aimed at favourconfidentiality of personal information ing informed choices for recipients regarding employee health in line with • the provision of totally accurate information, avoiding the GDPR General Data Protection all forms of marketing and promotion that are deceptive Regulation approved with Regulation or based on elements of ambiguity (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parlia• efficiency, politeness and rapidity, within the limits of ment and of the Council of 27 April 2016 contractual provisions, in order to satisfy the reasonand applicable as of 25 May 2018. able expectations and requirements of recipients Over the course of 2019, Andriani S.p.A. • the full reaching of set goals in terms of programmed stipulated health insurance for all services employees following the health emer• the full respect for the law and for internal procedures gency regarding the spread of the for the management and provision of training courses. SARS-CoV-2 virus (the so-called “coroTo this end all employees/collaborators are forbidden navirus”), which causes the COVID-19 from soliciting, asking or demanding from the recipients illness. of training courses (above all if paid) for the preparation With regards to the prevention and and signing of documentation out of line with the actual mitigation of the impact of health and carrying out of course and non-course related activities safety on work in terms of commercial with regards to their formal and substantive content. relations, the company has, furthermore, adopted specific policies and procedures set out in model 231/01. 90 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In terms of more quantitative inforThe Group has not suffered any fatalmation regarding occupational acciities following work-related injuries or dents and illnesses concerning Group any serious injuries involving their ememployees, it is reported that in 2019, ployees. Furthermore, there have been there was only one injury, representing no cases of work-related ill health re-4 a decrease compared to 2018, despite corded or any resulting fatalities. an increase in the workforce. The acDetails of the comparison between cidents that occurred in 2018 led to 2018 and 2019 regarding the number of ACCIDENTS a higher number of absences than in accidents and relative rates are shown COMPARED TO 2018 2019. below. Andriani employees2 2019 2018 Total number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0 Total number of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities) 0 0 Total number of recordable work-related injuries 1 5 Hours worked by Andriani employees 267,813 271,739 Multiplier 1,000,000 1,000,000 Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0 Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities) 0 0 Rate of recorded work-related injuries 3.7 18.4 2 The company will extend the analysis to include other non-employed workers, in order to assess the necessity to collect data from the employees of external collaborators and suppliers operating on Group premises and/ or under the control of the Group, assessing the quality and accuracy of said data, over which it has no direct control. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 91 GRAPH d Number of injuries by gender 2019 1 2019 5 1 0 2018 2018 4 1 Number of injuries Men Women 2019 2018 n° of injuries n° of days lost n° of injuries n° of days lost men 1 3 4 33 women 0 0 1 6 The table regarding the calculation of previous year (0.03%) This increase was the contrary, fell by 0.06%. A comfortabsenteeism highlights that in 2019, also due to the increase in the working figure is that regarding a reduction the percentage of absenteeism due force and therefore in the total number in the rate of absenteeism due to accito illness was slightly higher than the of days worked. The maternity rate, on dents seen last year. 2019 men women Absentee rate % Absentee rate % illness 1.62 0.23 accidents 0.01 0 maternity 0 1.90 2018 men women Absentee rate Absentee rate % illness 1.53 0.29 accidents 0.09 0.02 maternity 0 1.96 5 Product accountability Key numbers 7visits TO RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIERS Andriani S.p.A. believes in fostering interdependent relationships with its suppliers that are based on reciprocal collaboration, in order to improve the ability to create value for both parties. Research and quality for our clients speech by Giovanna Inghilterra “For Andriani, Sustainability is the common factor in the development of new gluten-free pasta products and for guaranteeing quality in production. The R&D division is in fact continuously seeking new solutions and new models in order to guarantee low impact on farming and for individual well-being”. Video created during the TUTTOFOOD International Trade Fair Milan, May 6-9, 2019 In this chapter 94 Nutrition and well-being 98 Security and traceability 102 Client and end customer satisfaction 104 Reports and complaints 10members 105 Research, innovation, and product quality TEAM QUALITY +4 MEMBERS COMPARED TO 2018 The team is currently made up of food technicians, chemists and biologists who, through innovation, research, transparency, professionalism, accuracy and attention, follow the food quality and safety management system with extreme dedication in order to offer its consumers high-quality products. 15 R&D PROJECTS Stakeholder: clienti The R&D projects reflect consumer requirements for foods that are healthy, and above all diversified and balanced. 2019 in fact saw 7 projects conducted with SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Legumes and 8 with Cereals. 94 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 5.1 Nutrition and well-being The pursuing of objective 3 of the 2030 Agenda is a priority for the Andriani Group and can be set out over various categories of stakeholder concerning not only the end consumer but also its own collaborators, suppliers and various figures who, on various levels operate in the same community as the company. The production of organic gluten-free foods had favoured distinct form of sensitivity and awareness regarding the theme of nutrition and well-being that the company carries forward through its business activities and social commitments. The collaboration with nutritionists, universities and both national and international research organisations bears witness to the Group’s constant commitment to the development of products that respond to the ever-growing needs of a range of consumers, such as coeliac disease sufferers, sports enthusiasts, health enthusiasts and children, all with an appreciation of the nutritional value of food and a healthy and balanced lifestyle in common. Contributing to the nutrition and well-being of its consumers is the equivalent of focusing the utmost attention on a number of closely related activities, concerning: • the safety and traceability of products • quality research and innovation • responsible labelling • customer satisfaction. The company’s product communication campaign and participation in initiatives and events throughout the country during 2019 and continuing uninterrupted in 2020 despite the COVID-19 emergency provides the most tangible evidence of this commitment towards the consumer. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 95 23-25 March 2019 Identità Golose Milan 16-17 January 2019 Marca Bologna 7-9 March 2019 Natural Product Expo West Anaheim USA Two days of presentations, business, workshops and debates for an event that has, in recent years, become one of the most important for the food sector business community, in which the brand industry is provided with the Felicia played a lead role in the first Italian opportunity to build relations with the most Chef Congress, created and organised since important names in mass distribution and 2005, the year of the first edition, by Paolo small-scale distribution, who annually present Marchi. The event welcomes the most importand promote their own-brand product policies. Andriani, with its brand Felicia, took part in ant names from the international world of prothe international sustainable well-being event. fessional cooking and patisserie. From organic and natural foods to the health and beauty sector, an event where eco-sustainability was at the forefront, setting out the 16 January 2019 future of the food industry. INITIATIVES WITH UNIVERSITIES 02 April 2019 COMPANY INITIATIVES 15 March 2019 ANDRIANI EDUCATIONAL Andriani S.p.A. opened the doors of its plant to students from the Department of Agricultural and Environmental Science (DiSAAT) at the On the occasion of World Autism Awareness Aldo Moro University of Bari. Day, Andriani opened the doors of its plant to the Anffas Onlus Altamura association. The aim of the visit was to present the producAndriani has confirmed its commitment to tion processes and the market dynamics that education for healthy eating starting at the The initiative formed part of the Diversity & drive the development and growth of the comearliest possible age with a new stage in the Inclusion project that the company is carrying pany. At the same time, illustration was made Educational project held at the San Francesco forward with the aim of recognising and valoof the marketing and communication strated’Assisi Elementary School, which on 15 March rising individual differences in order to maxigies adopted by the brand in order to compete opened its doors to children from various mise everyone’s potential. on the market. European countries: Poland, Greece, Estonia, Participation, curiosity and interaction were It was an interesting day for the students, an Sweden and Germany. the most important ingredients in this day in-depth educational experience that conThe project is perfectly in line with the policy dedicated to sharing. firmed the importance of relations with Unifor Diversity & Inclusion that the company is In this sense, Andriani is spokesperson and a versities and educational institutes of various carrying forward in the conviction that the valdriver for cultural innovation in terms of raislevels for Andriani, as culture and the developorisiation of differences is a form of wealth for ing awareness for the social inclusion of disment of skills is the path to the future. both adults and children. abled people. 96 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 6-9 May 2019 TUTTOFOOD Represented by its brand Felicia, Andriani took part in TuttoFood, an international food & beverage trade fair and the best global showcase for Italian excellence in the food and agricultural market. The event offered a privileged opportunity to shed light on the process towards sustainability undertaken by Andriani in order to achieve 09 June 2019 the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Supper club for Felicia the 2030 agenda, and was an ideal occasion 10-12 April 2019 to present the latest additions to the Felicia Design Week the International brand: Verdipiù, the pasta that becomes a Furniture Exhibition in Milan meal, and pasta with oats. 30 May 2 June 2019 Rimini Wellness The event dedicated to Felicia was organised in collaboration with Gipsy in the Kitchen, Csaba Dalla Zorza, Conosco un posto, Carolina Di Domenico and other important bloggers and influencers from the food and lifestyle world. The pasta with oats played a leading role, through the focus on social media of its Felicia was one of the main participants at strengths. Rimini Wellness 2019, an important trade fair The digital event was followed via posts and dedicated to fitness, well-being, business, videos by approximately 200,000 users. sport, physical culture and healthy eating. The event brings together all the most important companies from the world of fitness: from manufacturers of equipment for physical activity to gyms, schools and category associ20 June 2019 ations, fitness enthusiasts, spas, rehabilitative ANDRIANI EDUCATIONAL sciences, dance and even tourism and design. Andriani took part in the 58th edition of the International Furniture Exhibition in Milan with an event at the prestigious Estel Group showroom in Corso G. Matteotti, 3, in Milan. 06 June 2019 The idea was the result of a joint strategy with the Estel Group, a world leader in the office PARTICIPATION IN WORKSHOPS furniture sector. The three days organised by the historical Vicenza-based company was characterised by a series of important guests and speakers, representatives of innovation and start-ups. The penultimate stage of the Andriani EdAt 6.30 p.m. on 12 April, LIFESTYLE & Creating innovative high-quality and proucational project took place at the Officine SOSTENIBILITÀ Tra Cibo e Arredamento took tein-rich food crops that can support not only Culturali Hortus. Fourth-year pupils from the place; a talk show focused on the themes of human health but also protect the environschools participating in the project were given sustainability and the social responsibility of ment and its biodiversity. This was the main hands-on experience of the themes dedicated businesses, as well as the process undertaken aim of the workshop “Alternative proteins in to sustainable agriculture with the creation of by Andriani in this light. The talk show was confood production” organised by Protein 2 Food. a vegetable garden complete with herbs. ducted by Fausto Chiesa, a journalist for the Giovanna Inghilterra, the R&D manager for The day’s goals included developing the abilnewspaper Corriere della Sera. Andriani, took part, discussing technological ity to observe natural phenomena and raising The event was concluded with a cooking show innovation in the production of legumes and awareness of sustainability through fieldfeaturing the Chef Massimo Buono. future possibilities. based experiences. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 97 25 June 2019 ANDRIANI EDUCATIONAL 5-8 October 2019 ANUGA 25 October 2019 This day marked the conclusion of the sixth WORLD PASTA DAY and final stage of the year for the Andriani Educational project, the aim of which was to explore a more sustainable lifestyle in full respect for the environment. It was an ideal opportunity to thank the school directors, teachers and families who have always played an active role in raising awareness From 5 to 8 October, Andriani S.p.A. took part amongst the pupils on the themes of food edin the Anuga Fair in Cologne, the biennial event ucation and sustainable nutrition. considered the most important in the world in the food & beverage sector. Anuga unites ten fairs under the same roof, In collaboration with Apleti Onlus, Andriani providing the more than 7,400 visitors from organised a play-based experiential workshop 24 September 2019 more than 100 nations with a unique experifor the children from the Paediatric Cancer ence based on innovation and revolutionary PARTNERSHIP with UNISG trends regarding the future of the food & bevward at the Bari Polyclinic. erage industry. The initiative allowed the children to express their vision of the “pasta of the future” through a range of artistic creations. The activity formed part of the “Smile Nutrizione” project providing support for the chil09 October 2019 dren and their families with specific nutrition FELICIA AWARDED programmes. 30 October 2019 Andriani became the new strategic partner of The Theatrical Show the Pollenzo University of Gastronomic Scienc“La Magia dei Legumi” es. Andriani S.p.A.’s Food Education project beThe special day saw the signing of the strategic comes a theatrical production. partnership agreement between Andriani and 500 children attended the Sidion di Gravina the Pollenzo University of Gastronomic Scienctheatre to see “Magia dei Legumi” staged by es, which will allow the two prestigious organthe “i Peuceti 2.0” theatrical company directisations to collaborate in a range of research ed by Giorgio Zuccaro and inspired by the tale projects, sharing their efforts and strategies in “Jack and the beanstalk”, published in Italy by order to work together to create new scenarios Il Grillo. for the production and consumption of susFelicia wins 1st place in the “pasta and cereals” tainable food on a national and international category at the Italian Food Award at Anuga The aim of Andriani for the near future will be level. 2019. to involve other schools on a national level in VERDIPIÙ Felicia, Lentils and Pumpkin is the the project, in the belief that a sustainable The strategic partnership is fully in line with future also begins with awareness of what we the Andriani philosophy which, being orientPASTA that becomes a MEAL: tasty, complete, nutritious and ready in just 5 minutes. eat, starting from a very early age. ed towards innovation and the promotion of correct, healthy and enjoyable nutrition, takes The latest recognition of the innovative drive Video of the the form of a constant commitment in terms of of Andriani and its ability to understand and performance R&D, as always with respect for good practices satisfy the new demands of modern consumin all the sectors related to the company. ers. 98 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 5.2 Security and traceability GRI CONTENT INDEX FP5 One of the most significant characis necessary to respond to the desearch for ever-increasingly higher teristics that lends value to Andriani mands placed on products through the standards of quality with the aim of S.p.A. is the planning of quality, seen as planning of activities and the implevalorising the special qualities of its the set of activities that lead to the esmentation of a documentation system products. tablishing of the processes necessary in support of the same, all validated by The commitment to satisfy the many to efficiently and effectively achieve a series of checks. demands of consumers thus takes form goals, as well as respecting the estabFor Andriani S.p.A., mandatory and in a wide portfolio of voluntary certifilished requirements. voluntary certification is a driver for cations for processes and products in Quality goals therefore include all that continuous improvement. A focused addition to obligatory requirements. The main product certifications are: Organic IFS and BRC Organic is a product certification governed by The BRC and IFS standards are international frameRegulations (EC) 834/2007 and 889/2008. This is a works set up by large purchasing groups with the form of certification that guarantees environmenaim of harmonising the various standards adopted tal sustainability, product quality and guarantees by mass-distribution companies. These are the regarding the origin of raw materials. most highly requested product certifications in the food sector. They are voluntary, setting out a series of requirements aimed at the proper manVegan ok and Label Veg agement of aspects of hygiene throughout the stages of management, production and distribu(European Vegetarian Union) tion in the food processing industry, and represent the foundations of international standards in The most widespread ethical standards for the certerms of hygiene and food safety. tification of products for vegans and vegetarians. Kosher No GMO Verified Obtaining Kosher certification means having undergone and successfully passed the strict proceProduct certification that guarantees the absence dures required for this certification. The word “koof GMOs from the entire production chain, from sher” or “kasher” means compliant with the law, raw materials to the final product. acceptable and allowed. Kosher-certified products are suitable for consumption and compliant with Kosher dietary standards, and can therefore be GFCO, GFCP Canada, Spiga Barrata, Gluconsumed by Jewish people as they conform with their religious principles. However, nowadays tine <10ppm Kosher food is not only synonymous with items These are the numerous certifications adopted suitable for consumption by those practising the by the company in order to guarantee the “GluJewish religion, but is also considered more trustten-free” claim. Gluten free certifications repreworthy and controlled. Kosher food is in fact ever sent the objective instrument used by the comincreasingly an ideal choice for vegetarians, vegpany in order to demonstrate its due diligence ans and sufferers of food intolerances. towards its consumers. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 99 The quality and safety management system adopted by Andriani S.p.A. focuses on the following key points: QUALIFICATION Andriani S.p.A. believes in fostering interAND CONSTANT dependent relationships with its suppliers, MONITORING OF based on reciprocal collaboration, in order SUPPLIERS to improve the ability to create value for Suppliers both parties. 2019 7 visits to suppliers of raw materials were planned and carried out over the course of the year. The actual visit is furthermore supported Laboratories 19% by a focused and detailed documented Raw materials 50% evaluation, the result of which was positive Packaging 23% for all of the suppliers with whom the comServices 8% pany has held relations over recent years. HANDLING OF GRAPH d Client complaints (companies) 2019 NONCONFORMING ITEMS 25 20 20 Nonconformities are document17 ed and discussed among the 15 various departments concerned 12 12 12 10 11 packaging, maintenance, pro10 9 9 duction and quality in order 7 7 in order to identify an immedi5 3 ate solution and to itentify and eliminate the causes with ap0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec propriate “corrective actions”. Furthermore, since 2019 the GRAPH d Internal nonconformities 2019 Quality team has deemed it opportune to monitor the an20 nual trend of nonconformities, 16 sharing this information with all 16 company departments in order 12 12 that each department can contribute to the reduction of waste 8 and defects connected to “non 6 6 quality”, and that, inevitably, 5 4 4 5 4 would lead to additional costs 2 3 for the company and harm to 0 1 0 the image earned “in the field”. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 100 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CARRYING OUT The internal analysis laboratory, which is lytical controls. Thanks to the considerable OF ANALYTICAL particularly attentive and constantly upamount of work carried out, only 3% of raw CONTROL TESTING dated in terms of methods to use, carries materials proved to be nonconforming. out analytical controls on all of the raw materials that enter the production proConforming raw materials cess, supported by precise analysis of the 97% Analytical risks concerning each material and suppliRaw materials rejected controls er and also making use of historical data. 3% 2019 In 2019 the analysis laboratory underwent Since 2019, the laboratory operators have structural change aimed at expansion, with been using a form of documentation that the definition of areas dedicated to the difallows a permanent view of all of the analyProducts 4% ferent types of analysis (chemical, physical ses carried out both in the internal laboraChemical 60% and rheological) in such a way as to protory and in external certified laboratories. Physical 28% vide the experts with cutting-edge instruMicrobiological 8% mentation for constantly up-to-date anaIMPLEMENTATION 2019 was characterised by continuous inmeet goals with increased clarity. OF THE QUALITY vestment in the search for professionals to Currently, the team is made up of 10 memTEAM involve in the Quality team. bers, including food technicians, chemists The team, which in 2018 had 6 members and biologists who, through innovation, subdivided among the Quality Office, the research, transparency, professionalism, Analysis Laboratory and Production Line accuracy and attention, follow the quality Quality Control, saw an increase in 2019 and safety system with the utmost attenof professional figures with a view to imtion in order to offer the company’s conproving the organisation of work in order to sumers high-quality products. TRACEABILITY Andriani S.p.A. has implemented a traceThe traceability and reverse traceability ability system that allows the possibilsystem is used constantly, both in daily ity to identify all the various phases of working activities and in inspections. preparation and commercialisation of the 2019 also saw the carrying out of two recall products, beginning with the raw materials trials, which tested the withdrawal/recall used. It has also set out procedures with process in the event of a crisis. The validity the aim of collecting data relative to prodof the process was confirmed with regards ucts along the entire production process, to respect for timing and the strictness of organising said data in such a way as to the methods used. render the product traceable. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 101 INTERNAL AUDITS As well as continuously ensuring that the ny production department were planned (inspections) quality management system is constantly and carried out in 2019. At the same time, AND HYGIENE INSPECTIONS respected by all the company production these were accompanied by hygienic indepartments, the Quality team also sets spections of the plant, which were carried out an annual programme of internal inout on a weekly basis by the team memspections in order to evaluate activities and bers. relative results, and to ensure that these Any nonconformities identified are recordsatisfy the established requirements. ed and duly handled through the sharing of 2 complete internal audits for each compathe possible actions to be followed. GOOD The Good Manufacturing Practices are a Training, passion and devotion are corMANUFACTURING collection of rules, procedures and guidenerstones in Andriani S.p.A.., allowing for PRACTICES lines that define the operational conditions all the GMPs implemented to be respectand the structural requirements necessary ed to such an extent as to guarantee that in order to guarantee hygiene throughout the products are manufactured in safe enthe stages of manufacturing of a product. It vironments in line with strict protocols in is fundamental to apply Good Manufacturorder to reduce errors and contamination ing Practices in order to ensure the quality risks to a minimum. and safety of a product. Training of operators Traceability Management and reverse of allergens traceability Maintenance Selection of areas and GOOD of suppliers equipment MANUFACTURING PRACTICE Cleaning and disinfection Pest of areas and control equipment Management of Disposal of waste materials destined and food byfor contact with products foods 102 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 5.3 Clients and end consumer satisfaction The system of values and the philosophy that lies behind the business ideas of the Andriani Group are represented by its brand Felicia. VALUES Felicia is freedom to interpret a meal and to change the rules of consumption. Who is Felicia? Felicia represents the values and the personality of consumers seeking well-being and creates a bond of sentiment and trust with people. Felicia is pure pleasure and natural taste. MANIFESTO Free to choose to eat healthily. Created in 2009 in Italy, in Gravina, Puglia. An Andriani brand and the pride of food innovation, it represents the VISION company values, bringing to the table Felicia feeds optimism an eclectic experience characterised Ours is an extraordinary world. by well-being, taste, harmony and Where taste becomes flavour, and flavour becomes emotion. positivity. Where the Italian tradition of good food transforms into new experiences for everyone. Pasta Felicia is totally natural, made Where alternative choices become tradition. Where people choose to eat well. Where optimism feeds well-being for everyone. Where our dreams come true. with cereals and legumes sourced from organic farming. Tasty, healthy and nutritious, it is good for everyone and for those who MISSION have special dietary requirements. Make eating healthily and naturally more enjoyable. Felicia. The new frontier of flavour. Felicia selects only raw materials that are naturally organic and gluten free. A wide range of pastas rich in flavour and precious nutrients, produced simply by mixing water with legume and cereal flour. Production takes place in Italy in a 100% allergen-free plant, respecting criteria of quality and food safety and with multiple national and international product certifications. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 103 THE FELICIA CONSUMER The attitudinal target Female and a natural optimist The Natural Optimist is modern, open-minded, educated and attentive, she has a sense of aesthetics and love personalised experiences. For her, well-being is balance and harmony between what is healthy and what makes her feel good. She is a seeker of pleasure and well-being, and an expert explorer, informed of the ingredients, the nutritional value and the origin of the food she consumes. She is aware of her own needs and feels free to choose what she wants, when she wants. She is a food polytheist. The conceptual target Game changers • SPORTY/ACTIVE • FOOD LOVERS • MILLENNIAL/MULTITASKING FELICIA ACTION PLAN Game changers practice sport because the want to be in shape and in good health. They look after themselves and their family, nourishing body and mind in order to always be on Analysis of markets, trends and consumers the go, and demand something extra from food. suggests undertaking actions in order to They choose products that can satisfy both the desire for well-being and for the pleasure support the growth and development of the of taste. Felicia brand. Specifically, the field of action will allow: TONE OF VOICE • to increase Brand Awareness and build Reputation, activating online and offline chan“If not now then when” nels of communication. The tone of voice of the brand has to lead the communication of Felicia via the choice of • to generate Conversion and support the words and images that define and respect its personality. Customer Journey, using channels of direct The characteristics of the Felicia language: communication with the consumer (Digital 1) NATURALLY POSITIVE and In Store). Felicia combines pleasure and well-being: “I eat what makes me happy!” The communication of Felicia is aligned with 2) ATTENTIVELY SIMPLE the goals set out in the strategic and operaClear and reliable: “I feel what I eat and I eat what I feel”. tive marketing plan and will involve the following areas: •Packaging, representing the brand. THE BRAND STRENGTHS • The shopper experience in order to valorise The brand strengths include the variety of recipes and formats available in order to satthe presence of the product in sales outlets, isfy the various demands of the markets in which we operate. Felicia now represents the increase recognisability within the target widest range of gluten-free organic pasta available on the market. Not to mention the group and stimulate purchasing. high quality standards, guaranteed by 11 product certifications and 3 company certifica• PR & Media Relations in order to amplify the message through the use of content and tions. Distribution is widespread. Felicia is present in mass-distribution outlets in both experiences. Italy and abroad, in pharmacies, specialised shops and online via a dedicated e-shop. • Digital Platform in order to communication In order to best inform the consumer on what renders it special, Felicia immediately adwith the consumer and build loyalty. opted the clean label philosophy, through the use on packaging of clear labels with a leg• Social Media Activities in order to strengthible and transparent list of ingredients. For a brand like Felicia, effective communication en the online reputation and reference the must always be coherent, honest and transparent. purchase experience. The brand communication has a predominantly digital style, as this allows the forming • Bloggers & Influencers in order to divulge of a direct and personalised dialogue with people, stimulating curiosity through conreputation and brand values. tent-rich publishing programmes. • Events & Visibility in order to activate enSynergetic collaborations have been set up with food bloggers who, via the creation of gagement among aspirational targets. innovative recipes, act as spokespeople for good, healthy and natural eating, perfectly • Trade Shows to monitor commercial exin line with the philosophy of our brand. Furthermore, PR & Media Relations activity is change. increasingly structured, with planning involving the main trade and consumer magazines • Observatory to confirm the functional benand with a focus on themes related to well-being, sustainability and healthy living efits. 104 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 5.4 GRI CONTENT INDEX 417-2 Reports and complaints In 2019, there were 113 reports made same year, there were no external comrequests for information on “where to to customer care overall, all of which plaints regarding errors in labelling. find the products”, therefore not conwere handled with the support of the The majority of the marketing reports cerning any particular cases requiring various company departments. In the received, 50 to be precise, concerned special handling. GRAPH d Customer Care reports Requests regarding the origin of raw 4 TOTAL materials PRoduct quality 34 OVERALL Presence of pests 2 REPORTS Marketing: recipes 2 113 Marketing: promotions 1 Marketing: packaging 2 Marketing: where to find the products 50 Mixed formats 3 Foreign bodies 2 Supplies 8 Appreciation 3 Requests concerning analyses 2 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Andriani protects consumers, strictly respecting the provisions of Regulation (EU) 1169/2011 regarding information on labels. The Group is committed to ensuring that labels: • guarantee the truthfulness of the information and claims shown • are clear and easy to read. A recipe suggestion to The monitoring activities regarding the labels involves a number of better guide the consumer in the consumption of the company departments, which check that the previsions of the relative product regulation are being respected. Every year, Andriani personnel undergo training and refresher courses organised by the Legal Department in order to stay up to date with the latest developments in legal regulations regarding the labelling of gluten-free products. Indications for all the active channels of communication (web, Before placing the label information on packets of pasta, the followsocial networks) ing activities are carried out: 1. an attentive check of the health and nutrition claims through analysis 2. a check of the nutritional values of the product both raw and cooked, and a successive comparison with the reference values set out by Regulation 1924/2006 3. the sending of the labels to the Legal Department, which is specialLogos regarding the ised in labelling and which checks that the information is commucertification for the product shown in nicated with extreme clarity to the consumer without leaving any a clear and legible room for ambiguous or false information. manner SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 105 5.5 Research, innovation, and product quality New products Felicia 2019 saw the launch of two new prodMore than a pasta, more than vegetaucts in the Felicia brand line, an exbles, Verdipiù is a new way to eat lepression of Andriani’s Research and gumes and vegetables. Innovation: Verdipiù and the line of All it takes is 5 minutes to serve a pasOat pasta. ta dish full of protein, fibre and poIn response to the growing demand tassium. The product is cooked in the for natural and healthy products that same way as pasta, in salted boiling are tasty and easy to prepare. Verdipiù water for 5 minutes, and can be enis an original idea that revolutionises joyed simply by adding a dash of extra the concept of pasta and transforms it virgin olive oil to exalt the colour and into a quick, complete and nourishing the genuine flavour of the vegetables meal that is ready in 5 minutes. it is made from. A 100%-natural, organic, vegan and Verdipiù is available in two flavours: gluten-free concentration of well-belentils and organic pumpkin, and lening that skilfully combines the benetils and organic beetroot, skilfully ficial properties of legumes and vegcombined to offer the palate a natural, etables. tasty and nutritious product. Felicia won first prize at the prestigious Italian Food Awards Anuga 2019 in the Pasta and Cereal category with Verdipiù Lenticchie e Zucca BIO, underlining the innovative strength of Andriani. On the occasion of the 31st edition of sales in 2018, oats, the classic breakSANA 2019, the International Exhibifast cereal, has been transformed by tion of Organic and Natural Products, Felicia into pasta, a source of fibre Felicia launched Pasta with Oats, a with a unique and delicate flavour new product with a delicate flavour that has even been indicated for those and an al-dente texture, available in wanting to enjoy a pasta dish between three different formats and with a meals. completely new graphic design for the Tasty even served cold, it is very verpackaging. satile, suitable for both savoury and Organic, vegan, nutritious and natusweet recipes to be enjoyed at any rally gluten-free, the new Felicia Pastime of the day. ta with Oats is available in Caserecce, The secret of this pasta lies in the Mezzi rigatoi and Penne shapes. carefully selected raw materials Defined the utmost in beneficial inwhich, combined with their excellent gredients by the 2019 Imagine Nielsen performance during production, guarObservatory, with a growth of 8.6% in antee a high-quality product. 106 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In 2019 the R&D division confirmed its In 2019 Andriani continued its industrial commitment to monitoring and anticresearch activity, acquiring new knowlipating sector trends and evolutions edge in order to perfect products and Trends revealed in the with the aim of generating value for processes. To this end, the characteridevelopment of businesses and increasing Andriani’s sation of raw materials and the assessnew products competitive market advantage. R&D acment of the impact of processing methtivity is the driver for innovation, which ods on their nutritional profile have can be seen not only in the diversifibeen intensified, with the aim of guarLegumes 43% cation of production or the satisfying anteeing the consumer products in line Cereals 57% of new emerging or induced consumer with a sustainable system of nutrition. demands, but also in the methods used The R&D projects reflect consumer refor planning, the choice of raw materiquirements for foods that are healthy, als and in the sustainable technology and above all diversified and balanced. applied to product development. In fact, 2019 saw the conducting of: New product development projects Innovation 85% 7 Improvement 15% PROJECTS INVOLVING LEGUMES 8 PROJECTS INVOLVING CEREALS Formulation Mono ingredient 47% Blend 53% As well as generating a driving force for product innovation for the Felicia brand, the R&D division places important focus on the desires and needs of Andriani clients in close collaboration with the Commercial division. The development of new private brand products in fact represents a significant proportion of the work carried out by Own brand 38% Organic 50% Contract projects 62% Conventional 50% the division in 2019. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 107 Andriani and the scientific community Andriani’s drive for innovation is also Andriani opened its doors to industriic world renders available high-profile directed at an increase in collaboraal doctorates, welcoming a doctorand figures who can, through training expetion with the Scientific Community. In from the University of Bari to the R&D riences in research work, contribute to 2019, with the purpose of developing division, combining training, innovation increasing company know-how. projects of common interest between and work. This led to the creation of a the company and the academic world, strategic synergy in which the academProduct Engineering In 2019, with a view to combining product innovation, an increase in production capacity and an improvement in efficiency and sustainability, Andriani S.p.A. highlighted the central role played by product engineering. Within its relative context, product engineering in face represents the role of coordination and the exponential of company activity for which the achieving of goals is interdependent and compatible. According to the targets defined in terms of “Design to Cost” and “Time to Market”, the activities of the division undertaken over the course of the year: The driver for the projects undertaken • n. 12 scale-ups of products to an inremains, by definition, innovation, in dustrial level which were already both incremental and radical terms, tested on a pilot system, with the leading in the end to the launching planning of optimal operational cononto the market of products that are ditions for the ramp-up process. Subdivision of Product Engineering either new or conceived in a profound• n. 2 optimisation processes regarding Activities ly different and more sustainable manthe performance and costs of pre-ex2019 ner both in terms of the nutritional isting products. profile and of the consumption of environmental resources. • n.1 deployment project regarding a highly advanced technological soluThe increase in sustainability is also tion capable of responding to proincorporated into the design of dediScale up 80% duction requirements resulting from cated production systems through the Improvement products 13% a change in market demand and, at demand for more flexible and modular Project deployment 7% the same time, achieving an improvelines, with significant savings in terms ment in energy performance. of energy and emissions. 6 Supplier accountability Key numbers 96% PROPORTION OF EXPENSES PAID TO LOCAL SUPPLIERS +2% compared to 2018 New projects for sustainable supply chains speech by Domenico Montemurro “For sustainable management of the supply chain, Andriani has chosen to undertake specific supply chain projects.” Video created during the TUTTOFOOD International Trade Fair Milan, May 6-9, 2019 In this chapter 110 Sustainable management of the supply chain 111 Ethical-social procurement 112 Procurement from local 4% suppliers PROPORTION OF EXPENSES PAID TO EU SUPPLIERS 35% share of the Group's raw material suppliers belonging to the Sedex platform. 37 Stakeholder: suppliers OVERALL SUPPLIERS SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) 110 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 6.1 Sustainable management of the supply chain GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-9 102-10 204-1 In the research and selection of the many raw materials DIAGRAM d Types of suppliers that make up the various innovative products designed and 2019 2018 manufactured each year, the Andriani Group is committed to pursuing virtuous practices in choosing suppliers that work Primary manufacturer 35.29% in favour of environmental protection, social inclusion, and 22.22% economic growth. Therefore, they are required to guarantee the availability of the product needed and a high level of service, and to prove Manufacturer and Transformer 52.94% those sought after characteristics of quality and responsi66.67% ble and knowledgeable production that the Group defines as priorities. Transformer In 2019, we collaborated with 34 raw material suppliers and 11.76% 14 packaging suppliers. 11.11% Below is a description of the Group's supply chain with an in-depth analysis of the types of suppliers involved, the suppliers’ geographical area, and the estimated monetary value of payments made to suppliers. The types of suppliers involved DIAGRAM d Proportion of spending on local suppliers 1 and 2 can be divided into: primary agricultural producers, producers who Italy also carry out the processing, and 96.38% processors of agricultural prod91.19% ucts. From 2018 to 2019 the Group's strategy was to acquire more raw materials from producers logistiEU cally close to our plants, thus re3.37% ducing transport and enhancing the value of local products. 7.36% As shown in the diagram, in 2019, the percentage of purchases from Non-EU Italian suppliers increased, to the detriment of suppliers of EU and 0.25% non-EU origin. 1.45% 2019 2018 1 For comparative purposes, the 2018 data related to the proportion of expenses paid to suppliers broken down by geographical area were reposted following the updating of the calculation method. For the previously published data, refer to the 2018 Sustainability Report published in the Sustainability section of the website www.andrianispa.com. 2 Local suppliers refers to those with their operational headquarters in Italy. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 111 6.2 Ethical-social procurement GRI CONTENT INDEX 408-1 409-1 By joining the Sedex platform, the AndriAndriani S.p.A. was initially engaged interani Group aims to manage the supply chain nally in the ethical and social area with the in such a way as to share relevant ethical definition of a questionnaire that would and social information with other particiask its suppliers for related information. pants in the supply chain. The company unIt has now focused its attention on a supdergoes an ethical and social audit called ply chain linked to these points by become SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Aupart of the Sedex platform. dit), based on the International Code of As of today, about 35% of the Group's raw Conduct ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative). material suppliers belong to the Sedex The audit may be conducted by evaluating platform, and the goal is to increase the four pillars, two of which are voluntary. Annumber of members or develop greater driani S.p.A. decided to submit to the evalvolumes of purchases from those who are uation considering the “Health and Safety” already members. and “Labour Standards” areas. DIAGRAM d Sedex Suppliers 35% 112 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 6.3 Procurement from local suppliers In the treatment of the Group's activities, local suppliers refers to those with operational headquarters in Italy and, clearly, those related to the sustainable supply chain project, established in 2017 and which saw its third year in 2019. DIAGRAM d Purchases (quantity) in 2019 from suppliers, broken down by headquarters location Italy 95% Other Origins 5% As shown in the diagram, in 2019 the field grains, the Group uses a subsidThe farmer then delivers the product amounts purchased from suppliers iary company called Terre Bradaniche to Terre Bradaniche, which takes care with headquarters in Italy were 95% of which, in addition to guaranteeing the of cleaning and selection, after which the total Group purchases. supply of raw materials, supports the it is transferred to the Andriani plant, local economy by maintaining and where it is sampled and its percentage Two types of products may be delivstrengthening relations with the comof impurities and moisture is evaluatered by local suppliers to the Andriani munity year after year. ed. facility, selected products and field products. This company’s mission is to follow the After the first phase of acceptance, the legume supply chain project, starting samples are sent to third-party accredIn the first case the product meets the from varietal screening and analysis ited laboratories to be analysed; once technical specifications and quality on the suitability of the seedbed, folconformity is received, the goods are standards necessary for Andriani prolowing the farmer during all the pheprocessed and made suitable for pasduction; in the second case, however, nological phases of the product, up ta-making. the product must follow a processing to threshing which is the final harvest procedure to be suitable for pasta The supply chain and sustainability activity consisting of the separation of making. have a very close link beginning with legumes from straw and pods, thus obsoil conservation. In fact our legumes For the cleaning and selection of taining a natural product. supply chain aims to improve soil conditions through crop rotation. Thanks to the ability to transfer organic nitrogen to the soil, legumes are considered an improving crop that has, therefore, low environmental inputs and also creates benefits to subsequent crops and, consequently, to biodiversity. The Andriani Group’s goal for 2020 is to reach 5,000 hectares of legumes and expand its supply chain projects to other crops such as corn and rice. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 113 Andriani hosts the SAI Platform IEP international programme Event presentation by Michele Andriani To follow up its membership to the SAI to integrate sustainability and mitThe program included the InternaPlatform international organisation, igate critical issues in value chains; tional Trade Center’s presentation of the Andriani Group hosted the first build solid relationships between the Sustainability Map and a new Web International Executive Programme functions, entities, and geographical App dedicated to the evaluation of the on Sustainable Sourcing and Trade areas; and offer a safe space to share sustainability of farms. from 17 to 19 November 2019. This is opinions and experiences on how to In addition, the participants observed an innovative programme of the SAI integrate ecosystem protection into the decision support system legumi. international platform, the result of business programmes and personal net, used by Andriani to implement collaboration with the International development. a production process in accordance Trade Center and dedicated to value During the event, all guests of the with the principles of integrated orchain professionals. Masterclass toured the Andriani S.p.A. ganic production. Created as a pilot project of the Interproduction facility, identifying the key At the conclusion of the course, Andrinational Executive Programme (IEP) activities to achieve the SDGs accordani’s guests toured the Sassi di Matand specifically addressed to execuing to the United Nations Agenda 2030. era, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. tives involved in value chains in different parts of the world, this programme has encouraged discussion on specific issues and mega-trends, such as water management, biodiversity, and climate change, and has offered international sharing of good practices and strategies aimed at implementing skills to manage the inevitable transformations that even global food systems have long been forced to face. The two days of the workshop aimed to identify risks and opportunities in specific contexts; develop approaches Special thanks go to Denyse Julien of Cranfield University, Mathieu Lamolle of ITC Sustainability, and Yael Fattal, Global Event Manager of the SAI Platform, for moderating and facilitating the daily programmes. Denyse Julien Greetings to all participants from Symrise, PepsiCo, Metro / Makro Cash and CarInterview during the first SAI Platform ry, Barilla, Roquette, Agroalimentare sud, Rabobank, Deutsche Gesellschaft für International Executive Programme Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, Nature Bio-Foods, Givaudan, and Agriculture Research and Extension Council of Alberta. Matera/Gravina in Puglia, 17 19 Novembre 2019 7 Community accountability Key numbers 2nd Andriani Family Day 680 STUDENTS INVOLVED IN THE Sharing, values and play EDUCATIONAL PROJECT To date, the students involved attend primary schools in Puglia. In the near future, the course will be extended to schools in Lombardy, Veneto, Tuscany and Lazio. Arts Academy Corporate welfare project dedicated to art and culture. Andriani Arts Academy is the new artistic training course that Andriani S.p.A. has set up for the children of employees aged 4 to 18, with the aim of offering children and young people the opportunity to freely express their creativity and achieve their potential. In this chapter 116 Involvement and support of local communities 123 Dialogue with associations and institutions Michele Andriani ENTREPRENEUR OF THE YEAR The President and CEO of Andriani S.p.A. has been awarded the EY Entrepreneur of the Year award in the Food & Beverage category for his great commitment to sustainability which has resulted in him being able to combine economic growth with protection of the environment and the company, with an eye on innovation. € 69thousand CHARITABLE DONATIONS Stakeholder: community The Andriani Group also shares its principles and values by supporting international, national and local associations and institutions operating SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) in various fields. 116 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 7.1 Involvement 12 April 2019 Lifestyle and sustainability, and support between food and furniture of local communities 6-9 May 2019 Andriani's commitment in the field of TUTTOFOOD Milan The speech by Michele Andriani, President of Sustainable Development is reflected Andriani S.p.A., at the talk show “LIFESTYLE AND in the numerous events in which the SUSTAINABILITY, BETWEEN FOOD AND FURNITURE” on 12 April at ESTEL Group Showroom in company has been actively involved Milan. and the details of which have been reDuring the talk show, issues related to the ported. circular economy and the Andriani Group's commitment on its path to sustainability were discussed: It is important to give value to the solid commitment of companies, aimed at resizing the consumerist approach, which allows us to look at production waste not as a problem but as an opportunity . On the occasion of TuttoFood Milano, Andriani presented his contribution to achieving the SDGs goals for the 2030 Agenda through a series of projects and initiatives described by the company team and by partners of international importance. Furthermore, during the talk show, Mariangela Candido (HR Manager of Andriani) talked about TUTTOFOOD, the international B2B fair for the the projects and objectives of the Andriani food & beverage industry, organised by Fiera Group. Milano, took place from 6 to 9 May 2019. In just 3 April 2019 7 editions, it has become the perfect stage for We are strongly committed to achieving the The Territories of Sustainability: goals of the UN 2030 Agenda, which highlight companies to present their products to the naAndriani among the main players the importance of social well-being and local tional and international market. at the Bari CSR Show communities, as well as education and learnTUTTOFOOD is: ing opportunities for all . • an event exclusively reserved for B2B; Andriani Educational: combining healthy nutri• it is the only event in the sector, on the Italian tion and sustainability. trade fair scene, with a truly international “From various studies carried out by the World scope; Health Organisation it has emerged that chil• it is an event that responds both to the needs dren consume a very small amount of legumes, of companies that look primarily to the Italwhich we know are a great source of vitality. ian market and to those concentrating on Therefore, we have set ourselves the goal of exports; Andriani among the main players of Il Salone trying to stimulate a healthy, correct diet from • an effective showcase for companies to test della CSR and social innovation in Bari. an early age and have set up a food educatheir innovative ideas and experiences; Recognised as the most important event in tion project aimed at primary school children, • it offers a modern and qualified professional Italy for all organisations that have made susknown as 'Andriani Educational'. exhibition, where market trends can be antainability a strategic driver, the show is an Based on workshops and interactive games, alysed; opportunity for updating, comparing and netthe project was launched this year in 48 lo• it is the fastest growing trade fair in Europe; working between all operators who believe in cal schools, but our intention is to extend it sustainable development. throughout Italy. • it offers important business opportunities with national and international buyers; Through its Sustainability Coordinator, Filippo At the same time, Andriani has set up a monCapurso, Andriani presented its path towards itoring activity for the educational project • it provides the opportunity to compare expesustainability between taste innovation and to observe the satisfaction and behavioural riences and analyse market trends; new production techniques , during the Bari changes in the children involved in the proj• it hosts workshops, seminars, conferevent. ect”. ences and meetings. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 117 7 8 June 2019 48th AIDP National Congress 16 May 2019 New skills for the food industry 4.0 On the occasion of the 48th AIDP National Combining technologies and innovation with Congress, the Italian Association for Human tradition and craftsmanship, this is the chalResources Management, Andriani was awarded lenge food industries must respond to at the the prestigious AIDP AWARD 2019 The compatime of the 4.0 Revolution. Andriani's journey on nies tell their story , winning third place thanks its path towards sustainability continues with a to the corporate welfare project Andriani Bike series of activities on the occasion of the event to Work . New skills in the agri-food industry 4.0 , Bari This corporate well-being project is part of 16 May, at Porta Futuro Bari. At the centre of the Andriani's Corporate Social Responsibility acevent, the professional skills and training useful tivities, based on combining business activities for supporting the growth of the agri-food inwith the health and safety of employees and the dustry in Puglia, illustrated by important speakprotection of environmental resources. Mariers from business and educational sectors. angela Candido, Andriani's HR Manager, stated: “The result achieved makes us proud because cultivating the human aspect in companies also means cultivating the garden of emotions that 29 May 2019 31 May 2019 constitutes an organisation; it is only possible to CSR in Italy: an overview Industria Felix Award achieve engagement, motivation and happiness of the objectives achieved Puglia is competing at work by acting on the psychophysical balance of our People. and the 'paths' to be explored This is the sentiment that animates the Andriani Bike To Work project: it aims to promote the well-being of employees as well as the environment that surrounds us . 17 June 2019 the South generates work According to the data from the Socialis Observatory, presented at the University of Foggia during the meeting CSR in Italy: an overview of the objectives achieved and the 'paths' to On the occasion of the fifth edition of the Prebe explored , promoted by the Department's mio Industria Felix La Puglia che compete CSR Lab of Economics, directed by Prof. Mauro award, held on Friday 31 May in Acaya (Le), AnRomano, in 2018, 52% of Italian companies that driani, together with numerous other compahave implemented CSR and sustainability activnies, was presented with an award for financial ities stated that the existence of a distinctive performance: the high budget honour for being element attesting to their good practices would competitive and financially reliable. These are have a stabilisng effect on investments in CSR. the words of Michele Andriani, CEO & president In Naples, inside Palazzo Zevallos Stigliano, Anof Andriani, following the award ceremony: driani was awarded by L'Economia del Corriere During the meeting, Filippo Capurso, Sustainability Coordinator of the Andriani Group, highWe dedicate our award to all those companies della Sera as one of the companies that drive lighted how the entire business of Andriani is that want to excel but, unlike us, are forced to the development of the South thanks to conoriented towards responsible production: The fight against economic conditions and other retinuous, constant growth and the ability to do company has always tried to attune its business straining factors that force them to operate in business by innovating. with the impact on the environment in which it conditions of economic crisis. They always work The key figure at the round table the South operates and on the company. In the coming hard with passion and dedication, sacrificing that generates work was Michele Andriani, months we will see our first Sustainability Reeverything they have, making every effort to president & CEO of Andriani. The meeting was port materialise, in line with the SDGs, plus a maintain their jobs with dignity and to honour dedicated to the success factors of the compaseries of other activities on the subject of the their commitments with their suppliers. nies that today represent the engine of growth circular economy, because we need to give new For us at Andriani they are the 'best performers' in the South and that create wealth and jobs life to the industrial waste we produce . and the real heroes of the Apulian economy . every day. 118 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 11 October 2019 9 September 2019 4Agrinnovation Michele Andriani at Top Secret: an episode dedicated entirely to the president of Andriani S.p.A. On the occasion of the 4AGRINNOVATION by Trevisan & Cuonzo, event held at the Fiera del Levante Congress Centre, Michele Andriani, The interview conducted by Matteo Valléro represident and CEO of Andriani S.p.A., explained vealed to the public the 'secrets' of success of how innovation is also a determining factor in a company that has made innovation a fundathe agrifood sector. mental driver for the growth and development Michele Andriani's speech entitled The role of its business on a course aimed at sustain3 October2019 of agribusiness in the 4.0 economy allowed ability. Top Secret, the new format conceived Job Meeting Bari those present to learn about the legume supand presented by the Director of Business24, ply chain process initiated by Andriani S.p.A. Matteo Valléro, tells about the secrets of sucAndriani's legume supply chain stems from cess of “top” entrepreneurs, through the words the need to safeguard biodiversity and the of businessmen, managers and professionals. soil, guarantee food safety and quality, while A more in-depth programme by Business24, increasing the profitability of all the operators 20 minutes dedicated entirely to a single main involved. player, to truly understand its human and ethical side and its “top secret”. 14 15 October 2019 Italian Business & SDGs 14 September 2019 Annual Forum Sharing, values and play at the 2nd Andriani Family Day Andriani S.p.A. attendedthe XVI edition of Job Meeting Bari at the Polytechnic of Bari: graduates and undergraduates from all disciplinary areas of the universities of Puglia and neighbouring regions had the opportunity to meet Italian and international companies and business schools at specially set up stands and in the in-depth workshop course. On Saturday 14 September, Andriani opened its doors to its employees and their families to enjoy a fun festive day together with the aim of rediscovering real values through play and 7 October 2019 sharing. The Vocabulary of Sustainability The Italian Business & SDGs Annual Forum is a course promoted by the Global Compact ItThe main themes of the event: rediscovering aly Foundation (GCNI) throughout the country traditional games and passing on the historical that brings together Italian companies that memory of the region, with its unique aspects are members of the UN Global Compact and and distinctive features. committed to making their business more susThe initiative is part of the work-life balance tainable. In addition, representatives of instituproject that the company is carrying out to tions, civil society and academic and research improve the balance between private and bodies also take part. working life, giving each resource the opportuNow in its fourth edition, the event is an imnity to satisfy their ambitions for professional AWARENESS is the key word that guided the portant opportunity for discussion, dialogue growth without giving up the time to dedicate speech by Michele Andriani, President and CEO and analysis among the members of the United to personal interests. of Andriani S.p.A., during the UBS event The VoNations Global Compact and those active in the Large spaces and dedicated play areas were cabulary of Sustainability, Smart Investing, Susfield of sustainability. reserved for children, very many of whom partainable Investing , held on Monday 7 October During the event, Filippo Capurso, coordinator ticipated with enthusiasm and joy. in Rome at MAXXI and moderated by Federico of sustainability issues at Andriani S.p.A., parFor the adults, on the other hand, refreshment Ferrazza, Director of Wired. ticipated in the working group on the circular areas were set up where they could taste or“Through knowledge of the product, the envieconomy, identifying priorities, objectives and ganic and gluten-free dishes and, at the end, ronment and culture, we promote awareness of actions to enable virtuous strategies on this there was a fun musical show. increasingly responsible action”. important topic. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 119 8 November 2019 Roadshow Human and nonhuman resources The great October 2019 transformations Arts Academy is established October 2019 Andriani wins an award from Cribis How to deal with the changes of the 4.0 era? The objective of the second stage of the Roadshow Human and non-human resources The great transformations organised by Edizioni Este was to try to answer this question by recounting the experiences of various HR managers of companies from all over Italy. These are the words of Mariangela Candido, HR Cribis, a company specialising in supplying Andriani Arts Academy, the corporate welfare manager of Andriani S.p.A., among the speakers business information on Italian and foreign project dedicated to art and culture, has been of the event held in Bari: companies, recognised Andriani S.p.A. with the established. Cribis Prime Company award, giving it the highCultivate happiness at work and develop emoAndriani Arts Academy is the new artistic trainest level of economic reliability. tional intelligence to control great transformaing course that Andriani S.p.A. has set up for tions. We are extremely proud to receive this presthe children of employees aged 4 to 18, with tigious recognition that rewards our constant In a fluid, changing and dynamic society, it bethe aim of offering children and young people commitment to stand out for reliability vis-acomes essential to meet the new flexibility rethe opportunity to freely express their creativvis end users as well as suppliers. Considering quirements of the post-modern business and, ity and achieve their potential. that the Cribis Prime Company is awarded every at the same time, attract and retain the best SOWING is the main theme of the calendar of year to only 8% of the over 6 million Italian comtalents in the corporate fabric. weekly meetings scheduled from October 2019 panies studied, the fact that our company was Today one of the main HR objectives is thereto June 2020 and clearly expresses the whole recognised for maximum economic reliability fore guaranteeing happiness at work by develmeaning of the initiative, aimed precisely at means we can keep the flag of the Puglia region oping individual potential to achieve long-term sowing culture, including in terms of Diversity flying high and also reward the excellence of our well-being. & Inclusion, as a tool for growth and awareregion with which we have a deep connection , Welfare, improving the corporate climate, team ness. said Tommaso Marvulli, CFO of Andriani S.p.A. building and developing emotional intelligence Our company once again affirms its commitThis important recognition therefore confirms therefore become substantial levers that allow ment to the social well-being of employees the level of economic-commercial solidity of the human resources management to contribute and the community with Andriani Arts AcadAndriani S.p.A. and is a guarantee for the firms to creating a work environment in which people emy, which is part of the Empowering People that have chosen the company as a business experience the great transformations of our era corporate welfare path. partner. with greater awareness . 120 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT November 2019 18-19 November 2019 Andriani supports 1st International Executive Made in Prison Programme on Sustainable Sourcing and Trade Since November 2019, Andriani has supported MADE in PRISON via the customisation of handOn 18 and 19 November, in Gravina in Puglia, tocrafted bracelets. gether with Cortiba, Brazil, Andriani S.p.A. hostA 'Second Opportunity' for Women Inmates ed the 1st International Executive Programme and a 'Double Life' for fabrics. on Sustainable Sourcing and Trade. The innovaA solid, supportive message of hope and retive programme resulted from the collaboration spect for the environment. between SAI Platform and International Trade Center (ITC) and was aimed at value chain proThe products are in fact created using waste fessionals. materials and fabrics, from Italian companies particularly aware of social and environmental The objectives of the two-day workshop were issues. the international comparison of themes and strategies aimed at implementing the skills to manage the inevitable transformations that global food systems will also be forced to face, and the sharing of good practices. In this perspective, the programme included a half-day 29 November 2019 visit to the company at the Andriani plants, with ResearchDay a focus on raw materials and on Pasta production, to offer an overview of the various Company activities on its sustainability path. 2 December 2019 Andriani among the 30 best SMEs 21 November 2019 in the agri-food sector Michele Andriani wins Ernst & Young's Entrepreneur of the Year award On 29 November, at the Department of Business Sciences, Economics and Quantitative Methods of the University of Bergamo, Filippo Capurso, Sustainability Coordinator at Andriani, was one of the speakers at the ResearchThe President and CEO of Andriani S.p.A. was Day, organised by CSEAR Italy in collaboration given the EY Entrepreneur of the Year award with the GBS (company report study group). in the Food & Beverage category for his great The main objective of the Conference was to commitment to sustainability which has reprovide a space for interdisciplinary and ensulted in him being able to combine economic gaging dialogues to develop the conceptual A research by ItalyPost, exclusively for Corriere growth with protection of the environment and foundations, practical implications and critiL'Economia, on the financial statements from the company, with an eye on innovation. cal aspects of the SDGs and their integration 2012 to 2018, has revealed the 30 SME Champiinto the company and corporate policies and ons of the Agro-food that have performed best Now in its 23rd edition, the award is assigned by in the last 6 years. a jury, independent from EY Careers, and is repractices. served for entrepreneurs who have significantly The aim is to generate and disseminate knowlSelection and analysis of the financial statecontributed to the growth of the Italian econoedge, build research capacity and practical ments were handled by the ItalyPost Research my by demonstrating unparalleled resourcefulskills on understanding and implementing a Department, with the help of the Crédit Agriness, creativity and commitment. company based on the SDGs. cole group and auxiell. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 121 Educational project LA MAGIA DEI LEGUMI is the project promoted by Andriani teaching activities; Educational to bring children closer to legumes and sustain• creating a web space for families to share sustainable recable nutrition through a course based on laboratory teachipes for the environment and health and also expand chiling: a space where children can make tools, environments dren's tastes; and knowledge related to sustainability and their relation• at the same time, a social communication line was activatship with agriculture and food their own, and thus become ed to offer children and families new ideas and initiatives carriers of “sustainable” messages to their families and the to be implemented at home (e.g. Land I love you, The kitchenvironments they frequent. en garden at home); • a partnership was activated with a local cultural associaTo date, 680 primary school children from Puglia have been tion and this union resulted in the theatrical show The Maginvolved and, in the near future, the course will be extended ic of Legumes, created to enrich the themes of the project to schools in Lombardy, Veneto, Tuscany and Lazio. Actions with emotional suggestions and cultural stimuli. to enhance the project have been planned, including: • enabling a web space for teachers to provide them with useful ideas for studying the paths proposed in the animations in greater depth and integrating them into their 122 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Summary of the first phase of the 2019-2020 school year 1 Activities carried out in preparation of the bring forward communication on the project independently. first phase of the 2019-2020 school year and the inclusion of new schools to May of the Establishing a competition for the classes Preparations for running the project during the year preceding the start of activities. could stimulate the use of the textbook. 2019-2020 school year began from August-SepIn the current school year, there is a delay in G) Network tember with developing the material for the new schools being included. According to the It represents an indispensable opportunity to network. hypotheses put forward, new schools could strengthen: Teaching sheets were prepared for teachers to join the project in March and follow it until June. · communication and educational tutoring by be included in the space dedicated to them and In this case, it is recommended that schools alteachers, increasing support and interactivity; the texts relating to the project to be included lowing an in-depth study on the educational · communication with families; in the space dedicated to the family. model with a larger and more diverse target · gradual inclusion of the educational material The recipes for families in the Andriani archive group be chosen, to optimise the educational created by the classes. were then revised and modified, as they proved offers addressed to distant schools. Improvement of the network, by constantly to be unsuitable for the public in question. In the meantime, we must in any case work on updating and improving the material added Therefore, a new series of recipes tailored for adapting the model for distant schools, in such (recipes, tools for teachers), should therefore families has been developed, but there still rea way that it can be presented in May for the represent a priority in order to provide support mains some work to do on the graphics. start of the new school year. to distant schools with a view to enlarging the Following evidence of some critical issues highC) Target group project. lighted by the exchange with the owners, the The age range of the 4th/5th year was conworking group developed periodic focus groups H) Monitoring firmed as valid. Initial monitoring data appear to work on overcoming strategies. The data ready at the end of January will be to show that even students in the third year are These included carrying out modifications and made available. We still need to decide how and able to understand the meaning of the project. in-depth analyses of the monitoring procewhen. It must also be established if and how to First and second year classes can only be acdures within the working group and changing continue monitoring with any new schools that cepted under special conditions, to be evaluthe final questionnaires aimed at teachers. may be joining the project. ated individually. Monitoring of the project effectiveness and I) Theatrical show satisfaction level is under development and D) Internal working group It can be constructively included in the project the data will be available at the end of January. The internal working group has set a monthly if suitably modified and accompanied by teachThe film on the theatrical performance was appointment for a focus group on the critical ing tools (see comments 11.12.2019 attached). viewed to make the necessary changes to enissues and needs that emerged. There are also hance it as an in-depth tool for the teaching constant exchanges on internal monitoring and J) Other tools course. on the problems to be addressed on an ongoing It would be useful to develop a remote combasis. munication tool that focuses on the company's vocation for sustainability through a film made E) Extended working group for teachers and 2 Expected stages and analyses families by children, in the context of Mediterranean culture. To have a product available in the 2020from January to June It is necessary to develop opportunities for ex2021 school year, it would be necessary to start A) Company objectives change and comparison both before starting working on it in January 2020. One of the priorities is the clarification of the the animations and once they are finished, in company objectives with respect to the time, order to motivate teachers and families to folK) Special events methodology, expected results and communilow correctly and continue independently. A possible communication/training meeting cation tools. with teachers and families who have finished F) Improving the edicational offers, methodIt is only when the objectives are clarified well the project should be defined as soon as posology and work tools that the results achieved can be checked to see sible (hypothesis 9-11 March). Furthermore, it The internal working group agreed to reaffirm if they are in line with expectations. is desirable to foresee an online event for the the importance of the textbook as a teaching international day of legumes, announced on B) Time tool and urge teachers to use it independently. 10 February by the FAO with the support of the The need for programming in tune with the Furthermore, for the future, it was decided to United Nations, as part of the world year for school calendar, starting in September and accept only schools that include the project in plant health. ending in June of the following year, has clearthe annual or biennial teaching programme, so ly emerged. Therefore, it will be necessary to that they can dedicate the necessary time to it SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 123 7.2 Dialogue with associations and institutions Furthermore, the Andriani Group shares its principles and val2019 2018 ues by supporting international, national and local associaAndriani S.p.A. 68,200 4,700 tions and institutions operating in various fields. Felicia S.r.l. 850 1,000 Comparing 2018 and 2019, the Andriani Group considerably increased its contribution in the third sector. Total 69,050 5,700 The details of charitable donations and related institutions that the Group companies contributed to supporting in the period 2018-2019 are shown below, also on the occasion of specific events. Sponsored event Event Donor 31/12/19 31/12/18 I Peuceti Theatre Company Voluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 8,000 AIC Puglia ONLUS AIC Conference Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 200 S. Michele Patronal Festivities Committee Patronal feast contribution Andriani S.p.A. 1,000 2,000 Parish of Gesù Buon Pastore Buon Pastore feast contribution Andriani S.p.A. 200 200 Federazione Italiana Donne Arti Professioni Affari (Italian Federation of Women Arts Professions BusiVoluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 1,500 ness) FIDAPA N. Ingannamorte Culture Association Voluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 1,500 NOI Musical Cultural Association Voluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 500 Associazione Pugliese per la Lotta contro le Emopatie e i Tumori nell'Infanzia (Apulian Association for the Voluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 5,000 Fight against Hemopathies and Cancers in Childhood) University of Pollenzio Voluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 50,000 Blaze ASD Contribution for sporting activities Andriani S.p.A. 300 Bar Association Bari ONLUS Event Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 1,000 TRENTATREGIRI Musical Cultural Association Voluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 1,500 ASD LUDO BIKE RACING TEAM Ludo Bike Racing Team Contribution for sporting activities Felicia S.r.l. 200 ASD Associazione Obiettivo Giovani Voluntary Contribution Felicia S.r.l. 150 (Youth Target Association) Gravina in Puglia (BA) Contribution to the DUCATO ARCOBALENO Musical Cultural Association Felicia S.r.l. 200 D'ORO event Contribution to the Dance Theatre CAMD ARABESQUE ASD Amateur Sports Association Felicia S.r.l. 300 show Sleeping Beauty Lions Club Puglia Voluntary Contribution Felicia S.r.l. 300 NOI Musical Cultural Association Voluntary Contribution Felicia S.r.l. 200 Other minor amounts Felicia S.r.l. 500 TOTAL 69,050 5,700 8 Environmental accountability Key numbers CO2 4,339 TONNES OF CO2 AVOIDED THANKS TO THE SUPPLY OF ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES calculated using the market-based method as required by the World Resources Institute (WRI) GHG Protocol reporting standard. Circular economy initiative speech by Filippo Capurso “Andriani carries out projects and initiatives on the theme of the circular economy that aim to reuse by-products and extend their life cycle . Video created during the TUTTOFOOD International Trade Fair Milan, May 6-9, 2019 In this chapter 126 Management of energy and resources in the atmosphere 128 Sustainable investments 129 Management of waste, recyclability, 2025 and reduction in food waste 130 Protection of the area and respect for biodiversity 134 Responsible management of water ACHIEVING CARBON resources NEUTRALITY 135 Conscious consumption of raw The ambitious objective, approved by materials the Board of Directors on 28 November 2019, is the result of a mix of direct and indirect interventions that the group has decided to pursue in the next six years. -23.13% Stakeholder: environment TOTAL EMISSION PER TONNE SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) OF PRODUCT The data is obtained by reporting the Group’s consumption and emission values for 2018 and 2019 with the tonnes of pasta and flour products by the business in the respective years. 126 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 8.1 Management of energy and resources in the atmosphere GRI CONTENT INDEX 302-1 302-3 305-1 305-2 305-4 Along the path that aims at contributing in an increasIn 2019, Andriani again maintained a 100% supply of ingly impactful way to reaching the specific SDGs in electricity from renewable sources, following the colterms of access and use of economic, reliable, suslaboration with Dolomiti Energia. This choice allowed tainable, and modern energy systems and the promothe prevention of the emission of 4,3391 tonnes of tion of actions to combat climate change, the Andriani CO2 in 2019 alone, calculated according to the marGroup has set itself the challenging goal of achieving ket-based2 method, as set forth by the World ResourcCarbon Neutrality by 2025 (see paragraph “Andriani es Institute (WRI) GHG Protocol reporting standard. Carbon Neutral 2025”), that is, to obtain the balance Below is a summary of the Group's consumption between residual emissions and the activities to reand emissions amounts in 2018 and 2019 from which move carbon dioxide emissions from the atmosphere, we can see an increase in energy consumption (ex“zeroing”/”neutralizing” CO2 emissions. pressed in GJ) due, basically, to the 25.46% increase in In 2014, the Group already decided to acquire energy production in the last year. from renewable, green energy sources. In this sense, When compared to the tonnes of pasta and flour prothe “Dolomiti Energia 100% clean energy” used by duced by the activity in the respective years, these Andriani S.p.A. confirms that the energy comes from values show a 23.13% reduction in total emissions per renewable sources, with its origin guaranteed by the tonne of product. Electrical System Manager through OG (Origin Guarantee) titles that Dolomiti Energia uses every year. TABLE d Consumption and emissions 2019 2018 Variation (%) Andriani S.p.A. Electricity GJ 32,339 27,579 17.26% Natural Gas GJ 45,327 38,652 17.27% 1 In 2019, the emissions prevented due to the purchase of electricity from renewable sources, calculated according to the locaTOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION [GJ] 77,666 66,231 17.26% tion-based method, were equal to 2,663 tCO2. The “Location-based” approach calls for the use of average emission factors related to Electricity consumption per the specific national power generation energy mixes. GJ/t 0.696 0.745 -6.54% tonnes of product 2 The “Market-based” approach calls for the use of emission factors defined on a contractual basis with the electricity supplier. If there Consumption of natural gas per are no specific contractual agreements between the Organisation GJ/t 0.976 1.044 -6.53% and the electricity supplier (e.g., purchase of Guarantees of Origin), tonnes of product for the Market-based approach the emission factor relative to the national residual mix was used. Direct emissions from 3 The Scope 1 emissions are expressed in tonnes of CO2 since the consumption of natural gas tCO2 2,611 2,224 17.45% source used does not report the emission factors of gases other (Scope 1) 3 than CO2. Indirect emissions (Scope 2 4 The Scope 2 emissions are expressed in tonnes of CO 2, however, the tCO2 0 0 0% percentage of methane and nitrous oxide has a negligible effect Market-based method) on total greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalents) as indicated in the ISPRA report Atmospheric emission factors of CO2 and other Indirect emissions (Scope 2 greenhouse gases in the electricity sector . tCO2 2,663 2,424 9.88% Location-based method) 4 5 In calculating this value, only direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) directly linked to production are considered, that is, those from the pasta Total emissions per tonnes of tCO2/t 0.037 0.048 -23.13% factory (CO2 emissions related to the connection tests of the new product 5 trigeneration plant are excluded). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 127 The following diagram provides a comparison of the electricity and natural gas consumption between 2018 and 2019, whose proportions have remained constant. DIAGRAM d Energy consumption 2019 2019 2018 2018 Total Electricity consumption (GJ) 41.6% 41.6% Total Natural Gas consumption (GJ) 58.4% 58.4% TABLE d Energy consumption emission factors Emission unit/ Energy source 2019 2018 Source Starting unit ISPRA Atmospheric emission factors of greenhouse gases Electricity kgCO2/kWh 0.29650 0.31640 from the power sector in Italy and in the main European (Location-based method) countries Electricity AIB European Residual Mixes 2018 (Vers. 1.2 dated kgCO2/kWh 0.48300 0.48300 (Market-based Method) 11/07/2019) Min. Environment Table of standard parameters in Italy Natural gas tCO2/Smc 0.002 0.002 for the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gases Min. Environment Table of standard parameters in Italy Heating oil tCO2/t 3.155 3.155 for the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gases TABLE d Energy consumption conversion factors Conversion unit/ Energy source 2019 2018 Source Starting unit Electricity GJ/kWh 0.0036 0.0036 Constant NIR: ITALIAN GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORY 1990 2017 NANatural gas GJ/Smc 0.0343 0.0343 TIONAL INVENTORY REPORT 2019 NIR: ITALIAN GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORY 1990 2017 NANatural gas GJ/l 0.0360 0.0360 TIONAL INVENTORY REPORT 2019 FIRE: 2018 Energy Manager Guidelines 128 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 8.2 Sustainable The ambitious goal to reach Carbon • Direct interventions outside the cominvestments Neutrality by 2025 was approved by pany that result in the construction the Board of Directors of the compaof a plant from renewable energy ny on 28 November 2019. This path is sources, an energy saving intervenCarbon Neutrality the result of a mixture of direct and tion, or a forestation intervention. Process based on the adoption indirect interventions that the Group • Indirect interventions represented of methods, behaviours, and decided to pursue gradually over the technologies to reduce, and even by green procurement (e.g., green next six years. eliminate, emissions of climate-alprocurement of materials from recytering gases through direct inter• Direct interventions i.e., interventions cling, green energy, etc..) or compenventions inside and outside the for efficiency and energy saving, resation measures (existing Italian or company and indirect interventions through green procurement newable sources, and sustainable international projects). or offsetting. mobility within the company. Andriani Carbon Neutral 2025 8000 6000 4000 2000 0 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 -2000 -4000 Biomethane plant Below are the stages of this decomes from plants using renewGreen procurement carbonisation process: able energy sources with guarNatural gas antee of origin; • 2020 the 800 kW trigenerator Electricity comes into full operation; • starting in 2023 it is assumed that the residual emissions will • 2021 The 710 kw photovoltaic be offset by the construction of plant and the 1.5 MWt biomass a plant for the production of bioboiler come into full operation; methane. • 2020-2025 all residual electricity SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 129 8.3 Management of waste, recyclability, and reduction in food waste GRI CONTENT INDEX 306-2 The Andriani Group has always been committed to the issue of waste management, monitoring the progress of the activity and constantly searching for the best and most virtuous suppliers that ensure compliance with waste regulation and the increasingly essential activity of taking care of the recovery and recycling. 2019 Type of Their generation comes from the production process, from the maintenance of Waste plants/facilities (hazardous and non-hazardous special waste) and from packaging processes (paper and cardboard packaging, mixed packaging, and plastic and wood packaging). On this issue, for 2019, some activities not derived from the production activity were R13 Recovery waste 97% also managed, such as the construction of buildings and other building processes. D15 Waste to dispose of 3% TABLE d Details on waste produced and its recovery (kg) 2019 2018 Change (%) D15 Waste to dispose of 14,406 13,218 8.99% Non Hazardous 13,332 13,000 2.55% Hazardous 1,074 218 392.66% R13 Recovery waste 553,156 520,212 6.33% Non Hazardous 552,381 519,756 6.28% Hazardous 775 456 69.96% DIAGRAM d 2019 Industrial process by-products Pasta-making by-product 55% As far as the by-products related to the industrial process By-product from grinding are concerned, they are fun36% damentally related to a few types and are required for By-product from pre-cleaning zootechnical use and for bio9% mass. 130 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 8.4 Protection of the area and respect for biodiversity GRI CONTENT INDEX 304-2 The DSS (Decision Support System) legumi.net and the associated calculator yoususustain. net (presented in the 2018 edition of the Andriani Sustainability Report) are the tools we use to evaluate the sustainability of our legume supply chain. In the overall environmental impact assessment, for the 2019 campaign, we must take into account the reduced number of production units, hectares cultivated and tonnes harvested compared to the previous year. 2,00 DIAGRAM d Average yield per hectare broken Chickpeas down by crop (t/ha) Lentils 1.66 Protein peas 1,50 1.10 1 1,00 0.64 0.65 0.52 0,50 Sustainability Project Legumi.net® Yousustain.net® Horta Andriani Terre Bradaniche 0,00 2019 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 131 were unsustainable (scores higher oil on the market is obtained from than 3) also occurred for the Organic renewable sources and in the compamatter and Soil coverage indicators. nies studied no fuels with a renewable This suggests that the soils tend to percentage higher than the national Health Sector have a low organic matter content, average were used. The low use of plant protection prodand the soil is kept fallow (i.e. withucts, even in conventional cultivation, out crops, mulch or crops) for many has guaranteed low scores for all months of the year. This leads to a three crops and all three indicators. loss of fertility and increased propensity to develop weeds. Water Sector All indicators in the water sector have extremely low scores, except for the Water Footprint indicator. The latter Air Sector depends on the final yield, therefore In this sector, the low yields caused low yields negatively impact the indihigh scores (greater than 4) for chickBiodiversity Sector cator. However, as far as the organic The farms in the area that grow lepeas and protein peas. Lentils reprotein pea is concerned, the minigumes have low variability in soil ceived lower scores, especially for mum value (0.00) was recorded, which management: a large part of the farm organic productions. The Carbon shows how the water consumption is in fact cultivated with arable crops, Footprint and Carbon Sequestration necessary for the production of one and with very limited rotations over indicators depend highly on the final tonne of organic protein pea grains is time. Moreover, the few land use alteryields, therefore, low yields lead to an reduced. natives and the general lack of areas increase in the environmental impact favourable to biodiversity have made The Water Supply and WUTE (Water value. the Biodiversity indicator scores alUse Technical Efficiency) indicators On the contrary, high yields make it ways higher than 3. have scores of zero, as no irrigation possible to spread the environmental has ever been practiced on the crops For the Eco Tox Score, due to the low impact over greater production, makexamined. use of plant protection products ing cultivation more sustainable. and the use of more eco-sustainable The Acidification and Eutrophication In addition, with high yields there is a products, the final score was very low, indicators have very low scores begreater sequestration of atmospheric showing limited impact on the agriculcause only a modest amount of pescarbon, as a result of increased photural ecosystem. ticides and fertilizers were used and tosynthetic activity and therefore a did not negatively affect the quality of higher production of biomass and a the rainwater (acidification) and surlower environmental impact (with a face water (eutrophication of terressubsequent reduction of the indicator trial water bodies). score). Energy Sector Fuel oil consumption was average (score between 2 and 3), although the values are higher for organic chickSoil Sector peas. Renewable fuel oil is rarely used Again, due to low and below-average (Renewable fuel indicator score alyields, the Ecological Footprint indicamost at maximum in all crops). On a tor received high scores. Values that national level, on average, 7% of fuel 132 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT By evaluating the average scores per chickpeas and lentils, while for the enfor the Energy sector in chickpeas and sector, we can see that the biggest ergy sector, organic lentil production is the Soil sector in lentils, due to the problems (highest scores) are found in the most sustainable. more frequent tilling aimed at weed the Air sector. management. Tilling, in fact, involves a In general, in the organic area there greater use of fuel, reduces the organic With the exception of the Energy and are slightly lower scores (higher sussubstance of the soil (since it promotes Water sectors, there are no particular tainability) for the Air, Water and Biomineralisation) and increases the risk differences in the scores as crops and diversity department, while the biologof erosion. crop management vary: for the water ical conduction is more impacting than sector, peas are more sustainable than the conventional one (higher scores) TABLE d Final points Species Crop system Health Air Soil Biodiversity Energy Water Media Chickpeas Organic 0.00 4.25 2.73 2.63 3.01 2.08 2.45 Chickpeas Conv. 0.17 5.00 2.74 2.73 2.38 2.27 2.55 Lentils Organic 0.00 2.96 2.83 2.80 1.99 2.00 2.10 Lentils Conv. 0.32 3.76 2.57 2.82 2.32 2.09 2.31 Peas Organic 0.00 5.00 2.75 2.80 3.02 0.00 2.26 DIAGRAM d Final Score (0-5) HEALTH 5 5 4 4 3 WATER AIR 3 2 2.45 2.55 2.31 2.26 1 2.10 2 0 1 0 ENERGY SOIL Chickpeas Chickpeas Lentils Lentils Peas Organic Conv. Organic Conv. Organic Score 0-5 The higher the score the lower the production sustainability. ValBIODIVERSITY ues above 4 highlight critical issues and low production sustainability. There are no significant differences between the crops and the different crop Organic chickpeas Organic lentils Organic peas managements. Only organically-grown lentils obtained a final score (average of all UPs and all indicators) that was slightly lover than the other crops examined Conv. chickpeas Conv. lentils (value of 2.1 compared to the general average of 2.33). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 133 As already stated, the 2019 agricultural of reference is a healthy one (average systemic level. Composting and green year was mainly characterized by two Health sector score: 0.09). The results manure practices and the use of cover elements: a reduced agricultural exare also encouraging with regard to the crops and associations are examples of tension compared to the previous year management of water resources, used useful actions to regenerate valuable and a decrease in yields in production efficiently and protected in a sustainnatural resources, while improving soil, units (0.66 t/ha vs. 0.94 t/ha). The coable manner. This is demonstrated water and air quality and safeguarding existence of these two factors makes by the near-zero scores recorded for biodiversity. With these indications in it difficult to make a linear comparison all Water sector indicators except the mind, we can work on a long-term ecobetween the two years without any Water Footprint (whose high score is nomic, environmental, and social susmargin of error in the interpretation of mainly due to low yields) and for all tainability strategy. the data: negligible differences in field crops except conventional chickpeas. conditions can give rise to numbers The final average score is about 2 out and phenomena that seem important of 5: a generally positive picture but but are not significant from a statistithat still leaves room for improvement. cal point of view. A separate discussion is necessary Having said this, the main production with regard to the resilience of the parameters are on average lower than system itself, i.e. its ability to sustain in 2018: Carbon Footprint (-13%), Water food production in the long term and Footprint (-4%), fuel oil consumption to withstand stressful climate or nutri(-6%) and plant protection products tional situations or water stress with(-25%) per hectare show a general out seeing its potential compromised. drop, although there are some variaThe low yields recorded compared to tions between the various crops. The the previous year have highlighted cultivations of the legumes examined several critical indicators in this rewere conducted with low environmengard: these include the Soil Coverage, tal impact, with lentils and peas perOrganic Substance, and Biodiversity forming slightly better than chickpeas. scores (all above 3), which certainly Net of the obvious differences between provide more food for thought in order the organic and conventional farming to achieve significant improvements. systems (greater sustainability of the We must take actions that specifically former for the Air, Water, and Biodivertarget the indicators mentioned above sity sectors), the use of fertilizers and to ensure the continuity of yields in plant protection products has been order to avoid fertility problems that rationalized so as not to damage eiare much more serious than those of ther the terrestrial or aquatic ecosystoday. tem. The frugality alone in the use of these products is a factor that is by no Conversely, the increase in yields means insignificant, since it has proved would contribute to improving the decisive in keeping some of the most scores for the Air and Soil sectors in delicate environmental parameters particular, among other things, but we under control such as Acidification, Eumust not ignore the synergies that can trophication, and Eco-toxicity (all with be established between distinct interscores between 0 and 1). If we add the ventions, which would ensure positive drop in fuel oil consumption, we can externalities and additional benefits conclude that the agricultural system that can trigger virtuous circles at the 134 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 8.5 GRI CONTENT INDEX 303-1 303-2 303-3 Responsible management of water resources The procurement of the water resources necessary for the TABLE d Water extraction per sector (2019) Andriani Group’s production activities comes almost exclusively from the Puglia aqueduct water network. In 2019 it is Pasta Factory and Mill 10.9 Ml 40% estimated that about 27.4 Megalitres6 were withdrawn, most Cutter washing 5.4 Ml 22% of which was used in production lines. Services (changing 6.1 Ml 20% The table to the side summarizes the data regarding water rooms and offices) withdrawal and the use of the water resource inside the proGeneral plants 5.0 Ml 18% duction plant: Total 27.4 Ml 7 Water extraction from water-stressed areas The issue of water extraction7 from areas considered to be under water stress is a sensitive one for the Group that, relying on the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool from the World Resources Institute, indicated by the GRI as among the reliable tools for the assessment of water stress areas, has found that the risk for the intervention area is medium-high. 6 The data related to the 2019 water extraction was the subject of estimation, mainly based on production values. Starting with the upcoming reporting periods, the Andriani Group will provide a precise value for its water extraction. 7 The water extracted is only freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l of total dissolved solids). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 135 8.6 Conscious consumption Raw materials of raw materials used in 2019, broken down by GRI CONTENT INDEX 301-1 type The Group's goal regarding sustainable consumption and production is to do more and better with less , obtaining benefits from economic activity by reducing the use of resources and reducing pollution throughout the entire production cycle. Grains 72% Legumes 21% With this intent, daily actions are performed for the procurement of the various Pseudo cereals 6% raw materials whose distribution by type is shown in the diagram to the side. Micro-ingredients 1% Packaging used in 2019, broken down by type Corrugated 55% Technical paper 41% Flexible film 4% With regard to packaging, the Group has undertaken a reduction policy, making it increasingly sustainable by using thicknesses and weights suitable for preventing 4000 waste. In the 2018-2020 three-year period, the purchase of packaging materials is 3500 increasingly aimed at renewable and recyclable materials, such as paper. The 2020 projects in tonnes, in %, is as follows: Plastic packaging 3%, Paper and cardboard 3000 packaging 97%. 2500 2000 Packaging (Ton) 2019 2018 % change 1500 1000 Flexible 126.80 126.00 0.63% 500 Corrugated 1,888.00 1,561.00 20.95% 0 2019 2018 Technical paper 1,398.20 1,054.30 32.62% Corrugated Technical paper Total 3,413.00 2,741.30 24.50% Flexible Attachments In this chapter 137 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 145 Global Compact principles and GRI 148 Assurance Report SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 137 Global Reporting Initiative GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-55 Content Index Below is a summary of the main contents With regard to the specific Standards GRI of the Andriani Group's 2019 Sustainable 403 (Health and safety at work) and GRI 303 Development Report, according to the (Water and water discharges), the most reformat required by the GRI Sustainability cent version of 2018 was used. In addition, Reporting Standards , published in 2016 by the Food Processing Sector Disclosures the GRI. were taken into consideration, as defined by GRI in 2013. Universal Standards GRI Standard Disclosure Page no. Omissions SDGs GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures Organisational profile 102-1 Organisation name 6, 16-49, 28 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 16-49, 28 102-3 Location of the main office 16-49, 28 102-4 Location of operations 16-49, 28 102-5 Ownership and legal form 16-49, 28 102-6 Markets served 66 102-7 Scale of the organisation 66, 76-79 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 76-79 102-9 Supply chain 110 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply During 2019, there were no significant changes to the organ102-10 chain isation or to its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle 52-59 102-12 External initiatives 16-49 102-13 Membership of Associations 123 Strategy 102-14 Statement from a senior decision-maker 6 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 52-59 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 16-49 Governance 102-18 The Governance Structure 52-59 138 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Composition of the highest governance body and re102-22 52-59 lated committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 52-59 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability report102-32 52-59 ing Stakeholder involvement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11-15 100% of the employees are covered by CCNL (CCNL for small and medium agri-food industry, CCNL for managers of commercial companies, CCNL for managers of industrial compa102-41 Collective bargaining agreements nies, CCNL for trade, tertiary, distribution and services, CCNL for employees of private security institutions and companies and trust services) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11-15, 76-79 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11-15 102-44 Key issues and concerns raised 11-15 Reporting practices Entities included in the consolidated financial state102-45 8-10 ments 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 11-15 102-47 List of material topics 11-15 102-48 Restatements of information 8-10 102-49 Changes in reporting 8-10 102-50 Reporting period 8-10 The 2018 Sustainability Report was published on 11 Novem102-51 Date of most recent report ber 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle 8-10 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 8-10 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Stan102-54 8-10 dards 102-55 GRI content index 137-144 102-56 External assurance 148-149 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 139 Topic-specific Standards GRI Standard Information Page no. Omission SDGs GRI 200: Economic series Material topic: ANTI-CORRUPTION, FAIR COMPETITION, AND LEGALITY GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 63 103-2 The management method and its components 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 63 GRI 205: Anti-corruption (2016) 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There were no incidents of corruption in 2019 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour (2016) Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, In 2019, there were no legal actions to anti-competitive be206-1 and monopoly practices havior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Material topic: SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 128 103-2 The management method and its components 128 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 128 Material topic: ETHICS AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 66, 70 103-2 The management method and its components 66, 70 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66, 70 GRI 201: Economic performance (2016) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 68-73 GRI 202: Market presence (2016) Proportion of senior managers hired by the local com202-2 76 munity Material topic: SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 110 103-2 The management method and its components 110-113 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 110-113 GRI 204: Procurement practices (2016) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 110 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL SERIES Material topic: MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY AND ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 126 140 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 103-2 The management method and its components 126 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 126 GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 126-127 302-3 Energy intensity 126-127 GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 126 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 126 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 126 Material topic: WASTE MANAGEMENT, RECYCLABILITY, AND REDUCTION OF FOOD WASTE GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 129 103-2 The management method and its components 129 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 129 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste (2016) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 129 Material topic: MANAGEMENT, PROTECTION OF THE TERRITORY, AND BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 130-133 103-2 The management method and its components 130-133 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 130-133 GRI 307: Environmental compliance (2016) Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulaIn 2019, there were no non-compliance with environmental 307-1 tions laws and regulations Material topic: RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF WATER RESOURCES GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 134 103-2 The management method and its components 134 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 134 GRI 303: Management approach (2018) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 134 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 134 GRI 303: Water and effluents (2018) 303-3 Water withdrawal 134 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 141 Material topic: CONSCIOUS CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 135 103-2 The management method and its components 135 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 135 GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 135 Material topic: SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 130-133 103-2 The management method and its components 130-133 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 130-133 GRI 304: Biodiversity (2016) Significant impacts of activities, products, and services 304-2 130-133 on biodiversity GRI 400: Social series Material topic: ANTI-CORRUPTION, FAIR COMPETITION, AND LEGALITY GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 63 103-2 The management method and its components 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 63 GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance (2016) Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social In 2019, no sanctions were received for non-compliance with 419-1 and economic area laws or regulations on social and economic matters Material topic: ETHICS AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 66 103-2 The management method and its components 66, 70 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66, 70 GRI 415: Public Policy (2016) The activities of the Andriani Group do not include political 415-1 Political contributions contributions Material topic: PRODUCT SAFETY AND TRACEABILITY GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 98 103-2 The management method and its components 98 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98 GRI 416: Customer health and safety (2016) Incidents of non-compliance concerning impacts on In 2019, there were no cases of non-compliance with regu416-2 the health and safety impacts of products and services lations on the health and safety of products and services 142 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GRI 418: Customer Privacy (2016) Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of cusDuring 2019, no complaints were received regarding viola418-1 tomer privacy and losses of customer data tions of privacy and loss of customer data Material topic: RESPONSIBLE LABELLING OF PRODUCTS GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 98-101, 104 103-2 The management method and its components 98-101, 104 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98-101, 104 GRI 417: Marketing and labelling (2016) Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 417-2 104 service information and labeling Material topic:CUSTOMER SATISFACTION GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 102-103 103-2 The management method and its components 102-103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102-103 Material topic: DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN CAPITAL GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 80-81 103-2 The management method and its components 80-81 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-81 GRI 401: Employment (2016) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 78 GRI 404: Training and education (2016) 404-1 Average hours of training per employee 80-81 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities (2016) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 76-78 Material topic: CORPORATE WELFARE GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 82-86 103-2 The management method and its components 82-86 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 82-86 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 143 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities (2016) Confidentiality constraints for GRI 405-2, Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 405-2 as the data cannot be men disclosed outside the Group Material topic: HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 88-91 103-2 The management method and its components 88-91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 88-91 GRI 403: Management approach (2018) 403-1 Occupational Health and Safety Management System 88-91 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 403-2 88-91 investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 88-91 Worker participation, consultation, and communication 403-4 88-91 on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 88-91 403-6 Promotion of worker health 88-91 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 403-7 88-91 safety impacts directly linked by business relationships GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018) Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 403-8 88-91 management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 90 403-10 Work-related ill health 90 Material topic: WORKING CONDITIONS AND HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 76-79 103-2 The management method and its components 76-79 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-79 144 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GRI 406: Non-discrimination (2016) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken In 2019, there were no cases of discrimination GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations (2016) For the minimum notice period for operational changes, ref402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operations changes erence is made to the CCNL applied GRI 408: Child Labor (2016) The activities of the Andriani Group are not subject to a high Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incirisk of child labour. The Group undertakes to submit its op408-1 dents of child labor erations to human rights assessments starting from the next reporting years GRI 409: Forced or compulsory Labor (2016) The activities of the Andriani Group are not subject to Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incia high risk of forced labour. The Group undertakes to 409-1 dents of forced or compulsory labor submit its operations to human rights assessments starting from the next reporting years Material topic: NUTRITION AND WELL-BEING GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 94-97 103-2 The management method and its components 94-97 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 94-97 GRI G4: Food Processing Sector Disclosures (2013) Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites 100% of the production volume is produced in sites certified certified by an independent third party according to by a third party according to internationally recognised food FP5 internationally recognized food safety management safety management systems (BRC Global standard for Food system standards Safety Issue) Material topic: INNOVATION AND PRODUCT QUALITY GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 105-107 103-2 The management method and its components 105-107 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 105-107 Material topic: RESEARCH, INNOVATION, AND CONTROL GRI 103: Management approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its scope 11-12, 15, 105-107 103-2 The management method and its components 105-107 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 105-107 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 145 Global Compact principles and GRI The table presents the link between the specific disclosure envisaged according to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the 10 principles of the Global Compact grouped into the respective 4 categories, according to the diagram shown in the chapter The Andriani Group for Sustainable Development (page 16 of this Report). GRI disclosure number GRI Disclosure Title Global Compact principles Categories 102-1 Organisation name 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 102-3 Location of the headquarters 102-4 Location of operations 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served 102-7 Scale of the organisation Companies are required to eliminate all forms of 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Principle 6 Work discrimination in terms of employment and profession 102-9 Supply chain Significant changes to the organisation and its 102-10 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle 102-12 External initiatives 102-13 Membership of Associations 102-14 Statement from a senior decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Values, principles, standards, and norms of Businesses are committed to fighting corruption in all its Fight against 102-16 Principle 10 behaviour forms, including extortion and kickbacks corruption 102-18 Governance Structure Composition of the highest governance body and 102-22 related committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governing body Highest governance body's role in sustainability 102-32 reporting 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Companies are required to uphold the freedom of association 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Principle 3 Work of workers and recognise the right to collective bargaining 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key issues and concerns raised Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 102-48 Restatements of information 146 THE ANDRIANI GROUP FOR GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC ACCOUNTABILITY EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY PRODUCT ACCOUNTABILITY SUPPLIER ACCOUNTABILITY COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 102-49 Changes in reporting 102-50 Reporting period 102-51 Date of most recent report 102-52 Reporting cycle 102-53 Contact points for questions regarding the report Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 Standards 102-55 GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Principle 7 Environment environmental challenges Proportion of senior management hired from the Companies are required to eliminate all forms of 202-2 Principle 6 Work local community discrimination in terms of employment and profession 204-1 Proportion of spending local suppliers Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Businesses are committed to fighting corruption in all its Fight against 205-3 Principle 10 taken forms, including extortion and kickbacks corruption Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, 206-1 antitrust, and monopoly practices Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility 301-1 Materials used by weight and volume Environment Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Environment Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges 302-3 Energy intensity Environment Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges 303-3 Water withdrawal Environment Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to Principle 7 Significant impacts of activities, products, and environmental challenges 304-2 Environment services on biodiversity Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Environment Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 147 Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility 305-4 GHG emission intensity Environment Businesses are required to support a preventive approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Principle 8 Environment greater environmental responsibility Non-compliance with environmental laws and Businesses are required to undertake initiatives that promote 307-1 Principle 8 Environment regulations greater environmental responsibility Companies are required to eliminate all forms of 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Principle 6 Work discrimination in terms of employment and profession Minimum notice periods regarding operational Companies are required to uphold the freedom of association 402-1 Principle 3 Work changes of workers and recognise the right to collective bargaining Companies are required to eliminate all forms of 404-1 Average hours of training per employee Principle 6 Work discrimination in terms of employment and profession Diversity in governance bodies and among Companies are required to eliminate all forms of 405-1 Principle 6 Work employees discrimination in terms of employment and profession Incidents of discrimination and corrective Companies are required to eliminate all forms of 406-1 Principle 6 Work actions taken discrimination in terms of employment and profession Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 408-1 Principle 5 Businesses are required to effectively eliminate child labour Work incidents of child labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Companies are required to effectively eliminate forced and 409-1 Principle 4 Work incidents of forced or compulsory labor compulsory labour Businesses are committed to fighting corruption in all its Fight against 415-1 Political contributions Principle 10 forms, including extortion and kickbacks corruption Incidents of non-compliance concerning safety 416-2 impacts on the health and safety of products and services Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 417-2 and service information and labeling Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 418-1 of customer privacy and losses of customer data Non-compliance with laws and regulations on 419-1 social and economic area 148 Assurance Report 102-56 302-5 Vedi Allegato al Bilancio GRI CONTENT INDEX SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ANDRIANI SpA 149 Andriani S.p.A. Via Niccolò Copernico s.n. Zona PIP 70024 Gravina in Puglia (BA) Tel. +39 080.325.58.01 Fax +39 080.325.59.24 info@andrianispa.com www.andrianispa.com
