INDEX Sustainability Report 2020 CEO Message ESG Data / Reference Material P.2 P.113 MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability Governance P.4 P.133 ・Our Sustainability Approach ・Outline of the Group ・MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models ・Corporate Governance ・Targets (KPI) and Results ・Compliance ・ESG integration and sustainability approach ・ERM and Risk Management ・Communication with Stakeholders ・Information Management ・Transaction Responsibilities ・Information Disclosure Our Sustainability Priorities ・Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) ・The Medium-Term Management Plan P.28 ・Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation ・Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Third-Party Assurance ・Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights P.183 Our Value Creation Approach Editorial Policy P.51 P.187 ・Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ・Topics ・Impact of CSV Initiatives on society and our company ・Sustainability Contest ・Deal with New Risks ・Create Mobility Society without Accidents ・Strive for Resilient Community Development ・Support “Good Health and Longevity” ・Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” ・Quality that Earns the Trust of Society ・Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion ・Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow ・Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management 001 HOME / Sustainability / CEO Message CEO Message The MS&AD Insurance Group pledges in its Corporate Philosophy (Mission) “to contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and ﬁnancial services business.” Toward the realization of the society we are aspiring, we must face the social issues that make it hard for us to accomplish our goals, and quickly identify the various risks that arise from these social issues in order to prevent them from occurring and minimize their impacts. Furthermore, we reduce the economic burden through a variety of products and services when those risks materialize, and we help to create an environment where customers can live and engage in business activities free from anxiety. That is our story of value creation. In “Vision 2021,” the Medium-Term Management Plan, the Group aims to achieve a “resilient and sustainable society” by 2030. In order to achieve this vision, we are developing business activities that take into account the environment, society, and corporate governance, and are making eﬀorts to create shared value (CSV) with society. Particularly, we have promoted “responding to climate change,” “improving the sustainability of natural capital” and “respect for human rights” as three priority issues. In responding to climate change, we are providing the eﬀective web services for ﬂood prevention, developing new technologies such as damage prediction service for typhoons and other disasters in collaboration with universities, and providing services to analyze the impacts of climate change in partnerships with venture companies. We are working on the disclosure of consistent, comparable and reliable climate-related information in line with the ﬁnal recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In order to improve the sustainability of natural capital, we are promoting initiatives to protect the healthy future of the earth by disaster prevention and reduction initiatives utilizing local nature such as forests, and holding symposiums on the theme of improving the sustainability of natural capital. Regarding our stance to respect human rights, we regularly conduct due diligence on human rights risks throughout the value chain and provide an education program for employees in order to promote business activities that respect human rights, in accordance with “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights”. We are also promoting diversity and inclusion initiatives, such as increasing the number of female managers and encouraging fathers to take child-care leave so that employees can play an active role, and we are developing human assets to ﬂexibly respond a changing business environment by providing enhanced training on digital technology and etc. This year, the spread of COVID-19 has resulted in the loss of over a million lives around the world, and our lifestyles and values have changed dramatically. Amidst major changes in the social structure, the Group has reconﬁrmed the importance of fulﬁlling our role as an insurance and ﬁnancial services provider, as a social infrastructure that helps maintain the stability of peopleʼs lives and society itself. In order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Group has expanded the scope of non-face-to-face operations by simplifying digitized insurance procedures and enhancing online support. At the same time, we are providing insurance products for cyber risks, which have become an increasing concern of corporations due to the expansion of working from home, as well as supporting services to build a BCP for infectious diseases. 002 HOME / Sustainability / CEO Message In modern society, the business environment is constantly changing due to risks becoming enormous and complex, or due to emerging new risks. In times like these, it is necessary to collaborate with a diverse range of partners in order to ﬁnd a way to solve ever diﬃcult social issues by sharing ideas with each other. Expanding the CSV initiatives based on “our Story of Value Creation” will lead to a resilient and sustainable society, from a regional level to the entire country, from Japan to overseas, from the Group companies to the Group as a whole, and even to cooperation with partner companies that share the same issues. The MS&AD Insurance Group celebrated its 10-year anniversary in Fiscal 2020. We will continue to leverage our strengths of diversity and group synergy to create a better society together with our stakeholders. September 2020 President & CEO Noriyuki Hara 003 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Our Sustainability Approach Business Models ESG Integration and Sustainability Targets（KPI） and Results Approach Communication with Stakeholders 004 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach Our Sustainability Approach The MS&AD Insurance Group has set Mission, Vision, and Values in order to clarify how the Group should be. Furthermore, we have accelerated initiatives based on our sustainability approach to achieve our mission. Our Mission To contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and ﬁnancial services business Our Vision To create a world-leading insurance and ﬁnancial services group that consistently pursues sustainable growth and enhances corporate value Our Values Customer focus, integrity, teamwork, innovation, professionalism Perspective of Sustainability of the MS&AD Insurance Group The MS&AD Insurance Group will create shared value and aim toward a resilient and sustainable society through corporate activities that implement Story of Value Creation, in order to realize our Corporate Philosophy (Mission). We will consistently strive for supreme quality that lives up to the trust and expectations upon us, and together with our stakeholders, continue to contribute to the creation of society where everyone can pursue a stable life and take on dynamic business activities, while preserving the sustainability of the global environment and society. (Basic Policies on Corporate Governance, Chapter 2 Section 2) Business Activities with Consideration for Sustainability The MS&AD Insurance Group, as insurance and ﬁnancial services group which provides safety and peace of mind conduct business activities with consideration for sustainability. We aim to enhance corporate value by contributing to solutions for sustainability issues (also known as environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues) with profound understanding through stakeholder engagement. Our underwriting considers issues and risks that would have a negative impact on society and the global environment. In addition, we provide products and services that respond to the demand of society. Our investments consider ESG factors in pursuit of long-term returns and contribution to solutions for sustainability issues. “Responding to Climate Change ”, “Improving Sustainability of Natural Capital“ and “Respecting Human Rights ” that require urgent actions are the Group's priorities. 【Responding to Climate Change】 We contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation as climate change may bring material impacts on our lives and ecosystems and pose substantial risks to the insurance industry. We contribute to realization of a decarbonized society through our business that supports initiatives for reduction of CO2 emissions and climate change mitigation such as enhancement of the stable and suﬃcient supply and usage of renewable energy, development and usage of advanced technology that lead to reduction of CO2 emissions, and research and development toward practical applications of CO2 capture, utilization, storage (CCUS) technologies. In principle, we will not provide insurance for, nor make investments in new coal-ﬁred power plants. However, we may do so after 005 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach prudent consideration, for cases where such plants are essential for to the stable supply of energy to the country concerned. With long-term goals in place, we will reduce CO2 emissions from our operations. < Group's CO2 Emissions Reduction Long-Term Target> 70% reduction in 2050 from the base year 2009 We will continue to disclose our climate change-related initiatives, in line with the TCFD framework. 【Improving Sustainability of Natural Capital】 Natural capital is the foundation that supports our society and economy. As its conservation and sustainable use is essential to the economic development and prosperity of society, we take initiatives to conserve biodiversity and improve sustainability of natural capital. 【 Respecting Human Rights】 As respecting human rights is the foundation of a safe society where one can enjoy peaceful lives, we conduct our business activities with respect for human rights. We will not provide insurance for, nor make investments in manufacturers of cluster muinitions that may cause indiscriminate mass killing. The Board of Directors and the Sustainability Committee hold discussions on the policies, plans, and the progress initiatives for the aforementioned Business Activities with Consideration for Sustainability. We keep the highly transparent disclosure and engage in dialogue with stakeholders. Revision and /or modiﬁcation may be applied when necessary. MS&AD Insurance Group participates in the following initiatives. Paris Pledge for Action United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) United Nations Environment Programme ‒ Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) 〔Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI),Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA)〕 Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Final Report of Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures(TCFD) Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) Principles for Finance Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models 006 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models Based on the Perspective of Sustainability of the MS&AD Insurance Group, as an insurance and ﬁnancial services provider, we oﬀer coverage on various risks that include accidents and disasters. We also focus on solving social issues in order to reduce the rise of risks. We will create common value with society through corporate activities that include “Identifying risks and providing information on risks,” “preventing risks from occurring/minimizing the impact of those risks,” and “reducing the economic burden.” Our Sustainability Approach MS&AD's Story of Value Creation Our Value Creation Approach Image of Society in 2030: “Resilient and Sustainable Society” In 2018, the Groupʼs Sustainability Committee held discussions on seven priority issues (challenges for CSV) and the core initiatives targeting them, and developed the Medium-Term Sustainability Plan which was later incorporated into the Group Medium-Term Management Plan (Vision 2021). In Vision 2021, we have set the image of society in 2030 as a “resilient and sustainable society.” In order to be widely supported by stakeholders and to grow in a sustainable way, it is indispensable to continue creating shared value with society through corporate activities, also known as Creating Shared Value, CSV. We will aim to realize a “resilient and sustainable society” by focusing on the priority issues with using the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as leading marks. 007 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models Identifying Priority Issues Issue prioritization based on international guidelines, including ISO 26000 and SDGs, is of great importance for both stakeholders and MS&AD Groupʼs business. We identiﬁed material issues based on their priority. [STEP 1] Analysis of social issues In order to accurately grasp the issues that society needs to solve, we identiﬁed social issues based on inputs from our stakeholders (customers, shareholders, business partners, the environment, local society, international society, employees, and agencies), the international frameworks, and the goals of the frameworks. Diverse risks surrounding society Diversiﬁed/large-scale accidents and/or disasters Global environment approaches the limit (climate change, depletion of resources, etc.) Mounting burden of nursing/medical care due to aging population Economic slowdown by widening inequality 008 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models [STEP 2] Identiﬁcation of priority issues With regard to the identiﬁed social issues and the Groupʼs corporate activities, we analyzed items based on where we can make a signiﬁcant contribution to social sustainability together with issues that have a major impact on the Groupʼs long-term growth in the areas of economy (E), society (S), and organizational governance (G). From this process, we extracted seven priority issues. These seven priority issues are recognized as our challenges for CSV (Creating Shared Value) in order to clarify our intention to address them as initiatives that create value for both society and the Group. Furthermore, the goals that we aim to achieve through solving these issues are aligned with SDGs. 009 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models [STEP 3] Identifying Core Initiatives to underpin Priority Issues Based on the criteria of Creating Shared value, we deﬁne, ʻQuality that earns the trust of societyʼ and ʻManagement platforms that enable employees to play active rolesʼ as the core initiatives that support to solve the priority issues. 010 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models 011 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models [STEP 4] Reporting to the Management Team The identiﬁed core initiatives are reported to the management team as the Priority Sustainability Issues of the Medium-term Management Plan, Vision2021, and are disclosed to stakeholders through information sharing meetings and to employees through brieﬁng sessions. Targets and Results We have set Key Performance Indicators (KPI) targets to promote Sustainability initiatives. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Impacts of CSV Initiatives We estimate both the “impact on society” and the “economic impact on our Group” from CSV initiatives. Impact Our Sustainability Priorities For realizing a resilient and sustainable society, we have set three priority issues; i) contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation, ii) strive to improve sustainability of natural capital , and iii) Activities and dialog that respect human rights, that have a major impact on both the society and the Group. Our Sustainability Priorities ESG Integration The MS&AD Insurance Group has established its sustainability approach, which it upholds as a collection of strategies for ESG issues. In all of its corporate activities, including the development and provision of products and services and investments and loans, the Group takes sustainability into account, including factors such as environment, society, and corporate governance (ESG). ESG Integration 012 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models Management Structure Strategies and plans for sustainability-related initiatives are discussed at the Board of Directors meetings and quarterly Committee Meetings. The Sustainability Committee comprises of members that include presidents, oﬃcers in charge of planning and risk management, outside directors of the Company and the Group's domestic insurance companies, and discusses considerations for sustainability issue in all business activities. The details of the Sustainability Committeeʼs discussions are reported to the Board of Directors and the Management Committee. Initiatives Our Group participates in various initiatives and strives to create shared value with society. We will continue to work to identify and address a diverse range of sustainability issues. We support the “Paris Agreement,” which countries all across the world aﬃrmed in December 2015 to tackle Paris Pledge for Action climate change, and we have signaled our intention to work toward this goal by signing the “Paris Pledge for Action.” Participation in the United Nations Global Compact* The MS&AD Insurance Group strives to carry out corporate activities with respect to the principles of the UN Global Compact. Furthermore, the Group is involved in the operation and activities of the Global Compact Network Japan, a local network of the UN Global Compact, by serving as an organizer of working sessions. * An initiative advocated by the former UN Secretary-General Koﬁ Annan in 1999. It requires global companies to comply with and practice 10 principles related to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The MS&AD Insurance Group has been seeking out what are the best practices for ﬁnancial institutions that take into account environmental and social sustainability, and it has been participating in the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) to disseminate and promote these best practices. Our The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and company has signed on to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Investment (PRI) published by UNEP FI. Signatory to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) In June 2017, The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) released its Final Recommendations constituting a framework for companies and other organizations to voluntarily disclose climate-related information. MS&AD Holdings disclose information on climate-related eﬀorts in line with these Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Recommendations. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) The MS&AD Insurance Group has signed up to the Japan Climate Initiative. The Initiative was launched in 2018 with the aim of enhancing Japanʼs eﬀorts to address climate change and sharing information on such eﬀorts with the rest of the world. Under the Initiative, companies, local governments and NGOs that are actively engaged in climatechange action cooperate toward achieving the goal. Being a Japan Climate Initiative signatory to the Initiative also means that we approve oﬁts declaration: “Joining the front line of the global push for decarbonization from Japan.” The declaration representsone of the eﬀorts made toward meeting the wellbelow 2°C goal of the Paris Agreement under the United NationsFramework Convention on Climate Change that was adopted in 2015. In July 2016 our Group signed the Natural Capital Declaration, which calls on ﬁnancial institutions to incorporate Natural Capital Finance Alliance the concept of “natural capital” into their ﬁnancial products and services, and we have been taking part in the Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA). 013 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models The CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) is an independent nonproﬁt organization with the world's largest database for corporate measures against climate changes, and corporations and organizations CDP across the world have disclosed their greenhouse gas emissions and measures against climate change through CDP. The MS&AD Insurance Group subscribes to CDPʼs approaches and continuously submits new data. In October 2011, the “Principles for Financial Action toward a Sustainable Society in the 21st Century (PFA21)” and “Business-speciﬁc Guidelines (insurance, deposits, loans and leases, investment management, securities and investment banking)” were released in Japan. These principles were created as action guidelines for ﬁnancial Principles for Financial Action toward a Sustainable institutions that want to fulﬁll their responsibilities and roles in building a sustainable society. Society in the 21st Century (PFA21) MS&AD Holdings, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance, Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance, Mitsui Direct General Insurance, Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance, Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance, and MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting have signed, showing their intent to follow these principles. In regards to conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of biological resources, MS&AD Holdings has been serving as the chair company of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), which brings companies Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) together for joint research projects on biodiversity, since JBIBʼs founding in April 2008. Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) and “The Story of Biodiversity Told by Companies” Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance, from the perspective of fulﬁlling their social responsibility as institutional investors, have announced their support for Japanʼs Stewardship Code, a Principles for Responsible Institutional code of behavior laid out for institutional investors. Investors MSI Our Policies According to Japanʼs Stewardship Code (Japanʼs Stewardship Code) ADI Our Policies According to Japanʼs Stewardship Code(Japanese only) In June 2020, Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) released its “Declaration on Challenge Zero” in support of Challenge Zero (innovation challenges toward a achieving a net zero regarding greenhouse gas emissions as early as possible, in line with the goal of the Paris decarbonized society) Declaration Agreement. We participated in the Plastics Smart campaign promoted by the Ministry of the Environment and joined the “Plastics Smart” Forum Plastics Smart Forum in July 2019. We will tackle the problem of plastic waste more actively than ever before and contribute to the SDGs by “improving the sustainability of natural capital,” one of the Groupʼs priority issues. 014 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Targets (KPI) and Results Targets (KPI) and Results Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to Promote Our Sustainability Initiatives Group Targets FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Covered Issues Indicators for FY2018 Achievements Achievements Achievements Companies and after Development of products and Main eﬀorts Main eﬀorts Main eﬀorts Domestic Group Creating shared value Continue the approaches services ﬁnd below ﬁnd below ﬁnd below Companies Customer satisfaction survey 95.2% 97.1% 97.7% the same level or higher Domestic Group about insurance contract compared to the previous Companies procedures*1 ﬁscal year Customer satisfaction survey 96.3% 96.6% 96.6% the same level or higher MSI,ADI,Mitsui about payment of insurance compared to the previous Direct General,MSI claim*1 ﬁscal year Aioi Life Quality that earns the trust of society CO2 emission reduction ▲6.8% ▲12.7% ▲20.7% Reduce CO2 emissions by rate(Scope1 and Scope2 30% by 2020 and by 70% combined)*2 Consolidated by 2050 versus base year (ﬁscal 2009) Total energy consumption 1,017,853GJ 1,000,014GJ 943,090GJ 11,085t 10,545t 11,080t Lower than the previous Domestic Group Paper consumption (▲4.9%) （5.1%） ﬁscal year Companies + Other Ratio of females in 9.9% 12.4% 14.8% 15.0% (FY2020) managerial positions Employee satisfaction 4.4points 4.4points 4.4points (questionnaire results), ”Pride, Job satisfaction” Employee satisfaction 4.3points 4.3points 4.5points (questionnaire results), Management platforms ”Working Vigorously” Domestic Group that enable employees the same level or higher Companies to play active roles Number of annual paid 16.0 15.6 15.7 compared to the previous holidays taken ﬁscal year Ratio of taking fully paid 58.0% 63.9% 64.6% paternity/secondary leave Number of employees 20,022 23,601 27,673 practicing social contribution activities 015 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Targets (KPI) and Results (*1) For details of the questionnaire on customer satisfaction survey of each company, please visit their website. (*2) We have revised the ﬁgures in FY2018 by improving the accuracy of business activities' data which is the basis of calculation. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) ＜Main Eﬀorts＞ Developing and improving our products as part of our initiatives for ʻcreating shared valueʼ * Part of the above classiﬁcation may include contents which are diﬀerent from those of the “Our Value Creation Approach” in this report. In “Our Value Creation Approach,” we classify these CSV initiatives as they are much easy for everyone to understand. Provided cyber risk related products and services with enhanced risk management. (Number of cyber insurance policies : +25.2% compared to FY2018) Launched Comprehensive compensation insurance for Mobile Application-based payment service providers in September 2019. Launched the problem-solving data analysis service for our clients by RisTech. (Number of the services introduced : 23 companies, Number of companies under consideration: 81 as Deal with new risks of May 2019) Provision of medical receivavle compensation insurance for members of the Japan Hospital association in April 2019. Started providing information related to COVID-19 in January 2020. Launched consulting services how to deal with customer harassment and complainer in January 2020. Launched some insurances and services that contribute to accident prevention and safe driving. (Distracted driving prevention support service FOUR SAFETY in December 2019, Dashcam and telematics services for ﬂeet policyholders F-Dora in January 2020, automobile insurance TOUGH Observe and Protect Automobile Insurance Plus in January 2020 and Smartphone app for driving skill training in January 2020.) Create mobility society without accidents Developed and provided dedicated insurances for operators of on-demand transportation in August 2019 and for Maas operators in December 2019. Promoted motivation for no accident by newly introducing long-term excellent discounts and no accident discounts based on the concept of accident-free realization in January 2020. 016 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Targets (KPI) and Results Promoted regional revitalization initiatives such as supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and contributing to solving regional issues and revitalization through comprehensive cooperation agreements with local governments, local banks, credit unions. (Number of SDGs seminars for small and medium-sized enterprises: 55) ＜Examples of providing products and services＞ Developed dedicated insurance for sake makers and establishment of Nagano model through collaboration with local governments and regional ﬁnancial institutions Strive for resilient community development ＜Examples of local contribution activities＞ Provided menus to enhance attractiveness of local towns, and held demonstrations of electric supply function to Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles. Promoted understanding of the need for compensation for natural disasters through the Proposal for preparation of natural disasters and provided information about the compensation, and provided navigation services free of charge to support safe and secure actions in the event of large-scale natural disasters. Providied support tools for small and medium-sized enterprises to be certiﬁed as an excellent health management corporation . Introduced the insurance premium discount system for general welfare group term life insurance without dividend to organizations certiﬁed by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry as good health management corporations in October 2019. Support “good health and longevity” Provide information through seminars and VRs related to health and medical (Number of participants in Life and Medical Seminars : 14,379). Launched Ashitano Yorokobi 2 , four types of lump-sum payment Tontine annuities including the industry's ﬁrst ﬁxed-term annuity with a lifetime of coverage in September 2019. Adapted natural disasters through development and utilization of climate change risk analysis service and website for real time loss prediction (cmap.dev). Contribute to climate change mitigation Implemented support measures for companies toward the transition to decarbonized and adaptation society by providing products and services that support renewable energy businesses. Invested in Sustainability Bond issued by Japan Railway Construction, Transport and Technology Agency in May 2019. Provided consulting services that evaluate impact on natural capital generated by business activities and propose the countermeasures. Conducted joint research with Kumamoto City on the creation of the green resilience map Strive to improve sustainability of natural (creating regional information data to utilize natural capital for disaster prevention and capital regional revitalization). Held the symposium ralated to advanced cases of Western countries that support natural capital that contributes to disaster prevention and reduction through insurance and ﬁnancial schemes in December 2019. Developed the dedicated ﬁre insurance to help poor classes to build homes with insurance cover in Malaysia. Work toward realization of “leaving no one Donated amount linked to the number of & LIFE insurances as vaccine expenses. behind” Jointly developed the Social Contribution Clause with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation which is able to be donated to Japan Committee for UNICEF and the Japanese Red Cross Society through insurance claim payments etc. in September. 017 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Targets (KPI) and Results Mid-term Target For the target of reduction of CO2, The MS&AD Insurance Group holds target as below; Reduce CO2 emissions to 70% from the base year (ﬁscal 2009) in 2050, and reduce to 30% in 2020. For the target of “Ratio of females in managerial positions”, at the end of ﬁscal 2020, we hold target as below; * Group Domestic : Ratio of female managers up to 15% or more by the end of ﬁscal 2020 For the target of “Ratio of taking fully paid paternity/secondary leave”, at the end of ﬁscal 2021, MSI holds a target as below; MSI : 80% ESG Data / Reference Material 018 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG integration and sustainability approach ESG integration and sustainability approach The MS&AD Insurance Group always consider sustainability in terms of the environment, society, and governance (ESG) issues in all Group business activities, including the development of products and services, underwriting and investments. ESG­related impacts include infringements of human rights thatthreaten respect for basic human rights, deforestation due to illegal logging, and corruption and bribery that undermine economic growth and stability. Our companyʼs business activ ities could inﬂuence ESG factors, and our company itself could be inﬂuenced by ESG factors. While we respond to such ESG­related risks to ourselves, we have been discovering business opportunities in addressing ESG concerns, e.g. oﬀering automotive insurance with driving protection services to support safe driving, and thereby, reduce accidents, and using Big Data to present preventative measures against natural disaster. It is essential that we carefully assess ESG­related risks and opportunities, and reﬂect them inour business activities. We recognize the wide­ranging ESG risks such as legal risks, reputational risks, quality­related risks, business continuityrisks, operational risks, transition risks, ﬁnancial risks, etc., and these could potentially have a major impact on our companyʼs business activ ities and our stakeholders. Accordingly, we carefully identify such ESG­related risks to control them across our entire business activities. We give an overview of these approaches in our 〝P erspective of Sustainability of the MS&AD Insurance Group〟 that describes our policies on addressing ESG concerns. Our Sustainability Approach Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Signatory to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) The MS&AD Insurance Group has been seeking out what are the best practices for ﬁnancial institutions that take into account environmental and social sustainability, and it has been participating in the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) to disseminate and promote these best practices. Our company has signed on to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) published by UNEP FI, and we have been disclosing details on our initiatives and reporting on the progress made every year. We are also taking part in a PSI pilot project in which representatives from insurance companies meet to discuss the industryʼs approaches to the CFD T Final Recommendations and also working on disclosing information on climate change risks. In addition, in considering ESG, as an external standard and a source, our screening approach standard includes: UN Global Compact, UN Declaration of Human Rights, Guiding Principles for Corporate and Human Rights, International Labor Organization Standard, UN Anti­ Corruption It will be notiﬁed by the Convention and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Climate­related Financial Disclosure 019 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG integration and sustainability approach Development of Products and Services with Consideration for ESG The MS&AD Insurance Group has underwriting criteria adapted for respective product and service as part of risk assessment process. In each process, certain ESG criteria are considered such as natural catastrophe risks, involvement with anti­social forces or ethical risks, based on the nature of the risk. Comprehensive process including system veriﬁcation are properly implemented. Underwriting decision including the Boardʼs approval are made based on these risk evaluations. In association with underwriting products and services, we discuss general policy to handle ESG risks at the Sustainability Committee, and we evaluate and manage individual ESG risk at the Risk Management Committee.Both committees shall report their decisions and conclusions to the Board of Directors. In developing products and services, we examine the value to society and the value for our company generated by our products and services from various angles, and we strive to create value shared with society in providing these products and services. We have also developed a variety of sustainable products and services such as insurance or risk consulting services that support renewable energy projects, discounts to drivers who take a safe driving lecture aiming at reducing traﬃc accidents, and automotive insurance policies that allow the same­sexpartner to be beneﬁciaries to support diversity. In underwriting these products and services, all employees and agencies deepen their understanding of sustainability issues, including ESG risks, through trainings and other means, and to promote initiatives to realize a resilient and sustainable society with customers through dialogue. Additionally, in reviewing factors to be considered, we have referred to the UN Global Compact, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labour Organization Standards, the UN Convention against Corruption, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ESG-based Investments As a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), the MS&AD Insurance Group takes ESG issues into account for investments. Speciﬁcally, we incorporate ESG factors into responsible investment process and promote ESG­thematic investments on the basis of proﬁtability. In addition, MSI and ADI declared their acceptance of Japanʼs Stewardship Code, and hav e since engaged in constructive dialogues encompassing ESG issues with investee companies, to encourage them to take appropriate actions to increase medium­term corporate value by raising their awareness over ESG. 020 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG integration and sustainability approach Operating Scheme sample ESG investment methodologies as by our company 021 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG integration and sustainability approach Key Investments Invested in sustainable development bonds issued by the World Bank (International Bank for Investment in sustainable development Reconstruction and Development) （private placement: $120 million, or approximately 13.5 bonds billion yen). Invested in companies or projects that have positioned intelligent technologies, robotics, technologies useful in bringing about a hydrogen society, motorization, and new materials as Investment in Future Creation Fund core technologies, possessing innovative technologies in these ﬁelds. Investing in funds established by the Regional Economy Vitalization Corporation of Japan to quickly improve the management of companies that will occupy a core position within their Investment in Regional Economy communities and to foster key companies that sustain their communities. By doing so, we are Vitalization Corporation of Japan supporting the vitalization of regional economies. Financed the construction of mega­solar and wind power plants with the aim of promoting Financing for renewable energy power diﬀusion of renewable energy (FY2018, 5 billion yen). plants Supporting the growth and business vitalization of small and medium­sized enterprises by investing in Japanʼ s ﬁrst fund designed to provide risk money primarily through loans (fund Investment in loan origination funds for established by Topaz Capital, Inc.).(FY2016, 5.9billion yen). small and medium-sized enterprises Invested in Industrialize Africa themed bonds issued by the African Development Bank in Investment in African Development Bankʼs November 2017 (private placement)(FY2018, approx. 2.6 billion yen). Industrialize Africa bond Invested in green bonds/social bonds issued by Japanese companies in Japanese markets (FY2018, approx. 4 billion yen at MSI and ADI; FY2019, 16.5 billion yen at MSI, ADI, MSI Aioi Investment in green bonds/social bonds Life, and MSI Primary Life). Invested in ESG­based overseas real estate funds (FY2018, 5.5 billion yen). Investment in ESG-based real estate funds Made investments and loans for solar power, biomass, and wind­power projects to promote Investments and ﬁnancing in solar power, diﬀusion of renewable energy (FY2019, 14.7 billion yen). biomass and wind power generation Invested in sustainable development bonds issued by the Inter­American Development Bank. The proceeds from these bonds aim to support countries in their response to the COVID­19 Investment in Inter-American Development pandemic by providing support for public health, safety nets for vulnerable populations, Bank's sustainable development bonds productivity and employment, as well as ﬁscal policies for the amelioration of economic impacts (FY2020, approx. 3.6 billion yen). 022 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG integration and sustainability approach ESG Risk Evaluation Process In managing assets, we have a process in which ESG factors are assessed when making investments and providing loans. For example, we have integrated ESG risk assessments into their investment approach by performing ESG screenings on domestic shares, and when executing corporate loans inspecting their customers' ESG strategy and disclosures. In the context of stewardship activities, many dialogues have taken place with a focus on non­ﬁnancial factors including ESG concerns. Since FY2017, we have started to engage in more in­depth dialogues with the investees on ESG­related risks and shaping our approaches in linewith the Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation provided by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Additionally, in reviewing the process, we have referred to the UN Global Compact, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labour Organization Standards, the UN Convention against Corruption, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Implementation of Japanʼs Stewardship Code From the perspective of fulﬁlling their social responsibility as institutional investors, MSI and ADI have announced their support for Japanʼs Stewardship Code, a code of behavior laid out for institutional investors. In line with the Code, we carry out a constructive dialogue with investee companies to encourage them to enhance their medium­ andlong­term value and sustainable growth, and, through the dialogue, we focus on understanding their management issues, their shareholder return policy, ESG, and other non­ﬁnancial information. From July, 2019 to June, 2020, MSI and ADI conducted constructive 〟p urposeful dialogue〟with a total of 347 ﬁrms. MSI Our Policies According to Japanʼs Stewardship Code ADI Our Policies According to Japanʼs Stewardship Code (Japanese only ) External Assessment Investing methods that assess corporate sustainability from the standpoint of Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) are spreading. The MS&AD Insurance Group utilizes the assessments provided by major ESG evaluation organizations to improve its eﬀorts. As of November 2020, the Company is a constituent of the following ESG indices: Dow Jones Sustainability Indices CDP MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index (Japanese only) MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (Japanese only) FTSE4Good Index Series 023 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG integration and sustainability approach FTSE Blossom Japan Index ISS ESG Corporate Rating Prime STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index S&P/JPX Carbon Eﬃcient Index * THE INCLUSION OF The MS&AD Insurance Group IN ANY MSCI INDEXES, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF The MS&AD Insurance Group BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. 024 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Communication with Stakeholders Communication with Stakeholders We believe it is important to understand what our stakeholders expect and want from the Group and utilize this understanding to improve the quality of products and services in order to always be an enterprise group that is needed by society. The MS&AD Insurance Group has various systems to facilitate communication with our stakeholders and is working on incorporating the voices of the stakeholders into the Groupʼs management strategies. It is our role to provide the best solutions to the uncertainties and risks in society based on public expectations for the insurance and ﬁnancial services. In order to provide safety and security to people and support dynamic business activities and a healthy and productive life, we listen to the voices of our stakeholders and utilize them for quality improvement. In addition, we disclose our processes for understanding the received feedback, their contents and the results of the improvement eﬀorts made towards them, and make all of the information available for public inspection on our website and others. The MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications was formulated with the aim of receiving a wide variety of feedback from customers, including inquiries, requests, and grievances, among others, to be utilized for quality improvement. To oﬀer products and services that satisfy customers as required by this basic policy, domestic Group insurance companies have formulated a “Customer-ﬁrst Policy in the Business Operations” to help them extensively listen to the voices of customers and make continuous eﬀorts to improve the quality of our products and services, as well as our operations. Customers Furthermore, we endeavor to understand our stakeholdersʼ needs and expectations, and for this end, together with management level discussions, have constructed various schemes that help to improve the quality of the products and services we oﬀer. Quality that Earns the Trust of Society Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We are conducting IR activities in accordance with our basic policy to win the trust of shareholders and investors, and to enable our Groupʼs corporate value to be fairly evaluated. The MS&AD Insurance Group proactively engages in highly transparent information disclosure and constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors in an eﬀort to achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value. Shareholders Speciﬁcally, through highly transparent information disclosure, the MS&AD Insurance Group seeks to reduce information asymmetry with shareholders and investors. The feedback gained from the constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors is shared with management and the relevant departments to be utilized in the formulation of management strategies. Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) 025 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Communication with Stakeholders By maintaining eﬀective communication with agents, who are our business partners, and by thinking and acting together, the MS&AD Insurance Group aims to oﬀer quality service and optimal insurance products to our customers. In this way, we also encourage the Group companies and agents to grow together. We intend to further strengthen communication with agents by providing support to various initiatives aimed at bolstering the agent organizationsʼ growth and contributions to various local and social activities. Agents Furthermore, due to the growth of the agentsʼ businesses, dedicated full-time staﬀ members with expertise provide overall management support to agentsʼ, including in growth strategies, maintenance of systems, and staﬀ education through training and one-to-one meetings, thereby improving the agentsʼ management base and the quality of their products and services. Quality that Earns the Trust of Society We will conduct fair and equitable transactions with integrity and endeavor to achieve sustainable development as well as to fulﬁll our corporate social responsibilities. The MS&AD Insurance Group, in line with the ISO14001, explains its Group Environmental Basic Policy to business partners and asks for their cooperation. Furthermore, Business Partners The MS&AD Insurance Group supports its business partnersʼ initiatives towards the environment, including the acquisition of Eco Action 21 certiﬁcation, a simpliﬁed version of the environmental ISO certiﬁcation. Transaction Responsibilities ・Each year, the MS&AD Insurance Group carries out an employee engagement survey covering topics such as those to ascertain the degree of diﬀusion of the Group Mission, Vision, and Values; the degree of unity within the Group; and whether employees feel a strong sense of motivation. ・A “speak up” system encouraging whistleblowing has been put in place, creating an environment in which employees can frankly and proactively share their views on any problems they perceive and raise their concerns. Employees ・A message board was established on the intranet to collect the views and improvement proposals from employees in order to incorporate them into quality improvement. The opinions are reviewed at each headquarters division and the feedback is given based on the results. ・Through the exchange of opinions between management-level executives and employees, we continue to make eﬀorts to leverage employee feedback in business operations. As a member of both the local and international communities, the MS&AD Insurance Group takes part in the initiatives listed below, makes eﬀorts to understand the diversifying sustainability issues, and continues to take relevant actions. Paris Pledge for Action United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) [Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA)] Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Final Recommendation Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) Local Communities and International Society Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) With regard to social contribution activities conducted through our main business, including our insurance business, employees engage in contribution activities for environmental conservation and local communities to support their sustainable development. Furthermore, through the MS&AD Unison Smile Club, a social contribution group created by the employees of the MS&AD Insurance Group, we conduct various social contribution activities in collaboration with non-proﬁt organizations and donation to meet local needs through dialogue with local governments, etc. MS&AD's Story of Value Creation and Business Models Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” Initiative 026 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Communication with Stakeholders We have developed the Group Environmental Basic Policy and are implementing various initiatives. The MS&AD Insurance Group will continue to contribute to the solution of environmental issues through various actions, such as signing the Paris Pledge for Action, and participation in a wide range of initiatives including the UN Global Compact, Principles of Sustainable Insurance, and Natural Capital Declaration. In addition, we analyzed what is the role of corporations in the 2030 Agenda for SDGs (Sustainable The Environment Developmental Goals), and reﬂected them in our Medium-term Management Plan, “Vision 2021”. As a global insurance and ﬁnancial services provider, we will continue to work on promoting initiatives from a global standpoint to push for the sustainability of the global environment. Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaption Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital 027 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities Our Sustainability Priorities Increasingly frequent and intense natural disasters caused by climate change are a risk shared by the entire planet, and non-life insurance companies, which are deeply involved in responding to such disasters, are concerned about a deterioration of the global insurance system due to an increase in claim payouts. The MS&AD Insurance Group endorses the Paris Agreement, aimed at resolving climate change issues and is ratiﬁed by countries around the world, and in December 2015 the Group signed on to the Paris Pledge for Action to declare its commitment toward this aim. Our lifestyles as well as economic activities dependent on natural resources, such as water and lumber, as well as on the resources provided by plant, animal and other ecosystems that will be considerably impacted by the degeneration of ecosystems and the depletion of natural resources. In July 2016, the Group signed the Natural Capital Declaration in support of its assertion that ﬁnancial institutions should incorporate the idea of “natural capital” into their ﬁnancial products and services going forward in the 21st century. We have been helping to improve the resilience of customers and the society by providing risk management and insurance products that guard against the risks of climate change and natural capital degradation, and engaging in eﬀorts to reduce our own greenhouse gas emissions. Additionally, we signed the UN Global Compact and voiced our support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in June 2004, and ever since have adopted approaches in line with the ILO Core Labor Standards and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In February 2017, we established the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights to better fulﬁll the obligation that companies have to respect human rights. We recognize that we are liable for the observable and potential adverse impacts of our business activities, including those throughout our value chains, and we have been undertaking activities and engaged in dialogues that manifest our respect for human rights. The following three issues need to be resolved by realizing a resilient and sustainable society and, given their major impact on our Group and society as a whole, they have been designated as priority issues for our Group. Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural and Adaptation Capital Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights 028 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Aspirations With the adoption of the 2015 Paris Agreement, a framework agreement on climate change, governments around the world agreed to keep the increase in the global average temperature well-below 2ºC from pre-Industrial Revolution levels, and to work to limit this increase to 1.5ºC. To that end, the worldʼs greenhouse gas emissions must be peaked out as soon as possible and then reach a balance with greenhouse gas absorption (forests, etc.) in the second half of the 21st century. A transition to a decarbonized society, with substantial reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, should be made in adapting to climate change. As an insurer, the MS&AD Insurance Group is addressing the accumulation risks of cumulative damage due to natural disasters while promptly ascertaining social changes to advance the level of its own risk management. We are working to reduce the environmental burden accompanying our business activities with a target at 70% reduction by FY2050 using FY2009 as a benchmark year. Furthermore, we will continue to support sustainable development by providing insurance and consulting services designed to reduce damage and loss incurred in corporate and other activities due to abnormal weather stemming from climate change, and by developing products/services that help advance the transition to a decarbonized society. Climate-related Financial Disclosure To achieve a “Resilient and Sustainable Society”, the MS&AD Insurance Group is tackling climate changes mitigation and adaptation through Creating Shared Value (CSV initiative) . Because climate change may bring serious impact on society and industry and may constitute a major factor behind the ﬂuctuations in corporate performance, companies' disclosure regarding the impacts of climate change on their business activities is becoming more important than ever. Our Group endorses the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and promotes the disclosure of ﬁnancial information. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Creating Shared Value Advanced climate change may bring unprecedented tremendous disaster by weather events with growth in frequency and magnitude. In addition to such large, intense disasters, slower changes in weather patterns will destabilize business activities and day-to-day living, causing both physical and economic harm. Natural disasters are an enormous risk confronting the entire planet, and insurers closely involved in responding to such disasters are concerned that more expensive insurance payment could lead to a degradation of the global insurance system. We must make eﬀorts to mitigate advancing climate change while also putting measures in place to prepare for rising risks. The Group will provide society with safety and security through adequate preparations, including reinsurance for damage from large-scale disasters. We will also support new businesses that promote climate change adaptation by providing suitable services to reduce or eliminate damage and loss inﬂicted on customers by natural disasters and that help bring about a decarbonized society. 029 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Identifying and providing Preventing risks from being realized Reducing the economic burden information on risks Reducing the impact of risks when risks materialize Risk analysis based on the impacts of climate change Proposals for risk management measures based on Provision of needed risk coverage (Analysis examples) survey/analysis ﬁndings (Coverage example) ・Risk assessments based on long-term ﬂooding (Proposal example) ・Coverage for the risk of lower sales due to the forecasts ・Examining countermeasures based on simulations suspension of business operations or the closure of ・Quantitative assessments based on multi-hazard of business operations being suspended facilities, predictions due to large-scale weather disasters and for the risk of higher expenses incurred, ・Future business risks connected with the transition for example, due to restoration eﬀorts after system to a decarbonized society breakdowns ・Risk of water depletion at business locations engaged in businesses that use large volumes of water ・Real-time damage prediction for natural disasters Providing Services and Research Related to Climate Change Risk Assessments and Analyses Given the need to adapt to new risks arising from climate change, assessment/analysis of climate change risks have become essential. Our Group is stepping up its initiatives to assess/analyze climate change risks. Risks that should be ascertained by companies are physical risks, such as ﬂooding and droughts, stemming from climate change and transition risks in the course of transition to a decarbonized society in line with Paris Agreement, including changes in the energy structure. We provide services that support our clients building a climate change governance structure, performing scenario analysis, and developing climate strategy in accordance with the TCFDʼs Final Recommendations through assessment and analysis of such risks. In July 2020, we launched a Climate change risk analysis service quantitative analysis service to assess the impact of natural catastropfe risks stemming from climate change on a global scale with a precision of 90 square meters. Climate change risk analysis service (Japanese only) We launched a climate change impact assesmenst service for TCFD with Jupiter Intelligence, the climate change risk analysis venture. The MS&AD Insurance Group and MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting have teamed up with the University of Tokyo and the Shibaura Institute of Technology to undertake a Large-scale Assessment of Flood Risk Due to Climate Change (LaRC-Flood™) and published a Map of Forecasted Flood Frequency Change Due to Climate Change as part of this project. To clarify the relation between climate change and ﬂooding risk, we have also begun extensively and quantitatively evaluating the Provision of Prediction Map Showing Changes in impacts of global warming on the probability of past ﬂoods occurring, with a focus on the major rivers in Asia. Flood Frequencies Advancing climate change could increase ﬂood risk globally in future, which would have a major impact on corporate management. As an insurer, the MS&AD Insurance Group will strive to respond to natural catastrophes and prevent/mitigate damage from these disasters. Climate change in particular has long been an issue of interest for the Group as a whole, and we have been pursuing an industry-government-academia collaboration to resolve social issues and bring about our vision of an ideal society. LaRC-Flood map (Japanese only) 030 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Providing Coverage We are assisting economic revitalization and climate change mitigation and adaptation through appropriate preparations for damage/loss caused by natural catastropfes as well as innovations to bring about a decarbonized society by oﬀering insurance and consulting services in addition to developing and providing products that reduce environmental burden. We support dissemination of renewable energies that help the transition to a carbon-free society through various types of insurance products that comprehensively cover a variety of risks (including property damage, lost proﬁts and liability) surrounding renewable energy developers (e.g. solar power, wind power, biomass power, and small and medium-sized hydropower), and risk management services such as risk assessment/consulting and the provision of information through handbooks and other means. Products that support renewable energy businesses The number of new policies for the Comprehensive Coverage Plan for Mega-Solar Power Generation increased by 53% compared to the ﬁscal 2018 Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We sell weather derivatives to lessen the ﬁnancial losses due to unseasonable weather. We provide solutions by underwriting weather derivatives that cover decreased sales and increased expenses stemming from belowaverage (or above-average) rainfall levels, extreme heat, unusually cool summers, severe winters, warmer-thanWeather derivatives normal winters, or a lack of sunshine. InterRisk Sustainable Management Report (Japanese only) PDF We continue to participate in the Paciﬁc Catastrophe Risk Assessment and Financing Initiative, jointly established in 2013 by the Japanese government and the World Bank, as a company underwriting reinsurance for natural catastropfe risks. Furthermore, in 2020, we participated in the “Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility Participation in publicly funded natural disaster (CCRIF).” This system allows prompt supply of relief funding to Caribbean and Paciﬁc Island nations with compensation scheme in overseas underdeveloped insurance markets hit by natural disasters of a certain scale (cyclones, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis). Eﬀorts to Reduce the Burden on the Environment To reduce environmental impacts from our business activities, we have established a Basic Policy on the Environment and we are implementing environmental protection initiatives with applying the PDCA cycle. Environmental Management Considering environmental issues as a priority issue for corporate management, we are actively pursuing environmental eﬀorts aimed at creating a decarbonized society in accordance with the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment. These eﬀorts are being carried out in line with the Code of Conduct set out in the Environmental Basic Policy which combines ISO14001 certiﬁcation, the international standard for environmental management systems, with the MS&AD OUR EARTH Project, the Groupʼs own management system. Basic Policy on the Environment ISO14001 Management System Registration Certiﬁcate PDF 031 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Reducing CO2 Emissions With our support for the Paris Agreement adopted in 2015, we have signed the Paris Pledge for Action that calls on its signatories to address climate change and global warming. In keeping with this pledge, we have formulated CO2 emission reduction targets for FY2020 and FY2050 for the Group as a whole. As an insurance/ﬁnance group doing business globally, we are mobilizing the entire Group to pro-actively reduce its CO2 emissions. Mid-term Target Decreasing Paper Use We substantially reduce the environmental burden through less paper use by computerizing insurance contract and payment procedures, etc., and making electronic policy certiﬁcates, terms, and conditions accessible on the Internet. Promoting the Use of FSC-Certiﬁed paper * Our Group has been making a switchover to FSC-Certiﬁed paper for pamphlets and other printed material since FY2010. Using paper made with lumber sourced from properly managed forests, we contribute to conserve biodiversity through forest protection. (*) Paper manufactured from lumber sourced from properly managed forests in the interest of sustainable forest use and environmental conservation Eﬀorts Across the Value Chain Our eﬀorts to reduce the environmental burden are also promoted in conjunction with key business partners. We are engaged in green purchasing, prioritizing eco-friendly products in procuring the materials used in our operations, and our entire value chain is working to establish a sustainable society. 032 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation We have provided a program to obtain certiﬁcation under the EcoAction 21 environmental management system advocated by the Ministry of the Environment to our agents and small and medium-sized corporate clients. Support for Certiﬁcation under EcoAction 21 We are promoting the dissemination of eco-maintenance and eco-vehicle inspections through Advance Club, an agent organization based around the automobile maintenance industry. Eco-friendly vehicle maintenance and inspection uses maintenance technologies primarily to clean the engineʼs combustion chambers by special Eco-maintenance and Eco-inspection methods (engine cleaning) thereby reducing toxic gas emissions, improving fuel eﬃciency and helping to reduce CO2 emissions by reducing fuel use. We prepare and propose support tools to promote Eco-Safety Driving, an eco-friendly approach designed to reduce fuel costs and vehicle accidents. Eco-Safety Driving We are encouraging the use of paperless insurance policy and policy clause. MSI and ADI also make a donation to environmental conservation activities based on a number of eco-insurance policies and Web policy caluses chosen by customers. Eco-insurance policies, Web policy clauses (MSA Life Insurance oﬀers Web policy only) MSI Green Power supporter, eco-insurance policies /Web policy (Japanese only) ADI paperless insurance policy certiﬁcates, and Web policy (Japanese only) MSI Aioi Life Insurance Web policy (Japanese only) Participation in the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) The CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) is an independent nonproﬁt organization with the world's largest database for corporate measures against climate changes, and corporations and organizations across the world have disclosed their greenhouse gas emissions and measures against climate change through CDP. The MS&AD Insurance Group subscribes to CDPʼs approaches and continuously submits new data. 033 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Basic Policy on the Environment Basic Policy on the Environment The MS&AD Insurance Group has established the following Environmental Basic Policy. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment Under its Group Mission Statement, “Through our insurance and ﬁnancial service businesses, bringing security and safety to people and businesses around the world and making a lasting contribution to the enrichment of society,” the MS&AD Insurance Group has made the environment a part of its corporate strategy. The Group has established the following Key Issues and is advancing eﬀorts in these areas in line with the Standards of Conduct listed below. The Group is committed to ongoing improvement through its environmental management system, and to abiding by environmentrelated laws and regulations, and the principles and guidelines agreed to by all members of the MS&AD Insurance Group. 1. Key Issues （1）Mitigation of and adaptation to climate change （2）Sustainable use of resources （3）Reduction of environmental burden （4）Preservation of biodiversity 2. Standards of Conduct （1）Initiatives via our insurance and ﬁnancial services We will create insurance and ﬁnancial services that contribute to the Key Issues, and work to resolve social issues and thus enhance corporate value. （2）Initiatives as part of the business process Through an innovative reassessment of our business processes, we will work to enhance quality and improve business operations while making more eﬃcient use of resources and energy. （3）Environmental awareness and protection activities By raising environmental awareness among all of our executives and employees, our communities and the next generation, we will work with stakeholders to promote environmental protection activities, gaining their trust and building sympathy for these issues. We will work to ensure that all executives and employees of the MS&AD Insurance Group are familiar with this Environmental Basic Policy, which we are also disclosing to the public. Established April 1, 2010 Revised April 1, 2016 Revised March 1, 2019 034 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate-related Financial Disclosure Climate-related Financial Disclosure Climate-related Financial Disclosure Because climate change has a signiﬁcant impact on society and industry, we recognize that disclosing tne impact of climate change on buisiness activities is essential for the stability of society and the ﬁnancial system. The MS&AD Insurance Group endorses tne Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and promotes the disclosure of ﬁnancial information. What is TCFD? (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) (Japanese only) Governance: Climate-related Internal Control To achieve a “Resilient and Sustainable Society,” the MS&AD Insurance Group is tackling climate change mitigation and adaptation through Creating Shared Value (CSV) initiatives. Promotion and monitoring of these initiatives is discussed by the Board of Directors, the Group Management Committee and Task-Speciﬁc Committees. The Board of Directors discusses and determines important matters such as management strategies and capital policies including climaterelated matters and supervises the execution of duties by Directors and Executive Oﬃcers. The Group Management Committee discusses important matters such as management policies and strategies that include the recognition of climate-related issues and initiatives, and monitors the execution of tasks by Executive Oﬃcers. Climate-related issues and progress with initiatives are reported to both the Board of Directors and the Group Management Committee after discussions primarily by the Sustainability Committee and Risk Management Committee (respectively four times annually). The CFO, receiving reports on climate related updates and information from the Corporate Planning Department, operates the Sustainability Committee, which discusses initiatives and plans. The Chief Risk Oﬃcer, receiving reports on climate-related risks from risk management departments, operates the Risk Management Committee, which monitors risk, return, capital and the status of risk management, and discusses and coordinates important matters. Internal Control 035 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate-related Financial Disclosure Strategy: Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Climate change poses risks in such areas as rapid social and economic changes resulting from the increasing scale of natural disasters and the transition to a carbon-free society. While ensuring ﬁnancial soundness and stable proﬁts, the Group undertakes duties of insurance claims for damage caused by natural disasters such as typhoons and ﬂoods in the form of insurance payments. At the same time, we are pursuing initiatives for disaster prevention and mitigation both in Japan and overseas. In addition, we are contributing to the realization of a resilient and sustainable society by promoting eﬀorts to support the development of new technologies to reduce the risk of climate change and eﬀorts to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities. [Climate-Related Risks] Sometimes damage from natural disasters such as typhoons becomes huge and increases the amount of insurance payouts. If the impact of climate change worsens major natural disasters, there is a risk that insurance payments will be large. The Group prepares for such payments through reinsurance, catastrophe bond arrangements and maintaining appropriate catastrophe reserves. In ﬁscal 2019, the common reinsurance special contracts newly entered into by Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance worked eﬀectively, and we were able to secure stable proﬁts for the ﬁscal year. We will continue to control the retained amount of natural catastrophe risk, considering the eﬀects of climate change, while securing the capital necessary to maintain ﬁnancial soundness. We are also promoting reform of our business portfolio by expanding earnings in the international and life insurance businesses. Through the geographic and business diversiﬁcation of these businesses, we are working to build a more stable earnings base and increase resilience to large-scale natural disasters. In addition, in preparation for frequent natural disasters, we are utilizing digital technology to build a system that allows customers who have suﬀered damage to receive insurance payouts as soon as possible. We have also started a new loss survey method using drones and AI. In addition to the occurrence of natural disasters, the Group recognizes that climate change could have the following mediumto long-term eﬀects. Changes in weather such as little rain, drought and reduced water supply Tightening environmental regulations and progress of technological innovation to tackle the advance and impact of climate change Increase in litigation related to environmental disasters Increases in reinsurance premiums due to frequent natural disasters and growth in the scale of such disasters Increase in the incidence of heat stroke and infectious diseases due to rising temperatures Changes in the industrial structure aimed at realizing a carbon-free society Deterioration in investment returns in sectors aﬀected by rising carbon prices and reduced demand for fossil fuels While recognizing increasing risks in such areas, we are monitoring their impact on the Groupʼs business and utilizing them in our business strategies. We have also started dialogue with investee companies on the impact of climate-related risks on business activities. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance, via Singapore-domiciled special-purpose company Akibare Re Pte. Ltd. in March 2020 issued catastrophe bond Akibare Re 2020-1 (issue amount US$100 million), which will provide MSI with protection against typhoon risk and ﬂood risk in Japan. Akibare Re 2020-1 catastrophe bond The frequency of large-scale natural disasters is raising uncertainty for the reinsurance market. Therefore, it has been decided to issue the bond to secure long-term stable cover by diversifying reinsurance procurement methods while reducing its net retained risk amount. 036 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate-related Financial Disclosure [Climate-Related Opportunities] Based on the MS&AD Groupʼs Story of Value Creation, we have been promoting Creating Shared Value (CSV) initiatives under our medium-term management plan “Vision 2021” from ﬁscal 2018. We have positioned “contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation” as one of our seven key CSV initiatives. 1. Identify and inform on risks Addressing climate change is an important issue for sustainable business development, and we are analyzing the mediumto long-term risks of climate change. The Group also provides risk consulting services related to climate change and support for the formulation of strategy and information disclosure. Free provision of the website “Prediction Map Showing Changes in Flood Frequencies” “Climate change risk analysis service” that assesses and analyzes the physical risks related to climate change and the business risks associated with the transition to a decarbonized society. In June 2020, we began oﬀering, in partnership with Jupiter Intelligence of the United States, the “Climate Change Impact Assessment Service for TCFD,” a global climate change impact assessment service. A service for the analysis and evaluation of future water-related risks (e.g., water depletion, water pollution, ﬂoods) 2. Prevent risks from occurring/Minimize the impact Physical risks such as extreme weather and natural disasters will increase as the average global temperature rises. We are striving to provide information and risk consulting services to prevent or minimize losses when these risks become reality. We oﬀer a “Weather Information Alert Service” that provides weather information relating to customersʼ speciﬁed business locations and sends out alert e-mail messages. Our smartphone app “Suma-Ho Disaster Navigator” helps users to remain safe and secure during large-scale natural disasters. Initiatives to use RisTech for disaster prevention/mitigation Launch of a real-time loss prediction website “cmap.dev,” which predicts the number of buildings damaged due to typhoons, heavy rains and earthquakes 3. Reduce the economic burden when risks materialize It is the mission of insurance companies to promptly cover customersʼ ﬁnancial losses in the event of a natural disaster and to help them restore their lives and resume their businesses. To fulﬁll that mission, we are working to provide products that meet the needs of our customers. We have been promoting ﬂood and earthquake preparedness activities to explain to customers the risks of water disasters and earthquakes and prepare them for natural disasters by encouraging them to reappraise the risks they face. We sell weather derivatives to lessen the ﬁnancial losses due to unseasonable weather. We are one of the underwriters for natural disaster risk under a natural disaster insurance facility established to provide reconstruction funds promptly to aﬀected countries/regions in cases when natural disasters of a certain scale occur in Paciﬁc Island and Caribbean countries. We provide insurance for renewable energy including mega-solar and small-scale wind power projects. We provide accident prevention and maintenance support for eﬃcient power generation by diagnosing the business and maintenance risks of renewable energy. Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Strive for Resilient Community Development 037 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate-related Financial Disclosure [Scenario Analysis : Strategic resilience in diverse scenarios] The TCFD recommends scenario analysis, which analyzes the impact of climate change on businesses based on future scenarios. Our initiatives are as follows. We have been participating in a project led by the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), with more than 20 signatory insurance companies of the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), from its inception. The project is working on the development of scenario analysis methods for insurers. With reference to the latest climate science and looking at future time frames such as 2030 and 2050, development of analysis methods for assessing the impacts of typhoon physical risks are discussed. We have also begun calculating our own carbon footprint and carrying out scenario analyses of our asset management portfolio. Risk Management : Appropriate management of identiﬁed risks (ERM cycle for climate-related risks) The MS&AD Insurance Group has established the MS&AD Insurance Group Risk Management Basic Policy. The policy identiﬁes the principal types of risk with an impact on the Groupʼs business. Based on the ERM cycle, those risks are managed in light of capital and balance with proﬁtability. In addition, climate-related risks are reported to and discussed at the Risk Management Committee and then reported to the Board of Directors and the Group Management Committee. 038 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate-related Financial Disclosure 1. Managing natural-disaster-related risks With respect to risk relating to windstorms and ﬂoods in Japan and the United States, we set the upper limit (risk limit) of the amount for Group companies based on the losses that can occur with a probability of once in 200 years. In addition to risk measurement of natural disasters and stress tests of large-scale natural disasters, we are undertaking studies on methods of incorporating the eﬀects of climate change into stress tests and methods of quantifying the eﬀects of climate change. When various stress events occur, we conduct stress tests to conﬁrm the eﬀects of various stress events on capital and risk amounts. In the stress tests, to complement the limitations of risk measurement by statistical Stress tests methods, we select scenarios based on information about the Groupʼs portfolio and risk characteristics and on signiﬁcant changes in the external environment. In this way, we identify the vulnerability of the portfolio and conﬁrm the necessity and urgency of countermeasures. 2. Controlling the retained amount of natural catastrophe risk We assess the risk amount using statistical methods by region and disaster. Based on this assessment, we maintain decent underwriting, arrange reinsurance, issue catastrophe bonds and provide catastrophe reserve. Through these measures, we are working to improve the ﬁnancial soundness of the entire Group and to reduce the variable risks of periodic proﬁt/loss. ●Lower natural catastrophe retention on a Group-wide basis Lower natural catastrophe retention including that for windstorms and ﬂoods in the United States Strengthen management of the proﬁtability of the reinsurance business ●Reduce the risk of proﬁt ﬂuctuations In addition to respective reinsurance coverage of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance for domestic natural catastrophes, we arrange for joint reinsurance treaty coverage shared by the two companies that covers annual aggregate losses. By such means, we are reducing the risk of proﬁt ﬂuctuations. This functioned eﬀectively with respect to the occurrence of domestic natural disasters in ﬁscal 2019, and we have organized the same level of reinsurance in ﬁscal 2020. We are promoting dialogue with investee companies to promote climate-related information disclosure. We are also considering dialogue methods for sustainability issues including climate-related issues. Metrics and Targets : Establishing metrics and targets for managing risk As a monitoring indicator for our contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation, the Group has prioritized Creating shared value (CSV initiatives). The results of these approaches are being reﬂected in the performance-based compensation of the companyʼs internal directors. 1. Creating shared value (CSV initiatives) metrics We have set monitoring indicators for development and improvement of products related to our contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation. We calculate the economic impact on the Company and the impact on society from our CSV initiatives. The results of these approaches are being reﬂected in the performance-based compensation of the companyʼs internal directors. 2. Metrics and targets for initiatives to reduce the environmental burden through business activities The Group is working to reduce the environmental impact of its business activities by using reduction rates for total energy consumption and for CO2 emissions as monitoring indicators. Our aim is to reduce CO2 emissions by 30% by 2020 and by 70% by 2050. In ﬁscal 2019, the reduction rate for total energy consumption was 33.4% and the reduction rate for CO2 emissions was 20.7% (versus the base year of ﬁscal 2009). We are striving to reduce total paper consumption and contribute to the sustainable use of natural resources. In addition, we have started measuring the carbon footprint (CO2 equivalent greenhouse gas emissions from business activities) of investee companies and have begun studying the utilization of this information. 039 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate­related Financial Disclosure [Related Information] Impact of CSV Initiatives on society and our company Mid­term Target Targets (KPI) and Results ERM and Risk Management MS&AD Integrated Report 2020 impact of natural catastrophes on underwritting proﬁt P126 PDF ESG­based Investments CO2 Emissions in Business Activities 040 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Aspirations Our lifestyles and economic activities are made possible thanks to the bounties of nature (ecosystem services) which rely on a stock of natural capital. Resilient and Sustainable Society can only come about if its foundations are rooted in the global environment in through natural capital and stable weather systems and other factors. The sustainability of society as a whole including companies depends on business models that integrate the sustainability of natural capital. The MS&AD Insurance Group is working to ensure sustainable relationship between natural capital and business activities. Identify and inform on risks Prevent risks from occurring/minimize the impact Reduce the economic burden Assessing risks, including the depletion/degradation Proposals on risk management measures based on Provision of risk coverage of natural capital research/analysis ﬁndings (Coverage example) (Analysis examples) (Proposal example) ・Expenses incurred during recall when a ・Future risk of water depletion at business facilities ・Consultation on land use that considers local sustainability certiﬁcation of the used materials is that use large volumes of water ecosystems revoked and expenses needed for apology ・Assessment of the sustainability of supply chains which primarily depends on natural resources Providing Solutions and Products Project businesses undertaken both inside and outside Japan, as well as global supply chains have the potential to cause major losses to natural capital. It is thus important to analyze/assess the impact of business activities on natural capital and to take the steps necessary to establish a sustainable relationship between the two. Risk Assessment Service for Natural Capital We quantitatively assess the impact of project development business in Japan and overseas on natural capital. Focusing on business locations and project development in Japan and overseas, we support speciﬁc risk assessment that ascertains the value of the surrounding natural capital and determines where and what kind of impact natural capital is being impacted in the supply chains, and apply this information to its business decisions. We support eﬀorts to adopt “natural capital accounting” that highlights the connections between natural capital and the business as a whole. Provision of Simpliﬁed Evaluations of Water-related Risks An increasing number of areas worldwide are experiencing depletion of their water resources due to climate change, population increases in developing countries, economic development and other factors. In some cases, this depletion has been serious enough to threaten companiesʼ operations. Companies now need to identify and disclose their own water risks. We oﬀer services for assessing the water risks (depletion, contamination, ﬂooding/droughts, etc.) business locations face inside and outside Japan. 041 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Environmental Supply Chain Consulting Establishing a sustainable raw material procurement network is a key business challenge in realizing sustainable business activities. We conduct environmental business risk analyses of raw material procurement tailored to speciﬁc industry sectors, and support approach prioritization and the formulation of supply chain management activities. Biodiversity-conscious Land-use Consulting A growing number of companies which see eﬀorts to conserve biodiversity as both risks and opportunities for their businesses have begun to take biodiversity into account in determining their businessesʼ land use. We oﬀer comprehensive support ranging from research/analysis to the formulation of development/activity plans for the use of oﬃces, apartment buildings, and other land with green spaces. Preserving Conserving Biodiversity through Partnerships and Industry-Academia Collaboration Our lifestyles and economic activities are made possible thanks to the bounties of nature (ecosystem services), underpinned by a biodiversity conserved natural capital. The sustainability of society as a whole including companies depends on business models that consider biodiversity. Our Group has made biodiversity conservation one of key issues in MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment and is pursuing measures accordingly. Natural Capital Finance Alliance In July 2016 our Group signed the Natural Capital Declaration, which calls on ﬁnancial institutions to incorporate the concept of “natural capital” into their ﬁnancial products and services, and we have been taking part in the Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA). 042 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) and “The Story of Biodiversity Told by Companies” In regards to conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of biological resources, MS&AD Holdings has been serving as the chair company of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), which brings companies together for joint research projects on biodiversity, since JBIBʼs founding in April 2008. In March 2020, we hosted the “The Story of Biology Told by Companies” symposium for the 13th time, creating an opportunity to provide information on corporate eﬀorts for biodiversity. Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) oﬃcial website 2018 “The Story of Biology Told by Companies” symposium (Japanese only) 2019 “The Story of Biology Told by Companies” symposium 2020 “The Story of Biology Told by Companies” symposium(Japanese only) JBIB logo Participation in Research on Ecosystem Disaster Prevention/Mitigation and Multifaceted Uses of Ecosystems MS&AD Holdings is participating in Research and Social Implementation of Ecosystem-based Disaster Risk Reduction (Eco-DRR) as Climate Change Adaptation in Shrinking Societies , a research project being conducted by Research Institute for Humanity and Nature, an interuniversity research institute corporation under the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology that is engaged in comprehensive research on the global environment. The project focuses on methods for utilizing the wide-ranging functions of ecosystems to prevent/mitigate disasters (Eco-DRR) and, with population decline being seen as an opportunity to revamp land use, research is being carried out to create local communities that can both enjoy the rich blessings of nature and prevent/mitigate disasters. On December 4th, 2019, as a part of the research activity, we hosted the “Eco-DRR x Finance and Insurance, Learnt from advanced case studies towards naturally rich and resilient society” symposium and introduced two practices; insurance for coral reef in Mexico and bond for resilient forest in the United States at the symposium. For further details of the symposium, please visit the link below. Symposium details（Japanese only） PDF In November 2019, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance concluded a partnership agreement with Kumamoto City, and has been working on projects for local economy vitalization and disaster prevention by utilizing regional nature, including the creation of the “green resilience potential map,” which is a tool to integrate, share, and analyze various regional data such as hazard information obtained through GIS ( Geographic Information System ). 043 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Environmental Conservation Eﬀorts within the Group We are actively engaged in internal education to the Group employees as well as our own environmental conservation eﬀorts. Support for the Regeneration of Forests and Formation of Sustainable Local Communities (Indonesia) Over the past 15 years, starting in FY2005, we have been working with the Indonesian government to restore wildlife reserve forests and to recover tropical forests in the Special Region of Yogyakarta on Java Island. We have also been endeavoring to stimulate the local economy by, for instance, planting trees to revive degraded forests, and to form sustainable local communities, maintaining/managing protected forests and pursuing cooperative forestation eﬀorts with local residents by oﬀering them technical guidance on planting and cultivating trees. Indonesia Reforestation Project Nursery-trees being received by participants of resident cooperative planting Environmental education by a professor of Gadjah Mada University MS&AD Ramsar Supporters Group employees and their family members have been involved since FY2010 in the environmental conservation eﬀorts of wetlands, including those that have been registered under the Ramsar Convention. We also oﬀer visiting lectures to schools to communicate the rich biodiversity of wetlands to the students. Activities in Yatsu tidal ﬂat (Chiba Prefecture) Ramsar Supporters activities (Japanese only) 044 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Surugadai Green Spaces The Surugadai Building and the Surugadai New Annex are highly regarded for their green spaces that reﬂect our consideration for biodiversity. On the grounds, there is ECOM Surugadai , an open facility to the community, where activities such as communication of environmental information and workshops. Surugadai Building Green Space Eﬀorts to Reduce Plastic Use As marine pollution becomes serious, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance has stopped using plastic cups and straws in its employee cafeterias since August 2018 in order to reduce the use of plastic and educate employees regarding the problem of marine plastic waste. In July 2019, Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance installed water stands with direct faucets to promote the use of personal water bottles. Furthermore, in July 2020, to reduce the use of plastic during work hours, we provided Group employees with original eco-bags as a alternative to plastic Eco-bag distributed within the company shopping bags and special stickers to promote the use of private bottle by attaching the sticker to the bottle. Introducing Sustainable Seafood In October 2019, we introduced sustainable seafood* in the cafeterias of the Surugadai Building and Surugadai Annex. Every month, a “Sustainable Seafood Day” is scheduled to provide menus using sustainable seafood. It contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by oﬀering employees to gain experience of sustainable eﬀort and changing in their consumption behavior through actual tasting. (*) Sustainable seafood refers to seafood that has been certiﬁed for sustainable production (ﬁshing and aquaculture), as well as management and traceability in the processing, distribution, and sales processes. 045 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Aspirations In June 2004, the MS&AD Insurance Group proclaimed its support for the United Nations Global Compact and is advancing its approaches for the respect of human rights as a company that supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Core Labor Standards, and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises through its participation in the United Nations Global Compact. In addition, the MS&AD Insurance Group formulated the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights in February 2017 to further fulﬁll its responsibilities towards respecting human rights. The Policy applies not only to our Group but also to other stakeholders in the Groupʼs value chain, including suppliers related to the procurement of services and business partners such as agents. We are engaging with our stakeholders in order to prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on human rights from businesses activities. Basic Policy on Human Rights The MS&AD Insurance Group stipulates respect for human rights in its MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights The MS&AD Insurance Group is committed to enhancing the enterprise value and contributing to the creation of a sustainable and resilient society through behavior that takes into account interaction with the environment and society in all business activities, with the aim of realizing Our Mission. We recognize our responsibility for the actual and potential adverse impact our business activities have on human rights, including the impact of value chain, and we have pursued activities and dialogues that respect human rights. This Basic Policy has been adopted to prepare for this. 1. Basic Approach (1) Compliance with laws, regulations and norms related to respect for human rights (i)The Group respects international norms on human rights such as the United Nations International Bill of Human Rights, the corporate code of conduct in the United Nations Global Compact, and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. (ii) In addition to complying with laws and regulations in countries and regions where we conduct business activities, we seek ways to respect the principles of internationally recognized human rights when these laws and regulations conﬂict with the principles, while considering the circumstances in such countries and regions. (2) Non-discrimination 046 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights We respect basic human rights in all business activities, and not discriminate based on race, nationality, gender, age, ethnic origin, descent (family origin), social status, creed, religion, physical characteristics, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or pregnancy. (3) Corporate culture that respects human rights (i) With “achieving mutual growth by respecting one another's individuality and opinions, and by sharing knowledge and ideas” as one of Our Values, we will foster a corporate culture that respects human rights. (ii) We respect diverse values and engage in the creation of a friendly working environment with consideration for the mental and physical health and safety of every single employee. 2. Human Rights Due Diligence We will create a system for human rights due diligence in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and engage in dialogue, consultation and reporting. (1) Assessment and prevention We will identify and assess any actual and potential human rights risks, and take prioritized steps to prevent and mitigate them. (2) Remedy, remediation and dialogue If the Group causes adverse human rights impacts, we will perform appropriate remedy and remediation through appropriate procedures, and engage in the prevention of recurrence. Moreover, if it is found that we are involved in such impacts through the value chain, we will sincerely engage in dialogue. (3) Education and Training We will engage in a broad range of activities to raise awareness of human rights through every opportunity to ensure our oﬃcers and employees have a deeper understanding of global, country-speciﬁc or regional issues related to human rights and their involvement with our business activities and have respect for human rights. 3. Responsibilities as a Global Insurance and Financial Services Provider (1) Protection of privacy In light of the importance of personal information and in accordance with our Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information we will protect personal information to ensure that there is no adverse impact on human rights including privacy. (2) Reﬂection in business processes As a founding signatory to the UN Principles of Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), we will consider environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects in order to meet our responsibility to respect human rights in our insurance underwriting and investment decision-making processes. President & CEO 047 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 FY2019 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF FY2018 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF FY2017 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF FY2016 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF FY2015 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF Human Rights Due Diligence The MS&AD Insurance Group has built a system for human rights due diligence in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and is carrying out due diligence on a continuous basis. In accordance with the Basic Policy on Human Rights that was formulated in February 2017, we will carry out human rights due diligence in accordance to the steps in the following description As part of the human rights due diligence, we identiﬁed and assessed any actual and potential human rights risks according to the following process up to STEP 3. As a result of the analysis, we selected the following as priority issues: the infringement of privacy arising from the leakage of customers and employeesʼ personal information, and the physical and mental eﬀects of employeesʼ long working hours. We will periodically review the identiﬁcation and assessment of human rights risks and priority issues that reﬂect changes in society and the environment that surrounds the Group and its value chain. STEP1： Identify any actual and potential human rights risks arising from the Groupʼs value chain and stakeholders Assess and analyze such risks identiﬁed in terms of [1] severity* and [2] probability of occurrence (creation of a risk map) STEP2： *Severity is assessed based on the scale, scope, and diﬃculty of remediation of the estimated damage. STEP3： Determine signiﬁcant risks as priority issues through the review of the risk map STEP4： Study and implement necessary preventive and remedial measures as well as review their eﬀects 048 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Human Rights Assessment and Remedial Measures In the human rights due diligence process, we conduct human rights risk assessment, periodically monitor the two priority issues, and implement mitigation measures. Each Group company establishes internal regulations on information management, introduces security measures, and provides education to employees and agents, according to the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information. To verify the management systems, we regularly conduct inspections and audits of agents, outside vendors, and employees, and promptly implement remedial measures against any found problems. Personal information protection ＜Fiscal 2019 inspections and audits＞ Internal inspections were carried out at the Company and the Groupʼs domestic insurance companies. We inspected and audited around 50,000 agents and outside vendors, and provided instructions including to strengthen security to approximately 280 companies. Information Management The MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors Regarding the health and safety of our employees, we are making a group-wide eﬀort to reform their way of working in addition to managing their work hours with a system. Furthermore, we have established a Speak Up System (whistleblowing system) and a counseling desk, and in ﬁscal 2018 after conducting employee surveys (responses: approximately 46,000 from Japanese oﬃces, 9,000 from overseas oﬃces), we worked to keep Health and productivity management employees well informed about the whistleblowing system and to create an environment where it is easy and accessible to use the consultation services. Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management The Speak Up System Since various problems such as low wages and a poor working environment for foreign technical interns and students have recently been arising in Japan and abroad, we conducted interviews with the relevant business divisions in the Group. Although we did not ﬁnd any problematic cases in the interviews, we will continue to follow up on this matter. Education about Human Rights The MS&AD Insurance Group is working on raising awareness of human rights to employees to foster a “corporate culture that respects human rights,” as stipulated in the Basic Policy on Human Rights. In the MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, the Sustainability Section of the Corporate Planning Department plays a central role in promoting eﬀorts to respect human rights inside and outside of Japan in collaboration with departments in charge of overseas compliance and departments in charge of human rights awareness in the operating companies. In the operating companies, the organizations directed by the executive oﬃcers responsible for human rights awareness or oﬃcers in higher positions play a central role to raise human rights awareness of employees. They Structure of Education about Human Rights promote a better understanding of human rights and corporate social responsibility as well as develop and embed a corporate culture of respecting human rights. ＜Major initiatives＞ Planning and formulating as well as implementing and managing workplace training programs for all employees Raising role awareness of employees involved in human rights education. Training on Human Rights ESG Data / Reference Material (Human Rights) 049 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Consultation Service Desk The MS&AD Insurance Group has established a system to receive reports on human rights violations and take appropriate remedial measures In order to prevent violations of laws and regulations, violations of internal regulations, and inappropriate conduct from being neglected, the MS&AD Insurance Group has in place a reporting and consultation system, the Speak Up System, through which employees can report any concerns so the company can promptly identify the facts and take necessary measures. With this system, the Group pushes ahead with compliance with ethics, laws, and regulations. ＜Main subjects of reports and consultation＞ Any matters related to non-compliance Reporting System from Employees (Speak Up Issues related to employeesʼ mental and physical health and other issues caused by sexual harassment, System) power harassment, or any other types of harassment Any matters related to working environment, such as work hours and overtime work We have made eﬀorts to enable informers and consulters to easily use the system by setting up an external contact point at an outside law ﬁrm. In addition, we protect the informers and consulters by ensuring the informers and consultersʼ privacy and protect their information. We also make sure the informers are not treated disadvantageously. ESG Data / Reference Material (Speak Up System) We have set up a dedicated harassment consulting desk to make sure that employees who feel victimized can consult staﬀ with peace of mind about sexual harassment, power harassment, and maternity harassment cases. Harassment Consulting Desk Based on a thorough but swift fact-ﬁnding investigation, the consulting desk makes corrections and carries out disciplinary actions when the need arises. The company is also making eﬀorts towards prevention by providing education such as workplace training programs for all employees, level-speciﬁc training programs, and e-learning. Promotion of a Sound Relationship with the Labor Union In the MS&AD Group, the Company and the labor union respect each other's position by complying with agreements in good faith and by engaging in eﬀorts to maintain and improve the company's democratic and healthy development, the employee's working conditions, and their position. Based on the agreement, negotiations and consultations are carried out in the context of wages, personnel systems and operations, work environment, and management plan. ESG Data/Reference Material (Labor union membership rate) 050 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach Our Value Creation Approach Achieving the SDGs To bring about a resilient and sustainable society, we must acknowledge the social issues that stand in our way and take the initiative in resolving them. These social issues include various risks to the global environment, such as climate change and resource depletion, a decline in vitality due to widening disparities worldwide, new risks such as cyberattacks stemming from technological advances, and rising nursing/medical care expenses in aging societies. Resolving such social issues is also in keeping with the direction set out by the UN in 2015 in its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The MS&AD Insurance Group will create shared value with society, and work to build a resilient and sustainable society. Products and services that contribute to Topics achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Impact of CSV Initiatives on society and Sustainability Contest our company Creating Shared Value Deal with New Risks Create Mobility Society without Accidents Strive for Resilient Community Support “Good Health and Longevity” Development Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural and Adaptation※ Capital※ 051 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” （※）Our Sustainability Priorities Initiatives Supporting CSV Quality that earns the trust of society Meeting the Trust of Society with High Implementing sincere, fair and just Quality business activities Implementing Activities and Dialog that Continuing Eﬀorts to Reduce the Burden Respect Human Rights※ on the Environment※ Implementing Investment Activities that Conforming to PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) （※）Our Sustainability Priorities Management platforms that enable employees to play active roles Encourage Employees to Learn and Think Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow Implementing Health and Productivity Highly Transparent and Eﬀective Management Corporate Governance 052 Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The MS & AD Insurance Group provides products and services to support the industries required to realize a sustainable society. We are promoting eﬀorts to create common values with society, including the discovery and prevention of risks.The MS&AD Insurance Group analyzes our contributions to the sustainability of society and the impacts on our long-term growth from the areas of the economy (E), society (S), and corporate governance (G). Based on the seven priority issues we have extracted, we are contributing to the achievement of the SDGs through risk consulting services, insurance and other services for safety and security from a multifaceted perspective centered on sustainability. The main products and services aimed at further contributing to the resolution of social issues reached about 50.3% of premiums written in the non-life insurance business in 2019. Deal with new risks Create mobility society without accidents Strive for resilient community development Support “good health and longevity” Contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation Strive to improve sustainability of natural capital Work toward the realization of “leaving no one behind” PDF (★) links are Japanese only Deal with new risks [Major relevant SDGs] Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster technological innovation Contribution to solving Products and Services Outline Details social issues Cyber insurance Comprehensive compensation for cyber risks such as cyber Contributing to the Details attacks (Number of cyber insurance policies: +25.2% stabilization of corporate compared to FY2018) management and supporting social development Telework comprehensive Compensation for various kinds of risks for companies Contributing to the spread Details compensation plan promoting teleworking, which widely covers liability for of telework, promoting the information leakage due to cyber attacks and liability caused creation of social value by labor management of employees. through the realization of a work-life balance and contributing not only to the prevention of the spread of the novel coronavirus infections but also to the diversiﬁcation of working styles in postcorona era. 053 Comprehensive Compensation for damages caused by unauthorized third-party Contributing to the spread Details Compensation Insurance access through a mobile application-based payment service of secure and safe for Mobile Applicationcashless payment based Payment Service Providers Compensation plan for Insurance products with order-made conditions for Contributing to the MSI(★) PDF sharing economy-based compensation required for various business activities. This development of sharing business plan was developed to respond to needs of client companies economy-based business for personal liability insurance valid only for the user and only for the period of use, arising from the spread of the sharing economy. Support menu for inbound Insurance and various services such as in-house training Contributing to the Details(★) PDF tourism entrepreneurs (hospitality service) support and risk consulting, etc. for community development businesses (travel agencies, hotels, etc.) that serving by supporting the foreigners visiting Japan. acceptance of foreigners visiting Japan. One-day Leisure Leisure insurance providing only the required coverage only Contribute to enriching MSI(★) Insurance when needed customer life RisTech, a service that A service that uses big data and the latest analysis algorithms Visualizing and optimizing Details solves social and to visualize and optimize the risks that clients are exposed and corporate risks to solve corporate problems to help solve problems. Data scientists use various statistical challenges through data analysis data from the service providers in addition to data related to accidents held by our Group company in order to provide risk analysis and reports, as well as develop risk models Create mobility society without accidents [Major relevant SDGs] Goal 3: Good health and well-being for all Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities Making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Contribution to solving Products and Services Outline Details social issues One-day Insurance/OneVoluntary Automobile Insurance for borrowed vehicles that is Promoting the reduction MSI(★) day Supporter available from one day of accidents caused by ADI(★) uninsured vehicles 054 TOUGH Connected Voluntary Automobile Insurance with a reasonable insurance Contributing to prevention Details Automobile Insurance premium calculated in consideration of the distance traveled of traﬃc accidents by and discounts based on safe driving scores by using the most providing safe driving advanced telematics technology incentives (discounts) and safe and secure services , which are applied for Toyota connected cars. Voluntary Automobile Voluntary Automobile Insurance with Eco-Mark certiﬁcation Contributing to reducing MSI(★) Insurance with an ecothrough promotion of Eco ‒ insurance policy web policy environmental burdens ADI(★) mark clauses, provision of information for safe driving, and and environmental initiatives to reduce environmental burdens such as conservation encouraging the use of recycled automobile parts. GK Mimamoru Voluntary Automobile Insurance with the concept of Contributing to the Details (Safeguards) Automobile supporting customers' safe driving and safeguarding their prevention of traﬃc Insurance, TOUGH driving against an accident by utilizing the latest telematics accidents and supporting Connected Automobile technology. In addition to a driving diagnosis by analyzing the safe driving Insurance driving data of the contracted car, a wide range of alert services support customerʼs safe driving. In the event of an accident, our operator will reach them to conﬁrm their safety and provide advice on the necessary procedures to take. TOUGH Mimamoru Voluntary Automobile Insurance that reﬂects the degree of Helping to prevent traﬃc Details automobile insurance plus safe driving in insurance premiums based on driving data accidents by providing obtained from dedicated drive recorder-type telematics incentives for safe driving devices (discounts) and safe and secure service Special policy clause on Discount on insurance premiums applicable to transportation Contributing to the MSI(★) PDF the business management companies that took road safety management certiﬁcation prevention of traﬃc (applied to transportation seminar promoted by Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, accidents and supporting companies) Transport and Tourism, and take preventative measures to safe driving reduce traﬃc accident. Comprehensive Compensation to comprehensively cover risks related to Facilitating the innovation Details(★) PDF demonstration experiment demonstration experiment of Autonomous driving vehicles. of Autonomous driving of Autonomous driving technology to support the compensation plan realization of a safe, secure, and comfortable automobile society. MaaS insurance Compensation for damages that may be caused by the Supporting technological Details Plans for on-demand operation of vehicles used by on-demand transportation innovation in Autonomous ADI(★) PDF transportation companies services, accidents related to facilities and equipment used for driving to realize a safe, the execution and management of such services, or damages secure and comfortable incurred by bearing legal liability for damages automobile society 055 MaaS insurance Providing various services and compensations for MaaS users Supporting the realization Details Plans for MaaS operators and for MaaS operators to prepare for safe business of a safe, secure and ADI(★) PDF operations comfortable mobility society, including the resolution of local transportation issues Voluntary Automobile Compensation for damage caused by “mishaps” to an Contributing to solving Details Insurance for car share automobile rented through car sharing issues unique to car platforms sharing that are not covered by conventional Vehicle Damage Coverage Smartphone app: SumaService providing analysis of driving skill characteristics, drive Contributing to the MSI(★) Ho Driving Ability recorder, eco drive diagnosis, audio warnings when drivers are prevention of traﬃc Diagnosis approaching locations where accidents frequently occur, wild accidents and supporting weather forecast delivery, and other services safe driving Support NAVI Service providing a driving ability diagnosis system equipped Contributing to the Details smartphone app with Dashcam Type and an emergency accident reporting prevention of traﬃc system accidents and supporting safe driving Policy holder app (Mitsui A dedicated application for Mitsui Direct non-life insurance Contributing to paperless Details Direct non-life insurance services, based on the concept of “safety, value and oﬃces as well as app) convenience on your smartphone.” Menus and coupons for convenience by allowing Voluntary Automobile Insurance are oﬀered through the app. for inquiries regarding From October 2020, a “smart continuation procedure” was contract details and the launched to facilitate continuation procedures checking of progress in the case of an accident, providing new applications and continuing procedures, etc. Accident Map Provision of an accident maps created by analyzing and Contributing to the MSI(★) identifying locations where accidents frequently occur based prevention of traﬃc on accident data from external institutions. accidents and supporting safe driving 056 Suma Navi Telematics service that supports companies in their safe Supporting safe driving MSI(★) PDF driving initiatives. eﬀorts by companies “F-Dora” drive recorder Service providing three types of support: “during Helping prevent serious Details telematics service for accidents/emergencies,” “accident prevention measures,” and accidents by detecting ﬂeet policy holders “operation management,” using our original dedicated drive and alerting in the case of recorder and the industryʼs ﬁrst dedicated in-camera. dangerous driving behavior (dozing oﬀ, not paying attention or talking on the phone) using a dedicated in-camera, in addition to supporting safe driving eﬀorts by companies. Sasaeru Navi Telematics service for ﬂeet policyholders Supporting the vehicle ADI(★) PDF operation management and accident reduction eﬀorts of corporate customers Four Safety ‒ Support A smartphone application, by plugging a designated terminal This service can be used Details service preventing the use into the automobileʼs cigarette lighter socket, automatically by companies to ensure of mobile phones while controlling a smartphone (including telephone and apps) once safe driving practices. driving a certain speed (20kph) is exceeded. Driving data of individual Supporting the creation of employee such as controlling of smartphone and sharp corporate value by helping acceleration/deceleration can be checked by administrators to prevent distracted via an exclusive website. driving, a serious social issue. Sleep apnea syndrome Service for corporate employees to check on snoring, an Support for preventing MSI(★) PDF (SAS) predictive check indication of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), which can be easily accidents and service used by just activating the smartphone app when going to bed compensation resulting and placing the smartphone next to the pillow. from dozing oﬀ at the wheel or while working, and improving the health of company employees Safety navigational Support for safe navigation of domestic vessels using the Helping to reduce marine MSI(★) PDF support services for dedicated smartphone provided by Weathernews Inc., which accidents by supporting domestic vessels alerts ships when they navigate in dangerous waters and customers in safe provides weather and oceanic forecasts and images of the operations and raising area around the vessel. awareness of risk management 057 Automobile risk Eﬀective programs and solutions to prevent and reduce Contributing to the InterRisk(★) management service accidents prevention of traﬃc accidents and supporting safe driving Transportation safety Seminars on accident prevention and reduction for automobile Contributing to the Details management seminar transportation companies certiﬁed as an implementing prevention of traﬃc organization by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport accidents and supporting and Tourism safe driving Driving skill improvement Training games for developing the ability to drive safely. Contributing to the Details training Training is easy, fun and done using a smartphone prevention of traﬃc accidents and supporting safe driving Strive for Resilient Community Development [Major relevant SDGs] Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth Promote sustainable and inclusive economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work (rewarding and human-like work) for all Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Contribution to solving Products and Services Outline Details social issues Products providing Revision and provision of Personal Accident Insurance, Contributing to improving MSI(★) PDF compensation for novel corporate ﬁres, etc., to cover novel coronavirus infections. We the resilience of society ADI(★) PDF coronavirus infections also oﬀer products to compensate for damages caused by toward infectious suspension of operations in order to support business diseases continuity if a business is forced to close due to the novel coronavirus infections Earthquake insurance Compensation for damage to buildings and household goods Supporting the MSI(★) caused by ﬁres, damage, burial, or being washed away as a restructuring of the ADI(★) result of earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, or tsunamis livelihood of earthquake victims and the early recovery of areas hit by earthquakes 058 Comprehensive drone Comprehensive compensation to cover risks associated with Contribute to the Details compensation plan the commercial use of drones. expansion of drone use in industries and public, such as luggage distribution, damage surveys, agriculture, forestry and ﬁsheries, thereby supporting the development of society. Comprehensive global Comprehensive compensation to cover risks related to Facilitating the smooth MSI(★) business compensation overseas business expansion for small and medium-sized operation of business plan enterprises (SMEs). activities overseas to support the stabilization of SMEs' business operations overseas and the development of local communities. Supporting companies in Provision of risk management services for small and mediumSupporting in expanding MSI(★) expanding overseas sized companies expanding their business overseas overseas operations of operations small and medium-sized companies Weather information alert Email alerts for rainfall, wind speed, or snowfall when they are Supporting overseas Details service Email forecasted to exceed the standard values at a monitored operations of small and location, or when lightning is observed at a location within a medium-sized companies standard distance from the monitored location Smartphone app: SumaA smartphone application allowing users to check the details Enhancing customer MSI(★) Ho (Smartphone of their insurance policy, contact their agents, and to use their convenience Insurance) smartphoneʼs GPS functions to arrange tow truck services after accidents or breakdowns. Smartphone app: SumaA smartphone application to identify userʼs current location Supporting safe and Details Ho Disaster Navigator and to display information regarding nearby evacuation secure behavior in the shelters and hazard map information on a map with using event of a large-scale smartphone GPS functions. The camera function displays the natural disaster direction of userʼs home or evacuation center on the landscape screen to support smooth evacuation. Disaster prevention information for the userʼs current location is also sent out in real-time by push notiﬁcations. Available in English, Chinese (both traditional and uniﬁed Chinese), and Korean, except for a certain function. 059 Repair service for Service to dispatch experts to conduct a survey of Supporting early full-scale MSI(★) damaged equipment contamination on buildings, machineries, and facilities recovery of customerʼs damaged from ﬁre smoke, soot and rust after ﬁre accident and business operation from ﬂooding etc. and conduct decontamination works. damages caused by disasters by repairing damaged machineries and equipment, which previously had to be replaced with new ones. CAT bond (catastrophe Service to support the issuance of CAT bond. In addition to Helping customers to MSI(★) PDF bond) issuance support reducing the burden of cumbersome administrative procedures diversify catastrophic risk service related to the issuance of CAT bonds, we provide our hedging instruments. customers with advice on optimal issuing conditions. Supporting establishment Service to support the establishment of a system that ensures Helping to ensure Details of Business continuity the resumption of operations within a target time frame in the continuity and early InterRisk(★) management system event that business activities are suspended due to a large recovery of core business (BCMS) earthquake, infectious disease, or other reasons, and the while minimizing damage formulation of business continuity plans (BCPs). to a companyʼs business assets in an emergency Natural disaster hazard Service to diagnosing the location risks for corporate facilities Supporting corporate risk Details information survey by collecting and organizing hazard information based on measures in the event of comprehensive surveys on earthquakes, wind and water a natural disaster disasters, volcanic eruptions, lightning strikes, snow accumulation, and more Earthquake and tsunami Support for the enhancement of countermeasures based on Helping to ensure InterRisk(★) risk management calculations of estimated damage amounts taking into account continuity and early consulting the eﬀects of earthquakes and tsunamis, ﬁeld surveys, etc. recovery of core business while minimizing damage to a companyʼs business assets in the event of a disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami Flood disaster Services to assist risk assessments for river ﬂooding, Helping to ensure Details countermeasure support inundation of inland waters, and storm surges, and formulating continuity and early service damage prevention plan, mitigation measures and business recovery of core business continuity plans (BCPs) against ﬂood disaster while minimizing damage to a companyʼs business assets in the event of a disaster such as river ﬂooding, inundation of inland waters or storm surges 060 Flood risk information Providing a website that enables the acquisition of various Helping prevent a ﬂood Details integrated conﬁrmation types of information related to water disasters at multiple sites disaster from occurring or system (Sui Search) either “in summary” or “in real time” and the automatic manage the sites in the determination of the timing of various responses and decisions event of disaster, by (= alert stage judgments) listing the risk of ﬂooding at each of the companyʼs sites in an event of typhoon or heavy rain Sediment-related disaster Simulation service for risk assessments of sediment-related Supporting the prevention Details risk diagnosis disasters (debris ﬂows, landslides, etc.) at individual sites of sediment disasters by based on “largest recorded” and “potential largest” rainfall identifying the risk of scenarios slope failures at business and planned sites ESG investment support Comprehensive consulting service to support decision making Assisting with ESG InterRisk(★) packages on general ESG-related issues, such as enhancement of ESG integration into corporate strategies and eﬀorts, and speciﬁc ESG themes management Real-time loss prediction Establishment of a system to forecast the number of buildings Supporting the early Details website cmap.dev damaged and damage rate by municipality due to typhoons, identiﬁcation of the scale heavy rains, and earthquakes, As part of a joint research with of damage and rapid Aon Group Japan Co., Ltd., and Yokohama National University. rescue and support This information is available free-of-charge on the website. activities in the event of a disaster Supporting system for Provision to local governments with seminars regarding the Supporting the rapid victims of natural research of loss assessment needed for issuance of Disaster reconstruction of the lives disasters to relief Victim Certiﬁcates. of disaster victims BCP development support Service to support to plan countermeasures assuming serious Supporting the InterRisk(★) services for international risks overseas, such as accidents and natural disasters development of overseas business business by companies Support “Good Health and Longevity” [Major relevant SDGs] Goal 3: Good health and well-being for all Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all people at all ages Contribution to solving Products and Services Outline Details social issues Fire Insurance products Provision of a special clause of Fire Insurance which Contributing to solving Details that respond to aging compensates the landlord for the cost of a damage caused by issues speciﬁc to an society the lonely death of elderly people in rental housing. In addition, aging society incidental services (furniture movement and light bulb replacement service) that support the elderly's daily life are provided by Fire Insurance. 061 Comprehensive coverage A compensation plan packaging various types of insurance for Contributing to the stable Details(★) PDF plan for medical medical institutions development of medical institutions institutions by compensating for various risks associated with the novel coronavirus and online treatments “KokoKara Diary” A smartphone application to measure stress levels, display Supporting health Details smartphone app calories burned from steps automatically measured, record management on employee meals, height, weight, sleep duration, check medical level and Health and information, and more. We also provide a dedicated website for productivity management administrators that has functionality which includes viewing on corporate level employee life log data and sending health advice to the app. It also helps promoting smooth communication among employees by hosting a health-related event using a functionality to display a ranking of employeesʼ steps. &LIFE New Income An insurance to prepare for a monthly pension not only for the Providing solutions to MSI Aioi Life(★) Guarantee Insurance wide event of emergency but also for the risk of becoming unable to counter the risk of being work or being in need for nursing care due to illness or injury. unable to work &LIFE New Medical An insurance to provide a suﬃcient degree of support for Providing solutions to MSI Aioi Life(★) Insurance Ace premia lifestyle-related diseases, cancer, female diseases, and nursing counter medical risks care, in addition to oﬀer the coverage for hospitalization and surgery. Customer can choose which coverage to combine based on their needs. Whole-life care/dementia An insurance plan that provides against long-term care risks, Contributing to Details plan such as treatment for dementia. Under this plan, dementia responding to aging care, which imposes a particularly signiﬁcant burden, is added society by better to the conditions covered under the whole life care-speciﬁed preparing for the unrest clause for insured events in line with the long-term care against long-term care insurance system of Japan. which is a serious social issue Individual deﬁned A system in which an individual receives tax breaks while Supporting a rich second Details contribution pension plan paying premiums and managing the funds themselves, and life MSI(★) (iDeCo) receives the funds as a lump sum or pension after the age of ADI(★) 60 in principle. Provided through ﬁnancial institutions and agent 062 “Fulﬁlling Tomorrow” Flat payment-type individual annuity insurance. Customers pay Supporting a rich second Details existence protection a ﬁxed amount of insurance premiums in Japanese yen every life oriented-type individual month, and then it is converted into a foreign currency with a annuity insurance (with favorable interest rate, so that they receive pensions based on variable interest rate, the increased fund. level premium payment) Customers can take advantage of the “dollar cost averaging” method to reduce foreign exchange risk, and the “tontines” method, a system to increase pension funds by suppressing death protection cover then transfer that amount to the pension. “Joy for tomorrow” “Joy Individual annuity insurance that uses tontine to support a rich Supporting a rich second Details for Tomorrow 2” currency second life with a focus on “100 years of life.” “Joy for life option-type existence Tomorrow 2” features four courses that can be chosen protection oriented according to the customerʼs funding needs: “Amount individual annuity receivable oriented course,” “Pre-pension beneﬁt/whole life insurance death protection course,” “Fulﬁllment at maturity course” and “Target course.” Cheering team for your Telephone consultation service that provides a variety of Supporting customers' MSI Aioi Life(★) perfect life health, medical and lifestyle consultations to customers who lives with health and have purchased insurance peace of mind through helping solve their problems and providing necessary information. Service to provide Provision of information using virtual reality images seen on Aiming to help customers MSI Aioi Life(★) information on medical smartphones. Customers can experience simulated visits to live better, providing easyPDF treatment/nursing care medical facilities where proton beam therapy is performed, to-understand information treatment methods using molecularly targeted drugs, and on medical care and simulated experiences of the daily life of a person with nursing care and dementia and his/her family (ﬁrst-person experience) supporting know correctly.” Nursing care health desk Telephone consultation service that provides consultation for Supporting nursing care Details customers who have purchased insurance regarding long-term for customers and their care and dementia. families Counselors with qualiﬁcations such as nurses, etc. regarding nursing care and dementia are available for consultation. Information is available on services tailored to the needs of customers, such as mental counseling for family members for nursing care, provision of information on specialized medical institutions for dementia, and telephone checks of cognitive functions 063 Pandemic Emergency Participation as one of the underwriters in the “Pandemic The objective is to protect MSI(★) PDF Financing Facility Emergency Financing Facility” established by the World Bank the developing countries in cooperation with the Japanese and German governments of the world from the threat of infectious diseases, as well as to reduce human and economic losses and to recover quickly after the outbreak of a serious infectious disease by promptly providing funds for initial response Consulting on new Consulting services to support for customersʼ measures Contributing to prevention Details infectious diseases such against new strains of inﬂuenza and other new infectious of infections and the as novel inﬂuenza diseases from a variety of perspectives, including infection spread thereof countermeasures prevention, spread prevention, response to business partners, business continuity, and response to reputational damage Health and productivity Counseling and advice on issues related to the practice of Supporting corporate Details management consulting Health and productivity management and provision of Health and productivity services information on the METIʼs system for certifying enterprises management engaging in excellent health and productivity management “Work and Nursing Care Service, to advice companies on identifying issues and the Contributing to stable Details Dual Support Service for directions to be taken, based on the ﬁve initiatives described corporate management Companies” in the “Model for supporting work-life balance to prevent longand creating a term care turnover” by the Ministry of Health, Labour and comfortable working Welfare society 064 Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation [Major relevant SDGs] Goal 7: Aﬀordable and clean energy Ensure access to aﬀordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Goal 13: Climate action Take urgent steps to combat climate change and its impacts Contribution to solving Products and Services Outline Details social issues Comprehensive Coverage Comprehensive coverage of risks faced by renewable energy Promoting reduction of Details Plan for Mega-Solar producers. CO2 emissions (reducing Power Generation environmental burdens) Photovoltaic power with alternative energy. generation business market products Comprehensive Small Comprehensive coverage of risks faced by renewable energy Promoting reduction of Details Wind Power Generation producers. CO2 emissions (reducing compensation plan environmental burdens) with alternative energy. Comprehensive oﬀshore Comprehensive coverage of risks faced by renewable energy Promoting reduction of Details wind power generation producers. CO2 emissions (reducing system compensation environmental burdens) with alternative energy. Participation in overseas Participation as one of the underwriting companies in the Promoting the Details public natural disaster “Paciﬁc Catastrophe Risk Assessment and Financing Initiative” restructuring of the compensation systems and “Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility,” livelihood of disaster established in cooperation between the government of Japan victims and the early and the World Bank. Financing recovery from natural disasters recovery of areas hit by in the Paciﬁc Islands and Caribbean countries with disasters. underdeveloped insurance markets 065 Climate change risk Consulting services regarding analysis and information Helping companies Details analysis services disclosure expected of companies on a global level on issues address climate change including physical risks, such as climate change-induced ﬂoods and droughts, and transition risks, associated with socioeconomic transitions toward a decarbonized economy in line with achieving the two-degree goal, such as energy structure transformation, in response to expectation over companies to identify business risks and opportunities associated with climate change and to disclose relevant information. Prediction Map Showing Development of a map in corporation with Prof. Yukiko Helping companies Details Changes in Flood Hirabayashi of the Shibaura Institute of Technology and address climate change Frequencies Associate Professor Dai Yamazaki of the Institute of Industrial Science at The University of Tokyo in response to the corporate needs to understand the impacts from potential ﬂood risks, one of the many types of climate change risks if climate change is actualized. Providing maps that show the degree of change in ﬂood frequency due to climate change globally Weather derivatives A ﬁnancial derivative that covers damage caused by extreme Stabilize earnings by Details weather. Actively deploying “Global Weather Derivative Sales” avoiding and mitigating utilizing the global weather risk underwriting function of our losses incurred by US subsidiary “MSI Guaranteed Weather,” focusing on companies due to climate Japanese companies expanding their operations overseas. phenomena changes such as abnormal weather and weather instability. Contributing to sustainable business activities Renewable energy Consulting services regarding assessment of business risks Supporting stable InterRisk(★) support service associated with renewable energy (solar power, wind power, development of biomass, etc.), as well as energy conservation, improved renewable energy comfort in the working environment, and reduced energy costs businesses Eco insurance A system that enables policyholders to view their policy Promoting the reduction Details policies/Web clauses certiﬁcates and policy clauses on the website of each of environmental burdens company. through paperless operation. 066 Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital [Major relevant SDGs] Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation Ensure access to clean water and sanitation for all and their sustainable management Goal 14: Life below water Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development Goal 15: Life on land Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertiﬁcation, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Contribution to solving Products and Services Outline Details social issues Smartphone app with Provision of service that provides a voice alert when the driver Reducing traﬃc accidents MSI(★) PDF “Animal Alert” function is approaching a black spot for traﬃc accidents involving and maintaining (Wildlife accident alert wildlife. The service was ﬁrst launched in Okinawa Prefecture, biodiversity function) where the Yanbaru kuina (Okinawa rail: an endangered bird) lives, and later rolled out to other regions in Japan. Electronic Policy A new procedure that allows to complete the contracting and Promoting the reduction Details Procedures changing contract procedure on the screen of a PC or Tablet of environmental burdens brought in by an agent. through paperless operation. Abbreviation of claims Simpliﬁed process omitting the submission of claim Promoting the reduction documents service documents, etc. for car accidents that meet certain conditions. of environmental burdens through paperless operation. Seiho Kantan Mode, an Paperless application procedures called Seiho Kantan Mode Improving convenience Details Electronic Policy and reduced Procedure environmental burdens by converting various paper forms into electronic formats. Consulting services Services for quantitative assessment of impacts on natural Supporting Details against environmental capital (lost beneﬁts and recovery costs) and service for environmentally risk simple assessment of water risks such as water depletion, conscious business drought, ﬂood and decline in water quality (present/future). activities Environmental CSR Services that support the acquisition of accreditation for and Supporting Details management consulting improvement of environmental management systems and the environmentally services formulation of environmental CSR reports. conscious business activities 067 Consulting services on Services that support companiesʼ eﬀorts to preserve Supporting Details biodiversity biodiversity and assess biodiversity risks in business activities. environmentally conscious business activities Simpliﬁed evaluations of Simple assessment of exposure to water risks such as water Supporting Details water-related risks depletion, drought, ﬂood and decline in water quality environmentally (present/future) on individual production sites (domestic/ conscious business overseas). activities Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” [Major relevant SDGs] Goal 1: No poverty End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 2: Zero hunger End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation Contribution to solving Products and Services Outline Details social issues Insurance for small loans Micro-insurance for loans, under cooperation with BPI Direct Supporting the operations Details to micro-entrepreneurs in BanKo, which provides small loans to micro entrepreneurs. of micro entrepreneurs the Philippines Available from the autumn of 2019 through insurance even in the event of an unforeseen occurrence such as an accident or disaster. Exclusive Fire Insurance Development of a ﬁre insurance speciﬁcally designed to cover Contributing to the Details for indigenous people the homes of indigenous people left behind in economically stability of the livelihood (Malaysia) developing urban areas, through collaborating with EPIC of indigenous people, Homes, a social enterprise working to improve the living many of whom are in conditions of indigenous people in Malaysia. By indemnifying poverty and in need of indigenous people for housing, this products allows the housing compensation indigenous people to stay living in peace, and at the same and assistance time, a support scheme is created that makes it easier for the sponsors recruited by EPIC Homes to participate, as there is no fear that the value of their donations will be lost in the event of a house ﬁre. 068 SDGs (Sustainable Provision of the SDGs training and consulting services to Supporting regional InterRisk(★) Development Goals) assist companies in developing their SDGs strategies and revitalization and solving promotion support strengthening their eﬀorts social issues through the services SDGs Smart oﬃces (India) Opening small stores equipped with insurance policy issuing Contributing to the spread Details machines (smart oﬃces) in smalland medium-sized cities, of insurance in areas towns and villages, where the penetration of insurance has where access to lagged behind that of metropolitan areas insurance has traditionally been inconvenient Animal insurance for Provision of insurance for damage caused to livestock by ﬁre, Contributing to the livestock farmers (India) natural disaster, disease, etc. stability of agriculture run by low-income farmers Family Eye (Notiﬁcation A system in which one relative of a policyholder is registered Enhancing customer MSI(★) System for Relatives) as an emergency contact for insurance policies. It makes it convenience ADI(★) possible to contact the registered relative and ensure more MSI Aioi Life(★) reliable delivery of important notiﬁcations for insurance policies to the registered relative in an emergency, such as when we cannot contact the policyholder, or to have the relative share contract information, referring to the registered relativeʼs inquiry after an the identiﬁcation procedure based on the registered information Dealing with Claims Services to support customers with hearing and speech Improving convenience for Details Handling using sign impairments by utilizing sign language interpretation services. customers with MSI(★) language interpretation The system works by having a customer and an operator disabilities MSI Aioi Life(★) services communicate with each other in sign language through a video call and at the same time, the operator gives voice interpretation to the person in charge for our company by telephone Claims Handling Services that enable communication in 17 languages via Improving convenience for Details (Accident Response) interpreting operators, allowing customers with diﬃculties in customers who have MSI(★) available in 17 languages communication in Japanese who have been involved in an diﬃculty communicating ADI(★) PDF accident, the other party, or customers who wish to receive in Japanese Mitsui Direct consultation or have an inquiry regarding insurance to all General(★) communicate freely. Web service for Services that enable customers with hearing disabilities to Improving convenience for customers with hearing utilize online functions to request road services customers with hearing disabilities disabilities 069 Social contribution A special clause under which the beneﬁciary can be Responding to a diverse Details special clause designated as a designated public interest group* range of customer values *As of the end of July 2020, the following three designated related to asset public interest groups have been designated: inheritance, such as “I ・Japanese Red Cross Society・Japan Committee for want to contribute to UNICEF・CiRA Foundation society by donating my assets” Human rights risk Services to help customers to manage human rights issues by Supporting customersʼ InterRisk(★) management support supporting them in the formulation of human rights policies eﬀorts related to human services based on international standards, human rights impact rights risk management assessment, organization of lectures and trainings on human rights risks, collection of information and support surveys related to human rights risks. *Goal 17: “Partnerships for the goals” relates to all initiatives. 070 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Topics Topics MS&AD Response to COVID-19 The occurrence of the novel coronavirus known as COVID-19 at the end of 2019 triggered a global pandemic that has dramatically changed our way of life. MS&AD Insurance Group companies have revised the coverage related of Personal Accident Insurance, Corporate ﬁre insurance, etc., continuing to operate without any delay of insurance claim payments while keeping the health and safety of our customers and employees as our top priority. Each Group company also oﬀers various products and services, in anticipation of new lifestyles and new reality of the post-COVID-19 world, as well as donations and social contribution activities carried out by employees and group companies. Through these eﬀorts, our Group will contribute to realizing a sustainable society. Note : All links in this page are in Japanese only. Extending Coverage and Deferring Insurance Premium Payments, etc. Please refer to the individual information for details of each company. New Lifestyles of the New Reality [Infection control] For companies with a policy to encourage commuting by a private car as infection control approach, we support them to introduce a “private vehicle commuting management service” to protect for corporate risks. (MSI, ADI) We provide information on novel coronavirus infections and the “Kokokara Diary Online Medical Dictionary” to relieve anxiety of clients. (MSI) We oﬀer services to review an evacuation center operation manuals prepared by local governments from the professional viewpoint of “infectious disease control,” and to introduce the “evacuation center construction/operation diagnosis service tool” to provide examples of countermeasures and reference information, if necessity. (ADI) Our response to COVID-19 and other infectious diseases Launch of evacuation center construction/operation diagnosis services for local governments PDF 071 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Topics [Daily life] We oﬀer a payment tool by decoding a QR code with a smartphone to allow customers to complete their insurance premium payments from home. (MSI, ADI) Launch of smartphone payment service for insurance premiums PDF Newly adding “PayPay” and “Credit Card” payment to smartphone payment service PDF We provide online application for customers to reconﬁrm their contract, change their address, make an accident report, or complete a claim for Personal Accident Insurance. (MSI, ADI) “STAY HOME” to “ENJOY HOME” We oﬀer an extended warranty period for manufacturers and distributors of indoor projectors for home use. (MSI) We provide “e-cargo insurance service,” an internet notiﬁcation service, which allows customers to read any notiﬁcations related to marine cargo insurance from home. (MSI) In June 2020, we launched nationwide sales activity of cancer insurance (Cancer Insurance Smart) by utilizing multi copy machines installed at Seven-Eleven Japan stores. (MSI Aioi Life) Launch of cancer insurance sales at Seven-Eleven Japan PDF For customers with contracts for insurance in foreign currency, we provide an “internet service exclusive for policyholders” that enables them to inquire their insurance contract, change their address, and reissue premium deduction certiﬁcates. (MSI Primary Life) [Work in a New Reality] We provide a “comprehensive telecommuting compensation plan” that covers various kinds of risks associated with introducing teleworking system (information leakage due to cyber attacks, property damage or theft of company provided PCs, risk related to labor management, etc.). (MSI, ADI) We provide a survey service, a “liveliness of working from home survey,” to help employeesʼ health maintenance and enhancement during working from home and eﬀective use of work from home program. (MSI) For Continuation of Business Practice We provide consulting services on how to respond to new infectious diseases such as the novel coronavirus and inﬂuenza to mitigate impact on business operation. Our consultants provide advices on BCP and BCM related concerns and hold seminars and trainings. (InterRisk) The following contents are available for companies. ・InterRisk Report (BCM news) ・Public online seminars ・Supporting tool for preparing for BCP against infectious diseases ・COVID-19 disease control guidebook We provide telephone consultation services for corporate clients regarding personnel and labor issues. (MSI) 072 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Topics For Local Communities Donations were made to the Akai Hane “Emergency fundraiser to support children and their families during temporary school closures.” (HD) PDF We donated 300,000 yuan (4.8 million yen) each to both the Guangzhou City Charity Association and the Red Cross Society (Zhejiang Province) in China. (ADI) Through consideration together with volunteered employees and group companies, donations were made to local governments designated as special alert areas for the purpose of supporting medical institutions, and to NPOs supporting “children around the world, Japanese children and refugees” in need of aids. (HD) PDF We donated handmade masks sewed by our employees to a municipal oﬃce. (ADI) We donated medical masks in stock to the ward oﬃce. (ADI) Handmade face shields crafted by employees were donated to medical institutions. (MSI) Donating handmade face shields Athletes belonging to our Group released special messages of gratitude and support to local medical professionals. (HD) Our Initiatives To manage employeesʼ health and improve their productivity, we will keep working from home, staggered commuting, and shift work. As a general rule, we switch all internal meetings and trainings to be online. In response to temporary closures of elementary, junior high and high schools across the country, we allow employees to come to work with their children under conditions, as a measure to support employees with kids to attend work without diﬃculties. (ADI) In an event of infection, employees can take consecutive days of leave for treatment and recuperation. * ・In addition to annual paid leave (up to 32 days), carried over is allowed up to 20 days from the previous year. ・The remaining days of carried over paid leave can be accumulated up to a total of 65 days for a need of long term treatment of personal injury or illness. ・Employees who are not able to work from home to accompany their children due to restrictions on attendance, temporary closure of children and distributed school attendancei during a state of emergency can take additional paid leave. (*) The number of days of paid leave allocated or allowed to carry over varies according to individual company and employee classiﬁcation. 073 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Topics Information on Individual Companyʼs Response to COVID-19 Instructions on COVID-19 Information regarding COVID-19 To those aﬀected by COVID-19 FAQ regarding COVID-19 Our business operations to prevent the spread of COVID-19 PDF Payment of disaster death insurance for COVID-19 PDF Special handling under the spread of COVID-19 PDF Emergency measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 Fuji TV and MS&ADʼs Joint Eﬀorts to achieve the SDGs From April 2020, MS&AD Holdings and Fuji Television Network, Inc. agreed to cooperate in achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through broadcasting “Future Runners ~ 17 futures.”* We will demonstrate a power of our partnership as a SDGs supporting company, to inﬂuence people to change their mindsets and advance society as a whole toward solving the social issues illustrated by SDGs. *The worldʼs ﬁrst regular television program themed SDGs. The Broadcast began in July 2018 (shown every week on Wednesday from 22:54 to 23:00). Fuji TV and MS&AD Work Together to achieve the SDGs PDF Wednesdays from 22:54, Fuji TV (Kanto Local) #093 Broadcast on Wednesday, July 15, 2020 Saturdays from 21:55, broadcast on BS Fuji (nationwide) 074 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Impact of CSV Initiatives on society and our company Impact of CSV Initiatives on society and our company Economic Impact on the Examples Impact on Society Company Contribute to climate ■Comprehensive Coverage Plan for Mega-Solar Power generation volume under the Comprehensive No. of new policies change mitigation and Power Generation Coverage Plan for Mega-Solar Power Generation and adaptation volume equivalent to CO2 emitted* from thermal ・ FY2018: approx. 4,600 The provision of combined insurance and power ・ FY2019: approx. 7,100 derivative compensation products to mega-solar operators ・ FY2018: 1.7 million tons or more ・ FY2019: 3.0 million tons or more *Calculation based on national average power generation results from NEDO solar ﬁeld test and the default values of emission factors by electric utility. Strive to improve ■Simpliﬁed evaluations of water-related risks Ratio of facilities where water Total no. of evaluated facilities sustainability of shortage risks are high (total)* natural capital Assess ﬂooding, drought and other water ・ End of FY2018: 224 sites resource risks at business locations, and support End of FY2018: 42.0% ・ End of FY2019: 244 sites business from the perspective of risk End of FY2019: 40.7% management *Facilities with a water stress value (ratio of water intake accounted by annual water supply volume) above 40% Deal with new risks ■Products to address cyber risk Companies/organizations protected against cyber risks Policy growth rate Provide support for cybersecurity ・ FY2018: approx. 9,800 companies ・ FY2018: 10.1% increase from countermeasures and compensation in ・ FY2019: approx. 12,300 companies the previous ﬁscal year preparation for damages resulting from the ・ FY2019: 25.2% increase from unlikely event of a cyberattack the previous ﬁscal year Create mobility ■Telematics-based safe driving support services Reduction rate of claims paid to said corporate No. of corporate customers*2 society without customers*1 accidents Provide services that support safe driving based ・ FY2018: approx. 1,400 on telematics technology for corporate customers FY2018: 36.5% companies FY2019: 25.3% ・ FY2019: approx. 2,800 companies *1 Comparison of claims payments before and after introduction of “Sasaeru NAVI” *2 Number of companies that have introduced “Smart Navi,” “F-Drive” and “Sasaeru NAVI (including Lite)” 075 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Impact of CSV Initiatives on society and our company Strive for resilient ■Regional revitalization initiatives in Number of collaborations with local governments Ripple eﬀect on premium income community collaboration with local governments development ・ FY2018: 283 FY2019: approx. 9.5 billion yen Providing products and services to solve regional ・ FY2019: 374 social issues in cooperation with local governments Support “good health ■Tontine annuities that support future asset Total amount paid (average amount received) No. of policies and longevity” formation ・ FY2018: 1.9 billion yen (640,000 yen) ・ FY2018: approx. 13,000 A foreign-currency-denominated individual ・ FY2019: 3.4 billion yen (600,000 yen) ・ FY2019: approx. 27,000 annuity insurance that meets the “usage” needs of customers who receive a greater amount of annuity the longer they live Work toward ■Dementia “Kobe model” No. of Kobe residents who have applied for dementia Premiums income three-year realization of “leaving screening*1 total (estimate)*2 no one behind” Accident relief program linked to dementia regulations. Three-pronged scheme consisting of ・ End of May 2019: 8,598 Approx. 390 million yen insurance, early screening and accident ・ End of March 2020: 21,446 prevention *2 Approximate cost (FY2019*1 Total number of applicants from the start (January FY2021) of the “Kobe Model” 28, 2019) of the program (preliminary results as of March 31, 2020) MS&AD Integrated Report 2020 MS&AD Integrated Report 2020（extract）CSV Initiatives Promoted by MS&AD PDF 076 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Sustainability Contest Sustainability Contest For achieving “Vision 2021,” our Medium-term Management Plan, since 2018 we have held the “Sustainability Contest” which all group companies, both inside and outside of Japan, participate in, with the aim of deepening understanding of SDGs and creating shared value with society (CSV) and incorporating these approcaches into daily operations. In ﬁscal 2019, the second year of the contest, there were more than 300 applications related to sustainability and CSV for society and the MS&AD Group from Japan and overseas Group companies. The selection of award was based on the criteria of “social impact,” “communication,” “group synergy,” “approach,” and “developability.” At the contest, nine winner were announced and the grand prize were bestowed on two teams among them. [Grand Prize (1)] MSIG Malaysia “Fire Insurance for Social Enterprise who Build for the Underserved” This is an initiative linked with a support scheme for improving the living conditions of the Underserved conducted by EPIC Homes, a social enterprise in Malaysia. MSIG Malaysia developed ﬁre insurance specialized for housing and packaged compensation related to the support scheme. By providing house with ﬁre insurance to the Underserved, this initiative will lead to a concept of “no one is left behind,” allowing the Underserved to live in peace and encourages the sponsors to participate in the support scheme. Malaysia: Providing Fire Insurance for Special Housing for Indigenous Peoples [Grand Prize (2)] “Launching cmap.dev, the worldʼs ﬁrst real-time loss prediction website” by Claims Administration Department at Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., LTD. ”cmap.dev” is a website jointly developed with Aon Group Japan and Yokohama National University which forecasts the number of damaged buildings in real time in the event of a typhoon, heavy rain, or earthquake and provides the forecasted results free of charge. The service will lead to a “resilient and sustainable society” and enabling prompt rescue by identifying the scale of a disaster at early stage and contributing to the appropriate support activities for disaster victims and the reconstruction of local communities. Real-time damage prediction website The Sustainability Contest helps employees developing a sustainability mindset and stimulating their awareness of linking their daily work with CSV. We will continue to tackle social issues by creating new business models and sharing success cases with the entire Group through the Sustainability Contest, for creating a virtuous cycle of commonly practiced sustainable initiatives within the Group. Grand Prize winners: MSIG Malaysia (left) and AD Claims Administration Department (right) 077 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Deal with New Risks Deal with New Risks The risks of modern society, such as the global outbreak of the novel coronavirus, are more diversiﬁed and more complexed with every passing day. According to the “Global Risk Report 2020”, released by the World Economic Forum in January 2020, climate and environmental risks were ranked as the top ﬁve global high probable risks, as well as the top ﬁve inﬂuential global risks. Cyber attacks were ranked high on the list of short-term risks which were expected to increase in 2020. The sharp increase of malicious cyber attacks by taking advantage of the spread of the novel coronavirus were reported around the world. In Japan, the risk of cyber attacks was rising to an unprecedented level by the increased number of telecommuters using vulnerable home PCs and free external Wi-Fi routers. The MS&AD Insurance Group believes that forecasting, preventing, and suitably managing new risks is essential for stable livelihoods and dynamic business activities, and we will provide products/services that address these concerns as well as products/services that satisfy diversifying customer needs. Through examination and research in support of innovation, we will do our part in realizing a sustainable society and economic development. Providing Information and Conducting Research and Studies on Diverse Risks We oﬀer information, research, and studies that are eﬀective for identifying and assessing risks, including surveys on continuously evolving technologies and environment as well as research on the utilization of Big Data. ＜Representative Initiatives＞ We commenced a joint research and development with Lucideus Inc. on a simpliﬁed, low-cost cyber securityanalysis for smalland medium-sized businesses which have diﬃculty to allocate budget for identifying and Joint research and development of cyber diagnostic diagnosing their cybersecurity risks services We aim to provide innovative insurance products, services and know-how through research and operation test of new services by collaborating with world-leading startups in the ﬁelds of insurance tech, AI, and cyber security Collaborations with startups Implementing eﬀorts and support for the development and commercialization of advanced technologies through industrial-academic partnership agreements with universities engaged in cutting-edge surveys and research Joint research with universities useful to the next generation We support companies to be well equipped for various risks by providing reports on latest practical information of risk management and lessons from other company risk management practices Oﬀering of risk information/reports 078 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Deal with New Risks Joint research and development of cyber security analysis services for smalland medium-sized enterprises with Lucideus Inc. (Japanese only) Business cooperation with the Israeli organizations for innovation PDF Conclusion of an industry-academia partnership agreement between Tokyo Denki University and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (Japanese only) PDF InterRisk ‒ Risk information/reports (Japanese only) Providing solutions to risks With the progress of technological development, the impacts of climate change, aging population, and changes in the environment have diversiﬁed the risks we face. To prepare for new risks, risk assessment through reliable risk models and risk control based on the results is critical. Through consulting done by MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, which is capable of advanced investigation and research functions as well as practical consulting, our Group provides risk preparation solutions. List of consulting services oﬀered by MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting Compliance, internal control Risk management D&O risks, legal risks, CS, and complaints Product safety, food safety Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Data security, data privacy BCP, BCM (Business Continuity Management) Risks in welfare and medicine Measures against new strains of inﬂuenza Sustainability Natural Catastropfe Due diligence for real estate Fires, explosions Risk of theft Personnel and organizational risks Occupational health and safety Transportation risks 079 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Deal with New Risks Provision of Goods/Services that Meet Risks We oﬀer products/services to cope with the changing customer needs due to diversifying risks and changes in the social environments. ＜Principal Products/Services＞ ・Group companies unfalteringly collaborate in the area of cyber risks to oﬀer comprehensive services ・Service provided by MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting completes the MS&ADʼs one-stop service to help clients Responses to cyber risks establish a Three Lines of Defense model as a risk governance system Oﬀering compensation for various kinds of risks for companies promoting telecommuting which widely covers liability for information leakage (due to cyber attacks and liability, caused by labor management of employee) Comprehensive Telecommuting Compensation Plan Launch of the “Comprehensive Telecommuting Compensation Plan” (Japanese only) PDF Oﬀering of compensation for damages caused by unauthorized third-party access through a mobile application based payment service from September 2019 Comprehensive Compensation Insurance for Mobile Application-based Payment Service Providers Launch of the “Comprehensive Compensation Insurance for Mobile Application-based Payment Service Providers” (Japanese only) PDF In May 2019, we commenced a new service of big data analysis to visualize and optimize the risks that clients are exposed and to help solve problems RisTech based supplier data analysis service MSI and Accenture launch new “RisTech” (“Risk” x “Technology”) service (Japanese only) PDF Global Digital Hubs Opened Our Group opened global digital hubs in Tokyo and Singapore to promote digitalization globally. The Tokyo hub was opened in April 2019 to encourage employees and agents to make greater use of digital technologies, while the Singapore hub was opened in February 2019 to support digital business approaches in various ASEAN countries. Establishment of Global Digital Hubs in Tokyo and Singapore PDF 080 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Deal with New Risks MS Digital Academy Established In July 2018, our Group joined with Toyo Universityʼs Faculty of Information Networking for Innovation and Design (INIAD) to open the MS Digital Academy, a specialized training program, in order to foster industry-ready digital business creators and data scientists. Utilizing both the hardware and software resources of INIAD, we are looking to create opportunities that enable employees to acquire proﬁcient skills in specialized knowledge and technologies. Collaboration with Toyo Universityʼs Faculty of Information Networking for Innovation and Design (INIAD) (Japanese only) PDF Establishment of “MS&AD Digital College from Kyoto” In July 2020, we established an online training program, the “MS&AD Digital College from Kyoto” in cooperation with Kyoto University of Advanced Science. The program is planned to support human capital to grow to create a data driven new business model and to develop innovative products and services by supplying lectures on how to apply and utilize new technology and big data. Opening of “MS&AD Digital College from Kyoto,” an online training program designed to develop human resource for creating innovative business models (Japanese only) PDF 081 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Create Mobility Society without Accidents Create Mobility Society without Accidents In recent years, the number of fatalities resulting from traﬃc accidents has been on a decreasing trend. As yet there are more fatalities among people 65 or older than those under 65, and the elderly have accounted for an increasing number of traﬃc fatalities over the past 10 years. About half of the traﬃc fatalities are pedestrians or cyclists, a high percentage in comparison to major Western countries. In addition, the number of traﬃc accidents resulting from the use of mobile phones while driving has been on the increase in recent years. In 2019, the Road Traﬃc Act was revised to strengthen penalties for using a mobile phone while driving. Mindless of inattentive driving, improper vehicle operation, and failure to conﬁrm safe operating conditions can all be prevented by eliminating inattention and complacency. It is said that the automobile industry enters a period of major change once every 100 years. While progress is being made in autonomous driving technology and in the development and demonstration of new transportation infrastructure such as MaaS, the MS&AD Insurance Group is participating in research and collaborative eﬀorts with other industries and government organizations to develop new insurance products and services that respond to this new technology, providing knowledge accumulated as an insurance company. We are also working to reduce traﬃc accidents and ensure that all people have access to comfortable mobility by providing insurance products and services that support safe driving using telematics technology and smartphones. (★) link is Japanese only Providing Services to Prevent Accidents and Initiatives to Support New Mobility Services Identifying and then avoiding the risks that lead to accidents is vital for preventing traﬃc accidents. We are promoting the prevention of accidents by visualizing the factors that lead to preventing traﬃc accidents and providing services that support safe driving. In addition, in order to disseminate and promote new mobility services such as MaaS, we are conducting research and demonstration experiments for implementation in cooperation with various organizations. ＜Principal approaches＞ In January 2019, we introduced “Observe and Protect Automobile Insurance (Dashcam Type),” an insurance product that utilizes the latest telematics technology in dedicated dashcams outﬁtted with proprietary communications functions to support safe driving by customers. These drive recorders oﬀer video recording functions, and we provide safe driving assistance alerts that call driversʼ attention to driving conditions as well as a guardian service that share information including driving tendencies with family members and others living apart from the driver. If the drive recorder detects a Insurance for automobiles with onboard dashcams major collision, information about the accident site and other relevant information will be relayed to a dedicated safety conﬁrmation desk, and an operator will contact the customer to oﬀer advice on initial responses to the accident. GK Mimamoru (MSI) (★) TOUGH (ADI) (★) 082 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Create Mobility Society without Accidents We provide a variety of services that utilize smartphone apps, and telematics technology with connected drive recorders for greater security and safety *Please see the oﬃcial websites and news releases of the pertinent companies for further details. <Apps> We oﬀer apps that provide support for safe driving diagnoses, accident prevention, safe driving, and claims handling (accident response) in the unlikely event of an accident for corporate and individual customers FOUR SAFETY (Support service preventing the use of mobile Providing applications that support safe driving phones while driving) (MSI)(★) Suma-Ho (MSI) (Japanese only)“F-Dora” drive recorder/telematics service for ﬂeet policy holders (MSI)(★) Providing a “driving skill improvement training app” (ADI)(★) PDF Sapo NAVI (ADI)(★) Biz Safety (ADI)(★) PDF Mitsui Direct General App (Mitsui Direct General)(★) <Services> Providing “safe driving seminars utilizing VR (Virtual Reality)” (InterRisk)(★) A collection of tips for safe driving tied to disaster prevention and reduction (MD)(★) A number of local governments and companies are considering new mobility services such as MaaS* to provide more ﬂexible and convenient travel experiences and to address local transportation issues. In order to support the spread and promotion of new mobility services, we are working to provide products and services in cooperation with local governments and the businesses that operate these services. (*) MaaS... an abbreviation for “Mobility as a Service.” Providing “mobility” as a service in transportation infrastructure <Examples of MSI Approaches> Support for smart mobility initiatives (Mirai Share)(★) PDF Collaborative eﬀorts regarding “MaaS x Insurance” (Odakyu Electric Railway)(★) PDF MaaS joint initiative utilizing low-speed mobility (Yamaha Motor)(★) PDF Ride-sharing demonstration experiment using demand transportation(★) PDF Collaboration and provision of products and Joint eﬀorts toward the realization of a society with “zero accidents involving elderly drivers” (Sabae city)(★) PDF services to support R&D for next-generation Participation in demonstrations of shared taxis using AI (Ina city)(★) PDF mobility services Business alliance with Volocopter GmbH regarding “ﬂying car” business PDF <Examples of ADI Approaches> Special joint research regarding MaaS with Kagawa University(★) PDF Co-creation initiatives to realize “safe and optimal driving routes” (OPTIMIND Inc.)(★) PDF Demonstration experiment using Ha:mo RIDE driving data (Toyota city)(★) PDF Collaboration on technical veriﬁcation of new mobility services using location information (East Japan Railway Company)(★) PDF Demonstration experiment of “Japanʼs ﬁrst symbiotic MaaS,” combining transportation sharing between residents and buses/taxis, etc. (OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Co., Ltd., Maizuru city)(★) PDF Capital alliance with SYNQA regarding utilization of payment platform(★) PDF Capital alliance with Joby Aviation regarding “ﬂying car” business(★) PDF 083 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Create Mobility Society without Accidents Providing Insurance Products and Related Services to Realize a Comfortable Mobility Society With the growing number of cars employing autonomous driving technologies that is causing changes to our mobility society, we are utilizing telematics technology to gather and analyze customersʼ driving practices and then providing customers inside and outside Japan with insurance products that lead to safety driving and fewer accidents in addition to insurance products for reducing economic burden on customers, which meet a variety of other needs. ＜Principal Products/Services＞ Voluntary automobile insurance that provides “incentives for safe driving (discounts)” and “services that lead to safety and security” based on travel data obtained through telematics technology. We support safe driving based on the concepts of “proﬁt gain,” “enjoy,” and “watch.” In the event of an accident, we support customers with our “telematics claims service” and claims handling (accident response) service “Iʼm ZIDAN,” which is available 24/7. Telematics-based Automobile Insurance Overseas sales of telematics insurance, which reﬂects driving behavior, started in the United States and Thailand (for Thailand, it was the countryʼs ﬁrst fully ﬂedged driving behavior telematics insurance), and we are promoting the provision of insurance products utilizing telematics globally TOUGH Connected automobile insurance(★) TOUGH Mimamoru automobile insurance plus(★) US: Development of telematics insurance, which reﬂects driving behavior(★) PDF Thailandʼs ﬁrst telematics insurance, which reﬂects driving behavior, launched(★) PDF Amidst the diversiﬁcation of car usage patterns, we are developing and providing automobile insurance for carsharing service providers to ensure that both individual car-sharing users and vehicle owners can participate in car-sharing without any concerns nor omission of compensation. Automobile insurance for car-sharing companies Developing “automobile insurance for car share platforms” (MSI)(★) PDF Launch of one-day automobile insurance “one-day supporter” for C2C car-sharing companies (ADI)(★) PDF The system grasps the details of an accident by analyzing accident videos, driving routes, driving behavior, and other information acquired by vehicle-mounted devices such as drive recorders at the time of impact detection. This reduces the burden on customers and enables smoother claims handling (accident response). Claims handling (accident response) using telematics technology Introduction of a system in which AI automatically explains the details of an accident from drive recorder images (MSI)(★) PDF “Telematics claims service,” a claims handling (accident response) service using telematics (ADI)(★) PDF [External Evaluation] Toyota Insurance, which is managed by European subsidiary Aioi Nissay Dowa Europe and the German branch of Toyota Insurance Management, ranked 1st for the 7th consecutive year and 9th year total in the annual dealer satisfaction survey of automobile brand insurance conducted by Germanyʼs largest automobile and sales dealer magazine “Autohaus” Rated #1 automobile brand insurance by German magazine Autohaus for 7th consecutive year (ADI)(★) PDF 084 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development Strive for Resilient Community Development Weather damage from heavy rains, ﬂooding, cyclones, and other disasters has intensiﬁed due to climate change, thus making it urgent that steps are taken to reduce the number of people killed or injured in these disasters and to lessen the economic losses. Forecasting the risks of potential disasters and preparing communities for their contingencies is of great signiﬁcance in realizing the safety and security of peopleʼs livelihoods. The “resilient community development,” which the MS&AD Insurance Group is aiming for, entails realizing sustainable residential spaces that are safe and able to recover from disasters. To that end, we are conducting studies and research on disaster prevention and reduction, providing products and services that lessen and reduce damage from disasters, and promoting initiatives to support rapid recovery in the event a disaster does occur. Furthermore, revitalizing local communities is also important for creating communities capable of coping with disasters. Declining vitality among local communities is leading to a number of issues, among them a shortage of social services due to depopulation. Regional revitalization is a key governmental policy, and we are working with local governments and stakeholders to revitalize local communities and promote “resilient community development” by implementing industrial promotion measures tailored to the local requirements and supporting risk management that helps create disaster-resilient communities utilizing natural capital. (★) link is Japanese only Disaster Prevention and Reduction [Research and results through industry-academia collaboration] In order to build a sustainable society, we are conducting joint research with universities on disaster prevention and reduction, providing new services as a result of this research. As part of a joint research project with Aon Group Japan Co., Ltd., and Yokohama National University, in June 2019 “cmap.dev” was launched, the world's ﬁrst*1 website providing real-time forecasts of the number of buildings damaged and the rate of damage caused by typhoons, heavy rains and earthquakes for each municipality. Even in normal times, cmap.dev can simulate major typhoons, heavy rains and earthquakes that have occurred in the past and check weather information from around the world. *2 In June 2020, a new function was added to predict damage to buildings before a typhoon hits the country and make the data available in real time. Real-time loss prediction website “cmap.dev” is widely used for disaster prevention and reduction activities by local governments and companies, and received the grand prize at the 29th Global Environment Awards (*1) According to June 2019 research by Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (*2) Website is available to the public and can be accessed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year from any device such as a PC or smartphone. Research and results through industry-academia collaboration [worldʼs ﬁrst](★) PDF New features of the real-time loss prediction website ”cmap.dev”(★) PDF 085 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development In September 2019, we began joint research with Hiroshima University with the aim of commercializing a new type of evacuation insurance that encourages early evacuation by applying the automobile telematics insurance system to disaster prevention and reduction. Targeting not only vulnerable evacuees but also companies and local governments in a comprehensive manner, our aim is to develop insurance products that promote evacuation Evacuation insurance activities Joint research with Hiroshima University to commercialize evacuation insurance(★) PDF [Weather Information Alert Service] In collaboration with Weather News Co., Ltd., the largest weather information company in Japan, we provide corporate ﬁre insurance (Property Master, Business Keeper), construction insurance (Construction All-in, Civil Engineering All-in), or transport insurance (Full Line, Support One) policyholders the following services for free: Customers can use an exclusive website to access at any time weather information/forecasts for up to ﬁve preset locations Customers can select locations that are to be monitored and alert e-mail messages are sent out to customer-stipulated e-mail addresses when, for instance, rainfall, wind speed or snowfall forecasts exceed pre-determined values or when lightning strikes have been observed within a pre-determined distance from monitored locations. [Preparing Against Natural Disasters] In response to growing customer interest in ﬂood and earthquake compensation due to the more frequent occurrence of natural disasters in recent years, we are now proposing “preparing” against natural disasters. The aim is to encourage customers to review and prepare for their own risks by explaining the risks of ﬂooding and earthquakes. Additionally, in the event of a disaster, it may not be possible to contact a customer due to evacuation to a shelter, collapse of/damage to their home, etc., and so we are also calling for the use of Internet services to secure a means of communication between customers and agents. We are promoting initiatives to remind customers an importance to “be prepared” not only after, but also before a disaster occurs. Flyer highlighting need for coverage Providing information on disaster prevention/mitigation 086 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development [Useful Smartphone Applications for Disaster Strikes] We provide smartphone apps for use during disasters and are endeavoring to help our users ensure their safety and security when large-scale natural disasters strike. Smartphone Disaster Navigator (★) Additions of “Hazard map display function” and “Disaster prevention information translation function”(★) PDF Launched “Earthquake! Where Are You Now?” an industry-ﬁrst service (★) PDF [Providing Services for Assessment and Analysis of Catastrophe Risks] As natural disasters continue to increase in frequency, it has become an important management issue for companies to prepare against contingencies. We support resilient business activities by providing services to assess and analyze the risks of various natural disasters. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We collect and organize hazard information based on comprehensive surveys on earthquakes, wind and water Natural disaster hazard information survey disasters, volcanic eruptions, lightning strikes, snow accumulation, and more, diagnosing the location risks for corporate facilities ① Assessing inundation risks by identifying locations with a high risk of inundation based on hazard maps ② Simulations to evaluate inundation conditions in the vicinity of target sites with a ﬁne mesh Flood disaster countermeasure support service ③ Comprehensive support menu for ﬂood risk assessment consisting of options such as ﬂood risk surveys that identify dangerous areas and give advice on countermeasures through on-site checks Simulations are used for risk assessments of sediment-related disasters (debris ﬂows, landslides, etc.) at Sediment-related disaster risk diagnosis individual sites based on “largest recorded” and “potential largest” rainfall scenarios Providing a website that enables the acquisition of various types of information related to water disasters at Sui Search multiple sites either “in summary” or “in real time” and the automatic determination of the timing of various responses and decisions (= alert stage judgments) Assisting in Swift Post-disaster Recovery Against the backdrop of large-scale disasters occurring one after the other, our Group has rapidly conducted damage investigations, paid out insurance claims, and taken other steps to provide relief to disaster victims. We have also introduced a variety of new technologies to accelerate payments of insurance money. 087 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development ＜Principal Approaches＞ In conducting damage surveys in areas inaccessible by road due to ﬂooding or landslides or of solar panels spread out over an extensive area, we analyze aerial images taken by drones to quickly grasp the degree of damage. Damage surveys utilizing drones (unmanned aerial vehicles) Fluid simulation technology using drones and AI allows us to quickly and accurately estimate the inundation height in the aﬀected area Advanced digital technology accelerates disbursement of claims payments for large-scale Start of ﬂoods damage claims handling with drones and AI(★) ﬂooding PDF By introducing RPA (Robotic Process Automation) for registering accident claim information received via a dedicated website and automating the simple administrative tasks, we have developed a system that allows us to Operational automation by software robots assign more personnel to higher value-added operations such as customer service and damage surveys during large-scale disasters [Donations in Response to Disasters] In order to rebuild the lives of policyholders aﬀected by a disaster as quickly as possible, we made eﬀorts to pay insurance claims promptly to customers. We also collect donations from employees of Group companies to support victims of disasters applicable to Disaster Relief Act in Japan and major disasters overseas. Utilizing our Disaster Relief Donation Matching Gift Program, in which we make additional donations in response to donations from employees, a total of approximately 720 million yen, including company contributions, has been donated since the system was established in 2004. ＜Total Group Company Disaster Relief Donation＞ Number of donation drives Contributors Total amount (includes matched funds) FY2019 4 14,782 37,672,500 yen Disaster Relief Donation Matching Gift Program Revitalizing Regions by Finalizing Collaboration Agreements We are assisting in regional revitalization eﬀorts through agreements with partners that include prefectural and municipal governments, local commercial/industry groups and ﬁnancial institutions. The Group has entered into 532 such agreements, providing support for various risks and consulting services for regional revitalization. 088 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development ＜Principal Approaches＞ We support SDGs initiatives by local governments, commercial/industrial groups, regional ﬁnancial institutions, and small/medium-size companies Providing support menus for SDGs eﬀorts We hold seminars and other events to help companies formulate BCP that will allow them to quickly restore and continue their businesses even when natural disasters or unexpected accidents occur Providing business continuity plans (BCP) In cooperation with Nagano Prefecture, regional ﬁnancial institutions, commercial and industrial organizations, universities, etc., Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company Ltd. supported the establishment of the prefectureʼs own Supporting local enterprisesʼ eﬀorts to accomplish “Nagano SDGs Promotion Company Registration System.” This support includes disseminating and raising the SDGs through public-private partnerships awareness of the registration system, providing individual support to companies navigating the registration (Nagano Model) system, holding seminars and workshops on SDGs initiatives for companies, and providing support for SDGs management. We support eﬀorts to bring about regional inclusive communities whose members respect each otherʼs personality and individuality by using the know-how we have gained through organizing sports events for people Contributing to the realization of “an inclusive with disabilities, etc., and by collaborating with local governments nationwide (hosting universal manner society” for regional revitalization seminars, engaging in activities to support sports for people with disabilities) MSI: Contributions to regional revitalization (★) Regional revitalization by ADI (The local AD Club) (★) External Evaluation Real-time natural disaster loss prediction website “cmap.dev” wins grand prize at the 29th Global Environment Awards(★) PDF Ministerʼs commendation as a “characteristic example of eﬀorts” for ﬁnancial institutions contributing to regional revitalization(★) PDF 089 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Support “Good Health and Longevity” Support “Good Health and Longevity” Japanʼs birthrate is declining, its society is aging, and its total population is declining. It has been forecasted that the countryʼs population will drop below 90 million by 2060, with the elderly population rate ‒ the percentage of the population aged 65 and older ‒ reaching nearly 40%. The rising elderly population necessitates an environment in which the elderly can live with a peace of mind. This living environment must give consideration to an urban structure that makes it easy to get about, supports access to information on health and preventive medical care, and is adapted to the decline of bodily functions that comes with age and nursing care. At the same time, the urban structures needs to facilitate the slowing of population decline by creating an environment in which pregnant women, children, and people with children can live safely and with peace of mind. The MS&AD Insurance Group will promote good health so that people can remain active throughout their entire lives, provide asset-building means to support a fulﬁlling “second life,” and help develop business activities that lay the foundation for a super-aging society and thereby support “good health and longevity.” (★) link is Japanese only Promoting Good Health and Preventing Illness We provide services that promote ﬁtness so that people can enjoy long and active lives, and we collaborate with universities to carry out studies/research on promoting good health. 090 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Support “Good Health and Longevity” ＜Principal approaches＞ We have created the Kokokara Diary, a smartphone app that supports physical and mental ﬁtness. The app can measure stress level, automatically calculate and display calories burned by measuring steps, record meals, weight, sleep time, check medical information, and more. It can also be used to check medical care Assisting in maintaining physical and mental ﬁtness information. In June 2020, we renovated the functionality and design to improve convenience of users. For corporations, we support corporate health management with a dedicated “administrator-only website” that provides access to employeesʼ life log data, a “corporate step count ranking function,” and a “health point management function” In ﬁscal 2018, our Group have commenced eﬀorts in collaboration with the University of Tokyo Center of Innovation (COI), a hub for self-managing healthy society, to realize a “sustainable, healthy and longevity society.” MSI and ADI are currently developing insurance products to support health and productivity management that Promoting good health in collaboration with the combine consulting services with a health management app based on an AI-driven health risk forecasting model. University of Tokyoʼs Center Of Innovation In September 2019, we initiated joint research on developing services that provide dementia prevention measures and have already begun to detect signs of MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment, a precursor to dementia) by voice. Supporting corporate health and productivity management by introducing the “health and productivity management insurance premium rate,” an inexpensive rate linked to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Establishment of “health and productivity Industryʼs certiﬁcation system for corporations practicing outstanding health and productivity management, into management insurance premium rate” the nondividend general welfare group term life insurance To give customers a better understanding of the importance of health, medical care, and precautions, we have been holding variety of open seminars on health and medical care topics in addition to seminars as part of our Seminars to provide information on human life and medical care joint project Cerebral Stroke Project with the Japan Stroke Association in locations nationwide. We are partnering with local governments, chambers of commerce and industry nationwide, and the Japan Health Insurance Association to popularize and promote health and productivity management by holding seminars Promoting health and productivity management and presented by instructors from MS&AD InterRisk and by oﬀering consulting services that support corporate health oﬀering consulting services and productivity management. Kokokara Diary developed to support physical and mental ﬁtness. (★) PDF Eﬀorts to develop measures to prevent dementia and detect signs of dementia and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) by voice (★) PDF “Health and productivity management insurance premium rate” is newly applicable (★) PDF 091 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Support “Good Health and Longevity” Expanding business to support a super-aging society We are contributing to the development of businesses that support super-aging societies by making available a variety of solutions and support relating to nursing and medical care. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We provide a comprehensive compensation plan for various risks related to welfare/nursing care providers (risk of compensation liability, information leakage risk, property damage risk, etc.), which also covers consulting costs for Products for welfare/nursing care providers the prevention of accident reoccurrence. Furthermore, we provide another comprehensive insurance package that includes risk consulting options so that policyholders can receive the compensation that suits their needs. We have formed capital and business tie-ups with startup companies that develop CareTech (coined from Care (nursing care and welfare services) and Technology), aiming to innovate and solve issues in the nursing care ﬁeld. Capital and business tie-ups with CareTech companies We provide Work and Nursing Care Dual Support Service to human resources departments. Work and Nursing Care Dual Support Service for companies Development and provision of medical receivable compensation insurance (plan for foreign patients only) for members of the Japan Hospital Association in preparation for the risk of unexpected large receivable arising from Provision of “medical receivable compensation the recent increase in the number of foreign visitors to Japan. This not only stabilizes hospital management but insurance” for members of the Japan Hospital also reduces the burden of collecting receivable insurance payments. Association We have developed and are providing My 100-Year Life Training which is designed to enhance the consulting skills of insurance agents in an age of super-longevity. The training curriculum helps insurance agents improve their ability to put forth proposals that meet a variety of insurance needs by using original business games (card “My 100-Year Life Training” for ﬁnancial institutions games) designed to give the agents a realistic sense of what might be required for an unexperienced 100-year life. Provision of “easy-to-understand explanation training to prevent complaints regarding foreign currency insurance sales” to ﬁnancial institution agents for reducing the numbers of complaints related to Easy-to-understand explanation training to prevent foreign currency-denominated insurance products. We improve the complaints regarding foreign currency insurance training programs with audio and video to introduce speciﬁc sales examples and ways of communicating in an easy-to-understand manner so that sales representatives can gain experience and learn how to prevent complaints Capital and business alliance with “WELMO,” which provides nursing care welfare platforms using AI and ICT (★) PDF Started handling “medical receivable compensation insurance (plan for foreign patients only)” for members of the Japan Hospital Association (★) PDF We started providing our Future Nursing Care Management Head Oﬃce support service for nursing care providers. (★) PDF Developed My 100-Year Life Training (★) PDF Development of “easy-to-understand explanation training to prevent complaints regarding foreign currency insurance sales” (★) PDF 092 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Support “Good Health and Longevity” Providing Products and Services to Support “Good Health and Longevity” We provide means for asset-building and products/services tailored to customersʼ needs designed to help people live fulﬁlling second lives in safe societies with peace of mind. ＜Principal Products/Services＞ We provide individual deﬁned contribution (iDeCo) pension plans through ﬁnancial institutions and agents as one part of forming assets for retirement. (MSI, ADI) We provide products that support customersʼ self-help eﬀorts to build the assets needed for 100-year lifespans, including Self-help-style asset building tontine-like* pension insurance capable of satisfying the need for long-term living beneﬁts. (*) A type of insurance in which the indemnities paid for by deceased policyholders are reduced and the reductions are allocated to the pensions of still-living policyholders who receive more pension money the longer they live We provide a Whole-life Nursing Care/Dementia Plan, a product that addresses nursing care risk for the treatment of dementia (oﬃcial name: Lifelong Insurance (Reduced Cancellation Refund) with Non-Dividend/Lifelong Nursing Care Coverage Special Rider (No Cancellation Refund) (18) and Special Provisions on Lump-Sum Payments for Dementia). This plan oﬀers coverage for persons requiring nursing care Coverage for nursing care and dementia for dementia, a particularly expensive type of nursing care, and enables them to prepare more robustly and alleviate anxieties about nursing care. We oﬀer special landlord expense riders to ﬁre insurance policies to cover expenses incurred from dealing with the losses arising from solitary deaths of elderly residents in rental housing. We also provide incidental services (furniture moving, light-bulb replacement services) through ﬁre Provision of coverage tailored to an aging society insurance to support the elderly in their day-to-day lives. We are providing special riders that cover the liability for train delays not involving property damage to deal with the increasing risks arising from a growing number of dementia suﬀerers. We provide a “nursing care health desk” where counselors qualiﬁed in nursing, etc., answer questions and concerns regarding long-term care and dementia by telephone (dedicated toll-free number) Customer consultation service A service that allows users to easily estimate the amount of public pension beneﬁts they will receive by simply taking a picture of their “Nenkin Teiki Bin (Pension Coverage Regular Notice) ” with a smartphone camera “Pension calculation with just a picture” service Launched “Fulﬁlling Tomorrow” existence protection oriented-type individual annuity insurance (with variable interest rate, level premium payment)(★) PDF Launched “Joy for Tomorrow 2” currency option-type existence protection oriented individual annuity insurance (★) PDF Lifelong coverage of dementia and nursing care risks oﬀering lump-sum payment + pension! Lifelong Nursing Care/Dementia Plan whole life insurance policy now available (★) PDF “Nursing care health desk” service launched (★) PDF “Pension calculation with just a picture,” the life insurance industryʼs ﬁrst public pension calculation tool using AI-OCR (★) PDF 093 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” At the heart of the SDG-focused 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development lies the mission of ensuring that everyone can enjoy productive and satisfying lives toward the future while leaving no one behind as the society progresses. These share the similar proposition with the MS&AD Insurance Groupʼs mission of “contributing to the development of a vibrant society and helping secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and ﬁnancial services business” and an essential element for our goal of the “resilient and sustainable society.” Our Group will partner with various sectors in taking on the challenges of making insurance/ﬁnancial services more widely available and utilizing insurance to resolve such issues as poverty, social disparities, and discrimination. (★) link is Japanese only Eﬀorts in support of “leaving no one behind” overseas We are transferring insurance technologies to expand the communities and the number of individuals able to obtain insurance and engaging in social contribution activities in those areas that cannot be covered by insurance products or services. ＜Principal Approaches＞ Working together with BPI Direct BanKo, which provides small loans to micro-entrepreneurs, we started oﬀering micro-insurance for loans in the autumn of 2019. We provide insurance to support the operations of microProvision of insurance for small loans to microentrepreneurs even in the event of an unforeseen occurrence such as an accident or disaster entrepreneurs in the Philippines We packaged compensation related to the support scheme undertaken by the social enterprise EPIC Homes to improve the living conditions of indigenous peoples. Housing with compensation provides reassurance to the Provision of ﬁre insurance for special housing for indigenous people living there and encourages participation in donor support schemes. indigenous peoples in Malaysia Press release (MSIG Malaysia) We have set up small shops equipped with insurance kiosks in villages, towns, and small and medium-sized cities across the country, and are thus helping to expand access to insurance in regions where insurance had been previously diﬃcult to obtain. We have also contracted groups that are striving to create jobs in farming communities to issue insurance Greater access to insurance and job creation in policies. This contributes to the process of creating jobs for women in farming communities where few job India opportunities outside agriculture exist. Cholamandalam MS General Insurance oﬃcial website For each new policy sold among our &LIFE brand of insurance products, we make a donation to the Japan Committee Vaccines for the World's Children who use the donation to purchase vaccines. Donations to help supply vaccines to the worldʼs Results of FY2019 sustainability initiatives (★) PDF children 094 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” Eﬀorts in Support of “Leaving No One Behind” in Japan Through our business endeavors, we are aiming to ensure that no one is left behind, focusing on issues such as poverty, disparities, and discrimination in Japan. ＜Principal Approaches＞ In addition to utilizing personal computers and smartphones, we are instituting procedures that give due consideration to the needs of the elderly and people with disabilities by adopting eye-friendly and easily readable fonts (Universal Design Font, etc.) for use in pamphlets for our primary products together with easy-toProvision of easily comprehensible information understand words, ﬁgures, and illustrations to convey information. We also provide sign language, interpretation services in 17 languages, and translation services in 12 languages. In response to customersʼ diverse range of values related to asset inheritance, such as good will of contributing to society by donating their assets, together with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, we developed the industryʼs ﬁrst “special clause for social contribution,” which enables designated public interest groups* to be appointed as the beneﬁciaries of insurance claims (September 2019) Establishment of a special clause for Social *As of the end of July 2020, the following three designated public interest groups have been designated: contribution ・Japanese Red Cross Society ・Japan Committee for UNICEF ・CiRA Foundation Handling of special clause for social contribution started(★) PDF Addition of designated public interest groups in special clause for social contribution(★) PDF Entrusted with the administration of the accident relief system linked to Kobeʼs dementia ordinances, we have developed Japanʼs ﬁrst comprehensive three-pronged coverage scheme for dementia: (1) accident relief Development of an accident relief system linked to (insurance), (2) system expansion (encouragement of early dementia testing), and (3) Prevention of accidents dementia ordinances (dementia Kobe Model ) (GPS tracking services by security companies). (There were 21,446 applications for dementia tests as of the end of March 2020) In order to realize a multicultural society, we hold traﬃc safety-related workshops for foreign residents throughout Japan. We also support the development of disaster prevention leaders and mutual assistance systems in foreign Contributing to the realization of a “multicultural communities in Japan. society” for regional revitalization Building a society that transcends nationality and language diﬀerences and supports each other As the only co-sponsor from the non-life insurance sector (as of August 2020), we are participating in the Bell Marks campaign which is designed to ensure that all children equitably receive education in productive environments. We have aﬃxed the Bell Marks to all of the Tough-series products. Aﬃxing of Bell Marks to insurance products Guide to Bell Marks-designated insurance products (★) Employees and agents took dementia supporter training courses, learning accurate knowledge about dementia and the know-how to support those with dementia and their families. In ﬁscal 2019, our Group jointly conducted promotion of the dementia training courses for employees (approximately 9,500 employees participated as of the end of ﬁscal 2019) Fostering of Dementia Supporters MS Aioi Life sets a target to have all employees participate in the dementia training courses, enter into cooperation agreements with local governments regarding monitoring activities and participate in community monitoring activities. 095 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” External Evaluation We received the ministerʼs commendation as a “characteristic example of eﬀorts” for ﬁnancial institutions contributing to regional revitalization for the third consecutive year (★) PDF Our automobile insurance claim forms have received User Universal Design certiﬁcation. (★) PDF We received the Gold Medal in the Japan Resilience Awards 2019 (Kobe Model). (★) PDF Cultivating a Sustainability Mindset among Employees Employee participation in social contribution activities in their local communities not only advances the personal growth of the employees but also prompts them to learn more about social issues and consider the solutions needed to achieve a sustainable society. Social contribution activities carried out by corporate citizens extend the employeesʼ antennas into communities and societies, foster ability to image, and build networks with communities. We, as a company, are providing opportunities for employees to engage in a variety of local activities alongside community residents both inside and outside Japan. ＜Principal Approaches＞ Group companies are actively taking part in global environmental conservation/social contribution activities tailored to the needs of individual communities. Social contribution activities carried out nationwide A social action organization operated by MS&AD Group employees who support the organization by undertaking volunteer activities and making donations in 100-yen units from their monthly salaries. The club makes donations to NPOs and other organizations and MS&AD Unison Smile Club undertakes employee volunteer activities. MS&AD Unison Smile Club We are continuing our eﬀorts to provide aid to the victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake as exempliﬁed by our co-sponsorship of soccer classes featuring J-League players as well as sales events and running events to generate funds for reconstruction assistance. When ﬂoods or other disasters strike, employees obtain information Disaster volunteer activities on volunteer activities from their companies and disaster-hit areas, and then participate on their own in relief eﬀorts in the disaster-hit areas. 096 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society Quality that Earns the Trust of Society Meeting the Trust of Society with High Quality The MS&AD Insurance Group believes it important to pay close attention to the expectations and needs of customers and other stakeholders and to put information derived from this in to good use in improving the quality of its products/services in order to continue being a corporate group needed by society. By putting in place a variety of schemes to solicit the views of stakeholders, we are continuing to improve our quality and operations through executive-level discussions to prove ourselves worthy of the publicʼs trust. For example, we provide easy-to-understand product explanations, use advanced technology to make procedures more convenient, adopt approaches that meet the needs of a diverse range of customers, including the elderly and people with disabilities, and work to improve the skills of employees. Quality Improvement through Communications with Stakeholders The Group has established the “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications” and provided a scheme and opportunity to listen to the voice of customers and other stakeholders for quality improvement of products and services, as well as compliance, respect for human rights and environmental initiatives. Communication with Stakeholders Schemes for Receiving Feedback from Customers The MS&AD Insurance Group has formulated a Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications and is receiving a wide range of feedback from customers including through consultations, requests, and complaints. The received feedback is then used for quality improvements. In line with the aforementioned policy, Domestic Group insurance companies utilize the customersʼ views to improve their business processes so they can provide products and services that better satisfy customers. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications 097 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society We disclose the substance and results of the improvement activities on our website so that the customers can see the status of the improvements. A Customer-ﬁrst Policy in the Business Operations The ﬁve Group insurance companies in Japan have formulated and published customer-ﬁrst policy in the business operations based on the Financial Services Agencyʼs Principles for Customer-oriented Business Conduct. These policies align with the framework for consumer-oriented voluntary declarations advocated by the consumer-oriented management promotion organization composed of the Consumer Aﬀairs Agency and other members. Please see individual companiesʼ oﬃcial websites for further information regarding these policies. ＜Customer-ﬁrst policy in the business operations＞ (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Speciﬁc Initiatives in Customer-Focused Business Operations Our Group is striving to manage its business aﬀairs by placing high value on a “customer-focused” attitude to ensure quality that earns the trust of society. The ﬁve Group insurance companies in Japan are engaged in eﬀorts based on customer-ﬁrst policy in the business operations and are periodically disclosing key performance indicators (KPI) that are used to objectively assess these eﬀorts and the progress made. Please see the oﬃcial websites of these companies for speciﬁc information regarding the eﬀorts/progress being made. ＜Customer-Focused Business Operations ‒ FY2019 Overview＞ (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. PDF Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. PDF 098 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society ＜Principal Approaches＞ We have been developing and adopting more convenient and comprehensible procedural methods to provide information on insurance and services to a variety of customers. ・Introduction of smartphone settlement service for insurance premiums (MSI, ADI) (Japanese only) PDF Eﬀorts to enhance customer convenience in ・Procedures for applying for and obtaining policies are available online (MSI, ADI) obtaining policies ・Procedures for obtaining policies without paper utilizing tablets and other devices. (MSI, ADI, MSI Aioi Life) ・Dissemination of information on insurance products using LINE (ADI) ・Reinforcement of product explanation videos for customers (MSI, ADI) ・We are helping to rebuild customersʼ livelihoods as soon as possible by increasing manpower and improving administration at our Accident Claims Center and Insurance Claim Payment Center in line with the scale of disasters, including earthquakes, typhoons, ﬂooding, and heavy snowfall, and by rapidly settling insurance claims. Prompt and courteous customer service during ・Established a paperless (PDF document) business ﬂow to further improve quality and speed up response. natural disasters ・We have been sending out post-disaster messages of sympathy and condolence as well as information on insurance claims by LINE. ・Claims determined not to be eligible for insurance payments but which nevertheless satisfy certain conditions are examined by a Screening Committee comprising outside attorneys and other experts. Screening of insurance payments ・MSI and ADI disclose the number of claims examined and the cases examined on their websites. ・In accordance with MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications, customersʼ opinions that are received through consultations, requests and complaints are collected, centrally managed and analyzed, then actively implemented to improve business operations. The details and outcomes of these improvement eﬀorts are disclosed on the website in sequence. Operational improvements utilizing customer ・We have issued a declaration of conformity with ISO10002, guidelines for quality management, customer suggestions satisfaction, and complaint response at organizations that also serve as international standards for customer service. We are continually upgrading our services in keeping with customer views. Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications Among the indicators used for measuring the level the ﬁve Group insurance companies in Japan have continued their eﬀorts in customer-focused business operations, customer satisfaction from customer questionnaires Use of customer satisfaction based on customer (completed by customers when signing up for policies or being paid insurance money) has been designated as questionnaire surveys as a KPI* one of the indicators for Group sustainability that earns the trust of society (*) Key Performance Indicator: an indicator used to quantitatively evaluate eﬀorts Targets and Results: “customer satisfaction indicated in a questionnaire survey when purchasing policies” and “customer satisfaction indicated in a questionnaire survey when receiving insurance payments” We have been fostering a suitable corporate climate by infusing customer-focused values into operations through education for employees and agents. ＜For employees＞ Inculcation of customer-focused value orientation We conduct workplace meetings and arrange training and contests aimed at improving skills in all departments. among employees/agents ＜For agents＞ We provide agents with various training and online learning opportunities, and we seek to motivate them via an agent quality certiﬁcation system. 099 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society Quality Improvement Utilizing Cutting-edge Technologies To satisfy a variety of customer needs to a high degree, we develop products/services utilizing cutting-edge ICT and other technology and employ new technologies such as artiﬁcial intelligence (AI), Big Data, and voice recognition to revamp our operational ﬂow. ＜Principal Approaches＞ Development and provision of support applications and services utilizing AI and chatbot functions in order to oﬀer insurance products and services more quickly Providing road services using “LINE” (MSI/ADI) (Japanese only) PDF Improvement of customer convenience Developing an AI-based Voluntary Automobile Insurance estimation support app (MSI) (Japanese only) PDF Developing auto insurance estimation services using AI-OCR (MD) (Japanese only) Launched Personal Accident Insurance claims service utilizing chatbots (ADI) (Japanese only) PDF In order to improve the sales capabilities of agents and solicitors as well as the leadership capacity of employees, we have started to use a self-training tool called “AI Role Playing,” that analyzes ﬁrst impressions such as facial expressions, emotions, and voice tones of speakers based on video taken by smartphones and creates reports Improving the quality of customer service Launch of “Com AnalyzerTM” （Trademark of NTT DATA in Japan）to visualize impressions from expressions, emotions, and voice tones (Japanese only) PDF We have introduced a system that uses AI and telematics technologies to automatically and accurately explain accident situations through text and diagrams. This reduces the burden on customers and enables smoother Claims Handling (Accident Response) Enhancement of accident responses Introduced AI-based system to be used for automatically transcribing accident conditions from dashcams (Japanese only) PDF Introduced a new claims handling system utilizing telematics (Japanese only) PDF We have begun employing a solution provided by Shift Technology, a French start-up company, to detect fraudulent insurance claims. Enhancement of claim settlement operations Expanded use of fraud claims detection solutions (MSI/ADI) (Japanese only) PDF In line with MS&AD Insurance Group Information Security Management Basic Policy, we have been pursuing consistent system security management across the Group to ensure that service can be reliably provided in the face of rising cyber risks stemming from technological advances. We are also working to develop more robust information management system through activities such as establishing in-house regulations and educating Strengthening of information security management employees. Information Management 100 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society External Evaluation (Japanese only) Regarding winning the “IT award (customer and business function areas)” in FY2019 PDF We received the “Special Award (IT Utilization Award)” under the “FY2019 Best Customer Support of the Year” awards sponsored by the Japan Institute of Information Technology (MSI) PDF MSI obtained three-star ratings (the highest rating) in the HDI Rating Benchmarks in inquiry desks, and online support categories PDF ADI earned three stars rating, the highest rating, in the HDI Rating Benchmark in customer service survey category PDF ADI obtained the Japanʼs ﬁrst 7-star rating in the HDI Rating Benchmark PDF Mitsui Direct General obtained ﬁve star certiﬁcation in the HDI Rating Benchmark as only company in the directly selling personal voluntary automobile insurance to customers MSI Aioi Life obtained three stars rating, the highest rating, in the HDI Rating Benchmark in the “customer support,” “monitoring,” and “support portal” categories PDF 101 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society / MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications The MS&AD Insurance Group shall respond to all customer communications quickly, appropriately and in good faith based on the Group's management ideology. The following principles for conduct are hereby promulgated to contribute toward greater customer satisfaction. 1. Deﬁnitions (1) Deﬁnition of Customer As used herein, customer shall refer to a customer having a relationship with the activities of the MS&AD Insurance Group with respect to both individuals and companies. (2) Deﬁnition of Customer Communication As used herein, customer communication shall refer to any and all expressions from customers (inquiries, consultations, requests, complaints, disputes, praise, expressions of gratitude, etc.). Here, complaint shall mean an expression of dissatisfaction from a customer. 2. Principles for Conduct (1) Basic Stance (i) All oﬃcers and employees shall respond to all customer communications quickly, appropriately and in good faith. (ii) All oﬃcers and employees shall be conscious of the fact that customer communications constitute important information for assuring trust from customers, realizing corporate growth and further improving quality. (iii) All oﬃcers and employees shall compile and analyze information relating to customer communications, and while making eﬀort to reduce complaints, shall also use this information to create measures that improve quality and raise the level of customer satisfaction. (2) Management of Responses to Customer Communications (i) Domestic Group insurance companies shall prescribe policies for responding to customer communications that factor in the business conditions present at their respective companies consistent with the MS&AD Insurance Groupʼs Mission Statement and the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications. (ii) Domestic Group insurance companies shall prepare rules, manuals and the like regarding the procedures and speciﬁc individual actions for responding to customer communications. (iii) When necessary, the other Group companies shall prepare measures for responding to customer communications and put these into practice as appropriate. 102 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion The MS&AD Insurance Group is convinced that providing all employees with opportunities to grow through work and to demonstrate their capabilities will result in greater corporate competitiveness. Creating management platforms that enable employees to play active roles, a business infrastructure needed for employees to take on dynamic roles, in addition to the use of diversity & inclusion key performance indicators (KPIs) to set numerical management targets, has been positioned as a priority in the Vision 2021 Medium-term Management Plan, and we are moving ahead with eﬀorts to make this the source of the Groupʼs comprehensive capabilities. Diversity & Inclusion Issuing the Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Promotion Report Our Group issues a D&I Promotion Report and makes it publicly available on our oﬃcial website. This report presents the directions the Group has taken toward D&I, the projects being pursued by Group companies toward their common goals, and introduces speciﬁc D&I measures being implemented at individual Group companies. ＜Content of “Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Promotion Report”＞ D&I Promotion Report 2020 (Japanese only) PDF ・Message from Group CEO ・D&I Promotion at the MS&AD Group ・Groupʼs Current Data ・Target Values ・Systems and Eﬀorts to Promote Active Roles for Women ・Global Human assets Activities ・Active Roles for People with Disabilities, Support for LGBT Staﬀ, Active Roles for Seniors ・Work-life Balance (Programs to Enable Employees to Continue Working) ・Creation of Environments Conducive to D&I ・Message from Diversity & Inclusion Oﬃcer ・Principal Awards Received from Government Ministries/Agencies 103 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion Targets and Results: Ratio of females in managerial positions, Ratio of taking fully paid paternity/secondary leave ESG Data/Reference Material: percentage and number of females among board members and corporate auditors, percentage and number of females in managerial positions Systems and Initiatives to Enable Continued Work The MS&AD Group has systems that enable employees to balance work and life while feeling fulﬁllment and growth as they enjoy their work healthy. In order to prevent employees from giving up their careers or choosing to retire due to life events such as childbirth, childcare, and nursing care, we have enhanced systems that meet the wide needs of each life stage. Our maternity leave, childcare leave, childcare time, sick/injured childcare leave and nursing care leave are all more than legally required. ＜Main Initiatives＞ 104 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion Registration as Member of the 30% Club Japan In May 2019, the CEO of our Group joined in “30% Club Japan,” a global campaign to produce female executives. We regard gender diversity as an urgent business issue that companies must address, and we believe that diversity in the decision-making process is important. As such, we are making committed eﬀorts to produce female executives in the Group. MS&AD Joins 30% Club Japan PDF Eﬀorts to Realize an Inclusive Society through Support for Athletes We have been striving to realize an inclusive society in which a variety of people can play active parts by supporting Paralympic sports. Initiatives taken thus far include fostering and supporting athletes who are actively engaged in competitions, co-sponsoring Paralympic sports organizations, and attending competitions around Japan to cheer on the participants. In this context, we have been employing abled and people with disabilities athletes, many of whom take part in the Olympics, Paralympics, Deaﬂympics, world championships, and other international competitions in order to create an environment in which people are able to dedicate themselves to both work and sports. MSI x Sports (Japanese only) Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance sports support site “AD Challenge Support” (Japanese only) MSI Aioi Life: Promotion and Support of Sports (Japanese only) External Evaluation (Japanese only) Selected as a “Nadeshiko Brand” for FY2019 PDF In ﬁscal 2019, we received a commendation from the Minister of State for Gender Equality under the Award for Leading Companies Where Women Shine PDF Certiﬁed as a “Sports Yell Company” by the Japan Sports Agency for three consecutive years PDF Certiﬁed as a “Sports Yell Company” by the Japan Sports Agency PDF The only inductee in the Hall of Fame after being certiﬁed as a Tokyo Sports Promotion Company for 5 consecutive years PDF Received an award in the Diversity & Inclusion category for the second consecutive year at the 5th White Company Awards PDF For other awards and certiﬁcations, see the Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Promotion Report 105 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow We live in a drastically changing society that can also be seen in our diversifying workforce. To ensure that our employees grow and play active roles, it is important that they ﬁnd their work satisfying and rewarding, that they remain healthy and dynamic, and that they exercise originality and ingenuity to achieve their work goals so that both the individuals and the organizations can grow and better meet the expectations of society. MS&AD Insurance Group aims to develop human assets(*) with the goal of elevating the level of professionalism of each employee, pursuing betterment as opposed to remaining complacent with the status quo, and maximizing the organizational level power through the aggregation of individual capabilities. (*) Human assets: In the spirit of valuing the individual, the MS&AD Insurance Group refer to our employees as human assets rather than human resources. A Vision of the Ideal Employees Envisioning ideal employees as those “who learn and think by themselves, take on challenges and continue to grow”, Group insurance companies in Japan have been oﬀering education and assistance to promote training, OJT*, and self-improvement so that our employees can work as professionals with pride and satisfaction. We provide a wide range of opportunities, including obligatory courses for all employees in an e-learning format that is more convenient for course participants. More speciﬁcally, individual employees sketch out their career visions, undertake new eﬀorts to realize these visions and bolster their own capabilities and skills through a target management system. Superiors engage in career dialogue during target challenge interviews (interviews with subordinates utilizing career vision sheets) and in other approaches to help employees achieve their career visions and to enhance communication between superiors and subordinates. (*) OJT: On-the-Job Training ＜Conceptual Image of Human Asset Development System＞ 106 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow Enhancing Individual Strengths (Enhancing Individuals) Group insurance companies in Japan provide training programs as well as outside correspondence courses and other opportunities for selfeducation in support of self-directed learning and growth to individual employees. ＜Our Development Program＞ MS&AD Open College Classroom training to acquire business skills, such as problem-solving Voluntary in-house programs that enable employees to experience working in other departments/companies for short periods; among the aims of these programs are to further cultivate Group solidarity and improve Trainee programs communication ESG Data/Reference Material (number of participants of the trainee system) An open recruiting program through which employees considering their own career paths can convey their plans Post-challenge programs and wishes to their companies and take on challenges to progress down these paths. Eﬀorts to actualize autonomous career development. Innovation Award under the “Good Career Company Award 2019” (Japanese only) PDF Enhancing Organizational Strengths (Enhancing Teamwork) To maximize the performance of organizations (workplaces), we are conducting a variety of stratiﬁed training programs for employees at all levels to support improvement in their way of thinking and behavior. ＜Our Development Program＞ We have a fair and impartial approach to hiring personnel that respects diversity. Additionally, we are operating New employee training OJT programs to enable employees to smoothly integrate into their workplaces after joining the company and to put their workplace experience to good use in obtaining the needed knowledge/skills We oﬀer training to help employees understand their unconscious biases and to learn methods for recognizing Training for managerial personnel and controlling their own biases. We also endeavoring to support the improvement of management and workplace communication capabilities to support human resources development across the board We have stepped up training and educational programs for female employees to promote career development of Training for female employees women (leadersʼ school, management seminars, and mentor programs for women, etc.) Support for “Meeting of male leaders to accelerate the success of leading female” (Japanese only) PDF Innovation Award under the “Good Career Company Award 2019” (Japanese only) PDF Development of professional human assets To respond to the advance of digitalization, the emergence of new risks, and other changes in social structure, we are systematically cultivating human assets with specialized skills who are capable of excelling on the world stage. 107 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow We have put in place a framework for employees to mutually interact and improve themselves through friendly competition between overseas locations and Japan in order to foster internationally-minded specialists with expertise ＜Examples of training and programs＞ ・Overseas training and secondment program (Learning business skills at overseas subsidiaries, overseas insurance companies, etc.) ・Global trainee system Development of global human assets ・Temporary Transfer System for employees hired at overseas branches ・MS&AD Garage Program(*) (*)Under this program,employees from Group companies worldwide travel to Silicon Valley where investors and venture companies gather, to pursue opportunities including the pitching of ideas. Having failed in each home country, the goal is to uncover advanced technologies and new services that can help resolve outstanding issues. ESG Data/Reference Material (number of participants in global trainee system, etc.) We oﬀer training programs to create new business models with digital technology and develop a variety of digital human assets such as data scientists. <Examples of training and programs> ・ MS&AD Digital Academy ・ MS&AD Digital College from Kyoto Development of personnel to oversee digitalization* ・ Training for new data scientists (*) Initiatives that will not only improve the eﬃciency and convenience of processes and services using digital technology, but also transform our Groupʼs overall business Launch of “Data scientist training support service,” renewed through business tie-ups with companies developing and providing AI programming learning services (ADI) (Japanese only) PDF We are encouraging and supporting employees to take qualiﬁcation examinations conducted by the Institute of Actuaries of Japan (IAJ) as part of our eﬀorts to develop actuarial professionals capable of applying probability, Support for acquiring actuarial qualiﬁcations statistics and other methods to product development, risk management, etc. ESG Data/Reference Material (number of actuaries) Fostering Personnel to Shoulder the Future (Internships) We oﬀer internships from the perspective of developing human assets through industrial-academic collaboration, and help students grow by ensuring that these internships provide them with opportunities to gain a deeper understanding of the signiﬁcance and appeal of the non-life insurance industry through group work and workplace experiences. Our proprietary internship program has been deemed noteworthy by serving as a model for other companies, and it has been selected by students to receive awards for excellence in the Internship Award, organized by Mynavi Corporation as the secretariat. (2018 ‒ MSI; 2019 ‒ ADI) Selected by students to receive an Award for Excellence in the Internship Award 2019 (Japanese only) PDF ADI began internships program for undergraduate and graduate students interested in data science since August 2019. Enhancing the training for and hiring of data scientists (Japanese only) PDF 108 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management As Japanʼs birthrate declines and its society ages, securing an adequate workforce to enable our company to stay in business has become a major issue. Keeping working employees healthy is essential not only to improve the quality of life (QOL) of the employees themselves but also to realize the MS&AD Insurance Groupʼs Corporate Philosophy. Our Group provides venues for diverse personnel with a wide range of values to work together and pursue work style reform that will increase productivity while making their workplaces more comfortable and their work more satisfying, and creates healthand safety-conscious workplace environments to maintain and improve the physical and mental health of all employees. Promoting Work Style Reform Work style reform is being implemented across the board by diversifying work locations and hours, restructuring employee roles, and adopting creative approaches to prevent long working hours. Our Group has been promoting work style reform since ﬁscal 2016. We are working to reduce working hours through measures such as “leaving work before 19:00 as a general rule,” “encouraging employees to take leave” and “eﬃcient operations,” and to improve productivity by improving the level of expertise of each employee and implementing management practices that make use of diverse abilities of employees. Under COVID-19, many employees started working from home, working remotely using digital tools, working shifts that allowed them to change their working hours as necessary, and taking paid half-day or hourly leave. Going forward, we will continue to promote ﬂexible working styles that make eﬃcient use of time and place without returning to the previous work environment or way we used to work. We are diversifying previously ﬁxed work locations and pursuing more diverse work styles for our employees ＜Example eﬀorts＞ Diversiﬁcation of work locations/hours ・Promoting remote work (deployment of thin-client PCs and utilization of web conferencing systems) ・Implementing work from home programs and utilizing satellite oﬃces ・Introducing shift work and short-term work systems We are seeking to reform employeesʼ thinking and behavior to ensure that they perform their work even better, Restructuring of roles further improving their productivity and strengthening their competitiveness. We are maintaining the health of individual employees and supporting work-life balance by preventing long working hours ＜Example eﬀorts＞ ・As a rule, employees must leave work before 19:00 Prevention of long-term working hours ・Finishing times are shared within workplaces using “ﬁnishing time declaration cards” to foster awareness of diﬀerences in working hours ・Industrial physicians provide one-to-one guidance to employees who operate PCs beyond a prescribed number of hours We encourage employees to take paid leave by formulating plans for regular leave in advance, and periodically conﬁrming that employees are in fact taking leave Encouragement of paid leave Targets and Results [the number of annual paid holidays taken] ESG Data/Reference Material (rate/days of paid leave taken) 109 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management Maintaining and Improving Employee Health We are working to maintain and improve the physical and mental health of employees and to create better working environments. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We conduct campaigns that encourage and support employees to carry out behaviors and lifestyle habits that improve health (self-care) ＜Example eﬀorts＞ ・Revamping day-to-day lifestyle habits by encouraging use of “Koko Kara Diary,” our proprietary app Support to improve health ・Providing meal campaigns, walking events, health point system, support of employees who are quitting smoking (subsidies to cover teletherapy expenses), etc. ・Encouraging sneaker commuting, stair climbing (conducting a “2-Up/3-Down” campaign, displaying stickers on staircases showing calories burned), etc. Establishing an environment that promotes the lifestyle practices needed to improve health and prompts employees to acquire greater knowledge/skills on mental health, etc. ＜Example eﬀorts＞ Improving health literacy E-learning, videos featuring top athletes promoting exercise, provision of information on lifestyle practices that include physical/mental health, diet, exercise, sleep, smoking, and provision of health education as part of health consultations and tier-speciﬁc training We have set up a health and productivity management center and an employee consultation oﬃce to provide care for the mental health of employees. In addition to carrying out stress checks uniformly across the Group and bolstering mechanisms to prevent mental disorders, we are using the ﬁndings of group analysis to establish better workplace environments Mental health care ＜Example eﬀorts＞ Preventive activities: training, e-learning, stress checks, health consultations at workplaces Support for aﬄicted persons: consultations during rehabilitation Return-to-work support: preparations for returning to work during recovery periods, etc. Establishing a system to support the balance between work and treatment of illness or injury* [Leave system] ・ Paid leave (up to 32 days) is granted every year. Up to 20 unused days can be carried over, and employees can take consecutive leave for medical treatment and recuperation. ・ Up to a total of 65 remaining days of carried over leave can be accumulated, and can be taken as consecutive Support systems for balancing medical treatment leave for treatment of personal injury or illness. and recuperation [Support system] If an employee faces limitation due to injury or illness, s/he is allowed to work from home, work shorter hours, commute by personal vehicle, etc. (*) The support system and number of days of leave that can be taken or saved varies depending on the group company and employee classiﬁcation. 110 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management Creating Safety-conscious Workplaces (Compliance with Occupational Health and Safety Act) We are striving to ensure safety-conscious workplaces with the Group insurance companies in Japan setting up industrial health committees in accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The committees investigate/deliberate on matters pertinent to preventing health hazards and maintaining/improving health each month. ＜Principal Approaches＞ MS&AD Holdings operates a uniform Group-wide medical checkup system so that employees can undergo standardized medical exams and analyses. For employees whose exam results require follow-up measures, we Uniform Group-wide medical checkup system provide health guidance and encourage them to undergo further examinations by industrial physicians/nurses. ESG Data/Reference Material (Consultation rate of medical checkup) To improve operational eﬃciency among employees while ensuring their physical and mental health, we are Establishment of a suitable working environment establishing comfortable working environments with due consideration for lighting, circulation, temperature, humidity, noise, and ergonomics We conduct monitoring and risk assessments at workplaces in order to put in place the workplace environments needed to prevent falls and other accidents. Group insurance companies that use company-owned vehicles are managing accident rates and ensuring that employees engage in safe driving practices in keeping with the safe Prevention of workplace accidents driving management rules for company-owned vehicles. ESG Data/Reference Material (Number of claims for work-related injuries) Communicating with Employees We think it is vital that all employees understand the direction in which the company wishes to proceed and that working environments are created in such a way that the employees can maximally apply their enthusiasm and skills to helping the company along its course, and we are arranging various opportunities for communication among employees to this end. We also incorporate opinions expressed by employees in to our eﬀorts to improve corporate management and upgrade the quality of our products/services. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We periodically conduct opinion surveys of all Group employees. These surveys are used to instill the concepts of the Groupʼs Corporate Philosophy, Corporate Vision, and Code of Conduct, to conﬁrm whether a sense of Group Employee satisfaction surveys [Employee solidarity is being fostered, and to check whether employees feel satisfaction and a genuine sense of growth with Satisfaction] their work Targets and Results (Employee satisfaction) We have set up a bulletin board on the in-house system where employees can post improvement proposals and Mechanisms to make use of employee opinions in other messages. The posted content is then examined by the various head oﬃce divisions, who then provide improving operations feedback on the proposals. We periodically arrange opportunities for employees and top-level executives to exchange views so that the Dialogue with executives employeesʼ views can be incorporated into company management 111 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management External Evaluation (Japanese only) Recognized as a “White 500” organization under the 2020 Certiﬁed Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program / The Large Enterprise category Challenge to strike a balance between customer and employee satisfaction by utilizing “White 500” certiﬁed chat bots and RPA for two years running Recognized as a “White 500” organization under the 2020 Certiﬁed Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program under the large enterprise category PDF 112 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material ESG Data / Reference Material The following are the materials and data about sustainability approaches of the MS&AD Insurance Group. Subject period: FY2019 (April 1, 2019 March 31, 2020) Subject organizations and data coverage: Group Domestic Consolidated (Domestic consolidated (MS＆AD Group total) subsidiaries) Company name abbreviation Employee-based Employee-based Subject Subject coverage coverage Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI ○ ○ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. ADI ○ ○ Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General ○ ○ 77.2% Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI Aioi Life ○ ○ 100% Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI Primary Life ○ ○ MS＆AD Holdings MS&AD Holdings ○ ○ Overseas insurance subsidiaries Overseas ○ Other(*) Other ○ (*) Domestic group companies operating such as risk-related services Third-Party Assurance Since 2015, the MS&AD Insurance Group has engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to perform assurance of selected environmental and social data in order to assure credibility of reported ﬁgures. The data subject to the third-party assurance for this ﬁscal year is indicated with ✓. 113 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Organizational Governance Consumer Issues Environment Community Involvement and Development Human Rights/Labor Practices ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Organizational Governance) Corporate Governance As a company with a Audit & Supervisory Board, the Company will endeavor to improve governance by ensuring that independently appointed Audit & Supervisory Board Members appropriately act in their auditing functions, in addition to ensuring that the Board of Directors appropriately acts in its oversight functions, while strengthening the functions of each and actively disclosing information. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policies on Corporate Governance MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy Partaining to System for Internal Controls MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Conﬂicts of Interest MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy Concerning Antisocial Forces Directors (as of 25 June 2020) Chairman Chairperson of the Board (except holding concurrent post of President) Number of Directors 12(*1) Number of Outside Directors 5(*2) Number of independent Directors 5(*3) Number and ratio of women at the Board of Directors 2 / 16.7% (*1) Board members average tenure 3.4years (*2) Outside directors average tenure 1.8years (*3) The number of outside directors with relevant work experience in our company's sector : 2 114 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Corporate Auditors (as of 25 June 2020) Establishment of Board of Auditors Established Number of Audit and Supervisory Board Member 4 Number of Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Member 2 Number of independent Audit and Supervisory Board Member 2 Number and ratio of women in corporate auditors 2 / 50.0% Nomination and Remuneration Detailed Information Number of Meetings of Board of Directors etc. Function FY2019 Board of Directors 11(*1) Governance Committee 2 Group Management Committee 12 Task-Speciﬁc Committees Sustainability Committee 3 Business Execution, Oversight Quality Improvement and Compliance Committee 5 Group Management and Monitoring Committee 11 Digitalization Committee 3 Group Systems Committee 16 Group International Business Committee 3 Risk Management Committee 8 Auditing, Oversight Board of Auditors 11(*2) (*1) Outside Directors average attendance rate 96.4%. All directors average attendance rate 98.5% (*2) Outside Corporate Auditors average attendance rate 100% Detailed information of Corporate Governance 115 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Information Voting Right Number of shares Classiﬁcation Number of Voting Rights Description (shares) Non-Voting shares Shares with Restricted Voting Right (treasury shares, etc) Shares with Restricted Voting Right (others) （Treasury Stock） Share Unit Number Shares with Full Voting Right 24,244,400 shares of (100 shares) (treasury shares, etc) Common Stock Shares with Full Voting Right 567,414,500 shares of Same as above 5,674,145 (others) Common Stock Common Stock Fractional Shares Fractional Shares 1,632,854 (Less than 100 shares) Total number of Outstanding Shares 593,291,754 Total number of Vote 5,674,145 Political Donations* Name of Organization Coverage Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 The People's Political Association thousand Consolidated 20,600 20,600 20,700 （Liberal Democratic Party） JPY (*) As a member of society, MS&AD Insurance Group believes that it is necessary to pay an appropriate share, and we make political donations to the extent permitted by law. Compliance MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Shared Use of Customer Information MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors MS&AD Insurance Group Tax Policy 116 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Speak-up system (Whistleblowing system) Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of cases reported Consolidated cases 93 164* 164 (*) The number of reports has signiﬁcantly increased as we revised the system to allow anonymous reporting and consultation in 2018. Speak-up system (Whistleblowing system) Risk Management MS&AD Insurance Group Risk Management Basic Policy Information Disclosure MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Consumer Issues) MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications Progress and KPI(key performance indicators) in relation to our customer-ﬁrst policy in the business operations (Japanese only) The Group's ﬁve domestic insurance companies have disclosed their initiatives based on their Customer-ﬁrst Policy in the Business Operations and KPI used to evaluate the result of their initiatives. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Environment) MA&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment 117 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material CO2 Emissions in Business Activities * With our support for the Paris Agreement adopted in 2015, we have signed the Paris Pledge for Action that calls on its signatories to address climate change and global warming. In line with this, we have established a target of 70% CO2 emissions reduction by FY2050 and 30% by FY2020 (Total of Scope 1 and 2) compared to the base year (FY2009). Even though we had several large-scale natural disasters which resulted in quite increased number of payouts, we have reduced our CO2 emissions (Total of Scope 1 and 2) from the previous year as a result of our continuous eﬀorts for energy saving activities at our oﬃces and data centers through initiatives such as work style reforms and our unique environmental management system, which is the MS&AD Our Earth Project. With regard to data, we have obtained third-party assurance for the following new data items starting from FY2018: 1) the Category 3 in Scope 3, upstream emissions of purchased energy, 2) Total amount of waste recycled, and 3) Final disposal amount of waste. We strive to regularly assess our performance, identify the root course of problems, and take the next steps for further improve our operations. (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance CO2 513,320 530,821 547,700 emissions Consolidated t-CO2 (▲0.3%) (3.4%) (3.2%) (Scope1,2,3) Group 18,389 17,174 16,284 Domestic t-CO2 (▲6.7%) (▲6.6%) (▲5.2%) ✓ CO2 + Other emissions (Scope 1) 27,948 26,161 23,441 Consolidated t-CO2 ✓ (6.2%) (▲6.4%) (▲10.4%) Group 65,196 62,196 57,090 Domestic t-CO2 (▲20.1%) (▲4.6%) (▲8.2%) ✓ CO2 + Other emissions (Scope 2) 76,721 71,950 65,615 Consolidated t-CO2 ✓ (▲18.9%) (▲6.2%) (▲8.8%) Group 83,586 79,370 73,373 Domestic t-CO2 (▲17.5%) (▲5.0%) (▲7.6%) ✓ CO2 emissions + Other (Scope 1 and Scope 2 combined) 104,669 98,110 89,055 Consolidated t-CO2 ✓ (▲13.4%) (▲6.3%) (▲9.2%) CO2 408,652 432,711 458,644 emissions Consolidated t-CO2 (3.7%) (5.9%) (6.0%) (Scope 3) (*)We have revised the ﬁgures in FY2018 by improving the accuracy of business activities' data which is the basis of calculation. 118 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material CO2 emissions (Scope 3) (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Category 2 Consolidated 39,560 60,904 60,720 t-CO2 ✓ Capital goods （0.5%） （54.0%） （▲0.3%） Category 3 Consolidated 10,434 10,278 17,184 (*2) Fueland energy-related activities t-CO2 （▲7.0%） （▲1.5%） （67.2%） ✓ (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) *1 Category 5 Consolidated 2,750 3,463 2,034 (*2) t-CO2 ✓ Waste generated in operations （▲6.7%） （25.9%） （▲41.3%） Category 6 Consolidated 9,740 4,295 10,903 (*3) t-CO2 ✓ Business trip by airplane （▲4.4%） （▲55.9%） （153.8%） Group 7,489 7,388 10,078( *2) Category 7 Domestic t-CO2 （2.1%） （▲1.3%） （36.4%） ✓ Employee commuting + Other Category 13 Consolidated t-CO2 8,013 7,550 7,187 ✓ Downstream leased assets *1 (-) （▲5.8%） （▲4.8%） (*1)We have revised the ﬁgures in FY2018 by improving the accuracy of business activities' data which is the basis of calculation. (*2)With the update of the emission factor, the ﬁgures in FY2019 have signiﬁcantly increased and decreased compared to those of FY2018. (*3)We have reviewed part of the calculation method for FY2019 results. 119 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Data on Environmental Burden Scope 1 & 2 Coverage [the Groupʼs consolidated ﬁgures (including overseas Companies)] (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Consolidated 144,737 142,486 139,612 Electricity *1 MWh ✓ (▲15.8%) (▲1.6%) (▲2.0%) Consolidated 62,426 68,684 63,773 Heat supply GJ ✓ (▲8.0%) (10.0%) (▲7.1%) Consolidated thousand 2,113 2,731 2,642 City gas ✓ m3 (▲6.4%) (29.3%) (▲3.3%) Liqueﬁed Consolidated 183 151 134 Petroleum t (▲9.7%) (▲17.3%) (▲11.2%) ✓ Gas Consolidated 58 51 56 Heavy oil kℓ ✓ (▲45.8%) (▲12.3%) (9.3%) Consolidated 80 50 51 Kerosene kℓ ✓ (▲58.4%) (▲37.3%) (2.5%) Consolidated 6.5 7.4 7.5 Diesel oil kℓ ✓ (8.6%) (14.6%) (1.7%) Consolidated 9,618 8,334 7,262 Gasoline *1 kℓ ✓ (12.0%) (▲13.4%) (▲12.9%) 282,737 277,782 261,969 MWh ✓ (▲7.3%) (▲1.8%) (▲5.7%) Total energy Consolidated consumption *1･2 1,017,853 1,000,014 943,090 GJ ✓ (▲7.3%) (▲1.8%) (▲5.7%) (*1) We have revised the ﬁgures in FY2018 by improving the accuracy of business activities' data which is the basis of calculation. (*2) The calculation of the total energy consumption in MWh and GJ is based on unit heat values speciﬁed in Japanʼs Act on the Rational Use of Energy except for purchased electricity, for which 3.6GJ/MWh is used. 120 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Scope 3 Coverage (major items) (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Paper Group t 11,085 10,545 11,080 Domestic (▲14.8%) (▲4.9%) (5.1%) + Other Proportion of paper with forest certiﬁcation MSI, ADI, % 13.6 12.8 27.9 MSI Aioi Life (▲20.9%) (▲6.1%) (118.4%) Total water use *1 thousand 961 991 995 Consolidated ✓ m3 (▲10.5%) (3.1%) (0.5%) Disposed waste t 10,962 10,157 9,947 Total ✓ (3.9%) (▲7.3%) (▲2.1%) t 4,804 4,523 4,782 Recycled Consolidated ✓ (▲17.7%) (▲5.8%) (5.7%) t 6,158 5,634 5,165 Final disposal amount ✓ (30.6%) (▲8.5%) (▲8.3%) Business trip (Aircraft use only) *2 Consolidated thousand 46,759 47,127 94,896 passenger (3.9%) (0.8%) (101.4%) ✓ -km (*1) We have revised the ﬁgures of water use in FY2018 by improving the accuracy of aggregation. (*2) We have reviewed part of the calculation method for FY2019 results. 121 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Renewable Energy Generation We have installed solar power generation systems in our four major buildings, and are promoting to reduce CO2 emissions by using such renewable energy. (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Energy Generation 4 Buildings*1 kWh 57,109 57,275 50,953 ✓ (1.6%) (0.3%) （▲11.0%） Energy Comsumption*2 Consolidated kWh 57,109 57,275 6,492,106 (1.6%) (0.3%) (ー) (*1) MSI Surugadai Main & New bldgs, MSI Osaka Yodoyabashi bldg, ADI Tokyo Customer Center bldg. (*2) Renewable energy generation and included usage of 6,441,153kWh by renewable energy certiﬁcate in FY2019 only. Cost Eﬀect Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Electricity thousand Consolidated ▲414,372 ▲65,503 153 *1 JPY Gasoline thousand Consolidated 91,525 ▲138,144 ▲179,856 *2 JPY Copy Paper Group thousand Domestic + ▲45,825 ▲15,463 ▲68,857 JPY Other (*1) Calculated from the average unit price at MS&AD Holdings. (*2) Calculated from the petroleum products price survey gasoline nationwide annual average unit price (Agency for Natural Resources and Energy). 122 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Environmental Approaches through Supply Chain Our eﬀorts to reduce the environmental burden are also promoted in conjunction with key business partners. We are engaged in green purchasing, prioritizing eco-friendly products in procuring the materials used in our operations, and our entire value chain is working to establish a sustainable society. In addition, we are working with policyholders on Eco insurance certiﬁcates and web policy clauses that reduce the environmental burden of business activities and, at the same time, improve the convenience of policyholders. Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Selection rate of web policy clauses * MSI, ADI % 76.8 76.4 77.1 Number of Agents and companies MSI, ADI companies 132 121 82 with certiﬁcation under Eco Action 21 Number of maintenance shops implementing MSI companies 386 379 377 Eco-inspection, Eco-maintenance (*) Online Terms & Conditions in consideration of environment ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Community Involvement and Development ) Through our Group's social contribution activities and involvement in and support for community development, companies can help their employees become interested in understanding the community and society, be creative, and be able to build a network with the communities. Based on these ideas, the Group provides our employees with opportunities to take part in social contribution activities, and we have seen the number of participants is increasing. In ﬁscal 2018, over 70% of employees in Japan joined the social contribution activities. If our employees think it diﬃcult to spare time to physically participate in these activities, they can alternatively make a monetary contribution through the employees' social contribution activity team. The monetary contributions start at 100 yen, and the contributions are withdrawn from their monthly salaries. We also strive to disclose social contribution expenditures, including conversion of social contribution activities. 123 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of acquirer MSI, ADI, MSI Aioi Life people 26 23 6 of Volunteer leave Number of acquirer MSI, ADI, MSI Aioi Life people 2 0 1 of Volunteer suspension Number of employees Group Domestic people 20,022 23,601 27,673 engaged in social contribution activities MS＆AD Unison Group Domestic people 15,701 15,414 14,967 Smile Club Number of members Donated Consolidated thousand yen 29,455 50,230 37,673 Disaster Relief amount *1 Donation Matching Number Consolidated people 10,594 21,129 14,782 Gift Program of participants *2 corporate philanthropic contributions 1,271,451 1,519,660 1,622,130 Charitable Donations 614,930 821,730 46,070 （Breakdown）Purpose Community Investments 303,441 303,330 1,150,530 Commercial Initiatives 353,080 394,600 425,530 Group Domestic thousand yen Cash contributions 1,155,290 1,413,220 1,491,450 Employee volunteering during paid working hours 15,749 750 7,690 （Breakdown）Money conversion In-kind donation, facility opening etc 16,270 14,600 16,180 Management overheads 84,142 91,090 106,810 (*1) Total amount of Donation Matching Gift and Donation from employees (*2) Total participants ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Human Rights) (Labor Practices) Breakdown of employees 124 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Number Consolidated male41,295 41,467 41,582 of the female Group combined (9,745) (9,142) (9,051) employees total *1 male 20,173 19,914 19,697 Temporary employees female 21,122 21,553 21,885 are superscripted Group male31,823 32,182 32,091 as the average domestic female people number of combined (9,108) (8,612) (8,362) annual total temporary hires male 15,772 15,598 15,288 in the bracket. female 16,051 16,584 16,803 companies MSI 14,572 14,577 14,371 ADI 13,287 13,657 13,775 MD 571 545 552 MSA 2,609 2,604 2,588 MSP 394 400 396 holding HD 390 399 409 company Domestic employees (including group companies) /Consolidated employees 77.1% 77.6% 77.2% Overseas male9,184 8,958 9,236 ✓ female combined (603) (507) (679) total people male 4,190 4,073 4,214 female 4,994 4,885 5,022 Overseas employees/ Consolidated employees 22.2% 21.6% 22.2% ✓ Other *2 male288 327 255 female combined male people 211 243 195 total female 77 84 60 Other employee/ Consolidated employees 0.7% 0.8% 0.6% 125 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material (*1) Excludes excecutive oﬃcers and employees on leave. (*2) Risk-related service businesses operated by the Group Companies other than those in the domestic insurance industry. 2019 overseas includes Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP UK. Number of Employees by Age Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Under 30 male-female 6,428 6,919 7,019 combined total male 2,097 2,235 2,320 female 4,331 4,684 4,699 Number of Employees 30〜39 male-female 7,172 7,121 7,036 by Age combined total people (Group Domestic) male 3,128 3,101 3,057 female 4,044 4,020 3,979 40〜49 male-female 9,124 8,694 8,256 combined total male 4,579 4,137 3,727 female 4,545 4,557 4,529 50〜59 male-female 7,348 7,620 7,847 combined total male 4,481 4,602 4,657 female 2,867 3,018 3,190 60+ male-female 1,751 1,828 1,914 combined total male 1,487 1,523 1,516 female 264 305 398 Others * 19 (*)No further classiﬁcation due to privacy 126 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Employment Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Average age *1 Group male-female 41.6 41.5 41.6 domestic combined total age male 44.6 44.6 44.5 female 38.7 38.7 39.0 Average length Group male-female 12.8 12.8 13.1 of service domestic combined total year male 13.7 13.8 14.0 female 11.9 11.9 12.3 New-graduate recruits *2 Group male-female 1,352 972 861 domestic combined total people male 417 311 291 female 935 661 570 Turnover rate *3 Group male-female 2.7 2.8 2.8 % domestic combined total The ratio between the total annual HD male-female 9.4 12.4 12.3 compensation of the Chief Executive combined total times Oﬃcer and the mean employee compensation *4 (*1) The end of March of each year (*2) The number of new hires in April of each next year (*3) Exclude retirees and are calculated based on voluntary resignees (*4) The total CEO Compensation / The mean employee compensation 127 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Diversity We are promoting diversity and inclusion (D&I) initiatives in order to create a working environment where all employees with diﬀerent backgrounds, characteristics, and values can fully demonstrate their abilities and play active roles. The percentage of females in managerial positions is steadily improving, with the aim of achieving the target of 15% in FY2020. Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Employment rate Group ％ 2.37 2.37 2.43 ✓ and number of domestic employees people 719 711 727 ✓ with disabilities Rehiring Program Group people 1,133 1,173 1,295 after retirement domestic Number of users *1 Percentage and HD Directors ％ 16.7 16.7 16.7 number of females among people 2 2 2 board members and corporate Corporate ％ 50.0 50.0 50.0 auditors *2 Auditor people 2 2 2 Percentage Group Total managerial positions（General Managers + Managers） ％ 15.7 18.1 20.0 ✓ and Consolidated number of people 1,292 1,514 1,704 ✓ females in managerial Group General ％ 3.4 4.1 4.3 positions *3 domestic Managers people 36 47 53 Managers ％ 11.3 14.3 17.3 people 577 735 891 Total managerial positions（General Managers + Managers） ％ 9.9 12.4 14.8 ✓ people 613 782 944 ✓ (*1) Number of people newly or consecutively re-employed (*2) Approved at shareholders meeting held each next ﬁscal year. (*3) As of April 1st next ﬁscal year for Group Domestic. As of December 31st for Overseas insuarance subsidiaries 128 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Human Rights In February 2017, the Group established MS & AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights and implemented the Group's human rights due diligence system. We provide our employees with human rights training every year in order for them to understand human rights better and to develop an organizational culture that respects human rights. Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Trainings of Human rights＊ Group domestic % 100.0 100.0 100.0 (*)Rate of departments that conducted human rights trainings that required all employees to participate (Rate of employees that completed e-learning for ADI in FY2017 and FY2018) Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Labor union membership rate Group domestic % 93.8 93.9 93.5 Human Asset Development Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of participants of the Trainee System*1 Group domestic people 568 794 983 Total 118 112 131 Domestic 67 51 85 Number of participants of the Global Trainee System*2 Consolidated people employee Local employee 51 61 46 Number of participants of the overseas career training program*3 Group domestic people 55 52 48 Number of participants of the Temporary Transfer System to Headquarters from Consolidated people 9 11 8 Overseas Branches*4 Number of actuaries*5 Group domestic people 100 103 111 (*1) Short-term program which allows employees to experience work they have never done before, at the request of the employee. (*2) Short-term program which allows employees in Japan to experience working at overseas subsidaries, as well as local employees at overseas subsidaries to experience working at the head oﬃce. (*3) MBA dispatch program, and training program which allows employees to experience working for a year at overseas subsidaries or insurance companies. (*4) Transfer system for which allows the local employees from overseas experience the jobs at the head oﬃce for 6 months to 1 year in Japan. (*5) Number of professional actuaries employed by the MS&AD Group with specialized skills for making full use of probability, statistical and other mathematical techniques used in product development, risk management and other processes (as of April 1 of the subsequent ﬁscal year). 129 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Employee satisfaction *1 Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Employee satisfaction (questionnaire results), ”Pride, Job satisfaction”*2 point 4.4 4.4 4.4 Group domestic Employee satisfaction (questionnaire results), ”Working Vigorously”*3 point 4.2 4.3 4.5 (*1) The results of the opinion poll asking all Group employees (all-employee average on a 6-point scale, Scope: 36,404 all domestic employees including temporary employees at the time of survey, Response rate: 95.7%). (*2) Ratio of employees feeling pride or job satisfaction (*3) Ratio of employees, regardless of sex and age, feeling free and lively at workplaces. Programs for Promoting Work-life Balance We have been developing an eﬀective system that helps employees actively work with satisfaction and with the feeling of growth by balancing their work and personal life. In particular, we have set KPI for the rate of male employees taking childcare leave, and encouraged them to take part in the program. 130 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Items Coverage*1 Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Temporary leave Group before / after childbirth people 708 788 809 domestic Number of acquirers Number of employees taking childcare paid leave male-female people 994 1,026 1,052 combined total Group domestic male people 304 289 286 female people 690 737 766 Acquisition rate of childcare paid leave male-female % 78.0 85.2 86.3 combined total Group domestic male % 58.0 63.9 64.6 female % 98.6 98.0 98.7 Flexible working hours shorter hours people 982 1,126 1,308 for childcare Number of acquirers Group ﬂextime people 41 70 122 domestic change of Starting people 44 65 76 / ﬁnishing time Temporary retirement male-female people 9 17 18 for nursing combined total Number of acquirers Group domestic male people 1 1 1 female people 8 16 17 Flexible working hours Group number of for nursing domestic acquirers people 13 22 20 Number of acquirers Paid leave Group ratio of days taken*2 % 54.7 66.2 67.5 domestic days taken days 16.0 15.6 15.7 (*1) Includes temporary employees (*2) Number of days acquired / granted Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) In accordance to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, a health committee has been established to research and discuss relevant topics to preventative measures for OHS-related concerns and initiatives to support employees' health. We strive to provide a workplace environment that considers employee's health and safety. In addition, we have a group-wide health checkup system, a health management center, and a consultation room for employees in order to ensure that our employees can maintain their good health even better. 131 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Number of Group Total cases 178 162 162 claims for domestic work related Workcases 76 66 74 injuries related accident Accident cases 102 96 88 during commute Fatality cases 0 0 0 accident Consultation Group % 100 100 100 rate of domestic Medical Checkup*1 Absentee rate*2 Group % 0.433 0.448 0.511 ✓ domestic (*1) Number of employees undergoing medical checkup consultation / number of employees (*2) Total days lost due to absenteeism / Total days scheduled to be worked.To improve the accuracy of data, we have revised the ﬁgures for ﬁscal 2017 and ﬁscal 2018 132 HOME / Sustainability / Governance Governance The MS&AD Insurance Group have established “Our Mission, Our Vision and Our Values” as aspirations that all Group oﬃcers and employees should prioritize in all aspects of their work, and we are working to disseminate these aspirations to all of the oﬃcers and employees of the Company and Group companies. In addition, we have set corporate governance, compliance, and risk management as priority issues within our Group Medium-Term Management Plan and are making active eﬀorts to promote them. Outline of the Group Corporate Governance Compliance ERM and Risk Management Information Management Transaction Responsibilities Medium-Term Management Plan Vision Information Disclosure 2021 133 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Outline of the Group Outline of the Group The MS&AD Insurance Group supports the business and life activities of its customers with the all-around capability of its Group companies. Company Information Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Company Overview Organizational Chart History Group Structure Our Business 134 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHO WE ARE / Company Information / Company Overview Company Overview MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. is the insurance holding company of the new Group formed in April 2010 through the merger of Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd., Nissay Dowa General Insurance Co., Ltd., and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group. The purpose of MS&AD insurance Group is to achieve sustainable growth and to enhance enterprise value through the creation of a worldleading insurance and ﬁnancial services group that operates globally, by rapidly and signiﬁcantly improving quality and expanding its operating presence and corporate resources. MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Corporate Name Abbrev.: MS&AD Holdings Date Established Apr. 1, 2008 (Name changed in Apr. 1, 2010) Tokyo Sumitomo Twin Building (West Tower) Headquarters 27-2, Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan Map Representative Noriyuki Hara, Representative Director, President & CEO Paid-in Capital 100,000,000,000 yen Number of Employees 409(As of March 31, 2020) Our activities as an insurance holding company are: 1. Management of non-life and life insurance companies and companies qualiﬁed to become subsidiaries under Business Description insurance business law. 2. Any business associated with previous body. Tokyo Stock Exchange (First Section) Stock Listing Nagoya Stock Exchange (First Section) Related Information Corporate Video Group Structure 135 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHO WE ARE / Company Information / Organizational Chart Organizational Chart 136 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHO WE ARE / Company Information / History History Background of Group Integration History of Holdings Background of Group Integration 137 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHO WE ARE / Company Information / History History of Holdings Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. is incorporated. April 2008 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Listed on Tokyo Stock Exchange and Osaka Securities Exchange and Nagoya Stock Exchange. Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd., Nissay Dowa General Insurance Co., Ltd., and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. reach basic agreement on September 2009 business integration. In conjunction, announced integration plan, president of the holding company, address, descriptions and corporate name, etc. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. changed its name to April 2010 MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd. and Nissay Dowa General Insurance Co., Ltd. merged October 2010 into “Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd.” MS＆AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. converted Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife April 2011 Insurance Co., Ltd. into a wholly owned subsidiary and renamed it Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Company, Limited Mitsui Sumitomo Kirameki Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and Aioi Life Insurance October 2011 Co., Ltd. merged into “Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Co., Ltd.” History of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (link to website) 138 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Five Business Domains Five Business Domains Harnessing the distinguishing features of each Group company, every eﬀort is being made to provide a wide range of products and services to address diversifying risks and meet customer needs. Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business No. 1 position in the domestic non-life insurance market, making group-wide eﬀorts to comprehensively meet diverse customer needs 【Features】Comprehensive capabilities and global business development 【Products】 Product development that creates social value in response to customer needs 【Features】 With a focus on innovation, diversity, close relationships with local communities; striving to become a unique company with its own distinctive character 【Products】 Innovative product development as a pioneer in the ﬁeld of telematics insurance 【Features】 Professional claims handling (accident response) based on smartphones 【Products】 Easy-to-understand products and services and reasonable premiums Domestic Life Insurance Business Leveraging the distinctive strengths of two group companies in protection-type and asset-building products 【Products】 Protection-type products As Japan increasingly becomes a super-aged society, there is a growing need for medical/nursing care products as well as death beneﬁt and other protection-type products 【Sales channels】 The Group has developed diverse sales channels centered on cross-selling through the agents of the Groupʼs two core non-life insurance companies, ﬁnancial institutions, professional life insurance agents and direct sales personnel 139 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Five Business Domains 【Products】Asset-building and asset-inheritance products Suitable to the diversiﬁcation of customer needs as Japan increasingly becomes a super-aged society, asset-inheritance products that can be used for inheritances or living donations and asset-building type insurance products 【Sales channels】 Over-the-counter sales by ﬁnancial institutions (e.g., banks, securities companies) International Business An overseas network covering 49 countries and regions＊No. 1 in terms of non-life gross premiums written in the ASEAN region * Excluding the Cayman Islands, where SLI Cayman Limited (ﬁnancial services business) is located. (As of April 1, 2020) Financial Services Business Leveraging the full range of its capabilities as an insurance and ﬁnancial services group to provide new ﬁnancial products and services Risk-Related Services Business Creating synergies with the insurance business by deploying global risk solution services 140 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Group Structure Group Structure MS&AD Holdings is a listed holding company with ﬁve directly invested Group insurance companies in Japan: Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (MSI), Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (ADI), Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. (Mitsui Direct), Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (MSI Aioi Life) and Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (MSI Primary Life); and nine aﬃliated operating companies: MS&AD InterRisk Research Institute & Consulting, Inc., MS&AD Business Support Co., Ltd., MS&AD Staﬃng Service Co., Ltd., MS&AD Systems Co., Ltd., MS&AD Business Service Co., Ltd., MS&AD Loan Services Co., Ltd., MS&AD GRAND ASSISTANCE Co., Ltd., MS&AD ABILITYWORKS Co., Ltd., and MS&AD VENTURES INC. MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Company Overview MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE CO., LTD. (MSI) Responsible for non-life insurance business, which is a core business of the MS&AD Insurance Group, MSI is exercising its comprehensive capabilities to oﬀer insurance and ﬁnancial services business globally. Outline AIOI NISSAY DOWA INSURANCE CO., LTD. (ADI) Responsible for non-life insurance business, which is a core business of the MS&AD Insurance Group, ADI is leveraging its strong relationships with the Toyota Group and the Nippon Life Group and engaging in business based on close relationships with local communities. Outline MITSUI DIRECT GENERAL INSURANCE CO., LTD. (Mitsui Direct General) Mitsui Direct General is a non-life insurance company that specializes in directly selling personal voluntary automobile insurance to customers via the Internet and phone calls. Outline 141 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Group Structure MITSUI SUMITOMO AIOI LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (MSI Aioi Life) MSI Aioi Life is a life insurance company that oﬀers protection-type life insurance products, while leveraging the Group's marketing network and customer base. The company is realizing a growth model that involves a combination of strategies to utilize unique marketing channels. Outline MITSUI SUMITOMO PRIMARY LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (MSI Primary Life) Specializing in the over-the-countersales via ﬁnancial institutions, MSI Primary Life is a life insurance company that oﬀers assetbuilding products centered on individual annuity insurance and whole life insurance. Outline Directly Invested Aﬃliated Operating Companies MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc. InterRisk Research & Consulting is one of the major risk consulting companies in Japan. It provides companies and government entities with consulting, risk survey, research and investigation, information provision and other services related to diverse kinds of risks. With overseas bases in Singapore, Thailand, China, and Bermuda, the company is seeking to provide risk solutions throughout the world. Outline MS&AD Business Support Co., Ltd. MS&AD Business Support provides the MS&AD Insurance Group with such infrastructure support as printing and logistics and also provides employee welfare services and real estate management services, etc. Outline 142 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Group Structure MS&AD Staﬃng Service Co., Ltd. As the MS&AD Insurance Group's comprehensive human resource company, MS&AD Staﬃng Service provides each Group company with human resource services and also dispatches and introduces staﬀ to insurance agencies and other customers. Outline MS&AD Systems Co., Ltd. MS&AD Systems supports each MS&AD Insurance Group company by taking responsibility for information systems strategy and by planning, designing, developing, and operating information systems. Outline MS&AD Business Service Co., Ltd. MS&AD Business Service delivers contract administration services, services related to data entry, the creation of documents and forms, and other services to MS&AD Insurance Group companies. Outline MS&AD Loan Services Co., Ltd. MS&AD Loan Services provides customers within the Group with administration services for investments, loans and mortgage guarantee insurance, credit guarantee services, and loan services for individuals. Outline 143 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Group Structure MS&AD GRAND ASSISTANCE Co., Ltd. As a top-quality call center specializing in assistance services, MS&AD GRAND ASSISTANCE provides such support services as roadside assistance, home assistance and overseas medical assistance. Outline MS&AD ABILITYWORKS Co., Ltd. MS&AD Insurance Group is promoting diversity & inclusion by creating a working environment where employees with disabilities can fully utilize their potential and competence. Outline MS&AD VENTURES INC. MS&AD Ventures Inc. is a corporate venture capital ﬁrm. It seeks to invest in startups that may lead to new business models and technologies, enabling MS&AD Insurance Group to establish a competitive advantage as an innovation leader across diﬀerent markets and global territories. Outline 144 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Basic Policies on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Stance Supervision System (Board of Directors) Support Systems for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Auditing Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration Committee Criteria for the Selection and Independence of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Related Matters Basic Policies on Corporate Governance Responses to the Corporate Governance Code Internal Control Internal Control Systems Corporate Governance Report (last update : November 19, 2020) PDF （970KB） Basic Policies on Corporate Governance In line with its Corporate Philosophy (Mission), MS&AD, as a holding company overseeing all group businesses, has established a management framework that ensures transparent, fair, swift and decisive decision-making that takes into account the standpoint of all stakeholders. The Company's objectives are to sustain stability and consistent growth over the long term by using corporate resources eﬃciently and managing risks properly and ultimately, to further increase enterprise value. To this end, the “MS&AD Insurance Group Corporate Philosophy (Mission), Corporate Vision, and Values” were formulated as something all oﬃcers and employees of the Group should adhere to in all situations. In addition to working to disseminate these principles among all oﬃcers and employees of the Company and its Group companies, corporate governance, compliance, and risk management are positioned as important management issues in the medium-term management plan, and eﬀorts shall be made to actively promote that plan. Corporate Governance Stance As a company with a Audit & Supervisory Board, the Company will endeavor to improve governance by ensuring that independently appointed Audit & Supervisory Board Members appropriately act in their auditing functions, in addition to ensuring that the Board of Directors appropriately acts in its oversight functions, while strengthening the functions of each and actively disclosing information. The Company has formed the Governance Committee (made up of all outside directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board and the President) in addition to the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee (a majority of the members and a chairperson each have been appointed from among the Outside Directors) as internal committees of the Board of Directors, thus building a highly eﬀective and transparent corporate governance system. The Company has introduced an executive oﬃcer system and is proceeding to delegate authority over business execution to these executive oﬃcers to ensure swift execution. Management Structure of MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. 145 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Supervision System (Board of Directors) Role of the Board of Directors In addition to matters speciﬁed by law and the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors discusses and decides upon important matters involving Group management strategy and corporate management, including the Group's management policies, management strategies and capital policy, in addition to overseeing the duties of directors and executive oﬃcers. The Board of Directors allocates management resources according to risk appetite controlled with a balance of risk, return and capital, and aims to increase enterprise value in the medium-to-long term by achieving sustainable growth and improvement in earnings and capital eﬃciency with a foundation of soundness. In addition to appointing executive oﬃcers, the Board of Directors aims to separate management decision making and oversight by the Board of Directors from business execution by executive oﬃcers by clarifying their respective roles. Executive oﬃcers are responsible for executing business in the respective areas of business entrusted to them by the Board of Directors, and report on the status of business execution to the Board of Directors. Composition of the Board of Directors Composition of the Board of Directors More than one-third of the Board of Directors which has twelve members (ten men and two women) are nominated as Outside Directors to incorporate perspectives independent from management, strengthen monitoring and oversight functions, and conduct highly transparent management. As shown below, we are striving to ensure diversity including gender, race, and nationality, while considering the balance of knowledge, experience and abilities of the Board of Directors as a whole. Please refer to Policies on the Board of Directors' Overall Balance of Expertise, Experience, Capabilities, Diversity, and Scale below. Expected Roles of Outside Directors Outside Directors are expected to perform the following roles: Provision of advice from a broad perspective on management policies and management improvement based on their knowledge and experience, with the aim of promoting sustainable corporate growth and increasing enterprise value over the medium-to-long term Supervising of management through important decision making at the board level Monitoring of conﬂicts of interest between the Company and related parties such as management* and/or major shareholders Realizing supervising from a standpoint independent of management by fulﬁlling accountability for stakeholders, including shareholders * Collectively refers to the directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and executive oﬃcers of the Company and domestic insurance companies in the Group in which the Company has a direct investment. Committees Comprised Mainly of Outside Directors / Providing Opportunities for Opinion Exchanges Aiming to enable Outside Directors to engage freely in constructive discussions and opinion exchanges, we have formed the following committee and meetings. Governance Committee (meets about twice a year) Outside Directors Council Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Joint Council 146 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Support Systems for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Support for the activities of the Outside Directors is provided by the Corporate Planning Department, and support for the Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members is supplied by the Internal Audit Department. The agenda for the Board of Directors' Meetings is explained to the Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members in advance of the meetings by the Corporate Planning Department, which acts as the secretariat for the Board of Directors. In addition, information, such as important risk information, is reported on an ongoing basis to all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, internal and external. Support Systems for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members / Training Policy The Company has the following systems in place as required for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to eﬀectively fulﬁll their roles and responsibilities: 1. The Company has assigned a person in the secretariat of the Board of Directors to each of the Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (hereinafter referred to as “Outside Oﬃcers”) to provide support in areas such as providing brieﬁngs in advance. 2. The Company has established a system for ongoing provision of information and training at the time of appointment and during the term of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. 3. The Company provides appropriate opportunities for Outside Oﬃcers to share information and exchange opinions with management and senior employees. 4. The Company bears the expenses required to enable Outside Oﬃcers to fulﬁll their roles. Auditing Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Audit & Supervisory Board 1. Responsibilities of Audit & Supervisory Board Members As an independent entity entrusted with authority by the shareholders, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members are responsible for ensuring the sound and sustainable growth of the Company, and establishing good corporate governance in response to the public trust by supervising the performance of duties of the Directors. 2. Authority and Roles of Audit & Supervisory Board Members Each Audit & Supervisory Board Member shall appropriately exercise his/her legal investigating authority, including the authority to audit operations and assets, and supervises the performance of duties of the Directors by attending meetings of the Board of Directors and other important meetings, viewing important approval documents, investigating departments within the Company, and investigating subsidiaries in accordance with the auditing policies and plans stipulated by the Audit & Supervisory Board. 3. Composition and Roles of the Audit & Supervisory Board The Audit & Supervisory Board comprises two Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Full-time) and two Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, for a total of four members (two men and two women). Candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member are nominated by the Board of Directors with the approval of the Audit & Supervisory Board, based on the “Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates”. 147 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance The Audit & Supervisory Board receives reports from Audit & Supervisory Board Members on the status of performance of duties and reports from oﬃcers and employees on important matters related to auditing, and also makes decisions regarding auditing policies and auditing plans. Internal Auditing The Company has established the “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Internal Audits.” Under this basic policy, the Company and domestic Group insurance companies have formed the Internal Audit Department that acts as an independent body with auditing functions. The Company's Internal Audit Department has been established as an organization to report directly to the Board of Directors. The General Manager of the Internal Audit Department (General Manager of the Audit Department) shall report important matters that have been discovered as a result of internal audits of the Company and domestic Group insurance companies to the Board of Directors and the Group Management Committee. In addition, the Internal Audit Department cooperates with auditing conducted by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Accounting Auditors The Company has appointed KPMG AZSA LLC as its independent audit corporation. Please note that there are no special conﬂicts of interest between this company and MS&AD Holdings. The Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board endeavor to take appropriate action to ensure adequate auditing by the Accounting Auditors. The Audit & Supervisory Board makes decisions regarding proposals submitted to the General Shareholders' Meeting on the appointment or dismissal of Accounting Auditors. It also has the right to consent to decisions regarding remuneration of the Accounting Auditors. The Audit & Supervisory Board prepares criteria for appropriately selecting and evaluating Accounting Auditor. To promote appropriate accounting by the Accounting Auditors, measures are taken to conﬁrm the independence, specialist capabilities, and other requisite characteristics of the Accounting Auditors. Accounting Auditor Remuneration (¥ million) FY2018 FY2019 Scope Compensation for Compensation for Compensation for Compensation for audit services non-audit services audit services non-audit services The Company 66 32 71 22 Consolidated 408 43 442 28 subsidiaries Total 474 75 513 50 * Regarding the content of non-audit services for which the Company paid compensation to the accounting auditor, in ﬁscal 2018 and 2019, these included expert guidance and advisory services towards the application of IFRS. 148 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Nomination and Remuneration For the purpose of maintaining high transparency, the Company has formed the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee as internal committees of the Board of Directors. Please note that these two committees comprise eight members each, and the chairpersons and other members are appointed from among members of the Board of Directors. With respect to each of the two committees, a majority of the members and the chairperson have been appointed from among the Outside Directors. Nomination Committee (Nomination Process) The Nomination Committee deliberates on major management personnel matters and provides advice on these matters to the Board of Directors. Such matters include the selection of candidates for the positions of Director, Audit & Supervisory Board Member, and Executive Oﬃcer of the Company as well as the selection of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members for domestic insurance companies in which the Company has direct investments. With respect to the evaluation of candidates for Director and candidates for Executive Oﬃcer, evaluation items include performance evaluations (corporate performance and personal performance) and other items. The Board of Directors appoints candidates for Director as well as candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member and Executive Oﬃcers based on advice from the Nomination Committee. The consent of the Audit & Supervisory Board must be obtained for candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member. In ﬁscal 2019, the Committee has seven members made up of all ﬁve outside directors, the Chairman of the Board and the President. From the perspective of making eﬀective discussions to strengthen corporate governance at the Nomination Committee, policy for selecting candidates for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members is added to the deliberation items. It has been clariﬁed that the Nomination Committee shall meet about twice a year. In ﬁscal 2019, the Nomination Committee met ﬁve times, and held a discussion on the candidates for outside directors etc. Remuneration Committee This committee advises the Board of Directors regarding the remuneration of Directors and Executive Oﬃcers of the Company as well as the remuneration systems for management of domestic insurance companies in which the Company has direct investments. From the perspective of making eﬀective discussions to strengthen corporate governance at the Remuneration Committee, policy for remuneration of Directors and Executive Oﬃcers is added to the deliberation items. It has been clariﬁed that the Remuneration Committee shall meet about twice a year. In ﬁscal 2019, the Remuneration Committee met two times. 149 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Remuneration Determination Processes 1. Amount of Directors' Remuneration (1) Determination Processes Remuneration for each Director is set within overall limits approved by the Shareholders' Meeting. Consideration is given to the function of remuneration as an incentive for improvement in performance, long-term contribution to corporate proﬁts and enterprise value, the level of compensation appropriate for competitiveness as a global corporation, and other factors. To ensure transparency, the Remuneration Committee, which is composed of a majority of Outside Directors, considers remuneration amounts, and the ﬁnal decisions are made by the Board of Directors. The Remuneration Committee deliberates on the policy on remuneration for the Company's Directors and Executive Oﬃcers. The Board of Directors respects the advice of the Remuneration Committee to the maximum extent. (2) Composition of Remuneration Remuneration for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) consists of ﬁxed compensation and performance-based remuneration. The standard ratio of performance-based remuneration is 50% to 30% of the total remuneration amount, according to position. Performance-based remuneration is composed of monetary remuneration and stock-based compensation, and the standard ratio of stockbased compensation is 9% to 25% of the total remuneration amount, according to position. Outside Directors receive ﬁxed compensation only because they are independent from business execution. (3) Key Performance Indicators for Remuneration Performance-based remuneration shall be linked with the business performance of the Company and determined based on the results of key performance indicators (KPIs). These indicators are selected in accordance with the Groupʼs Medium-Term Management Plan, “Vision 2021”. (Main KPIs) <Financial indicator (single-year performance)> Group Adjusted Proﬁt (Note) Consolidated Net Income Group Adjusted ROE Note: For Group Adjusted Proﬁt, please refer to (15)a “Disclosure Based on the Principles of the Corporate Governance Code”, above. <Non-ﬁnancial indicator (medium term performance)> Achievement status of initiatives “Sustainability Priority Issues” aimed at Creating Shared Value (CSV) with society using SDGs as the guideposts including “create accident-free and comfortable mobility society” and “contributing to mitigation and adaptation of climate change”, etc. Achievement status of “Key Strategies” (Pursue Groupʼs comprehensive strength, Promote digitalization and Reform portfolio) in the Medium-Term Management Plan “Vision 2021” The ratio between the ﬁnancial indicator and non-ﬁnancial indicator shall be 50 : 50 as the standard and the ﬁnancial indicators and nonﬁnancial indicator vary within a range of 0 to 3.0 and 0.5 to 1.5, respectively, with 1.0 as the standard. Restricted stock shall be provided as stock-based compensation and in principle, the transfer restrictions shall be released upon retirement of the related Director. If it is found that a Director was involved in a fraudulent act while in oﬃce, the Company acquires the restricted stock for free during the transfer restriction period or the Director is made to return it after the transfer restriction is released. (4) Maximum Total Compensation As a result of decisions made by the Shareholders' Meeting, maximum total annual compensation for Directors (excluding any salaries for work performed by Directors concurrently in employee positions) is set at ¥500 million (including a total allocation of ¥100 million for Outside Directors). With a separate framework, the remuneration of Directors (excluding Outside Directors) includes “total amount of monetary remuneration receivables provided for allotting restricted stock” with a maximum value of ¥200 million per year. 150 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance 2. Amount of Audit & Supervisory Board Members Remuneration (1) Determination Processes Remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Board Members is set within overall limits approved by the Shareholders' Meeting. Consideration is given to whether Audit & Supervisory Board Members are full-time or part-time, their share of the auditing activities, and the content and level of remuneration of Directors. Decisions on remuneration levels are decided in discussions among the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. (2) Composition of Compensation Audit & Supervisory Board Members receive ﬁxed compensation only because they are independent from business execution. (3) Maximum Total Compensation As a result of decisions made by the Shareholders' Meeting, maximum total compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members is set at ¥110 million. Performance-Based Remuneration The Company has introduced performance-based remuneration (linked to corporate and personal performance) into its corporate oﬃcer remuneration system. In order to realize a director remuneration system functioning as an appropriate incentive for improving linkage between director remuneration and business performance and achieving sustainable growth for the purpose of strengthening governance and increasing medium term corporate value of the Group, the Company has introduced a restricted stock remuneration plan for Directors (excluding Outside Directors). The plan involves granting treasury stock or new stock (allotment of restricted stock) by replacing a portion of the Companyʼs performance-based monetary remuneration with monetary remuneration receivables provided by means of contribution in kind. The Company introduced the same system as mentioned above and granted treasury stock or new stock (allotment of restricted stock) to the Companyʼs executive oﬃcers and the Directors (excluding Outside Directors) and Executive Oﬃcers of Group domestic insurance companies in which the Company has direct investments, by replacing a portion of the Companyʼs performance-based monetary remuneration with monetary remuneration receivables provided by means of contribution in kind. Directors' and Audit & Supervisory Board Members' Remuneration We disclose the total amounts of remuneration to all Directors and to all Audit & Supervisory Board Members according to the category (Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members) and according to the types of remuneration. We also disclose total amounts of consolidated remuneration to oﬃcers amounting to 100 million yen or more. Total Amount of Remuneration by Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members Category, and the Number of Recipients (ﬁscal 2019) Total Remuneration Category Number (¥ million) Directors (excluding Outside Directors) 7 235 Audit ＆ Supervisory Board Members 3 55 (excluding Outside Audit ＆ Supervisory Board Members) Outside Directors/Audit ＆ Supervisory Board Members 7 96 151 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Persons with consolidated Remuneration (including remuneration for corporate oﬃcer posts at main subsidiaries, etc.) of ¥100 Million or More (ﬁscal 2019) Total consolidated Corporate Oﬃcer Name Company remuneration, etc. Posts (¥ million) Hisahito Director The Company 111 Suzuki Director ADI Yasuyoshi Karasawa Director The Company 131 Director MSI Noriyuki Hara Director The Company 131 Director MSI Yasuzo Kanasugi Director The Company 124 Director ADI Criteria for the Selection and Independence of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 1. Policies on the Board of Directors' Overall Balance of Expertise, Experience, Capabilities, Diversity, and Scale Five of the twelve Directors (ten men and two women) and two of the four Audit & Supervisory Board Members (2 men and 2 women) have been appointed from outside the Company to incorporate perspectives independent from management, strengthen monitoring and oversight functions, and conduct highly transparent management. Please note that there are no concerns that the interests of these Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members of the various companies will be in conﬂict, in terms of human, capital, transactions, or other relationships, with the interests of shareholders in general. These Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members are independent, and their names as independent outside oﬃcers have been ﬁled with the Tokyo Stock Exchange Co., Ltd., and Nagoya Stock Exchange Co., Ltd. Outside Director candidates must satisfy the eligibility requirements as deﬁned in the Companies Act and the Insurance Business Act. In addition, with the goal of selecting candidates able to accurately and fairly supervise the overall management of insurance companies, candidates are selected based on consideration of specialized expertise such as that stemming from experience working as a general business company corporate oﬃcer, government administration oﬃcer, lawyer, and academic as well as specialized expertise regarding social, cultural, and consumer issues. Director candidates other than Outside Director candidates must meet legal eligibility requirements. In addition, with the goal of selecting candidates able to accurately and fairly supervise the overall management of insurance companies, candidates are selected based on consideration of specialized expertise, such as that stemming from extensive experience working as a manager in an insurance company as well as on consideration of varied experience, highly specialized experience, and the ability to exercise leadership in accordance with the Company's corporate philosophy. At least one candidate for Audit & Supervisory Board Member must have suﬃcient knowledge of accounting or ﬁnance. 152 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance 2. Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates and Criteria for Determining the Independence of Outside Corporate Oﬃcers Outside Director candidates must satisfy the eligibility requirements as deﬁned in the Companies Act and the Insurance Business Act. In addition, with the goal of selecting candidates able to accurately and fairly supervise the overall management of insurance companies, candidates are selected based on consideration of specialized expertise such as that stemming from experience working as a ﬁnancerelated government administration oﬃcer, general business company corporate oﬃcer, lawyer, and academic as well as specialized expertise regarding social, cultural, and consumer issues. Director candidates other than Outside Director candidates must meet legal eligibility requirements. In addition, with the goal of selecting candidates able to accurately and fairly supervise the overall management of insurance companies, candidates are selected based on consideration of specialized expertise, such as that stemming from extensive experience working as a manager in an insurance company as well as on consideration of varied experience, highly specialized experience, and the ability to exercise leadership in accordance with the Company's corporate philosophy. In addition, the Company has instituted the “Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates” below. The determination of “independence” when selecting Outside Director candidates is undertaken in accordance with the criteria described in section “1. (3) Independence” below. Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates 1. Outside director candidates and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member candidates Candidates must meet the following requirements. Must not be disqualiﬁed from serving as a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member pursuant to the Companies Act. Must not be disqualiﬁed from serving as a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of an insurance holding company pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Must have a suﬃcient level of public credibility. An outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member must satisfy the eligibility requirements for a Audit & Supervisory Board Member pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Additionally, candidates must satisfy the following three requirements (1) Eligibility A candidate must have the qualities listed below that are necessary to monitor the overall management of the company and provide advice, based on a general knowledge of company management and a basic understanding of the roles of the directors and board of directors. Ability to discern facts from materials and reports Capability to detect problems and risks and apply own knowledge to solve them Capacity to appropriately monitor business strategy and provide advice Mental independence to openly question, debate, re-examine, continuously deliberate, and propose ideas in opposition to a resolution (2) 2) ertise Must have knowledge in a specialized ﬁeld such as management, accounting, ﬁnance, law, administration, or social/cultural aﬀairs, and have a record of achievement in that ﬁeld. (3) 3) ependence The following persons are ineligible. 153 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance [1] An executing person of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. [2] A director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of a subsidiary of the Company. [3] A person for whom the Company is a major business partner (i.e. a person who received payments from the Company or subsidiaries of the Company that represent 2% or more of annual consolidated sales for the most recent ﬁscal year), or an executing person thereof (in the case of a consulting ﬁrm, auditing ﬁrm or law ﬁrm, a consultant, accounting professional, or legal professional who belongs to said corporation, partnership, etc.). [4] A major business partner of the Company (i.e. a person who made payments to subsidiaries of the Company representing 2% or more of the Company consolidated direct premiums written excluding deposit premium from policy holders for the most recent ﬁscal year), or an executing person thereof. [5] Any of the Company's top 10 largest shareholders (or, if the shareholder is a corporation, an executing person thereof). [6] An executing person of a company to which the Company or a subsidiary of the Company has appointed a director. [7] A consultant, accounting professional, or legal professional who has received, other than oﬃcer compensation, average cash or other ﬁnancial beneﬁts of at least 10 million yen per year for the past three years from the Company or subsidiaries of the Company. [8] A person falling under any of the items [2] through [7] during the past ﬁve years. (Note) “During the past ﬁve years” means ﬁve years from the time the content of a proposal to the General Shareholders Meeting to elect the outside director or outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member was resolved by the Board of Directors. [9] An individual who was an executing person of the Company or subsidiaries of the Company in the past (in the case of an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, including an individual who has been a director of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.) [10] A spouse or second-degree or closer relative of a person listed in items [1] through [9] above (an executing person means an executive director, executive oﬃcer or an employee in a position of general manager or higher.) (4) Term limits The total terms of oﬃce for newly elected outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members from April 1, 2015 onwards are as listed below. [1] For outside directors, the expectation is 4 terms, 4 years, renewable for a maximum of 8 terms, 8 years. [2] For outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, in principle the total term is 1 term, 4 years, but this is renewable for a maximum of 2 terms, 8 years. 2. Candidates for director other than outside director and candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member other than outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates must meet the following requirements. Must not be disqualiﬁed from serving as a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member pursuant to the Companies Act. Must not be disqualiﬁed from serving as a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of an insurance holding company pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Must satisfy the eligibility requirements for a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member who engages in daily business at an insurance company pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Additionally, a candidate must have varied experience as well as highly specialized experience and must embody our corporate philosophy in the exercise of leadership. Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Related Matters 154 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Outside Directors Date of Attendance at Board of Name Reason for Selection Selection Directors Meetings* Ms. Mariko Bando previously served as Director General of Gender Equality Bureau of the Cabinet Oﬃce, Consul General of Japan in Brisbane, Australia, President of Showa Womenʼs University, etc. She has broad knowledge and experience in public administration and education, as well as 10 of 11 Mariko Bando June 2017 wide insight into promotion of diversity. She has meetings been stating opinions at meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and on other occasions based on her knowledge and experience. We appointed her as Outside Director in order to draw on her knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Akira Arima June 2018 Mr. Akira Arima previously served as Director of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, President, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of NTT Communications Corporation, etc. He has been stating opinions at meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and 11 of 11 on other occasions based on his broad knowledge meetings concerning telecommunications business and experience as a management executive. We appointed him as Outside Director in order to draw on his knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Kazuhito Ikeo June 2018 Mr. Kazuhito Ikeo has held a number of posts, including university professors and members of the Financial Services Agencyʼs Financial System Council. He has been stating opinions at meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and on other occasions based on his broad 11 of 11 knowledge and experience concerning economic and meetings ﬁnancial ﬁelds as well as ﬁnancial administration. We appointed him as Outside Director in order to draw on his knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Junichi Tobimatsu June 2018 Mr. Junichi Tobimatsu has a wealth of knowledge and experience concerning overall corporate legal aﬀairs including those overseas companies as an attorney-at-law and has been stating opinions at 11 of 11 meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and on meetings other occasions based on his broad knowledge and experience. We appointed him as Outside Director in order to draw on his knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Rochelle Kopp June 2020 Ms. Rochelle Kopp has a wealth of knowledge and experience in Japan and the U.S. as a management consultant, and has wide insight into cross-cultural ̲ communication. We appointed her as Outside Director in order to draw on her knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. * The number of Board of Directors' meetings attended during ﬁscal 2019. 155 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Date of Attendance at Board of Directors/ Name Reason for Selection Selection Audit & Supervisory Board Members Kunio Chiyoda June 2016 Mr. Kunio Chiyoda is an expert in accounting and auditing and has served as a university professor and a member of a public institution. He has been Board of Directors meetings: stating opinions at meetings of the Companyʼs Board 11 of 11 of Directors and on other occasions based on his Audit & Supervisory Board meetings: knowledge and experience. We appointed him as 11 of 11 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member to reﬂect his wealth of knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Kyoko Uemura June 2017 Ms. Kyoko Uemura is a legal expert. She previously served as a judge and practices Board of Directors meetings: law as an attorney-at-law. We appointed her 11 of 11 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board meetings: to reﬂect her wealth of knowledge and 11 of 11 experience in the management of the Company. * The number of Board of Directors' meetings and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings attended during ﬁscal 2019. Related Information Board Members 156 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Compliance Compliance Basic Policy We formulated the Compliance Basic Policy and MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy which is compliance criterion of the Basic Policy. Based on this Basic Policy or each policy, we and MS&AD insurance companies work positively to develop thorough compliance. All oﬃcers and employees carry out our social responsibility with responding to conﬁdence of all the stakeholders including customers through the corporate activities based on the high ethical sense without failing to comply with laws and company internal rules. MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy Basic Policy Concerning Antisocial Forces Basic Policy for Management of Conﬂicts of Interest Compliance Promotion Structure The Company has formed Quality Improvement and Compliance Committee, as one of the task­speciﬁc committees under the Board of Directors, to monitor as well as discuss and make necessary adjustments in the compliance structure. For important matters related to compliance, Quality Improvement and Compliance Committee reports to the Board of Directors after discussion in the committee. The Company established its Compliance Department as the organizational unit to integrate and manage Group compliance matters. This department is responsible for integrating compliance initiatives within the Company and domestic Group insurance companies. Each unit in the domestic Group insurance companies that is in charge of compliance matters is responsible for the preparation and implementation of policies, internal rules, and measures related to compliance and for planning and operating activities related to business operating rules pertaining to insurance solicitation and sales. These units are also the focal points for fact ﬁnding and conﬁrmation as well as conducting investigations related to activities where there are concerns about violations of internal rules and other compliance issues. Activities Compliance Program We and MS&AD insurance companies, as a part of the compliance implementation plan, resolve the Compliance Program at the Board Meetings and pursue the speciﬁc issues. The implementation and issues of the Program and responding issues are regularly submitted to each company's Compliance Committee and/or the Board Meetings. 157 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Compliance Manual We and MS&AD insurance companies have each Compliance Manual that states their compliance­related policies and regulations, with examples and interpretations, for board members and employees. The Manual is distributed to board members and employees, and its content is familiarized through training and examinations. Procedures for reporting inappropriate behavior is stipulated in the Manual for the speedy handling of misconduct. Compliance-related Training Based on the Compliance Program, we and MS&AD insurance companies organize annual education / training programs for employees and agencies to raise the knowledge of laws and company internal rules and to enhance the knowledge of compliance. Compliance-related Inspection MS&AD insurance companies conduct compliance­related inspections for prevention and early detection of unlawful acts that may violate laws or company internal rules. Monitoring Group Companies The Compliance Department monitors and reports on compliance­related activities of MS&AD insurance companies. Group Compliance Division Meetings are held to share knowledge and know­how on compliance­related issues in order to reinforce compliance throughout the group. Speak-up system (Whistleblowing system) The MS&AD Insurance Group has established the Speak­upsystem（whistleblowing systems）. Group company employees can contact the speak­updesk to make a report if a compliance­relatedissue arises. A contact desk has also been established at an external legal oﬃce to make it easier for whistleblowers to speak up a case. The identity of whistleblowers is protected and their information is handled carefully to protect them and ensure that they do not suﬀer any unfair treatment. Furthermore, a global contact desk for oﬃcers and employees in overseas entities has been established since Oct, 2019, 13 languages are available, which enables them to speak up a case to Head Oﬃce in Japan directly. 158 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism The MS&AD Insurance Group has formulated a 〝P olicy on the Anti­MoneyLaundering and the Countering Financing of Terrorism〟 and is promoting initiatives to prevent the products and services of Group companies from being used in money laundering or the ﬁnancing of terrorism. Moreover, measures to prevent money laundering and the ﬁnancing of terrorism are implemented at overseas entities of the MS&AD Insurance Group, where 〝Guidelines on Measures for Anti­Money Laundering and Counter Financing of Terrorism〟 are stipulated in the 〝Compliance Manuals for International Operations〟. Policy on the Anti­MoneyLaundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Prevention of Corruption and Bribery The MS&AD Insurance Group has formulated a 〝P olicy on Fair Operating Practices〟 and implements fair operating practices (〝prevention of Corruption including bribery〟 and compliance 〝 with laws and regulations regarding political activities and political funds〟). The 〝P olicy on Fair Operating Practice〟 also applies to actions other than political activ ities such as donations, grants, and sponsorships. As for the international operation of MS&AD Insurance Group, 〝 counter measures of Anti­Bribery〟 are stipulated in the 〝Compliance Manuals for International Operations〟 and the establishment of adequate rules and training has beenimplemented properly. Policy on Fair Operating Practices Compliance Promotion Structure in International Business Operations All executives and employees of the overseas oﬃces of the MS & AD Insurance Group give top priority to compliance and respect the culture, customs, and history of their respective countries and regions, as well as act in a manner that contribute to the development of the community. As a department that supervises and manages matters related to compliance at overseas oﬃces of the Group, the Company established the International Supervisory Department to monitor the status of compliance­related initiativesof these overseas oﬃces, while providing them guidance and support. This department works with the Compliance Department, which is in charge of overall integration of Group companiesʼcompliance matter, to provide periodic reports regarding the status of overseas compliance framework to the Company's Board of Directors, also engages in activities to improve and expand the overseas compliance promotion structure based on the discuss with other relevant departments. 159 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Tax compliance eﬀorts Our Global Tax Strategy In achieving a resilient and sustainable society, we believe that MS&AD Insurance Group should build trust as a social entity by supporting people live in stability and encouraging companies develop their business. We believe that is the basis of insurance business and our value to become a trusted and reliable partner. In order to earn the trust from the society, we always consider tax compliance. The environment surrounding taxation has changed signiﬁcantly in recent years, with the increasing focus on securing transparency in taxation as corporate responsibility and strengthening the international tax framework. Our Group believes it is important as a responsible insurer to fully recognize the importance of fair and transparent taxation and to disclose the Group's approach to and initiatives for tax compliance both throughout the Group and to the outside. ■MS&AD Insurance Group Tax Policy In order to ensure that each and every employee of the Group has a high ethical standard concerning taxation and to implement appropriate tax practice and procedures, we are working to ensure thorough tax compliance in accordance with the MS&AD Insurance Group Tax Policy adopted by the Board of Directors. Pursuant to the 〝T ax Management Principles〟 (please see below), MS&AD Insurance Group will promote a grea ter awareness of tax compliance to build trust from all stakeholders by ensuring to act transparently in each jurisdiction. Basic Policies (“Tax Management Principles”) 1. MS&AD Group values the trust and conﬁdence of its stakeholders and is committed to managing tax matters with integrity and responsibility while recognizing the importance and social signiﬁcance of appropriate tax payments. 2. MS&AD Group, in performing our business operations, complies with all applicable tax laws and the relevant regulations of each jurisdiction in which it operates. 3. MS&AD Group is committed to both optimizing tax­related costs as well as making appropriate taxﬁlings and tax payments. 4. MS&AD Group does not conduct any transactions only intended to avoid tax without business purposes in a way contrary to the national and local tax laws. 5. MS&AD Group develops and maintains trusting relationships with the tax authorities in each jurisdiction in which it operates through sincere and transparent behavior in a timely and appropriately cooperative manner. Our Approaches Underpinned by Tax Management Principles ■Global tax governance framework Based on 〝MS&AD Insurance Group aTx Management Principles〟, Our Group will implement and strengthen its taxgovernance framework led by the parent company in order to thoroughly manage tax compliance at a global level. ■Tax transfer pricing We understand the purpose of the OECDʼs BEPS (Base Erosion and rPoﬁt Shifting) project. We are committed to ensuring that we meet our tax obligation in the jurisdictions where we engage in business activities. Intragroup transactions are conducted at appropriate prices determined on an armʼs length basis under the group transfer pricing policy . We pay a fair allocation of taxes corresponding to proﬁts reported to the tax authorities in the jurisdictions where value is created within commercial activity. ■Tax planning We do not conduct tax planning only intended to avoid tax, such as through the transactions or organizations without business purposes or economic substance, using tax­free or low taxjurisdictions (known as tax havens). 160 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Current income tax by country and region (FY2019) （Unit : 100 million yen） *The above table is based on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements issued by our group. *In Japan, Income before tax turned negative primarily due to a valuation loss of an aﬃliate of 186.3 billion yen recorded by our subsidiary, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited. In Japan, Current income tax decreased by 58.5 billion yen year on year due to a decrease in taxable income resulting from transactions and other factors associated with overseas business restructuring at the Company. *Income tax paid for our ﬂagship countries (FY2018) (Unit : 100 million yen) Country Income tax paid Japan 1,165 U.K. 2 161 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management ERM and Risk Management Group Management Based on ERM The function of ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) is to control the balance among three key management indicators: proﬁt (return), risk and capital. When pursuing proﬁts through risk­taking, ERM considers opportunities with high ROR (Return on Risk) or means of increasing ROR and seeks to achieve the target return on equity (ROE) while maintaining the soundness of capital(ESR1). The relationship between these three is outlined in the following ﬁgure. 1. ESR: Economic Solvency Ratio (economic value­based solvency ratio) = NAV/Integrated risk amount Indicators Emphasized in ERM 1. Capital cost: Estimate based on the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) 2. Value Added (VA): An indication of how much value can be generated with respect to the risks assumed 3. Integrated risk amount represents the maximum amount of losses that are likely to be encountered once in 200 years. It is marked to market value. 4. Net asset value: Adjusted Net Assets + unrealized insurance liabilities + other equity liabilities, etc. 5. For MSI Aioi Life, an increase in EEV is deemed return. In the calculation of the entire Groupʼs O RR, Group Adjusted Proﬁt (Group Core Proﬁt before 2017) includes MSI Aioi Life. 162 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management ERM Cycle ERM is implemented through the planning, execution and monitoring phases. Initiatives to Improve ROR Trends in ROR, which is an indicator of the proﬁts that can be earned on risks assumed, are a proxy for the earnings power of the Groupʼs risk portfolio. 5. For MSI Aioi Life, an increase in EEV is deemed return. In the calculation of the entire Groupʼs O RR, Group Adjusted Proﬁt (Group Core Proﬁt before 2017) includes MSI Aioi Life. Control of Risk The MS&AD Group has established the MS&AD Insurance Group Risk Management Basic Policy, which underpins the common risk management exercised throughout the Group. Speciﬁcally, the policy identiﬁes the principal types of risk with an impact on the Groupʼs usiness b portfolio, stipulates how risk factors are to be evaluated both quantitatively and qualitatively, and promotes risk management based on those evaluations. Risk Management ・Risk Management Basic Policy ・Risk Management Structure ・Insurance Business Risks ・Risk Management in International Business ・Crisis Management System (Including Business Continuity Management System) 163 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management Specifying Risks a. Occurrence of a large-scale natural catastrophe in Japan or overseas The monetary damage attributable to such natural disasters as typhoons and earthquakes can be massive. In addition, a variety of factors including climate change may lead to an upswing in the frequency and size of natural disasters on a global scale. These circumstances could in turn result in damages of a greater magnitude than anticipated. On top of a deterioration in its working capital owing to such factors as an increase in natural disaster insurance payments, the Group could be forced to procure funds under terms and conditions that are signiﬁcantly less favorable than usual. While the Group prepares for insurance payments to cover damages caused by natural disasters through the use of reinsurance and provisions for catastrophe reserves, its operating results could be aﬀected should insurance claims reach massive amounts. b. Sharp ﬂuctuations in ﬁnancial markets in Japan or overseas The Group holds various assets under management (including oﬀ­balance sheet assets) such as securities, loans, and real estate. Changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to a deterioration in the economic environment and ﬁnancial markets may aﬀect the Groupʼs operating result. The main risks in this instance are as follows. (a) Risk of a downturn in stock prices MS&AD Insurance Group holds a considerable volume of shares in order, for example, to maintain medium­ to long­term relationships with business partners. In the event of a stock market decline, the Company may incur a downturn in the value of assets, and a loss on devaluation or sales. (b) Risk of interest rate variability The value of such assets as bonds and loans held, savings­type insurance and long­term third sector insurance products aswell as insurance liabilities to be paid in the future to life and other insurance policyholders may change due to variations in interest rates. (c) Risk of foreign currency exchange rate variability 164 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management The Company holds assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies. The value of these assets and liabilities may change due to variations in foreign currency exchange rates. c. Substantial increase in credit risk The value of assets held including shares, bonds, and loans, as well as credit, guarantee, and other insurance contracts sold may decline in value or the principal and interest become uncollectible should the issuers of stocks and bonds, or such parties as lenders experience a downturn in their creditworthiness, or ﬁle for bankruptcy, and in the event of a disruption in credit markets. While utilizing reinsurance in a bid to diversify the insurance liability assumed through insurance contracts and to stabilize earnings, the Group may not be able to collect on reinsurance proceeds should, for example, reinsurance companies ﬁle for bankruptcy. Based on the aforementioned, there is a risk that the Groupʼs operating results maybe aﬀected by these factors. d. Occurrence of behavior that is detrimental to the corporate value of the Group, loss of social credibility Actions that lead to a loss of social credibility encompass violations of the law and regulations related to the Groupʼs business, major labor­ related issues (long working hours, harassment, etc.), inadequate data governance (the large­scale leakage and frequent misuse of personal and conﬁdential information, etc.), and the lack of or inadequate customer­oriented approach (conduct risk). There is a risk that the Groupʼs operating results could be aﬀected should it engage in suchbehavior. e. Occurrence of cyberattacks that cause large-scale and serious impediments to operations, information leaks, and the payment of insurance The Group is exposed to system risks that could lead to the shutdown, malfunction or improper use of its information systems or the leakage of information owing to unauthorized access or inadequate information systems as a result of a cyberattack. Although the Group is working to put in place a system risk management system, there remains the risk of a major information system shutdown, malfunction or misuse, as well as the leakage of information. In addition, the underwriting of insurance policies that cover cyber risk may result in the payment of insurance claims. Taking these factors into consideration, there is a risk that the Groupʼs operating results maybe aﬀected. f. Frequent occurrence of IT system failures, the occurrence of critical IT system failures and large-scale IT system development planrelated progress delays, shortfalls, budget overruns, and expected eﬀects being unrealized In the development of large­scale systems aimed at further improving business proﬁtability, there is a risk that such factors as unforeseen accidents may cause progress delays in development work or development budget overruns. Although the Group is working to put in place a system risk management system, there remains the risk that the Groupʼs operating results maybe aﬀected should certain incidents arise including progress delays in the development of large­scale systems or development budget overruns. g. Pandemic of such diseases as a new strain of inﬂuenza (including the novel coronavirus) There is a risk that the Groupʼs operating results maybe aﬀected by the following events: (a) While the Group has a system in place to prepare for such unforeseen accidents and situations as a pandemic of a new strain of inﬂuenza or other infectious disease that encompasses the formulation of a business continuity plan (BCP) and the development of a crisis management system to ensure that any disruption in its business is limited to a minimum period and that the Group can its operations, there is a risk that the Groupʼs business continuitycould be impeded or impacted beyond expectations despite these crisis management measures. (b) A slowdown in the economy due to a pandemic of a new strain of inﬂuenza or other infectious disease, or heightened anxiety regarding the same, could trigger signiﬁcant volatility in domestic and international ﬁnancial markets (see b. above) and a substantial increase in credit risk (see c. above). (c) Premiums may decline due to a variety of factors including cutbacks in customer proposal activities for the purpose of proposing new policies and a decrease in business activity and the distribution volume of companies. In addition, the underwriting of insurance policies that cover risks related to infectious diseases such as new strains of inﬂuenza could result in the payment of insurance claims. 165 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management Group Emerging Risks Group emerging risks are deﬁned as events that could aﬀect the Groupʼs business from a medium­ to longer­term perspectiv e and events that management should be aware of but are diﬃcult to measure in terms of scale and timing. We regularly monitor Group emerging risks, certain examples of which are presented as follows. Declining birthrate and aging population, advances in medical technology Resource depletion Climate change and environmental disaster Trends in new technologies and mechanisms (including the spread of IoT, sharing economy) that signiﬁcantly after the economy and consumer behavior, major changes in business models owing to such factors as the rise of digital platforms Newly established/revised domestic and overseas laws and systems Major changes to domestic labor supply­demand National governance/political turmoil, dysfunction, collapse, interstate conﬂict (including economic disputes), and Japanese security crisis Strengthening Natural Disaster Risk Management Climate-related Financial Disclosure Controlling the Retained Amount of Natural Catastrophe Risk Climate-related Financial Disclosure 166 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Information Management Information Management Basic View and Policy The MS&AD Insurance Group will observe the laws and regulations for information security, and will continuously implement measures to strengthen information management. These measures include setting internal rules, upgrading system security, conducting thorough information management training for staﬀ and agents, and taking steps to mitigate the risk of information leakage. In order to proactively strengthen information security management to the entire group, we have established the MS&AD Insurance Group Information Security Management Basic Policy. In light of the importance of protection for personal information, and in the interest of compliance with related laws and regulations as well as proper handling of customer information, we have formulated the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information and the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Shared Use of Customer Information . Information Security Management Basic Policy Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information Basic Policy for Shared Use of Customer Information Structure of Information Security Management The holding company appoints the Group Chief Information Security Oﬃcer (CISO) to build a framework and enhance information security management. The MS&AD Group maintains a framework to detect threats to information assets and always understands changes in the external environment, such as those related to cybersecurity, to ensure information security and respond to emergencies quickly. In accordance with the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information , the domestic insurance companies in the Group determine guidelines and internal rules related to information management, and instate security initiatives. They also plan and operate programs for the education of employees and agents, and perform related checks and monitoring. In addition, they make arrangements for response in the event of incidents such as information leaks, take steps for prompt post-incident correction and recurrence prevention, and otherwise work for appropriate handling in this respect. 167 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Information Management Monitoring Activities The holding company monitors the status as regards arrangements for information security management at domestic insurance companies in the Group, and reports of its ﬁndings to management. In addition, it applies the ﬁndings of its monitoring activities in its eﬀorts to reinforce arrangements for information security management in the entire Group, through steps such as sharing of know-how with and provision of requisite support to domestic insurance companies in the Group. MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Declaration of Personal Information Protection (Privacy Policy) The holding company and the domestic insurance companies in the Group have formulated privacy policy for various items related to the handling of customer information, including a declaration of commitment to compliance with related laws and regulations, appropriate acquisition, and limitation of the purposes of use. They have disclosed these declarations on their respective websites. Declaration of Personal Information Protection (Privacy Policy) 168 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Transaction Responsibilities Transaction Responsibilities Basic Concept and Policy In the MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy, the MS&AD Insurance Group stipulates that all of our oﬃcers and employees should take sincere, fair, and proper actions to respond to the expectations and requests of society by complying with all laws and regulations related to our corporate activities with a constant awareness of our corporate social responsibility. Compliance Basic Policy Furthermore, we established the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights in February 2017, in which we recognize our responsibility for the actual and potential adverse impact that our business activities have on human rights, including in the value chain. We have begun eﬀorts to implement activities and dialog that respect human rights. Basic Policy on Human Rights Based on the fact that there are situations in business activities where various activities are entrusted to outside vendors, we have formulated the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors as our basic policy regarding outsourcing. Based on the above, the Group companies maintain and properly control the management of outside vendors. Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors Speciﬁc Initiatives Initiatives for Human Rights and the Environment Through its human rights due diligence, the MS&AD Insurance Group is making eﬀorts for the safe management of customer information by making the prevention privacy infringement arising from the leakage of customersʼ personal information a priority issue. The Group also conducts procurement that takes into account the sustainable use of resources. Human Rights Due Diligence and Remedial Measures Information Management Promoting Use of FSC-Certiﬁed paper 169 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Transaction Responsibilities Conﬁrming the Appropriateness of Outside Vendors The Groupʼs domestic insurance companies have established standards for selecting new outside vendors and conduct regular inspections of vendors, in principle annually, to check the vendorsʼ customer personal information management system, the soundness of business management, and the appropriateness of business execution. Initiatives in the Value Chain Consideration for Human Rights Basic Policy on Human Rights The MS&AD Insurance Group urges related parties such as business partners, including suppliers, who are involved in the procurement of services, and agencies, to prevent and/or reduce the risk of adverse impacts on human rights through their business activities. Environmental Consideration As part of ISO14001 initiatives, MSI and ADI annually explain the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment to clients and ask for their cooperation in environmental consideration. Examples of speciﬁc initiatives include encouraging agencies and clients to obtain Eco Action 21 certiﬁcation, a simpliﬁed environmental ISO certiﬁcation, as well as spreading eco-maintenance* and promoting the use of recycled automobile parts. We also encourage the preservation of biodiversity by companies. Support for Certiﬁcation under Eco Action 21 Support for the Spread of Eco-maintenance and Eco-inspection * Encouraging the spread of eco-maintenance (engine cleansing) “Engine cleansing” has been stipulated by the government as one of the designated items of Green Purchase Method in April 2008. Support for obtaining Eco Action 21 certiﬁcation has directly lead to the spread of engine cleansing. 170 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Transaction Responsibilities / Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors Based on the fact that there are situations in business activities where various activities are entrusted to outside vendors, the MS&AD Insurance Group has formulated the Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors as the basic policy regarding outsourcing. Based on the above, the Group companies maintain and properly control the management of outside vendors. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors The MS&AD Insurance Group maintains proper management of outside vendors based on the below management policy in situations when it entrusts work externally. 1. Outside Contracting Subject to This Policy When the MS&AD Insurance Group delegates all or part of the administrative work necessary for it to conduct business to an outside vendor, there must be an assurance that such is appropriate in conjunction with the execution of business bearing in mind the need to assure that customers are protected and management is conducted soundly. As used herein, customer shall refer to a customer having a relationship to the activities of the MS&AD Insurance Group with respect to both individuals and companies. 2. System for Management of Outside Vendors MS&AD Holdings and the domestic Group insurance companies shall create the following system for managing outside vendors and properly implement the same: （1）Establish a supervisor and business unit responsible for managing outside vendors. （2）Establish and disseminate rules pertaining to the management of outside vendors. （3）Conduct inspections and supervision over outside vendors. （4）Conduct appropriate management of subcontractors. （5）Establish procedures for responding to inquiries, complaints and other communications from customers pertaining to outside vendors. （6）Create other procedures necessary for managing outside vendors and revise the same as appropriate. Other Group companies shall also create system for managing outside vendors and properly implement the same consistent with the above. 171 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Information Disclosure Information Disclosure The MS&AD Insurance Group stipulates its external information disclosure policy for each Group domestic insurance company in “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information”. In accordance to the policy, each Group company has thoroughly put the disclosure rules in practice as set forth by the Financial Instruments Exchange and is engaged in disclosing information so that respective stakeholders can have a correct understanding of the true status of the Group companies without delay. Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) We are conducting investor relations (IR) activities according to the basic policies（IR policy） to win trust from shareholders and other investors as well as to have our corporate value assessed fairly and properly. Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) Capital Management Policies and Shareholder Return Policy Our Group aims to ensure that capital is kept in line with the amount of risk while strengthening shareholder returns through dividends and share buybacks. Capital Policy and Shareholder Return Policy ＜References＞ We provide reference materials for our shareholders/investors, such as the dividends trend of recent years and basic information, which includes the securities identiﬁcation code and the number of MS&AD Holdings shares. Dividend Policy Stock Overview Climate-related Financial Disclosure The MS&AD Insurance Group endorses the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures（TCFD） and promotes the disclosure of ﬁnancial information. Climate-related Financial Disclosures 172 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Information Disclosure / Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) The MS&AD Insurance Group is actively conducting appropriate information disclosure to earn trust from a wide variety of stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders, investors, and business partners, so that our corporate value is assessed fairly and properly. Basic Policy and the Structure of Our Approach Our Group has compiled its stance relating to information disclosure in the “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policies on Corporate Governance.” Based on this basic policy, we have established the “Policy for Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders” as a guideline for dialogue with shareholders, and the “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information,” etc. as a guideline for adequate disclosure, to ensure that the Group implements accurate, timely, and fair information disclosure. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policies on Corporate Governance Basic Policies MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information The MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information is an external information disclosure policy established for domestic Group insurance companies. In accordance with this policy, all domestic Group insurance companies strive to thoroughly comply with the disclosure rules stipulated by laws, regulations and the disclosure rules of ﬁnancial instruments exchange. At the same time, the domestic Group insurance companies disclose information to ensure that their respective stakeholders can be made aware of important information in an accurate, timely, and fair manner. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information Policy for Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders Towards sustainable growth and improvement of corporate value in the medium and long term, our Group works to carry out constructive dialogue with shareholders, and is working to further create value by taking advantage of the dialogue in management. Policy for Constructive dialogue with shareholders IR Policy The IR Policy is the basic policy for IR activities established by MS&AD Holdings. Not only disclosing corporate information required under statutes and regulations of ﬁnancial instruments exchanges, our Group proactively releases information for investment decisions, ranging from basic policies and management plans to business strategies of the Group, thereby improving the quality of our disclosure. In addition, by disclosing such information, we strive to put out information that is timely, fair, and easy-to-understand. IR Policy 173 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Information Disclosure / Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) Information Disclosure Framework To ensure timely and adequate disclosure and evaluate the eﬀectiveness of information disclosure controls, our Group has established a “Risk Management Committee” and built a timely disclosure system. Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee was established by a resolution of the Board of Directors, and it is the institution at the core of the timely disclosure system. The Committee is composed of directors and general managers responsible for the planning, accounting, and other departments involved in information disclosure. It convenes to deliberate on information disclosure and verify the appropriateness of disclosed information. The overview of the structure for timely disclosure is provided in the Corporate Governance Report. Corporate Governance Report (last update:September 30, 2020) PDF （1,179KB） Communication with Shareholders and Investors Our Group is actively engaging in dialogues with shareholders, investors, and analysts with the Group management at its core. In addition to holding the various information meetings for institutional investors and analysts, we provide highly convenient and clear information disclosure to shareholders and investors via the MS&AD Holdings website. The Group responds in good faith to enquiries from investors/shareholders and securities analysts. We will share the requests and opinions that we received during the course of our IR activities within the Group companies and will use them to enhance our corporate value. Policy for Constructive dialogue with shareholders 174 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan The Medium-Term Management Plan The Medium-Term Management Plan Stage2 (2020〜2021） PDF （4,235KB） FY2020 First Information Meeting PDF （2,876KB） Positioning of Vision 2021 Positioned as the “period to achieve medium-term aspirations of the Group” and “create resilient systems that can respond swiftly to changes in the environment” 175 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan Aspirations during the Period of the Medium-Term Plan ERM Cycle Based on the ERM cycle, we aim to ensure soundness, improve return on risk and capital eﬃciency. 176 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan Capital Management Policy On the assumption of ensuring ﬁnancial soundness, we will realize an improvement in shareholder value through investment aimed at sustainable growth and a continued, stable shareholder return. We will increase corporate value by raising proﬁtability while maintaining an appropriate capital level and by improving capital eﬃciency. 177 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan Vision 2021 Basic Strategy Vision 2021 Basic strategy ■By employing the Groupʼs resources to the maximum, we will realize sustainable growth and enhance corporate value. ■We will pursue the Groupʼs comprehensive strengths, one of which is diversity, and meet the expectations of customers and other stakeholders. ■We will respond ﬂexibly to changes in the environment and further improve quality and productivity. 178 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan 【Key Strategy ①】Pursue Groupʼs comprehensive strengths ■Make maximum use of Groupʼs strengths (diversity, capital, human assets, customer base, etc.) ■Review division of roles by each Group company and strengthen cooperation ■Promote standardization and sharing (standardization of products and operating procedures, joint claims services system, health and medical products and services, etc.) 179 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan 【Key Strategy ②】Promote digitalization ■Promote 3 eﬀorts (DX, DI, DG) for digitalization by entire group employees. ■Correspond to the change of business environment, and achieve the group's sustained growth. 【Key Strategy ③】 Reform Portfolio We will reform the Groupʼs business portfolio and risk portfolio, etc., to create a stable earnings base. 180 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan Group Numerical Management Targets (Quantitative Targets) ※1 Group Adjusted Proﬁt ＝Consolidated net income ＋ provision for catastrophe loss reserve and others − other incidental factors (amortization of goodwill and other intangible ﬁxed assets, etc.) ＋ equity in earnings of the non-consolidated group companies ※2 Group Adjusted ROE ＝Group Adjusted Proﬁt ÷ average of beginning and ending amounts on BS of adjusted net assets (consolidated net assets ＋ balance of catastrophe reserves, etc. − balance of goodwill and other intangible ﬁxed assets) The Medium-Term Management Plan(2018〜2021） PDF （5,655KB） FY2018 First Information Meeting PDF （3,050KB） Presentation 181 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan Previous Medium-Term Management Plan（FY2014-FY2017) Next Challenge 2017-Stage2(FY2016-FY2017) (May 26, 2016) PDF （451KB） Next Challenge 2017 (June3, 2014) PDF （5,709KB） FINANCIAL TIMES (October 9, 2018) Visions of a Sustainable Future PDF PDF （1,180KB） 182 HOME / Sustainability / Third-Party Assurance Third-Party Assurance Third-Party Assurance Since 2015, the MS&AD Insurance Group has engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to perform assurance of selected environmental and social data in order to assure the credibility of reported ﬁgures. The data subject to the third-party assurance for this ﬁscal year is indicated with ✓. 183 Scope and Method of Calculating Environmental Data Item Method of calculating amounts of energy used, amounts of CO2 emission factor disposed waste, and passenger-kilometers traveled Amount of Japan Actual measured energy usage Emission factor by electric power, Overseas Actual measured energy usage or calculated from energy energy source gas, cold and purchase costs and unit price by country as published by based hot water, JETRO (*1). on the Act on heavy oil, and Promotion of Global kerosene Warming used Countermeasures Amount of Japan In principle, actual measured amounts of gasoline and as gasoline and diesel oil are used. When an actual measured amount of published by diesel oil used gasoline is unknown, the amount is calculated from the Japan’s gasoline purchase cost and the domestic national Ministry of the average unit price as published in a survey of gas station Environment and retail prices conducted by Japan’s Agency for Natural emission factor by Resources and Energy. electric power utility. Overseas In principle, the amount used is calculated from gasoline For overseas purchase costs and unit price by country as published by electric JETRO. When the cost of gasoline is unknown, it is power, emission calculated from the amount of gasoline used per car and factor the number of cars at overseas sites, or the amount of by country gasoline used per person at overseas sites and the published number of employees overseas. by IEA (*2). Total amount of Japan The percentage of the actual measured amount of waste general waste disposed from Company-owned buildings is 88.7%. When an actual amount is unknown, it is estimated from the cost of waste disposal and the unit cost. The amount of general waste disposed from nonCompany-owned buildings is calculated from the amount of disposed general waste per person in Company-owned buildings and the number of employees in non-Companyowned buildings. The amount of disposed industrial waste is the actual measured amount. Overseas Calculated from the amount of disposed general waste per person in Company-owned buildings in Japan and the number of employees overseas. Amount of Consolidated The actual measured amount of recycled waste recycled waste Amount of Consolidated Total amount of waste minus actual measured amount of disposed waste recycled waste Amount of Japan The percentage of the actual measured amount of water water used used in Company-owned buildings is 81.0%. The amount of water used in non-Company-owned buildings is calculated from the amount of water used per person in Company-owned buildings and the number of employees in non-Company-owned buildings. Overseas Calculated from water use per person in Company-owned buildings in Japan and the number of employees overseas Business Japan Japan Calculated from domestic and international air travel travel (by Overseas expenses estimated from domestic and international plane) business travel expenses (assuming that 10% or 20% of 185 domestic business travel expenses and 50% of international business travel expenses are air travel expenses), emissions unit values per amount of transportation costs incurred as published by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment, and emissions unit value per thousand passenger-kilometers traveled by type of transportation. Organizational boundary: MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. *1 JETRO: Japan External Trade Organization *2 IEA: International Energy Agency Scope and Method of Calculating Scope3 Category Subject Calculation method Emission source unit Capital goods Consolidated Facility investment amount x emission The Ministry of the Environment's source unit per price of capital goods database*3 [6] emission source units per price of capital goods (financial/insurance) Fueland Consolidated Usage amount of fuel and energy ①The Ministry of the Environment's energyUsage amount x emission source unit database*3 related [7] emission source units per usage of activities (not electricity and heat included in ②IDEA DB *4 scope 1 or emission source units per amount of scope 2) fuel Waste Consolidated Amount of recycled industrial waste, The Ministry of the Environment's generated in incineration processing, and direct landfill database*3 [8] emission source units operation processing x waster type/emission by waste type / processing method source unit by processing method (including waste transportation), [9] emission source units by waste type (including waste transportation) Business Consolidated ○Cost of air flight The Ministry of the Environment's travel (by Cost of air flight×Emission source unit database*3 [11] Emission source unit airplane) per transportation expenses per transportation expenses Employee Major ○commutation allowance The Ministry of the Environment's commuting Domestic database*3 [11] Emission source unit consolidated commutation allowance × Emission per transportation expenses subsidiaries source unit per transportation expenses Lease Consolidated ○Electricity and gas used in the lease Emission factor by energy source property property based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures ・energy and gas consumption amount as × Emission source unit per published by Japan’s Ministry of the consumption amount for electricity and Environment gas *3：The Ministry of the Environment's emission source unit database (ver. 3.0) for calculating greenhouse gas emissions through the supply chain (March 2020) *4：IDEA Database (for calculating greenhouse gas emissions through the supply chain) ver.2.3 (27, Dec, 2019) 186 HOME / Sustainability / Editorial Policy Editorial Policy Concept of Sustainability Information Disclosure The MS&AD Insurance Group issues an annual Sustainability Report so that stakeholders can better understand the sustainability-related activities at the Group. In addition to including information that is considered important by stakeholders and the Group, the report is published via a website in order to save natural resources. The Group is making eﬀorts to Create Shared Value (CSV) by utilizing the SDGs as leading marks, in order to realize a “resilient and sustainable society,” our ideal for society in 2030 as set forth in our Medium-Term Management Plan, Vision 2021. The report focuses on initiatives related to our priority issues of “contributing to climate change mitigation and adaptation” “striving to improve sustainability of natural capital,” and “implementing activities and dialog that respect human rights,” in addition to other initiatives related to our value creation approach. The report also mentions unique initiatives being carried out at Group companies (please refer below for the scope of the report). The report includes a collection of sustainability-related data. Scope of the Report Target period Fiscal 2019 (April 2019 through March 2020) * Also includes some activities in and after April 2020. Target organizations and abbreviations The Company and Group companies are abbreviated as follows. (The Groupʼs domestic insurance companies are indicated with a star symbol.) ・MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. ⇒“MS&AD Holdings” or “HD” ・Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance” or “MSI” ・Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance” or “ADI” ・Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Mitsui Direct General Insurance” or “Mitsui Direct General” ・Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life” or “MSI Aioi Life” ・Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life” or “MSI Primary Life” ・MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc. ⇒“MS&AD InterRisk Research” or “InterRisk” 187 HOME / Sustainability / Editorial Policy Timing of Publication This issue November 2020 Previous issue September 2019 Next issue Scheduled for October 2021 Referred Guidelines GRI, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Standard) Linkage with GRI Guideline ISO26000:2010 Guidelines on social responsibility (Japanese Standards Association) Past Sustainability Reports MS&AD Insurance Group Sustainability Report Mitsui Sumitomo Insuranceʼs CSR Report Aioi Nissay Dowa Insuranceʼs Communication Report (Japanese only) Contact Sustainability Section, Corporate Planning Department MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. 27-2, Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan 104-0033 TEL: +81-3-5117-0201 / FAX: +81-3-5117-0602 Mail：sustainability@ms-ad-hd.com 188
