UNITED NATIONS Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 UNGC The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 2 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3 GLOBAL GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT WE SUPPORT THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS. 4 WHO WE ARE Founded in 2006, Profiler is an independent, owner managed German legal entity. We empower businesses by providing expert knowledge through Consulting Services and Staffing Solutions. With our extensive pool of experts, we are able to support renowned companies from various industries in implementing their projects quickly and effectively. We form the link between experts and companies and have been active in the IT-Industry for more than 12 years and the Aerospace Industry for more than 6 years. 5 PROFILER AND THE UNGC STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The values of the UNGC and SDGs are integrated into our day-to-day business, processes and core values. The commitment and support from our employees are key to the progression of these principles at Profiler. In our first COP, published in January 2015, we made a “As we move into 2020 , I am very commitment to build on our efforts to embed respect for pleased to reaffirm my full support to human and labour rights, environment and antithe United Nations Global Compact and corruption principles in our operations and business relationships, as well as to regularly report on these the Ten Principles of the UNGC and am efforts. This Communication on Progress for 2019 marks excited to continue this journey we the close of a decade and provides an overview of our embarked on so many years ago into progress, challenges and continuing efforts in our journey the new decade.” to further create awareness and embed respect for the Fathima Khan, Founder & Managing 10 principles, since the beginning of our journey on this Director path in 2014. We invite you to look back on this journey until now, with us, as you read through the pages of this COP. As always, we are happy to receive your feedback, which can be sent to: ungc@it-profiler.com 6 OUR ACHIEVEMENTS Since the release of our first communication on progress in January 2015 we have made great progress, achieved our goals on our road to successful and sustainable business and learned a great amount while striving to continuously improve our processes within the scope of the 10 principles and the Sustainable Development Goals. 7 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ๏ Profiler is fully supportive of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and committed to the implementation of all aspects of human rights, internally within our organisation and externally, through providing our services for our clients. We do not tolerate any form of discrimination and place great value on tolerance, fairness and transparency. ๏ Focus Business TOP SME EMPLOYERS 2020 Back-to-back award Profiler ranks amongst Germany’s top medium-sized employers again and was honoured with the Focus Business Top Arbeitgeber Mittelstand 2020 (Top SME Employers 2020) award. ๏ Teambuilding Workshops Regular Teambuilding events encourage collaboration, build skills like conflict resolution and communication, boost team performance and open dialogue. ๏ Corporate Health Management Support in ensuring health, vitality and well-being of everyone at Profiler through a partnership with Healthy Business Consulting, which includes premium gym memberships, group fitness courses and personal training, “Health Days” and lectures focusing on health, fitness and personal as well as professional well-being. 8 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ๏ German Language Courses Non-native German speakers are offered membership to an online language learning platform to provide a learning experience that is modern, flexible and easily accessible and help communication as well as increase employee confidence and professional skills. ๏ Employee development Regular seminars and workshops on business relevant topics to provide all employees with the necessary coaching and tools to strengthen and extend their skills and qualifications. ๏ Relocation Support Comprehensive package of relocation support that helps new employees to quickly integrate into their new living environment. ๏ Flexibility Profiler is family-oriented company and supports all employees in achieving a balance between work and family as easy as possible. To counteract social pressure to choose between career and family and hereby promote gender equality, Profiler offers great flexibility for expectant mothers and parents. ๏ InteGREATer e.V. We support the education and schooling of students with immigration backgrounds and have been an active supporter of InteGREATer e.V. for many years. 9 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ๏ Company Pension Scheme Company-based complementary pension scheme, where every employee contribution made is met with a company contribution. ๏ Helferkreis Asyl Profiler’s Management volunteers in “Helferkreis Asyl” to support refugees in finding suitable work, trainings and education. ๏ Teachers on the Road We have offered our office premises as seminar rooms for “Teachers on the Road” to hold German classes for refugees. ๏ Clients & Business Partners We place high value on the fact that our business partners and clients follow similar principles to us in regards to Human and Labour Rights. 10 ENVIRONMENT ๏ Like all businesses, Profiler faces considerable environmental challenges. As a service provider, our key challenges are around resource usage on our office energy efficiency, programs and transport. Our goals have been and continue to be minimising the environmental impact of our operations and services and encourage our employees’ environmental awareness and engagement. ๏ Digital Document Management System Digitalisation of the entire core business, employee files as well as financial and salary accounting. ๏ Public Transport Every employee is provided with a “Job Ticket” so that their transportation costs are covered. This, combined with our office’s, via public transport, easily accessible location, allows and encourages employees to switch from cars to public transport. ๏ Paper Usage It is encouraged to limit printing to the minimum and only print when absolutely necessary. ๏ Waste Management Waste is strictly separated and recycling encouraged. We do not use disposable cups, dishes or other single-use items. 11 ENVIRONMENT ๏ Water Filter Due to our coffee machines water filter, the need to buy bottled water has more than halved. ๏ Car Sharing All employees are encouraged to use public transport. However, in instances where transport by cars is necessary, car sharing is strongly encouraged. ๏ Greetings and Cards Profiler sends digital cards and greetings instead of physical holiday greeting cards to further extend the less-paper-direction does not send post card holiday greetings or similar. Instead, digital cards and greetings are sent. 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION ๏ Profiler rejects corruption in all its forms and has zero tolerance for bribery. We firmly believe that all businesses should work against corruption. ๏ Every employee is instructed to report any form of corruption or suspicion of corruption. ๏ Data protection is embedded in the main principles of Profiler and was extended by data protection training. ๏ There have not been any indications of corruption, extortion or bribery. 13 OUR VISION AND GOALS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR One of our central purposes through the upcoming year in respect to our commitment to the UN Global Compact and it’s 10 principles will be to engage our own employees more. Specifically, we aim to: ๏ Improve communication skills and open dialogue ๏ Launch an internal UNGC Awareness Project Week/ Lunch/Workshop Furthermore, we believe that we have a responsibility to protect and support our communities and therefore we aim to undertake environmental and social initiatives that will have an impact on our local and global communities. 14 Thank you for your interest in Profiler’s actions in scope of the UNGC. Please submit any feedback or questions you may have to: ungc@it-profiler.com
