HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS K.K. Integrated Repor t 20 19 CONTENTS Ta b le of C on tents I NT R OD UCTION OUR BUSINESS AND ESG ACTIVITIES Management Philosophy of the Hamamatsu Photonics Group 02 Activities for the Environment 17 President’s Message 03 Activities for Society 19 Products and Applications 05 Review and Vision of Each Division 21 Electron Tube Division 23 Solid State Division 24 WH O WE ARE Systems Division 25 Central Research Laboratory 26 The Origin of Management 07 Research and Development 27 Our History 09 Contributions to Academic Research 28 Historical Episodes 11 Activities for Governance 29 OUR VALUE AND COMMITMENT CORPORATE INFORMATION AND DATA Hamamatsu Photonics's Value Creation Model with Light 13 Financial Data for Seven Years 31 What is “Light”? 15 Financial Review 33 Key Enabling Technology 16 Closing Message 35 Board Members 36 Corporate Profile 37 Editorial Policy Hamamatsu Photonics published the Integrated Report 2019 as a medium to share mid-to-long term value creation through both financial and non-financial information. The International <IR> Framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure Guidance for and Company-investor Dialogue for Collaborative Value Creation provided by the Ministry of Economy, Trade Collaborative and Industry were used as reference in preparing this integrated report. Our corporate website also includes Value Creation even more extensive and detailed information. Please read the Integrated Report 2019 together with the information on our website. Reporting Organization The Integrated Report 2019 focuses on reporting of non-consolidated information about Hamamatsu Photonics (non-consolidated). The scope of the financial information encompasses 24 companies (as of September 30, 2019), including Hamamatsu Photonics K.K., 19 consolidated subsidiaries, and 4 entities accounted for using the equity method. Reporting Period The reporting period for this integrated report is FY2019 (October 2018 to September 2019). 01 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY Management Philosophy of the Hamamatsu Photonics Group We pursue the unknown where no one has yet explored. By leveraging photonics technology to establish new industries and reach for the world's highest levels of manufacturing excellence, we build enterprise value and contribute to the development of science and technology. Light is a fundamental technology that supports various industries, and further advances in photonics technology are required on a global scale, to achieve technological innovation today and to improve the performance and accuracy of electronic equipment in the future. However, only a small fraction of the nature of light has been elucidated. We explore fields not yet explained. Based on the knowledge generated by that inquiry, we enhance our enterprise value by discovering practical applications with which to create new industries and expand our business operations. At the same time, we have a duty to generate a stable earnings base and continuous growth on which a long-term development of technology depends. To respond flexibly and quickly to the expansion of the photonics industry and to changes in the business environment, we have formed a framework for the proactive investment in R&D and equipment for continuously stable and high earnings, based on our medium-to-long-term vision. In addition, we believe that people, technology and knowledge are the foundation of sound management. We improve ourselves everyday through our work, discovering the things that only we can do. In so doing, we conduct technology development which is backed up by the knowledge, needs and competitive technologies for building the photonics industry. We believe it is vital that we, guided by a mind of “Wa” *, foster a corporate culture that can combine our individual talents to form a whole that is greater than the sum of its parts. At the heart of this, effort is a bottom-up operational approach that is focused on the workplace. *“Wa”: means collaborative spirit and integration of diversified talents. Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 02 PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE To Our Stakeholders To everyone wh o is p u rs u in g a n d r e v e a l i n g t h e p o s s i b i l i t i e s o f l i g h t t o g ether People often say Hamamatsu Photonics is not an ordinary company. Such uniqueness is our strength. Since the founding of our Company, our corporate culture has been built with the aim to provide world-leading manufacturing a persevering spirit to “try before you say you can’t”. A venture spirit passed down through an independent department profit system, and in the pursuit of photonics technology. By adopting this culture we pioneer the best photonic devices in the market, and when incor porated into customer products give heightened performance.Therefore, Hamamatsu Photonics can exist as a company that provides “Key Enabling Technology” at the very foundation of industry, which operate in an inverted pyramid structure. We push forward our aspirations not only for business expansion, but also for the unknown and unexplored realms to contribute to human health and happiness, and to the development of science and technology. At the beginning of this integrated report we introduce in detail why our organization is not an “ordinary company” by illustrating the past, present and future of Hamamatsu Photonics. Spirit to develop the world’s best photonic utilized photonic technology, Heihachiro Horiuchi realized the future potential of light and started a business using photoelectric technology without imitation conversion technology, inherited from Prof. Takayanagi. One reason H a m a m a t s u P h o to n i c s wa s a bl e to p ro s p e r wa s d u e to t h e The roots of Hamamatsu Photonics are found in the spir it of foresight of our founder. Everyone at Hamamatsu Photonics has Professor Kenjiro Takayanagi, known as the father of Japanese continued to pursue the possibilities of light while always holding television. In an era before the concept of television broadcasting dear to the spirit of Professor Takayanagi. One of these people is when even radio broadcasting had not yet begun, Professor our former president, Teruo Hiruma. Takayanagi advanced research into television technology with the Teruo Hiruma, the Company’s former President, often said “Try belief if sound could be broadcast why not images. The spirit of before you say you can’t.” He always embodied a spir it to do Professor Takayanagi was to pursue unprecedented things and to something new in order to become the best in the world, with the create unique things without the imitation of other. belief our products must not only be the best in Japan but around O u r fo u n d e r, H e i h a c h i ro H o r i u c h i , s t u d i e d u n d e r Pro fe s s o r the globe. The spirit to overcome difficult problems is another part Takayanagi and was fascinated by light. At a time before industries of the foundation of Hamamatsu Photonics. The necessit y to generate profits to succeed in corporate management led to an independent profit system in each depar tment. Although our On the 18 August 2017, Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. c o m p a ny re s e m bl e s a s i n g l e o rga n i z a t i o n , we a re i n fa c t a became a registered participant of the United Nations c o n g l o m e r a te o f s m a l l c o m p a n i e s . E a c h e m p l oye e h a s a n Global Compact. entrepreneurial mindset which, in a way, gives them the freedom to act while fully generating profit. We have incorporated a system to ensure this venture spirit is never forgotten. Hamamatsu Photonics will continue to grow, making every member of Contributing to the Global Society through o u r o rga n i z a t i o n m o re a bl e to Business contr ibute to t he better m ent o f We believe our photonic devices directly contribute to society. For society by creating new industries example, our products used in Positron Emission Tomography with photonics technology. We, as a (PET) scanners for cancer screening play a role in human health. global company, uphold the Ten Whilst our products used as ultra-low light detectors for the Principles of the United Nations Ka m i o ka n d e a n d t h e S u p e rKa m i o ka n d e ex p e r i m e n t s h ave Global Compact and contribute to contributed to t wo Nobel Prizes. I feel great pride in creating the sustainable grown of society. products that directly aid human health and happiness, and to the development of science and technology. 03 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Representative Director and President Akira Hiruma At the same time, I understand our photonic devices alone cannot something new such as launch a startup company. By nurturing foster human health and happiness. Nothing is possible with only people who have even greater social insight, I hope they will more photonic devices. Our products star t to have significance once actively step out into the world while they are young. The important incorporated into the products of our customers. In other words, thing is to create a system where people focus on learning and not co-creation with customers is what helps foster human health and on failing. When creating something new every success is backed happiness. Therefore, communication with customers is also by the lear ning from the ideas that did not work as expected. extremely valuable to us. Customers immediately contact us when These trials are learning if the eighth try uses knowledge from the they have issues related to light. I feel our strength is the extremely first seven tries. Failure only comes from not trying. close dialogue that we have with our customers. To create a system where people can take on challenges, we have created completely new programs that include Corporate Venture Inverted Pyramid Structure Supporting Capital (CVC, an organization that has the function of investing on its own with its own funds) and a Global Strategic Challenge Contributions of Value to Society Center (GSCC, an organization that promotes the ability to become a truly global company through strategic initiatives). Unlike the general industry pyramid structure, industries that utilize We also inspire development by using long-term visions to set lofty photonics employ an inver ted pyramid structure. Hamamatsu goals, such as ridding the world of deaths caused by cancer and Photonics creates photonic devices at the bottom of the inverted developing a high-powered laser for power generation through tr iangle, while customers use our photonic devices to create laser nuclear fusion. In the pursuit of these lofty goals, I expect us modules above us. The next level comprises customers who create to discover unexpected technologies, giving way to new industries. system products, while customers who supply services are at the I wa n t o u r e m p l oye e s to l e a r n t h i s k i n d o f s e re n d i p i t y ( t h e top. Hamamatsu Photonics may be at the bottom of this pyramid knowledge/skill to make discoveries, different from those being s t r u c t u r e , bu t w e a re n o t s i m p l y a c o m p a n y t h a t s u p p l i e s sought after). components. This is because the performance of the photonic devices we create enhances the back-end performance of our customer ’s products. We create vital products known as “Key Hamamatsu Photonics Spirit for the Future Enabling Technology,” which are essential core technologies for industries that utilize photonics. (See page 16.) The motto that I advocated when I was first appointed President was that “status quo is not an option”. Our competitors will pass us by if we stop pushing boundaries. That is why we must always Sowing the Most Important Seeds for the Future keep driving forward. Hamamatsu Photonics will continue to pursue the unknown and unexplored realms now and into the future Hamamatsu Photonics hopes to develop in our people a venture towards the monumental goal of contributing to human health and spirit to pursue the unknown and unexplored realms, as a way to h a p p i n e s s , a s w e l l a s t o t h e d eve l o p m e n t o f s c i e n c e a n d contr ibute to human health and happiness as well as to the technology. development of science and technology, by having them do Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 04 PRODUCTS AND APPLICATIONS Products and Applications Photomultiplier Tubes, Imaging Devices and Light Sources (Electron Tube Segment) We develop and manufacture optical sensors such as high-speed, high-sensitivity photomultiplier tubes, as well as various light sources. · Photomultiplier tubes (PMTs) · Xenon and mercury-xenon lamps · Microfocus X-ray sources · UV-LED light sources · Xenon flash lamps · X-ray scintillator plates Main Products · Ion detectors · Deuterium lamps · Stealth Dicing™ engine (electron multipliers/microchannel plates) Opto-semiconductors (Opto-semiconductor Segment) We develop and manufacture photodiodes, photo ICs, image sensors, and other opto-semiconductors. · Si photodiodes · MPPCs® (SiPMs) · Infrared detectors · X-ray flat panel sensors Main Products · InGaAs photodiodes · Image sensors · LEDs · Opto-semiconductor modules · Si APDs · Photo ICs · Mini-spectrometers Applications Medical-Bio Instruments Industrial Instruments Analytical Instruments We provide photonics technologies and Many of our light sources and We provide high-performance devices products for various fields. In the medical-bio d e te c to rs , u s e d fo r i n s p e c t i o n a n d that respond to greater miniaturization, areas our products are contributing to the other manufactur ing processes, higher performance and other market e ffi c i e n t d i s c ove r y o f n ew d r u g s a n d suppor t products which are used in a needs for various analytical instruments establishment of new treatment methods, as well as less invasive patient diagnosis and broad range of fields to realize future u s e d f o r m a t e r i a l , w a t e r q u a l i t y, testing, to foster a future where people can production through the standardization environmental and other analyses. live longer, healthier lives. of IoT and AI. 05 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Introduction to the main products and applications of each business segment. Image Processing and Measurement Systems (Imaging and Measurement Instruments Segment) We develop and manufacture specialized systems for research and industrial use in the life science, medical, and semiconductor fields. · Measurement camera · PMA-12 Photonic multichannel analyzer · Brain and tissue oxygen monitors · X-ray line scan cameras · Quantaurus-QY® Absolute PL quantum yield spectrometer · Thickness measurement system Main Products · Digital slide scanner · Semiconductor failure analysis system · Universal streak camera · Drug screening system Lasers We develop and manufacture high-power semiconductor lasers, solid-state and other lasers. · Single chip laser diodes · Quantum cascade lasers (QCLs) · Solid state lasers Main Products · High-power laser diode bar modules · Semiconductor laser applied products Academic Research Measuring Instruments Transport Instruments We continually discover new findings that We supply devices used for 1D and We supply devices and modules that shatter conventional laws and theories, 2D measurements from radiation contribute to the ongoing advancement contributing to physics, chemistry, biology d e t e c t i o n a n d g e o l o g i c a l s u r ve y s , of automobiles, while integrating IT, and other fields. We are fulfilling a vital such as oil, to industrial photoelectric electronics and photonics technology. role in the ad van ceme nt o f scien ce switches. research, opening avenues to a new future for mankind. Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 06 OUR ROOTS Pursuing the Unknown The Origin of Management and Unexplored The spirit of pursuing the unknown and unexplored inherited from our predecessors Prof. Kenjiro Takayanagi has come to be respectfully known as the “father of Japanese television.” There was always one woman who was a muse to Prof. Takayanagi in his pursuit of the unknown. This woman was “Fortuna” the goddess of fortune in Roman mythology. As told in these myths, Fortuna only had forelocks with no hair at the back of her head. One would have to be one-step ahead of her, wait for her to catch-up, and then turn around and seize her by her forelocks. When trying to develop technology to benefit society in the next ten or twenty years, we have to strive to go farther ahead than people think is necessary. A pioneering approach led to the success of the world’s first electronic television. Seize the Forelocks of the Goddess In 1926, Prof. Takayanagi succeeded in receiving images on the world's first electronic cathode-ray tube. “イ” is derived from the “Iroha” order as the first character of the traditional syllabary. (The picture is of the reproduction device.) Prof. Takayanagi and an Iconoscope Television Camera (1935) Light to Electricity, Electricity to Light 07 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Heihachiro Horiuchi and the 1/2-Inch Diameter Vidicon (1963) Photonics Technology Will Surely Help Society Prof. Takayanagi passed on his spirit to create things that did not yet exist in the world to his student, and our founding president Heihachiro Horiuchi and former president Teruo Hiruma. Our entire company fully embodies this spirit. From almost the start of the company’s inception, Teruo Hiruma, who was mainly in charge of sales, encouraged everyone at Hamamatsu Photonics to make the world’s best products. He established a system to engage with the research industry and travelled the world in an effort to develop markets. Teruo Hiruma inherited the ideals of Prof. Takayanagi and Heihachiro Horiuchi, and through his actions, our organization has grown into a world-class company. The origin of our company to engage in photoelectric conversion technology and the applied products to grow with the advancement of photonic technologies lies in the unyielding spirit to confront the unknown and unexplored realms. At the 25th anniversary ceremony for Hamamatsu TV Co., Ltd. (renamed Lecture by to Hamamatsu Photonics K.K.), Teruo Hiruma Heihachiro Horiuchi passed the (1960) baton of president to Teruo Hiruma. On the left, Prof. Takayanagi attends the ceremony as a guest. (1978) Make the World's Best What Can We Do with Light? Products Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 08 OUR HISTORY Our History ▼ FY2019 (Sales by Industry and Application) Transport Medical-Bio ▼ FY2009 (Sales by Industry and Application) Instruments Other Instruments Transport Other Medical-Bio Instruments 3.4% 7.8% 39.6% Instruments 12.0% 40.0% Measuring 3.3% Instruments Measuring Instruments 5.9% 6.9% Net Sales Academic Net Sales 71.9 Billion Yen Research Academic Research 5.4% 145.9 Billion Yen 8.9% Overseas Analytical Ratio Analytical Instruments Instruments Industrial Instruments 65.3% Overseas 11.2% 17.7% 11.5% Ratio Industrial Instruments 71.5% 26.4% 1984 Registered for off-exchange stock trading 1973 1983 Established a joint venture Company name changed to company in Europe Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. 1969 1982 1953 Established an affiliated Introduced divisional system Established Hamamatsu TV company in the USA Co., Ltd.(former name) 1953 1955 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 ▶ 1st Term: 1953 to 1972 ▶ 2nd Term: 1973 to 1981 From Founding to Product Expand New Applications Development from Analysis Inheriting the spirit of Prof. Kenjiro Takayanagi, The construction of a new factory put in place a fo u n d i n g Pre s i d e n t H e i h a c h i ro H o r i u c h i production system. However, the impact of the oil established Hamamatsu TV Co., Ltd. with the shock, and the appreciation of the yen at that second President Teruo Hiruma. The office time, forced us to face the only financial deficit T h e h i st o r y o f building was a storehouse that had survived the since the founding of our company. Analysis was flames of air raids. Even while confronting the the mainstay product application for the company ou r g r o w t h difficulties of having few knowledgeable and at that time. However, we talked with customers skilled employees, acquiring expertise through about their challenges and developed 1/2-inch literature and other materials this new company diameter head-on PMT. An opto-semiconductor ▶ ▶ ▶ took on the work with an unwavering spirit to for X-ray CT scanners then followed. This swept “try before you say you can’t” toward a goal of the optical sensor market for X-ray CT scanners making the world’s best products. The unique and recovered our business perfor mance. corporate climate of an “all researchers system” Thereafter, we developed other new products was created, and through the fun in each and a n d g e n e r a t e d n e w d e m a n d t o ex p a n d every day even during the struggles at the time applications from analytical and medical fields to of our founding. industrial, academic, measurement and a wide range of other fields. Research Industry ▶ P11 Greek Days ▶ P11 09 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 1,500 FY2020 Net Sales (Forecast) 150.2 Billion Yen Electron tube segment (Electron Tube Division) FY2019 Net Sales Opto-semiconductor segment 145.9 Billion Yen (Solid State Division) 1,200 Imaging and measurement instruments segment (Systems Division) Other 900 1998 Company's stock registered on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 1996 Company's stock registered on 600 the second section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 1988 Established affiliated company in China 300 0 (100 Million Yen) 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2019 2020 ▶ 3rd Term: 1982 to 1989 ▶ 4th Term: 1990 to 2008 ▶ 5th Term: 2009 and Beyond Establish Current Management A New Challenge to the Human Change of President, Establishment Base through a Divisional System Unknown and Unexplored Realms of a Cross-divisional Department To a c q u i r e a d v a n c e d t e c h n o l o g y a n d A strong mentality to make the world’s best Akira Hir uma was appointed as the third exper tise, and continue to drive superior products is strengthened by our employees president of Hamamatsu Photonics, p l a n n i n g a n d d eve l o p m e n t c a p a b i l i t i e s, thanks to our wor k to establish super ior succeeding Teruo Hiruma who had led the heightening the reputation of the company is technology and develop new products unified company since its founding. The divisional indispensable in securing and cultivating as a company. Furthermore, to achieve even system is a framework that is able to ensure excellent human resources. Therefore, we more high-minded company goals, we had to stable ear nings, but a cross-sectional changed the name of the company to take on challenges in the “human unknown and department was established to drive growth. Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. and grew into a unexplored realms” that br ing about new The cross-sectional department acts as a new public company by officially registering on the research findings. As some specific fruits of organization to maintain sustainable growth over-the-counter of the stock market. As the these pursuits, we established the Central from the business headquar ters that links cor porate scale expanded and products Research Laboratory, the Hamamatsu Medical mid-to-long-term research and development, diversified, we introduced a divisional system, Imaging Center for validating the early detection as well as sales activities throughout the entire which has become our current management of cancer and dementia, and the Graduate c o m p a ny. I n a d d i t i o n , to t h e c o m p o u n d base, to engage in business activities that School for the Creation of New Photonics s e m i c o n d u c t o r fa b r i c a t i o n c e n t e r t h a t can flexibly maneuver more efficiently, to Industries for the education of human resources integrates the compound semiconductor adapt to the changing times. who aim to create new industries that use pre-processes expected to diversify future photonics technologies. applications, and the GSCC promotional organization to put in place strategies to take Cash Voucher System ▶ P12 Contributions to the Nobel Prize ▶ P12 on challenges as a global company. Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 10 HISTORICAL EPISODES 01 Research “Once the photomultiplier tube is made, Industry I'll call you sir Hamamatsu TV” These words were said by one of our partners, just after Hamamatsu TV Co., Ltd was founded. At the time, photomultiplier tubes were a product major enterprises were struggling to realize. The world thought Hamamatsu TV, which was still a small local workshop, had absolutely no chance of developing a photomultiplier tube. However, at the time, these words energized our engineers. They held stubbornly to their position and at the workbench repeatedly enhanced prototypes, before asking for, and intently listening to feedback from customers, only to then re-start the trial-and-error process all over again. Based on the belief that the world would surely accept Hamamatsu TV, tremendous amounts of tests were carried out every day. Now, 60 years later, the photomultiplier tubes made by Hamamatsu Photonics continue to be a mainstay product that packs performance far and above other photomultiplier tubes on the market. Great care and passion is part of our daily work. We discover unknown phenomena and realize things thought impossible. We use this as a steppingstone in the further pursuit of the advancement of new photonics technologies. This in and of itself is the research Industry. In the ongoing quest to explore the unknown, curiosity and craftsmanship remain ▲ Our first side-on photomultiplier tube type R105 in 1959 constant to serve as the driving forces propelling us to new heights. Episodes Historical Episodes 02 It's Greek! Greek Days We host exercises and lectures unrelated to everyday business for our employees in an aim to nurture global human resources who have sound minds and bodies. These are Greek Days. Among these events, the particular favorite of our employees is the open use of all workplace facilities and testing equipment. This gives employees the opportunity to run experiments with equipment that cannot usually be used, offering them a chance to research things they have always wanted to, and stimulates a tremendous love for learning. Conducting activities that stop operations as a part of business was a difficult management decision at the time, but Greek Days have largely contributed to shaping the corporate climate at our company that values self-enlightenment. “Health and education, valuing employees, and giving research opportunities to all”. One of the reasons we have been able to grow the company consistently in Hamamatsu City is that our corporate culture has been cultivated through Greek Days. ▶ Greek Days activities (Associate Prof. Yaichiro Hirasawa guided physical exercise at the Faculty of Engineering of Shizuoka University) 11 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 03 Cash Voucher System You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink. The motivation of each employee is important. As part of our organization, we have been searching for ways to stimulate motivation for all employees. After the first oil crisis, the Japanese economy faced appreciation of the yen and a period of low growth. We had to find ways to cut costs and improve productivity, but success required every employee to be motivated to take action. Therefore, we started a cash voucher system as internal currency with the aim to encourage everyone to act with a managerial mentality. ▲ Cash Vouchers used today All of our internal economic activities used these cash vouchers and each department was financially independent. For example, when confronted with insufficient funds, departments would borrow and pay back cash vouchers with interest. By doing so, we were able to enhance a sense of profitability regardless of group size or operational responsibilities. Today, the cash voucher system supports our management base by evolving according to changing times and business conditions while raising managerial awareness through the ongoing participation of our employees. 04 Contributions to the Nobel Prize “Try before you say you can't.” Our conviction to respond to the needs of our customers has supported the growth of the company. In 1979, Prof. Masatoshi Koshiba from the University of Tokyo's School of Science asked us to develop a 20-inch-diameter PMT. At the time, the world was working to develop 8-inch-diameter photomultiplier tubes while we had just begun development of 5-inch and 8-inch-diameter photomultiplier tubes. This was not a simple request, but swayed by the passion of Professor Masatoshi Koshiba, we started development. Many challenges confronted us, but we concentrated on the manufacturing technology we had amassed into this large tube development. Just five months after the start of the development, the 20-inch-diameter photomultiplier tube was completed and in 1982 we successfully delivered 1,050 20-inch-diameter photomultiplier tubes for Kamiokande. On the 23 February 1987, at 4:35 in the afternoon, a neutrino from supernova 1987A that appeared in the Large Magellanic Clouds 160,000 light years from Earth, was captured. This was the first time in the world a supernova neutrino had been observed. It heralded the dawn of neutrino astronomy the search for astronomical objects through elementary particles. Almost 1,000 of the world's largest photomultiplier tubes embedded in a water tank continued to operate normally in water for four years. By providing products with the required performance, Hamamatsu Photonics was able to contribute to this outstanding achievement, which started a new page in astronomy. In addition, Prof. Masatoshi Koshiba earned deeper regard from everyone involved, for his amazing achievement of observing the neutrino, merely one month before his retirement. 2002 Prof. Masatoshi Koshiba awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics Kamiokande Colossal achievement of neutrino observation [Photomultiplier tube] 2013 Prof. Higgs and Prof. Englert awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics CERN Discover Higgs boson [Opto-semiconductor devices/photomultiplier tubes] 2015 Prof. Takaaki Kajita awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics Super-Kamiokande Discovery that neutrinos have mass ▲ Prof. Masatoshi Koshiba (Left), Teruo Hiruma (Center) and Photo courtesy of [Photomultiplier tube] Prof. Sydney Brenner (Right), awarded the Prize in Physiology Chunichi Shimbun or Medicine the same year, at the Nobel Prize Ceremony. Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 12 BUSINESS MODEL Hamamatsu Photonics's Value Creation Model with Light Electron Tube Segment Photomultiplier Tubes, Photomultiplier Tubes, Imaging Imaging Devices Devices and and Light Light Sources Sources Human Resources BU SIN ■ Yaramaika (Let's Give It a Try) Spirit ES S → “Try before you say you can't.” High motivation and lofty goals Four ■ A Mind of “Wa” Capitals → Better human relationships and Technology knowledge integration. ■ All Researchers System ■ Sales/Manufacturing/ → Overcoming challenges in daily operations Development Partnership System ■ Interaction between Employees → Full support of customer needs ■ In-house Production Facilities → Club activities, summer festivals, athletic meets → High-mix low-volume production/ customer service World-leading ■ Integrated Production Sites IN → Cross Division Development Manufacturing PU T Aim for Aim for Number Number One One One One of and and a Kind of a Kind Everyone is a Manager □ High Degree of Freedom ID EO LO GY Department Independent Profit System □ High Cost Awareness □ Rapid Decision Making □ Hands-on Approach 13 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Pursuing the Unknown Human Health and and Unexplored Happiness and the Realms Development of Science and Technology ■ ■ Early detection Early of diseases detection of diseases ■ Extended healthy life expectancy ■ Extended healthy life expectancy ■ ■ Industry Industry development development Enhanced ■ Environmental conservation ■ Environmental conservation Corporate Value ■ ■ Promotion Promotion of academic research of academic research Continuous and Continuous and Stable Stable High Earnings System High Earnings System ■ ■ Unique governance Unique governance system system Opto-semiconductor OU ■ Development of new ■ Development of new markets markets Segment TC OM E ■ ■ Higher motivation Higher motivation ■ Accumulation of ■ Accumulation of technology technology Opto-semiconductor Opto-semiconductor Imaging and Devices Devices Measurement Instruments Segment Image Processing Image Processing andand Measurement Measurement Systems Systems AC TIV ITI ES & OU TP UT High-performance, High-quality Products that Meet Expertise Global Needs ■ Cooperation between departments → Presentations on prototypes as well as research and department management results Organization ■ Industry-academic-government ■ Departmental sales management partnerships → Formulation of sales plans → Establishing Hamamatsu as a from the bottom-up. Preeminent Photonics City ■ Central Research Laboratory Photonics Declaration 2013 → Investing in the human unknown in Hamamatsu and unexplored realms ■ Pursuing performance to its farthest boundaries → Accumulation of tacit knowledge Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 14 POSSIBILITY OF LIGHT What is “Light”? Always striving to reveal the infinite and hidden potential of light. “Light” is always present around us and is still filled with much mystery. The core of these mysteries is found in the strange nature of light that has the proper ties of a wave and a particle, no mass, and travels faster than anything else in the universe. Time Single Age of the Photon Universe Dark Night Century Starlight Year Day Moonlight Wavelength Hour Visible Infrared Terahertz Radio Gamma-ray X-ray Soft X-ray UV Light Light Light Wave Wave Second Millisecond Sunlight Microsecond Nanosecond Sun’s Surface Picosecond Nuclear Fusion Femtosecond Center of Stellar Attosecond Amplitude (Intensity) The human eye can detect “visible light” at a wavelength between 400 to 700 nanometers. Visible light corresponds to the multiple colors of the rainbow. UV light, X-rays, and gamma-rays exist on shorter wavelengths than those beyond the violet. On the other hand, infrared light, teraher tz waves, and radio waves exist on the longer wavelengths than those beyond the red. In addition to wavelengths, light also possesses many other attributes such as amplitude (intensity), time, polarization and phase, which influence various aspects of our world. The reason to extend the use of photonics technology in the field of advanced science, such as unknown elementary par ticles and gravitational wave detection can be found in these characteristics. Light is the source of potential to expand the knowledge of mankind. We contribute to human health and happiness, as well as the development of science and technology, through the supply of optical sensors, light sources and the systems using them. Wave-Particle Duality of Photons This is Young’s Interference Experiment or Double-slit Interference Experiment. This experiment shows interference fringes ▲ Watch a appear even if the light is drastically video of the weakened to the level of having only one experiment. par ticle. This demonstrated that in the double-slit interference experiment, one photon par ticle simultaneously passed ▲ When light weakened to an extremely low ▲ However when the recorded particle count through the two slits and interfered by itself. brightness limit and projected on a screen increases, an interference fringe appears. Photon has the wave-particle duality. is detected, it behaves like a particle. 15 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 KEY ENABLING TECHNOLOGY Key Enabling Technology Nothing is possible without it. No destination can be reached without it. Future needs cannot be realized without it. We are proud that our photonics technology is a Key Enabling Technology. The structure of general industry is a pyramid shape with the end-product manufacturers at the top. However, the structure of the applied photonics industry is an inverted pyramid shape. Hamamatsu Photonics, as a supplier of devices such as optical sensors and devices, is positioned at the bottom. The size and fields of these industries grows as we move upward. However, Hamamatsu Photonics does not simply supply products from the bottom of this pyramid, but rather supplies the Key Enabling Technology that heightens end-product performance found at the core of industries that utilize photonics. As we expand our business reach upwards from photonic devices to modules, co-creation with customers discovers new applications, broadens the angle of the inverted pyramid structure for industries that utilize photonics, and diversifies the utilization of photonics technology. Moreover, to anticipate needs that customers are not yet aware of themselves, we must collaborate with ventures that aim for new businesses that use photonics technology, which in turn means that developing internal ventures is important. In the future, we will nurture and embody the same venture spirit we have held since our founding, while strengthening our core photonic devices to strategically broaden the industries which utilize photonics, and foster sustainable growth. Sus t a i na bl e G row t h St ra te gy Services Systems Anticipate needs that customers New applications through are not yet aware of themselves co-creation with customers (new business development) Modules (expansion of existing business) Photonic Devices Enhancement and modularization of core technologies Basic research for new device development Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 16 ENVIRONMENT Acti v it ies for t he Env i ro n me n t Earth Health Assessment via Photonics Technology Significance of Our Environmental Initiatives Environmental pollution, depletion of resources, climate change, and large-scale disasters have become impor tant environmental issues faced by all. Our goal is to realize human health and happiness. That is why Hamamatsu Photonics cannot ignore the need to resolve environmental problems through its business. We proactively invest in research and development to drive unique photonics technologies, and continually develop products and technologies that are able to help find solutions to environmental problems. Hamamatsu Photonics leverages its strengths with the goal of realizing an Earth Health Assessment through photonics technology. What is an Earth Health Assessment? A response founded in accurate measurement, analysis and diagnosis of root causes is essential to solve current and future environmental problems. The Ear th Health Assessment is a concept that demonstrates our passion to realize e nv i ro n m e n ta l c o n s e r va t i o n a n d s u s ta i n a bl e grow t h t h ro u g h t h e u s e o f o u r p ro d u c t s a n d te c h n o l o g i e s i n t h e environmental measurement field, which demands greater reliability with even more precision. Specific Activities Co-creation with customers will promote the development of products that contribute to the environment through adoption of the Earth H e a l t h A s s e s s m e n t . I t w i l l a l s o p i o n e e r e nv i ro n m e n t a l lyf r i e n d ly p ro d u c t d eve l o p m e n t , s u c h a s g re a te r re s o u rc e s av i n g s (smaller/lighter), power savings, and a longer life compared to conventional products. In addition, lower ing the impact to the environment, by producing products without using hazardous substances restricted under the RoHS directive. Product Examples Ion Detectors (CERARIONTM) Type II Superlattice Infrared Detector Mid-Infrared Laser Diode (QCL) ▲ Lead-free channel electron multiplier ▲ No RoHS restricted substances ▼ For additional information, please refer to the links below. Mass Spectrometry Gas Analysis (Environmental Monitoring, etc.) 17 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Fruits of Our Efforts ▶ Example Greenhouse gases Observing SATellite “IBUKI” (GOSAT) The satellite “IBUKI” was jointly developed by the Ministry of the Environment (MOE), the National Institute for Environmental Studies (NIES) and the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) as the world's first satellite dedicated to observing greenhouse gases. The IBUKI measures CO2, CH4 and other greenhouse gases from space for the main purpose of increasing the measurement accuracy of greenhouse gas absorption and emissions. Our infrared detectors are used as the observational sensors in this satellite. Since its launch in 2009, the IBUKI has measured a large amount of data used to scientifically understand and respond to global warming and Example of Observation Data climate change. https://global.jaxa.jp/press/2019/03/20190319a.html ▶ ©JAXA Environmental Management Initiatives In accordance with the fundamental environmental policy to operate and continually enhance the environmental management system, Hamamatsu Photonics has established a H e a d q u a r te rs E nv i ro n m e n ta l Co m m i tte e, c h a i re d by t h e G e n e ra l E nv i ro n m e n ta l Certification under ISO 14001 (Percentage of employees) 95.8% Management Representative (Managing Director). We have identified risks and opportunities brought about by climate change as important considerations and implemented third-party testing of greenhouse-gas emissions in accordance with guidance of inter national standards, (ISO 14064-3), and introduced renewable energy. Renewable Energy Usage Rate 5.7% Future Challenges and Countermeasures We need to delve even deeper into our investigations and practices in the growing field of green technology to determine how our company can help. We aim to realize solutions to needs and challenges that we have not yet realized ourselves through co-creation with our customers. ▼ For more information, please refer to the link below. Environment https://www.hamamatsu.com/jp/en/our-company/csr/environment/index.html Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 18 SOCIAL Acti v it ies for S oc i e t y Efforts for the Vital Human Resources of Hamamatsu Photonics Significance of Our Activities for Society We hope to provide value to society, such as the human health and happiness, through our activities for society. Our employees are the foundation for us to achieve this goal. Therefore, we work to provide a work-friendly environment for all of our employees and strive to maintain and improve their physical and mental health. To fulfill that need, we recognize the importance of building an organization and corporate culture in which employees are encouraged not merely to suppor t the status quo but to actively engage based on free and innovative thinking. Specific Activities Ensuring Work-life Balance We believe enriching the home, community and other social infrastructure is impor tant for every employee to actively par ticipate in the company. That is why we consult with the labor union as necessar y and have put programs in place, as we strive to ensure a work-life balance. To eliminate long working hours, the management oversees employees’ work Every Wednesday is designated a Managers are provided with appropriate hours, and the labor-management no-overtime day. training. council verifies them. When an employee’s overtime seems excessive, The company invites outside instructors Various policies are implemented to managers engage in dialogue with that employee to run seminars on topics including balance work, children, nursing care, and arrange for interviews with an appropriate childcare support system, nursing care and medical treatments of individuals professional, such as an industrial physician or and mental health. and their families. public health nurse. ● Employees Taking Temporary ● Reinstatement Rate after Temporary Childcare Leave (Persons) Childcare Leave (%) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Men 27 25 39 Men 100 100 100 Women 26 34 31 Women 100 100 100 Total 53 59 70 Total 100 100 100 ▲ Childcare support system seminar conducted by outside director Kashiko Kodate 19 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Health Management Initiatives To maintain and improve the physical strength of employees, the In addition to the regular medical I n a c c o rd a n c e w i t h i t s Co r p o ra te H e a l t h Po l i cy, Company holds a body design check-ups mandated by law for the Hamamatsu Photonics promotes health management school, and conducts physical purpose of the early detection and in cooperation with the health insurance society. The strength measurements. Employees treatment of diseases, we also Company implements various measures after proposal, are also encouraged to walk and conduct dental check-ups. discussion and approval by the Headquarters, Branch use sports facilities. Health and Safety Committees and by the Executive Committee. As part of our mental health We recommend health screening measures, we have formulated a and PET examinations to our three-year, mental health promotion employees. Hamamatsu Photonics plan. The mental health education and the health insurance society program is tailored to each pay a contribution to the fees. employee rank. All employees are encouraged to recognize the signs and different types of stress through our stress check-up program, known in-house as the “Mental Health Check”. This aims to reduce stress in the workplace, together with group analysis and on-site training. ▲ Physical strength measurement Fruits of Our Efforts These activities have heightened employee awareness about paid leave. The average acquisition rate of paid leave in FY2018 was 74.6% (71.3% in FY2017) For two consecutive years, 2018 with a job turnover rate of 0.3% (FY2018). Our net sales per hour increased and 2019, the Company earned approximately 7% in FY2018 compared to the previous fiscal year, which c e r t i fi c a t i o n a s a n E xc e l l e n t Health and demonstrated improved productivity. Employees also showed a higher Health and Productivity Management productivity awareness about their health with an 84.7% participation rate in physical Co r p o ra t i o n ( L a rg e E n te r p r i s e White 500 strength measurements conducted during daily working hours. Additionally, the Division) (White 500). percentage of employees on mental health leave was 0.37% (FY2018), which is dramatically lower than the average (0.8%) for business sites with 1,000 or more employees. 74.6% 0.3% 84.7% 0.37% Average Acquisition Participation Rate Percentage of Job Turnover in Physical Strength Employees on Mental Rate of Paid Leave Measurements Health Leave （2018年度） Future Challenges and Countermeasures Hamamatsu Photonics primarily recruits science students. This has created a tendency to hire relatively few women because the percentage of women in the sciences is low. Ensuring diversity is important to facilitate multifaceted viewpoints in the development of new technology in the future. For this reason, we are engaging in recruitment activities as per the action plan outlined in the Database on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. Additionally, we always strive to better the working environment and promote health management in an effort to make certain every employee can live a prosperous life. ▼ For more information, please refer to the link below. CSR/ESG Information https://www.hamamatsu.com/jp/en/our-company/csr/index.html Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 20 REVIEW AND VISION OF EACH DIVISION Review and Vision of Each Division ■ Electron Tube Division (Electron Tube Segment) ■ Solid State Division (Opto-semiconductor Segment) ■ Systems Division (Imaging and Measurement Instruments Segment) ■ Central Research Laboratory 21 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 ■ Electron Tube Division (Electron Tube Segment) Pursuing performance to its farthest boundaries P.23 Pursuing the ultimate in performance, guided by our experience in fabricating devices for academic research, has led to applications in high-precision optical measurement such as medical, environmental and measurement fields. Its applications have even extended to monozukuri, or namely the creation of things that support life. ■ Solid State Division (Opto-semiconductor Segment) Toward the possibilities of the new photonics technology P.24 Getting a grasp on what lies one-step ahead for our world. Pushing the limits of our unique opto-semiconductor technology to meet advanced user needs. ■ Systems Division (Imaging and Measurement Instruments Segment) The key to further progress P.25 Creating the breakthrough specialized systems based on the optical sensor technology. ■ Central Research Laboratory Life Photonics P.26 A future world with an optimal balance among Earth, people, and all life we aim to achieve this wonderful dream through the research into “light” which is the source of all substances. ▼ Consolidated financial results by business ▼ Medium-term sales plan (Unit: 100 Million Yen) ▼ Sales ratio by industry and application FY2019 segment (Unit: 100 Million Yen) Imaging and Other Electron tube 1,900 Other 7.8% measurement 19 segment 1,800 Transport Instruments instruments segment (Electron Tube (Systems Division) Division) 1,700 3.4% 184 595 1,600 Measuring Instruments 1,500 5.9% Medical-Bio Instruments FY2019 1,400 Academic Research 39.6% 1,300 5.4% 1,200 Analytical 1,100 Instruments Industrial 11.5% Instruments Opto-semiconductor 1,000 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 26.4% segment (Forecast) (Forecast) (Forecast) (Solid State Division) 660 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 22 Electron Tube Division Electron tube devices are key devices for measuring and capturing phenomena that were impossible to find up to now. We achieve this by applying our long-fostered basic and element technologies. Our new manufacturing technology creates innovative devices that are more (Electron Tube Segment) compact and optimized for particular usage environments, expanding the application fields of the equipment in which those devices are integrated. Electron tube devices that have actively been used in a wide range of fields including medical diagnosis, spectroscopic Photomultiplier Tubes, Imaging Devices and Light Sources analysis, semiconductors, biology, and academic research are now being pushed to their ultimate performance limits to meet customer needs and to expand the market. ▼ Message Our Strengths The Electron Tube Division innovates and develops products by having every employee participate in the research industry. We open avenues to new markets through the products realized in this development, and grow together with our customers to always foster sustainable growth. Since our founding, the manufacturing process for our mainstay product of photomultiplier tubes has required a high-level of manual labor. That is why I believe the basis of development is in the production site, where manufacturing actually takes place. The ongoing pursuit of performance to its farthest boundaries in day-to-day operations, not only by those in charge of development but also on the production site, has championed high-performance, high-quality products impossible for competitors to match. In addition to being profitable, this approach offers each small department a lot of freedom in product development, and it lets these teams actively work to develop products for new markets, even Division Director, Electron Tube Division if they are small. This also continually brings added value to customer products and, as we expand the Ke nji Suz uki market together, meeting the needs of the customers who use the new products that are developed. Review of FY2019 For Future Growth Photomultiplier tube sales declined for high energy physics experiments and other academic projects due to In addition to photomultiplier tubes, light factors such as the completion of deliveries to major overseas projects. However, sales increased in the sources and other existing products, the medical sector thanks to their strong reputation for high sensitivity, low-noise, and high-speed operation in Electron Tube Division has been investing laboratory testing equipment for the analysis of blood and living tissue. The sale of photomultiplier tubes for more than 20 years in laser applications, also increased due to the recovery in oilfield investments and a strong sales performance for oil-well logging such as lasers for cutting semiconductor devices with superior resistance for the operation under harsh environment, such as high-temperatures, wafers. These laser applications are shocks, and vibrations. In the industrial sectors, imaging devices and light sources were hit by a slowdown expected to allow for the further expansion in China’s economy and restrained capital investment, but sales of microfocus X-ray sources for into other markets for medical, optical and non-destructive testing devices increased for battery inspections and other evaluations. The Stealth Dicing many other uses beyond applications for engine for high-speed, high-quality silicon wafer dicing increased as a result. Furthermore, sales of imaging semiconductor manufacturing, such as devices and light sources increased driven by oversea sales for environmental analysis such as deuterium dicing. We will enhance the development of lamps. A product line-up of advanced technology continued to provide stable growth with 59.5 billion Yen in laser-applied products, including at the new net sales, up 3.1% year-on-year. This year was the one in which the strength of Electron Tube Division could wing set for completion in July 2020. We will be felt. To elicit growth in the future, we have also begun construction on a new wing to develop new light develop the next generation of the Stealth source and X-ray source products targeting industrial fields as well as to reinforce the development of Dicing engine and expect to see a growth in element technologies for electron tube products. This new wing is scheduled for completion July 2020. sales of laser scanning microscopes and OCT applications. Data ▼ Consolidated financial results by business segment ▼ Sales ratio by industry and application (FY2019) 900 40 (Unit: 100 Million Yen) 800 35 Academic Other 700 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) Research 9.1% 30 (Forecast) (Forecast) 600 3.9% 25 500 Net Medical-Bio 20 Sales 577 595 587 614 664 Instruments 400 300 15 Analytical 34.2% Operating Instruments 200 10 Profit 196 205 208 209 223 5 17.2% 100 Industrial Operating 0 0 Profit 34.0% 34.5% 35.4% 34.0% 33.6% Measuring Instruments (100 Million Yen) FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 (%) Instruments (Forecast)(Forecast)(Forecast) Ratio 27.5% 8.1% Net Sales Operating Profit Ratio 23 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Solid State Division The Solid State Division has explored physical proper ties that determine opto-semiconductor performance since the early days in this field. They have succeeded to create an extensive portfolio of products. Our opto-semiconductor products incorporate unique semiconductor (Opto-semiconductor Segment) process, mounting and packaging technology, and MEMS technology. They cover a wide wavelength range from infrared, visible, ultraviolet, through to X-rays and high-energy rays. They are used in a wide range of fields including medical, scientific measurement, communications, Optosem i conductors consumer electronics, and automotive electronics. We will continue to pursue opto-semiconductor technology, always staying one-step ahead, to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of the future. ▼ Message Our Strengths The Solid State Division does not develop technologies and equipment for a single application, but for horizontal expansion to other applications. This is to maintain a high-mix low-volume production, that meets customer requirements whilst also increasing production efficiency and ensuring sustainable growth. By applying opto-semiconductor design and manufacturing technology, fostered in-house over many years, Hamamatsu Photonics provides the high-performance products needed by customers and offers customized modules according to their requirements. The enhanced performance of opto-semiconductors is always tailored to customer needs, but it does not limit use to any particular industry that uses a large quantity of semiconductors, but rather expands the use to applications in other industries, such as the medical and analysis sectors cultivated by photomultiplier tubes. Due to the easy handling unique to opto-semiconductors, including the ability for compact, low-voltage use, Division Director, Solid State Division these products are also used in the transport and consumer sectors. This extension to various K o ei Ya m a m o t o applications is vital to offer customers added value and to remain market leaders. Review of FY2019 For Future Growth Opto-semiconductors showed increased sales centered around X-ray flat panel sensors for The compound semiconductor fabrication center dental use, in addition to a strong sales performance in the medical field for products such that integrates the compound semiconductor as our mainstay silicon photodiodes. However, the global restrained capital investment pre-processes was completed in 2017. In the affected and sales of image sensors for semiconductor fabr ication and inspection future, we will combine compound semiconductors equipment declined. For the reasons above, the Opto-semiconductor Segment showed 66 with silicone and reinforce product development in billion Yen in net sales, down 2.2% year-on-year, due to declining sales of photodiodes and t h e n e a ri n f ra re d ra n g e by s t re n g t h e n i n g L E D i n t h e Fa c to r y Au to m a t i o n ( FA ) s e c to r fo r a p p l i c a t i o n s s u c h a s c o n t ro l s fo r cooperation with the compound semiconductor industrial-use robots and other equipment worldwide. Business performance has fallen, but fabrication center. In the near-infrared range, the factors are mainly attributed to the external environment and not a result of a change in applications for many sectors, including analytical product super ior it y. Therefore, the Solid State Division continued to make capital instruments, are expected in addition to LiDAR investments and completed a new wing in July 2019 that consolidates the development used for autonomous driving of automobiles. departments for module products. We are making ongoing investments in module products, such as the ASIC electronic circuit technology and MEMS microminiaturized technology. LiDAR...Analyzes the distance to an object by The current consolidation of our module depar tments configures a system for the emitting laser light to a target and detecting its modularization required by many markets, and it is a structure that we can expect to foster scattered or reflected light with a photosensor. further growth. Data ▼ Consolidated financial results by business segment ▼ Sales ratio by industry and application (FY2019) 900 35 (Unit: 100 Million Yen) Measuring 800 30 Instruments FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 Other 700 25 FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) (Forecast) (Forecast) 4.7% 9.7% 600 20 Transport 500 Net Instruments Sales 674 660 705 778 832 400 15 7.3% Medical-Bio 300 10 Operating Instruments 200 Profit 213 185 211 234 256 48.9% 100 5 Industrial Operating Instruments 0 (100 Million Yen) FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 0 (%) Profit 31.6% 28.0% 29.9% 30.1% 30.8% Analytical 20.7% (Forecast)(Forecast)(Forecast) Ratio Instruments 8.7% Net Sales Operating Profit Ratio Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 24 Systems Division Our Systems Division is developing and manufactur ing sys te m s t h a t i n te gra te l i g h t d e te c t i o n te c h n o l o g y, i m a g i n g technology, and image processing technology by using optical s e n s o r s . A s a l e a d i n g s e n s o r m a n u fa c t u r e r, w e u s e o u r (Imaging and Measurement Instruments Segment) exper tise and technology to design and develop specialize systems that combine core products, such as cameras, with peripheral technology and equipment. Image Processing and Measurement Systems ▼ Message Our Strengths T h e Sys te m s D i v i s i o n , t h ro u g h a d eve l o p m e n t s t r u c t u re t h a t c a n c l e a r ly s a t i s f y mar ket needs, will ensure sustainable growth. As our products are manufactured for end-users, I also think designs based on mar keting are impor tant. The Systems Division is gather ing feedback directly from users across many mar kets to fully understand their needs. These include the industr ial sector, medical and a c a d e m i c f i e l d s . To m e e t t h o s e n e e d s , s e n s o r s a n d s o ft w a r e a r e d e v e l o p e d in-house as key devices for our products. By designing optimal products, we are a bl e to p ro d u c e c o m p e t i t i ve p ro d u c t s. To c re a te o p t i m a l d e s i g n s t h a t a re m o re efficient than conventional products, we are expanding common technology in the Systems Division by consolidating the design depar tments, previously divided by Division Director, Systems Division application. Ta da shi Ma r uno Review of FY2019 For Future Growth The sale of failure analysis systems for semiconductor As with the other divisions, one of the strengths of the Systems Division is providing devices was negatively affected by the restrained product applications over wide-ranging fields even while manufacturing end products, but capital investment in the semiconductor market, this causes impeded growth due to our inability to focus on individual products with particularly sales in Asia. However, sale of digital sluggish growth for a particular term. However, we understand market needs in this cameras differentiated from competitor products for business, and have steadily increased our market share and continue to grow. By fully low noise increased due to higher demand in the life understanding and digging deeper into the information we have already gathered about sciences and biology sectors as well as industrial market needs in existing markets, we will be able to generate new needs and propose field. Sales of X-ray line scan cameras also increased products to satisfy those needs. To grow our business, stronger marketing and design is for electronic substrate inspections and other such indispensable and human resource development is vital. For this reason, we have applications. In addition, we are seeing a steady transitioned our educational programs from OJT training to programs that include growth for food inspection applications. As a result, external training. We are also actively deploying human resources overseas to elevate the Imaging and Measurement Instruments Segment our understanding of local needs. In 2016, we created a new group on a trial basis, to had 18.4 billion Yen in net sales, up 7.2% year-on-year. listen to the local customer needs in America. We have four employees deployed overseas as part of this new group. In the future, we will concentrate on human resource development that supports growth. Data ▼ Consolidated financial results by business segment ▼ Sales ratio by industry and application (FY2019) Other 250 30 (Unit: 100 Million Yen) 3.7% 200 25 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 Measuring FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) (Forecast) (Forecast) Instruments 20 1.3% Medical-Bio 150 15 Net 171 184 186 203 219 Academic Instruments Sales Research 27.0% 100 10 22.8% Operating 50 Profit 35 36 37 44 55 5 Operating Analytical Industrial 0 0 Profit 20.5% 19.6% 19.9% 21.7% 25.1% Instruments Instruments (100 Million Yen) FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 (%) 3.1% 42.1% (Forecast)(Forecast)(Forecast) Ratio Net Sales Operating Profit Ratio 25 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Central Research What will our future be like 20 or 30 years from now? How about a future where all people can enjoy comfortable and active lives with peace of Laboratory mind, and where optimal balance is maintained among the Earth, its people and all living things? To make this dream a reality, we will have to overcome many obstacles and challenges. Our Central Research Laboratory is conducting R&D work that conforms to “sustainability” values. We call this work “Life Photonics” which is based on the theme of “life” encompassing a broad range of areas such as life, living things, Basi c and Appl i ed Research human life, vitality sources, and ways of living. We will continue researching a diverse spectrum of photonics and optical technologies taking “Life Photonics” as our motivating theme. ▼ Message Genesis and Role of the Central Research Laboratory By 1990, Hamamatsu Photonics had gradually grown, and its divisions were able to produce the world’s best products. In the area of research and development, we began participating in joint research as our network expanded to include the world's foremost researchers. To pursue the unknown and unexplored realms of light in this environment, everyone needs to recognize the subsequent direction of research and development. The Central Research Laboratory was established in Hamakita Ward, Hamamatsu City, to act as a compass which guides us into the future. We have also further expanded our laboratories to include the Tsukuba Research Center and Industrial Development Center (Nishi Ward, Hamamatsu City). The Central Research Laboratory is currently advancing basic research and the applied research of photonics technology under the keywords “Life Photonics”. “Life” Director, Central Research Laboratory here does not refer to concepts such as medical and life sciences but it takes on the broad Ts ut o m u H a ra meaning of life and living. By making this “life” possible through photonics technology, we will help build a sustainable society. The Central Research Laboratory has two primary roles. Our first responsibility is to contribute to Hamamatsu Photonics business. We will help foster growth by providing the expertise and technologies necessary for product development in each division, while collaborating with them to commercialize products using our accumulated knowledge. Our second responsibility is to advance research into fundamental measurement and fundamental physics in the pursuit of the unknown and unexplored realms of light. By standing shoulder-to-shoulder with universities and research institutes worldwide and conducting leading-edge research, Hamamatsu Photonics obtains new findings develops science and technology, and contributes to human health and happiness. Review of FY2019 For Future Growth This year has shown that Japan is more interested than ever before in light and I feel that long-term research with vision has dwindled light quantum. By promoting efforts that anticipate practical applications and compared to the past. I am thinking about how we can commercialization, our research laboratory participated in the light and light create a system to find interesting, long-term research quantum themes advocated by the Cross-ministerial Strategic Innovation themes. To realize this system, the Central Research Promotion Program (SIP), which strives to realize science and technology L a b o ra to r y w i l l i n s t i l l o u r l o n g va l u e d re s e a rc h innovation. In addition, the Central Research Laboratory became involved in principles through organizational restructuring and quantum simulator with a quantum computer project that began in 2019 and other measures. We will also put every effort into the helped with long-term fundamental research. Another major success, was our development of the human resources to whom we will development of an industrial pulsed laser system which output the world’s entrust the Central Research Laboratory in the future. highest pulse energy of 117 joules (J). Laboratories ▶▶▶ ▲ Tsukuba Research Center, ▲ Industrial Development Center, Central Research Laboratory Central Research Laboratory ◀ Central Research Laboratory Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 26 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and R&D expenses (FY2019) Development 70 60 Electron Tube Segment 31 (Electron Tube Division) Opto-Semiconductor Segment 30 H a m a m a t s u P h o to n i c s c o n d u c t s re s e a rc h a n d 50 (Electron Tube Division) development under the main theme of research and 40 Imaging and Measurement 6 applications related to the nature of light. Each Instruments Segment division engages in the research and development 30 (Electron Tube Division) o f p ro d u c t s, t h e i r a p p l i e d a p p l i c a t i o n s a n d t h e Central Research 62 20 element, manufacturing and processing Laboratory, others technologies that suppor t them. The Central 10 Research Laboratory conducts basic research into Total 130 light and applied research for the use of light. 0 (100 Million Yen) (100 Million Yen) Electron Tube Opto-semiconductor Imaging and Central Research Segment Segment Measurement Laboratory, others Instruments Segment Examples of FY2019 Research Achievements Basic Research ▶ Evolution of Metalens Research and Development to Achieve Thin, Highly Functional Designs In the optical materials sector, we are pursuing the development of the metalens a lens capable of controlling the refractive index of light which is unique to each substance. This is made possible by arranging on its surface that are smaller than the light wavelength. The Metalens based on two-dimensional nano-fine structure arrays with varying diameter. The period and thickness of the metalens are smaller than the wavelength of the light.In theory, the metalens can provide increased magnification. However, how to arrange the nano-fine structures was a technical challenge. To overcome this challenge, we leveraged our proprietary processing technology and successfully produced a metalens prototype with arrays of fine silicon pillars on quartz glass. We will seek to put this technology into practical applications and apply it to our products. 350nm ▲ Images of a semiconductor device observed with the optical microscope of our failure analysis system for semiconductor devices. Compared to ▲ Structure (left) and magnified view (right) of a metalens. Silicon pillars are the image on the left, obser ved without a metalens (obser ved with a formed and arrayed on the surface of quartz glass at intervals smaller than nor mal lens), the image on the right obser ved with a metalens shows the light wavelength. microstructures in fine detail at high magnification. Product Development ▶ MCP Assembly for Explosive Trace Detectors Microchannel plates (MCPs) are sensors that detect and amplify electrons generated by ions or X-rays, etc. in vacuum. They are widely used in a variety of analyzers such as mass spectrometry [1]. In recent years, small detectors, using mass spectrometry technology have been developed to improve the accuracy of explosive trace detectors used at facilities such as airports. However, due to the downsizing of the vacuum pumps, the decrease in the degree of vacuum inside the detector resulted in increased noise. We have therefore developed an MCP Assembly that operates stably without generating noise, even in low vacuum conditions. This was achieved by adopting our proprietary voltage supply method, and by reviewing the detector structure. Moving forward, we will continue to develop photonics technology that will contribute to the strengthening of security at airports and other similar facilities around the world. [1] Mass spectrometry is an analytical technique that provides information on the nature, structure and volume of substances contained ▲ Newly developed MCP assembly in a sample by ionizing the atoms and molecules of the sample and measuring their mass. 27 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 CONTRIBUTION TO ACADEMIC RESEARCH Contributions to Academic Research This section introduces academic research projects, the products used in those projects and how they contributed to the advancement of science. Neutrino Observation Equipment, Kamiokande, and Super-Kamiokande On the 23 Februar y 1987, the Kamiokande Neutr ino Obser vator y made an histor ical achievement. They had the first neutr ino observation from a supernova explosion. This, once-in-a-lifetime opportunity triggered by a super nova 160,000 light-years away, was captured by Hamamatsu Photonics' ▲ New 20-inch-diameter Photomultiplier Tubes (PMTs). Our technology PMTs is always evolving and continues to gain attention. We are proud that our PMTs were selected for the upgraded Super-Kamiokande, and for the next Hyper-Kamiokande project. ▲ Inside the Super-Kamiokande Gamma-ray Telescope Experiments to Unravel Unexplained Phenomena When ultra-high energy gamma rays, traveling through outer space, collide with the Earth's atmosphere, a natural phenomenon that produces many particles called an “air shower” occurs. Observing the Cherenkov light generated from this collision with a gamma ray telescope, makes it possible to measure the source and energy of ▲ Photomultiplier tube high-energy gamma rays. This will help find and used in the Cherenkov reveal the workings of various unexplained Telescope Array (CTA) phenomena in our universe, such as those ©AKIHIRO IKESHITA occurring in the center of an active galactic nuclei, ▲ CTA experiment supernova explosions, and gamma ray bursts. The collider which detected the “Higgs boson”, often called the “God particle”, which gives mass to matter particles. The elusive Higgs boson, often called the “God particle”, was only recently discovered and its existence finally confirmed by experiments using the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the world’s largest accelerator measuring 27 kilometers in circumference. Hamamatsu Photonics SSD (Silicon Strip Detectors) contributed to this great ▲ SSD used for discovery. These SSD detected the tracks along “Higgs boson” detection which the particles pass, to a resolution of within a few dozen micrometers. Photo courtesy of CERN ▲ SSDs installed in the CMS tracker at CERN's LHC I n Au g u s t 2 019 , C E R N ( t h e E u r o p e a n O r g a n i z a t i o n fo r N u c l e a r R e s e a r c h ) announced that it had decided to sign contracts with us to purchase our silicon sensors for the next phase large hadron collider, the HL-LHC. The ATLAS and CMS trackers of the HL-LHC will use three types, about 75,000, of silicon sensors. ◀ 8-inch pad detector, one of three types of silicon sensors Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 28 GOVERNANCE Acti v it ies for G ove r n a n c e Foundation of Hamamatsu Photonics Supporting the Pursuit of the Realms of the Unknown and Unexplored Significance of Strengthening Corporate Governance O u r p ro d u c t s a re u s e d a s key d ev i c e s t h a t ▼ Schematic Diagram of Our Corporate Governance Structure contribute to human happiness and the sustainable growth of societ y in medical, analytical, industrial and a wide range of other General Meeting of Shareholders fi e l d s. We w i l l e n h a n c e o u r c o r p o ra te va l u e Appoints and Appoints and Appoints and to w a rd o n g o i n g s o c i a l c o n t r i bu t i o n s i n t h e dismisses dismisses dismisses future. In order to do so, Hamamatsu Photonics Audits Audit & Supervisory formulates and shares its corporate philosophy Directors Board Members because all of our employees unified in both (Board of Directors) (Audit & Supervisory Board) action and principle toward the future is Appoints and indispensable. We believe this can generate supervises Liaison with Liaison with stable ear nings, fur thers research and development, and fosters growth. Therefore, we President and CEO Account Audits are building a distinct gover nance str ucture Directs and External Internal Audit Division Accounts suitable for Hamamatsu Photonics. supervises Auditors Liaison with (External Audit) Executive Committee Audits Business Divisions, R&D Divisions, Headquarters Divisions, Domestic (Japan) and Overseas Group Companies Specific Activities Sharing Our Corporate Approach Research Industry and All Researchers System Cost and Effectiveness Hamamatsu Photonics advocates research and has Hamamatsu Photonics gives independence to each division through a bottom-up adopted an all researchers system. This system approach. We ask each depar tment to work as small organizational units in each means that every employee always keeps in mind division, which act as individual small companies required to balance accounts not only the research depar tments, but also within each team. Each division operates with a 30% operating profit target across manufacturing and other indirect departments, with all the affiliated departments. By continuing to operate under this type of structure the goal of expanding business operations by over the long ter m, each employee naturally lear ns a sense of awareness of sharing an approach that fur ther improves and profitability, which in turn helps ensure profit for the entire company. develops day-to-day operational processes. Corporate Bodies Company Structure with an Audit & Supervisory Board Unlike any other industr y, Hamamatsu Photonics works in the continued pursuit of light, the majority of which is still unknown. We believe the Board of Directors who lead our company in this pursuit of light should both make decisions and super vise business execution. We have therefore adopted the structure of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. However, as a publicly listed company, we have also appointed two outside directors (as of December 2019) to oversee activities through external parties. 29 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Dialogue with Investors We, a t H a m a m a t s u P h o to n i c s h o p e t h a t o u r shareholders will hold our shares over the long · An IR/SR director is appointed and either the IR/SR director or, an ter m. For this reason, we actively engage in executive, dialogue with investors. dialogue with our institutional investors based on our belief that we must facilitate · Multiple departments collaborate and provide a dialogue with investors understanding about our businesses. We also centered upon the Invester Relations Office under the supervision of advocate the following policies related to our the director in charge. dialogue with institutional investors. · Individual interviews or small meetings are held each quarter. · Investor feedback received as an outcome of the dialogue, is appropriately reported to the representative director and executive officers. Fruits of Our Efforts We drafted a basic corporate government policy Our net sales are strongly growing, with the aligned to our management philosophy. We also consolidated net sales for FY2019 being the highest 01 formulated our basic approach to corporate ethics 02 ever achieved at 145,912 million Yen. The operating a n d c o m p l i a n c e, b o t h o f w h i c h a re p u bl i c ly profit ratio also successfully reached 17.4%. available. Hamamatsu Photonics has had no legal violations We held 236 inter views with investors dur ing 03 04 or company scandals. FY2019. Future Challenges and Countermeasures The challenge is whether we can meet matters deemed necessar y in the shor t-to-mid-term for stakeholders, while also satisfying mid-to-long term requirements. Therefore, Hamamatsu Photonics advances its core technologies such as photodetectors, which are the foundation of its business. Whilst never forgetting the venture spirit held since our founding, planning and endeavoring to develop new technologies, and cultivating the human resources entrusted with these tasks. We share the things we see as important, as well as our values, with all of our shareholders and various other stakeholders involved to build long-term relationships based on trust. In the future, ongoing contributions to society, are directly connected to the perpetual existence of corporate organizations. ▼ For more detailed information about our corporate governance, please refer to the link below. CSR/ESG Information https://www.hamamatsu.com/jp/en/our-company/csr/index.html Basic Policy on Corporate Governance https://www.hamamatsu.com/resources/pdf/hamamatsu/corporategovernance_en.pdf Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 30 FINANCIAL DATA FOR SEVEN YEARS Financial Data for Seven Years Consolidated Performance Index FY2013 FY2014 Net sales 102,156 112,092 Cost of sales 50,951 53,451 Selling, general and administrative expenses 23,537 25,998 Operating profit 16,781 21,665 Ordinary profit 17,883 22,531 Profit attributable to owners of parent 11,529 15,155 Capital Investments 9,184 15,499 Depreciation *Tangible fixed assets 7,769 7,396 R&D expenses 10,885 10,977 Cash flows from operating activities 14,688 23,135 Cash flows from investing activities 6,493 13,677 Cash flows from financing activities 4,052 4,139 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period 42,852 49,281 Total assets 198,278 215,412 Equity capital 153,873 168,274 Working capital 38,103 39,855 Number of shares issued (thousands) 83,764 83,764 Operating profit ratio (%) 16.4 19.3 ROA (%) 5.9 7.3 ROE (%) 7.8 9.4 Per share information FY2013 FY2014 Net income for current period 71.71 94.26 Dividends 25 27.5 Payout ratio (%) 34.9 29.2 *The results for FY2013, FY2014, and FY2015 are calculated taking into account the 2-for-1 stock split executed in April 2015. 31 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Unit: Million Yen FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 120,691 121,852 130,495 144,338 145,912 57,582 60,807 65,670 70,385 71,916 27,897 28,627 30,199 33,857 35,520 23,596 20,544 22,849 27,263 25,403 24,658 20,050 24,037 28,088 26,277 16,598 14,419 17,777 21,222 19,918 14,338 9,315 13,572 14,221 17,412 8,561 9,888 9,441 10,261 10,950 11,615 11,873 11,776 12,830 13,071 16,046 24,160 26,154 23,579 30,875 17,057 4,186 13,198 8,880 16,086 4,878 15,413 5,707 16,323 6,681 45,556 53,595 63,385 61,824 68,521 226,179 217,300 239,331 244,914 259,694 180,141 169,163 186,939 193,317 202,957 44,699 44,499 51,262 59,031 60,254 167,529 167,529 167,529 165,011 165,011 19.6 16.9 17.5 18.9 17.4 7.5 6.5 7.8 8.8 7.9 9.5 8.3 10.0 11.2 10.1 Unit: JPY FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 103.23 90.23 113.00 136.50 128.67 34 34 34 37 40 32.9 37.7 30.1 27.1 31.1 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 32 FINANCIAL REVIEW Financial Review Net sales R&D expenses R&D expenses Net sales and R&D expense ratio (right) 1,700 160 11.0 10.5 140 1,500 10.0 120 9.5 1,300 9.0 100 8.5 1,100 80 8.0 7.5 60 900 7.0 40 6.5 700 6.0 20 5.5 500 0 5.0 (100 Million Yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (100 Million Yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (%) The net sales for FY2019 reached 145.9 billion Yen, which is the The solidification of core technology by pursuing performance to its farthest highest in the history of our company. The demand for industrial boundaries is the foundation of business growth. This is the reason research instruments fell due to restrained capital investment worldwide, and development expenditures continue to increase. R&D expenditures for but our sales increased for medical-bio instruments thanks to a FY2019 reached 13 billion Yen, which is the highest in the history of our growth trend in markets driven by greater needs for the early company. In the future, we will actively invest in product development and detection and treatment of diseases. basic research to further strengthen our research and development system. Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit ratio (right) Capital investments 300 20 200 19 180 250 18 160 17 140 200 16 120 150 15 100 14 80 100 13 60 12 40 50 11 20 0 10 0 (100 Million Yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (%) (100 Million Yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Operating profit declined in FY2019 due to prior investments Capital investments in FY2019 reached 17.4 billion Yen for projects such as in the compound semiconductor fabrication center, that included a new wing for the Opto-semiconductor Segment (in increasing cost of sales staff at overseas subsidiaries and the response to growing sales of opto-semiconductor module products). impact of the appreciation of the yen. We will continue to make further aggressive capital investments to strengthen research and development, accelerate the expansion of growth products, and heighten production efficiency. 33 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities ROA · ROE ROA ROE 400 Cash flow from investing activities 12 Cash flow from financing activities 300 10 200 8 100 6 0 4 -100 2 -200 0 (100 Million Yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (%) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 In FY2019, the cash flow from investment activities reached In FY2019, we had a 10.1% ROE (down 1.1% year-on-year) and m i n u s 16 . 0 b i l l i o n Ye n , d u e t o a c t i v e r e s e a r c h a n d a 7.9% ROA (down 0.9% year-on-year) due to a fall in profits development, in addition to capital investments. However, the resulting from the appreciation of the yen and increased free cash flow was 14.7 billion Yen. expenditure. We will improve ROE and ROA by increasing our profit level. Total assets/Equity capital Total assets Equity capital Dividends/Payout ratio Dividends Dividends/Payout ratio (right) 3,000 45 40 40 35 2,500 35 30 2,000 30 25 25 1,500 20 20 15 1,000 15 10 10 500 5 5 0 0 0 (100 Million Yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (JPY) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (%) *The results are calculated taking into account the 2-for-1 stock split executed in April 2015. The equity capital for FY2019 increased 5.0% year-on-year to 202.9 billion Yen. We have secured a high standard of a 78.2% equity ratio The dividend for FY2019 increased 3 to 40 Yen per company to ensure stable business continuity and to build a research and share. We aim for a payout ratio of 30% and are providing development system. Our policy allocates equity capital-to-capital returns to shareholders through stable dividend increases. investments and research and development expenditure. Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 34 CLOSING MESSAGE C l o si n g M e s s a g e This is the first time that we have published an integrated report which combines both financial and non-financial information. Since our inception, we have cultivated a unique corporate culture and grown, together with the development of society while valuing harmony among people. However in the 66 years since its founding, Hamamatsu Photonics has grown into a large family with a total number of employees within the Group in excess of 5,000. I have begun to worry that the corporate culture and philosophy formed at the founding of our company in that small local workshop is fading. That is to say, we must remember that the passion that what we call venture spirit today and all of our employees need to reaffirm the corporate culture and philosophy that has supported our growth until now. In parallel, I feel we have reached a moment at which we must consider what should be done, in the future, to foster sustainable growth. Global interest in the environment is growing with factors, attributed to global warming, such as increases in abnormal weather and severe natural disasters. There are also greater expectations in respect to improvements in the working environment and promoting the active participation of women, together with concerns about corporate governance resulting from corporate scandals. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors, must also be taken into consideration in order to achieve sustainable corporate growth. In consideration of all these factors, we created this integrated report, to incorporate ESG perspectives around an axis of a corporate culture and a history that supports sustainable growth. I hope this repor t can share the management approach and value, which suppor ts the mid-to-long-term sustainable growth we aim for at Hamamatsu Photonics, with all of our stakeholders and our employees. This report includes many areas in which we can improve and we will strive to provide even better reporting in the future, through ongoing dialogue with all of you. I look forward to all of your sincere feedback. Managing Director Division Director, Administration Headquarters Kenji Yoshida 35 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 BOARD MEMBERS B oar d Me mbe r s As of December 20, 2019 Kenji Suzuki Akira Hiruma Koei Yamamoto Representative Director Representative Director Representative Director and Vice President and President and Senior Managing Director Division Director, Division Director, Solid State Division Electron Tube Division and Laser Promotion Division Managing Director Managing Director Tsutomu Hara Director, Central Kenji Yoshida Division Director, Research Laboratory Administration Headquarters Managing Director Managing Director Tadashi Maruno Division Director, Takayuki Suzuki Deputy Division Director, Systems Division Solid State Division Director Director Naofumi Toriyama Division Director, Kazuhiko Mori General Manager, Business Headquarters Accounting Division Director Director Hisaki Kato Deputy Division Director, Minoru Saito General Manager, Compound Electron Tube Division semiconductor Fabrication Center Kashiko Kodate Director (Outside) Ken Koibuchi Director (Outside) Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Hiroshi Mizushima Board Member (Standing) Akira Utsuyama Board Member (Standing) Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Yuji Maki Board Member (Outside) Saburo Sano Board Member (Outside) Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 36 CORPORATE OVERVIEW Corporate Overview (As of September 30, 2019) Company Name Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. Net Sales (Consolidated) 145,912 Million Yen (FY2019) Established September 29, 1953 Fiscal Year October 1 to September 30 the following year Global Headquarters 325-6 Sunayama-cho, Naka-ku, Hamamatsu City, Shizuoka Prefecture, General Meeting of Shareholders December 430-8587, Japan Stock Listing First Section of the Tokyo Capital 34,928 Million Yen Stock Exchange Number of Employees 3,571 (Non-consolidated); 5,035 (Consolidated) Securities Code 6965 Main Product Lines Photomultiplier Tubes, Imaging Devices, Accounting Auditor Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Light Sources, Opto-Semiconductor Devices, Imaging Processing and Measurement Systems Affiliate Companies and Organizations (Japan) ■ Global Headquarters Hamamatsu City, Shizuoka Prefecture ■ Factories Main Factory, Shingai Factory, Tenno Glass Works, Joko Factory, Miyakoda Factory (All Located in Hamamatsu City), Toyooka Factory, and Mitsue Factory (Both Located in Iwata City) ■ Sales Offices Tokyo Sales Office, Sendai Sales Office, Tsukuba Sales Office, Chubu Sales Office (Hamamatsu City), Osaka Sales Office, and NishiNihon Sales Office (Fukuoka City) ■ Laboratories Central Research Laboratory, Industrial Development Center (Both in Hamamatsu City), and Tsukuba Research Center Consolidated Subsidiaries ▼ Japan ▼ Overseas Koso Corporation Photonics Management Corp. Americas Takaoka Electronics Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Corporation Hamamatsu Electronic Press Co., Ltd. Energetiq Technology, Inc. Iwata Grand Hotel Hamamatsu Photonics Deutschland GmbH. Europe Hamamatsu Photonics France S.A.R.L. Hamamatsu Photonics Italia S.r.l. Hamamatsu Photonics UK Limited Hamamatsu Photonics Norden AB Hamamatsu Photonics Europe GmbH. Hamamatsu Photonics (China) Co., Ltd. Asia/ Other Hamamatsu Photonics Taiwan Co., Ltd. Beijing Hamamatsu Photon Techniques Inc. Hamamatsu Photon Medical Technology (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Photonics Scientific Instrument (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Photonics Israel Ltd. 37 Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 Stock Information (As of September 30, 2019) Total Number of Authorized Shares (Common Stock) 500,000,000 Number of Shares Issued 165,011,568 (Including 9,945,363 shares of treasury shares) Number of Shareholders 22,263 Transfer Agent and Registrar Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Percentage of Total ■ Distribution of Shares by Shareholder Name Shares Held Shares Outstanding Securities Firms Treasury Shares 6.0% The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 11,846,700 7.6% 0.7% (9,945,000 shares) (1,146,000 shares) Toyota Motor Corporation 8,400,000 5.4% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 6,339,400 4.1% Individuals, etc. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 5,059,100 3.3% 20.1% (33,123,000 shares) Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. Employees 4,684,114 3.0% The Nomura Trust and banking Co., Ltd. (Investment Trust) 3,404,700 2.2% Financial SSBTC Client Omnibus Account 2,966,791 1.9% Institutions 27.9% (45,975,000 shares) Foreign Nationals JP Morgan Chase Bank 385632 2,951,386 1.9% 35.1% (57,964,000 shares) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 2,873,000 1.9% Other JP Morgan Chase Bank 380055 2,699,120 1.7% Japanese Companies Note: 1. The company holds 9,945,363 shares of treasury shares excluded from the shares of the major shareholders listed above. 10.2% 2. The percentage of total shares outstanding is calculated by excluding the treasury shares. Units less than that shown (16,857,000 shares) above are rounded off. ■ There is no information relevant to matters such as share options of the company. ■ Changes in 6,000 Share Price 5,000 4,000 3,000 0 (JPY) 17/09 10 11 12 18/1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 19/1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 (Month) ▼ For information about this report, please refer to the links below. Financial Information https://www.hamamatsu.com/jp/en/our-company/investor-relations/financial-information/index.html CSR Information https://www.hamamatsu.com/jp/en/our-company/csr/index.html Product Information https://www.hamamatsu.com/jp/en/product/index.html Hamamatsu Photonics Integrated Report 2019 38 HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS K.K. www.hamamatsu.com 325-6 Sunayama-cho, Naka-ku, Hamamatsu City, Shizuoka Prefecture, 430-8587, Japan I nv es t or R e l a t i o n s O f f i c e MAIL ir-inf@hq.hpk.co.jp TEL (053)452-2141 Cat. No. XINT1012E01 FAX (053)456-7889 JUN. 2020 DNP
