F Y2 0 SALESFORCE STAKEHOLDER IMPACT REPORT February 1, 2019 — January 31, 2020 Salesforce supports the Sustainable Development Goals CONTENTS Introduction 3 Protecting Our Planet 18 Equality for All 38 Forward-Looking Statements 3 The Environment Is a Key Stakeholder 19 Equality 39 Introduction from Marc Benioff 4 Global Leadership and Collaboration 19 Our Path to Equality 40 Reporting Scope and Methodology 6 Salesforce Sustainability Cloud 20 Equal Pay for Equal Work 40 Salesforce Supports the SDGs 7 1 Trillion Trees 21 Equality Groups 41 About Salesforce 9 Advocating for Climate Policy 22 Ethical and Humane Use of Technology 42 Doing Well and Doing Good 10 Commitment to Clean and Renewable Energy 23 Investing for Impact 43 Annual Emissions 25 Operating with Integrity 11 Philanthropy 45 Setting an Internal Price on Carbon 26 Governance 12 Salesforce & Salesforce.org 46 Sustainable Real Estate 27 Trust and Security 13 Philanthropy Cloud 47 Workforce Development 30 Business Integrity 14 Giving 48 Salesforce Culture 31 Civic Engagement 14 Pledge 1% 49 Talent Development 32 Supply Chain Responsibility 16 Futureforce 33 Report Details 50 Office of Accessibility 17 Preparing a Future Ready Workforce 34 ESG Metrics & Indicators 51 Skilling Up for the Future 35 Independent Accountants’ Review Report 67 2 | Contents FORWARD-LOOKING breaches; the expenses associated with our data and import and export controls; the valuation of centers and third-party infrastructure providers; our deferred tax assets and the release of related STATEMENTS additional data center capacity; real estate and valuation allowances; the potential availability of office facilities space; our operating results and cash additional tax assets in the future; the impact of flows; new services and product features, including new accounting pronouncements and tax laws; any efforts to expand our services beyond the uncertainties affecting our ability to estimate our CRM market; our strategy of acquiring or making tax rate; uncertainties regarding our tax obligations investments in complementary businesses, joint in connection with potential jurisdictional transfers ventures, services, technologies and intellectual of intellectual property, including the tax rate, property rights; the performance and fair value the timing of the transfer and the value of such This report contains forwardThese risks and uncertainties include — but are of our investments in complementary businesses transferred intellectual property; the impact of not limited to — risks associated with the effect through our strategic investment portfolio; expensing stock options and other equity awards; looking statements, the of general economic and market conditions; the our ability to realize the benefits from strategic the sufficiency of our capital resources; factors achievement or success of which impact of geopolitical events; the impact of natural partnerships, joint ventures and investments; related to our outstanding debt, revolving credit involves risks, uncertainties, disasters and actual or threatened public health the impact of future gains or losses from our facility and loan associated with 50 Fremont; emergencies, such as the ongoing Coronavirus strategic investment portfolio, including gains or compliance with our debt covenants and lease and assumptions. If any such pandemic; the impact of foreign currency exchange losses from overall market conditions that may obligations; current and potential litigation risks or uncertainties materialize rate and interest rate fluctuations on our results; affect the publicly traded companies within our involving us; and the impact of climate change. or if any of the assumptions our business strategy and our plan to build strategic investment portfolio; our ability to execute our business, including our strategy to be the our business plans; our ability to successfully Further information on these and other factors proves incorrect, the results leading provider of enterprise cloud computing integrate acquired businesses and technologies; that could affect the company’s financial results of salesforce.com, inc. could applications and platforms; the pace of change our ability to continue to grow unearned revenue is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q differ materially from the results and innovation in enterprise cloud computing and remaining performance obligation; our and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from expressed or implied by the services; the seasonal nature of our sales cycles; ability to protect our intellectual property rights; the competitive nature of the market in which our ability to develop our brands; our reliance time to time. These documents are available forward-looking statements on the SEC Filings section of the Investor we participate; our international expansion on third-party hardware, software and platform we make. strategy; the demands on our personnel and providers; our dependency on the development Information section of the company’s website infrastructure resulting from significant growth in and maintenance of the infrastructure of the at www.salesforce.com/investor. our customer base and operations, including as Internet; the effect of evolving domestic and Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and a result of acquisitions; our service performance foreign government regulations, including those does not intend to update these forward-looking and security, including the resources and costs related to the provision of services on the Internet, statements, except as required by law. required to avoid unanticipated downtime and those related to accessing the Internet, and those prevent, detect and remediate potential security addressing data privacy, cross-border data transfers 3 | Introduction INTRODUCTION FROM volunteering their time to support their local four days, Women's College Hospital in Toronto, communities. In addition, Salesforce Care Small Canada, built an online COVID-19 self-assessment MARC BENIOFF Business Grants will provide $10,000 in capital to on Salesforce that is integrated with its hospital help keep businesses afloat as they work to replenish information system. materials, pay salaries, or adapt their business model to overcome these challenging times. We’re also helping governments and NGOs respond to the pandemic. In France, the government Even as we help respond to the urgent needs launched a website and hotline built on Service of this crisis, we’re delivering new solutions to Cloud to help citizens find essential needs and help our customers succeed. Social distancing resources while quarantined. And Tableau is As the world continues to deal with the unprecedented and cessation of travel have forced companies offering an amazing free dashboard — the Tableau effects of the coronavirus, we hope you and your families are staying to accelerate their digital transformations, and Data Hub — that’s tracking the virus, based on data healthy and safe. This virus impacts everyone, reminding us that we are Salesforce is helping them sell, service, market, from the World Health Organization and other all connected like never before and that we have obligations to each other. conduct commerce, and collaborate from organizations, and which already has more than home. Thousands of customers have deployed 700,000 users and more than 1 million views. At Salesforce, meeting our responsibilities to all our stakeholders has our Salesforce Care rapid response solutions to been an essential part of our culture since we founded the company help them stay connected to their employees, Our efforts addressing the challenges of COVID-19 21 years ago. customers, and partners during these uncertain embody our belief that business is the greatest times. Organizations around the world have been platform for change. Marc Benioff Today, we’re unleashing the full power of our company and leveraging Chair and CEO, able to quickly and easily deploy these solutions, Salesforce our products, resources, and relationships to help all of our stakeholders We continue to stand up for the rights of our LGBTQ which we made available for free for 90 days. navigate this crisis. employees and we're constantly reviewing our pay With Salesforce Care for Employee and Customer practices to ensure our employees — men and Support, organizations can quickly create an AIWe're working tirelessly to help deliver personal protective equipment women — receive equal pay for equal work. We’ve powered employee help center, customer service, (PPE) to those most in need. To date, we’ve sourced 50 million units of also committed to having half our U.S. workforce and contact center application. Thousands of small PPE for doctors, nurses, and first responders on the front lines in the come from underrepresented groups by 2023. businesses have signed up for Salesforce Care U.S., France, and India. for Small Business, which includes Essentials and With Trailhead, our free online learning platform We’ve given more than $10 million in grants to local and global Tableau Desktop. for everyone, we’re bringing everyone along in the organizations on the forefront of the response, including organizations Fourth Industrial Revolution with resume-worthy We are supporting those on the front lines with our such as the CDC Foundation, UCSF’s COVID-19 Response Fund, the skills for the digital economy. We now have more Salesforce Care for Health solution that provides Italian Red Cross, the Madrid Food Bank, the French Red Cross, and than 1.8 million learners changing their lives on free access to technology for emergency response the New York COVID-19 Emergency Fund. As always, we’re matching Trailhead by getting the opportunity to participate and healthcare management teams. In just employee donations to eligible organizations, and our employees are 4 | Introduction in the Salesforce ecosystem, which will contribute This year, Salesforce also joined the United Nations 4.2 million jobs worldwide by 2024, according to IDC. Global Compact initiative, a global leadership platform for companies to align on the development Over the past 21 years, we’ve given $330 million and implementation of responsible business in grants to worthy causes, our employees globally practices to build a better world. We’re committed have volunteered 5 million hours, and 46,000 to making the principles of the UN Global Compact nonprofits and NGOs use our software for free. part of Salesforce’s strategy and operations. Salesforce has now donated more than $90 million to schools around the world, and our employees Our commitment to serving all stakeholders is have adopted more than 100 schools globally, one of the reasons that for the 12th year in a including 34 schools in San Francisco and Oakland. row Fortune has ranked Salesforce as one of the We've supported efforts to improve public “100 Best Companies to Work For®”. We’re also education, eliminate homelessness in our cities, proud that Fortune has named Salesforce one of and now to fight this virus. the top 10 Most Admired Companies in the World and one of the Best Workplaces for Giving Back. Finally, we’re taking action to protect our largest stakeholder — our planet. We deliver a carbonThe COVID-19 pandemic is a powerful reminder neutral cloud to our customers, and we’re that we’re all connected like never before — we’re committed to reaching 100% renewable energy one humanity. And because of the dedication for our global operations by 2022. and efforts of stakeholders like you, we will recover from this crisis stronger and live up to our At Dreamforce last fall, we donated $17 million commitments. As always, thank you for being our in grants and committed 1 million employee partner as we work together to meet the urgent hours to advance the United Nations’ Sustainable challenges of our time and create a better world Development Goals, from upholding equality for generations to come. for all people to fighting climate change. At the World Economic Forum in Davos, we committed Thank you, to conserving and restoring 100 million trees, part of the global 1t.org movement to address climate change by protecting and planting 1 trillion trees Marc Benioff around the world. Chair and CEO Salesforce 5 | Introduction REPORTING SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY REPORTING FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT the Salesforce Sustainability team works with the Salesforce Risk Management team on an annual Every year, we produce a comprehensive stakeholder The report is reviewed by our Legal and SEC For the FY20 Stakeholder Impact Report, we basis to evaluate climate-related transition and impact report so that key stakeholders can stay Reporting teams to ensure it is consistent with our engaged Ernst & Young LLP, an independent physical risks on a time horizon of up to five years, informed, track our progress, and support our work. other SEC filings and that data contained in the third party, to review our greenhouse gas (GHG) in alignment with our companywide process. Based report can be traced back to internal or external emissions data, carbon neutral cloud claim, and on Salesforce’s enterprise risk management (ERM) The contents of this report are informed by the records. The SEC Reporting team reviews this net-zero greenhouse gases claim. Ernst & Young methodology and current business model, the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI), the report using the same procedures as they do with LLP’s Review Report is included on pages 67–70 transition and physical risks have all been deemed Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s all other 1934 Securities Exchange Act filings. of this report. as “very low” risks. Despite this, we have a specific (SASB) Software and IT Services sector guide, climate change risk management process related to the U.N. Global Compact (UNGC), the Task Unless otherwise noted, this report encompasses We continually refine our greenhouse gas data center and office site selection that occurs each Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Salesforce’s global operations, commitments, and accounting processes in accordance with industry time we open a new facility, which can occur more (TCFD), and a third-party Environmental, Social, practices during fiscal 2020 (February 1, 2019– standards and best practices. When new or betteroften than every six months. In addition, we have Governance (ESG) materiality assessment. In January 31, 2020). This report also contains figures quality data becomes available, we update our practices in place to reduce our GHG emissions, fiscal 2020, we refreshed our third-party ESG that have been approximated or rounded. Certain footprint data accordingly. mitigating most of the other identified risks. We materiality assessment, which identified key topics reclassifications of data from previous public We measure success by ensuring that our plan to revisit these transitions and physical risks that are most important to our stakeholders and disclosures may be made to conform to sustainability efforts are integrated into decisionannually as the business, geopolitical, and social our success as a business. We expect to update the current period presentation. All currency is in making processes and business operations in contexts continue to evolve in order to ensure no this assessment on a periodic basis to ensure it U.S. dollars. a transparent way. In 2017, we signed a letter significant changes have occurred. reflects changes in our business and the external supporting the recommendations of the environment. The assessment process included an We welcome feedback on our initiatives and TCFD and have since worked to align to the evaluation of top business drivers, sustainability this report. Please email the Global Impact team at recommendations, including conducting a climateimpact areas, and industry benchmarking. ESG Metrics and Indicators CRImpact@salesforce.com or Investor Relations at related scenario analysis. Interviews with key stakeholders helped prioritize For complete FY20 and historical investor@salesforce.com to share your thoughts or and validate topics. While conducting a materiality connect with us on our Salesforce social channels. ESG metrics that align to SASB, GRI, We assess climate-related risk at least every six assessment helped us identify some relevant UNGC, and TCFD, please see the months. Since our climate-related risk assessment is topics included in this report, it does not influence data table on page 51. integrated into a companywide risk process, the extent of our action or programs related to a particular topic. 6 | Introduction SALESFORCE areas. For example, the past four years have been the warmest on record, 1 million plant and animal implementation, and communication of responsible business practices to build a better SUPPORTS THE species are at risk of extinction, and more than half world. Salesforce is committed to making the SUSTAINABLE of the world’s children are falling behind in reading principles of the U.N. Global Compact part of its DEVELOPMENT and math. While the SDGs provide the right action strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. plan, it’s up to all of us to act faster and more GOALS (SDGS) ambitiously in advance of 2030. Adopted by 193 countries, the 17 SDGs outline Salesforce has also joined the United Nations the collective impact against the world’s most Global Compact, a voluntary global leadership pressing challenges, including those related to platform with 10 principles for companies to poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental align on the development, degradation, peace, and justice. Simply put, the SDGs represent the world’s to-do list for people and the planet by 2030. Together, these 17 goals are an urgent call for action to combat poverty, mitigate climate change, and secure a more equal and peaceful future. Using the SDGs, the public, private, and social sectors are already demonstrating that it's possible to work together to create a better world. We’ve already seen signals of progress: Extreme poverty has declined significantly, immunizations continue to save millions of lives, and the vast majority of the world’s population now has access to electricity. However, despite this progress, recent reports show that the world is moving too slowly in several key The content of this publication has not been approved by the United Nations and does not reflect the views of the United Nations or its officials or Member States. 7 | Introduction DRIVING IMPACT In November 2019, Salesforce kicked off a year of action to accelerate the 17 SDGs. We aim to donate $17 million and volunteer 1 million hours to SDGs SDG ALIGNED TO support the SDGs. SALESFORCE While Salesforce supports all of the SDGs, we have identified six goals that align most to our business. Salesforce is committed to achieving Goals 4: Quality Education; 5: Gender Equality; 7: Affordable and Clean Energy; 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth; 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities; and 13: Climate Action. We use the goals to help frame our strategy as we approach these issues, so that we can leave a positive impact on our communities and the planet. Ensure inclusive and Achieve gender Ensure access to equitable quality equality and affordable, reliable, The Salesforce ecosystem is a powerful education and empower all women sustainable and promote lifelong and girls modern energy for all force to support all 17 SDGs. learning opportunities for all At Davos 2020, Salesforce, together with the other founding partners, World Economic Forum (WEF), Deloitte, and LinkedIn, announced the launch of UpLink, a digital crowd-engagement platform, to accelerate the resolution of the world’s most pressing SDG issues. UpLink is a global platform for action, to connect the next generation of young changemakers and social entrepreneurs to the WEF networks with the resources, expertise, and experience to enact change. Promote sustained, Make cities and Take urgent action The first version of the UpLink platform was released in March 2020 and inclusive and human settlements to combat climate focuses on ocean-related global challenges. Throughout 2020, UpLink will sustainable inclusive, safe, change and its economic growth, resilient and impacts support the creation of additional global communities centered around full and productive sustainable actions such as reforestation (through 1t.org), circular economies, and food. employment and decent work for all 8 | Introduction ABOUT SALESFORCE Salesforce is the #1 CRM, bringing companies and Salesforce to drive innovation, grow their careers, customers together in the digital age. Founded transform their businesses, and give back to the in 1999, Salesforce enables companies of every community. size and industry to take advantage of powerful technologies — cloud, mobile, social, blockchain, Salesforce is committed to a set of core values — voice, and artificial intelligence — to connect to trust, customer success, innovation, and equality their customers in a whole new way. Companies for all. The company is one of the leaders on come to us as their trusted advisor, and together we Fortune’s World’s Best Workplaces list, and for nine transform their businesses around the customer. years in a row, Salesforce has ranked on Forbes’ list of the World’s Most Innovative Companies. For Salesforce Customer 360 is our vision for how we information, please visit www.salesforce.com. help customers with their digital transformations. It’s an integrated CRM platform that unites marketing, sales, commerce, services, and more to give companies a single source of truth about their customers. It gives companies a single, shared view of their customers so they can deliver FORTUNE the intelligent, personalized experiences their customers have come to expect from every brand and build lasting, trusted relationships. WORLD’S MOST ADMIRED COMPANIES Salesforce will power more than 2 trillion B2B and B2C transactions this year for more than 150,000 2013 • 2014 • 2015 companies and millions of Trailblazers — the 2016 • 2017 individuals and their organizations who are using 2018 • 2019 2020 9 | Introduction DOING WELL FY20 $ 17.1B AND DOING GOOD FY19 $13.3B Human Rights 2020 FTSE4GOOD Companies That Care Campaign Best Places Index Series PEOPLE to Work $10.5B FTSE RUSSEL CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX (CEI) FY18 America’s Best Best Workplaces Employers for Diversity for Giving Back $8.4B FORBES GREAT PLACE TO WORK FY17 Best Large Workplaces World’s Most for Women Admired Companies $6.7B FY16 FORTUNE FORTUNE $5.4B FY15 2019 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices DJSI $4.1B FY14 $3.1B FY13 $2.3B FY12 $1.7B FY11 Salesforce’s fiscal year is February 1 to January 31. FY20, FY19, FY18, and FY17 revenues reported under ASC 606. All prior years are under ASC 605. Complete Salesforce financials are available at investor.salesforce.com. OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY 11 | Operating with Integrity OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE OVERSIGHT Our corporate governance practices support our core values of trust, customer success, innovation, and equality. These practices provide a framework for the proper operation of our company, consistent with Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee periodically reviews our our shareholders’ best interests and the requirements of law. We are environmental, social, and governance (ESG) initiatives. We believe the business committed to a corporate governance structure that promotes longof business is to make the world a better place for all of our stakeholders, term stockholder value creation by providing a leadership structure and including shareholders, customers, employees, partners, the planet, and the composition of the Board of Directors that is aligned with our strategic communities in which we work and live. We try to integrate social good into direction and providing our stockholders with both the opportunity to provide direct feedback and key substantive rights to ensure accountability. everything we do. All of these goals align with our long-term growth strategy and financial and operational priorities. Salesforce is committed to managing our affairs consistent with the highest principles of business ethics and corporate governance Salesforce recognizes the importance of the ethical and humane use of requirements of both federal law and the NYSE, including the following: technology across the company, and the Office of Humane and Ethical Use regularly engages with stakeholders and experts in furtherance of this • A majority of our board members are independent commitment. The Privacy and Ethical Use Committee of our board, composed of Salesforce and its management. of independent directors, oversees Salesforce’s privacy matters and meets • All members of our key board committees — the Audit and Finance regularly with Salesforce’s Chief Ethical and Humane Use Officer. Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee — are independent. • We have a clear code of business conduct to which all employees, officers, and directors must adhere. • The charters of our board committees clearly establish their respective roles and responsibilities. Read more at investor.salesforce.com. 12 | Operating with Integrity TRUST AND SECURITY Nothing is more important than the trusted relationship between Salesforce and its customers, employees, and everyone in the Salesforce ecosystem. Salesforce earns the trust of its stakeholders through transparency, security, compliance, privacy, and performance. We are trusted advisors, and we deliver the most trusted infrastructure in the DATA SECURITY industry. Security does not start and end with Salesforce. As a trusted partner, we strongly Trust.salesforce.com is the Salesforce community’s home for realencourage customers to follow security best practices and use available tools to time information on system availability, performance, security, and compliance. Having trust as the foundation of our culture is how we strengthen the security of their Salesforce instance. There is no finish line when it maintain our pace of innovation and deep customer and partner comes to security and protecting our customers’ data. relationships at scale. DATA PRIVACY The protection of our customers’ data is paramount, and Salesforce is committed to helping our customers on their global compliance journey in our role as a trusted advisor. Our customers trust us to help them build meaningful relationships with their own customers, and Salesforce’s top priority is the security and privacy of the data that we are entrusted to protect. We have five privacy principles that highlight our commitments and focus on trust: customer control, security, transparency, compliance, and partnership. Our “Customers trust us to make them successful, deliver unwavering security, reliability, privacy website includes more information about these principles and additional performance, and compliance.” information and tools to help enable our customers’ success. – Marc Benioff Salesforce Chairman and CEO 13 | Operating with Integrity BUSINESS INTEGRITY CIVIC ENGAGEMENT Salesforce encourages our employees to play an active civic role in their communities, in their Salesforce believes ethics and integrity are critical personal capacity, and according to their personal beliefs through voting and educating themselves to the success of our customers, our employees, Salesforce works with all our business, and to improving the state of the about upcoming elections. We are members of stakeholders to advocate for world. We’re committed to conducting business the Civic Alliance, a nonpartisan, nonprofit public policy that supports our in accordance with the laws and regulations that coalition of corporations that have pledged to four core values: trust, customer apply to us, and we strive to be one of the most increase voter turnout. In addition to encouraging success, innovation, and equality. ethical companies in the world. We’re proud to our employees to register to vote and then show have been named on Ethisphere’s 2020 World’s up on election day, we bring candidates and Most Ethical Companies® Honoree List. Our Code experts on ballot issues into our offices so our of Conduct, Business Conduct Principles, and Salesforce’s Government Affairs and Public Policy employees can be informed voters. We hosted over other internal policies describe the way we treat team works with policymakers and elected officials a dozen civic engagement events in our offices employees and other key stakeholders globally, around the globe on issues that impact our across the U.S. in FY20. We published modules on addressing topics such as: stakeholders. This includes, but is not limited to, civics and citizen engagement in the United States our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and in the European Union on Trailhead, our online • Voluntary labor our communities, and the environment. Salesforce learning platform. • Wages, benefits, and working hours is nonpartisan in our work, and we support Visit salesforce.com/public-policy to see details • Freedom of association, collective bargaining, candidates and eligible organizations of any party and workers’ councils on Salesforce’s public policy activities, financial who share our priorities and align with our core contributions, and memberships. • Nondiscrimination and respect at work values. Salesforce is transparent, publicly disclosing • Protection of the environment all contributions in the U.S. in reports filed with the • Health and safety at work Federal Election Commission and with various state • Doing business ethically and within the law campaign finance commissions. Salesforce also • Doing business fairly participates in a variety of industry organizations, • Protecting intellectual property coalitions, and trade associations to advance our • Respecting privacy public policy interests and business goals. We review these memberships on an ongoing basis. Read more at salesforce.com/company/legal. 14 | Operating with Integrity PROMOTING ECONOMIC INCLUSION AND OPPORTUNITY AROUND THE WORLD Empowering Everyone to Thrive in Advocating for Equality the Fourth Industrial Revolution Salesforce’s Washington, D.C., office partnered with the Human Rights In the U.S., CEO Marc Benioff signed the White House “Pledge to Campaign to advocate for the passage of the Equality Act, which would America’s Workers,” committing to provide training to 1 million Americans, prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, or gender and to help people of every background learn the skills they need in the identity. The House of Representatives approved the legislation in May 2019 digital economy of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. by a vote of 236 to 173. In France, Salesforce joined the Tech for Good Summit hosted by Salesforce submitted testimony on our Equal Pay Assessment to the New President Macron, joined IBM Corporation's P-TECH project, and York City Commission on Gender Equity. This highlighted the process we announced the Salesforce Trailhead and OpenClassrooms partnership. began in 2015 and continue annually to address gender pay equity and to Salesforce also partnered with the Marie Claire think tank, whose objective ensure everyone is paid equally for equal work. is to advance the fight for gender equality. We convened political figures in Paris, Salesforce signed Germany’s “Diversity Charta,” the country’s largest including Deputy Minister for Gender Equality Marlene Schiappa, and presented the corporate initiative for diversity management, which promotes the recommendations issued by the think tank during UNESCO’s “Call for Equality” event. recognition, appreciation, and integration of diversity in business culture. In the U.K., Salesforce received accreditation for London Mayor Sadiq Salesforce signed the U.K. government’s Armed Forces Covenant in Khan’s Good Work Standard, the benchmark the Mayor wants every February 2019, in recognition of its work to help veterans, reservists, and employer in London to achieve, including policies that promote fairness military spouses prepare for a career in tech. The Covenant specifically and inclusivity in the workplace. recognizes organizations that ensure that current and former members of In Singapore, Salesforce was joined by Minister for Manpower Josephine the armed forces are treated fairly and that inspire others to do the same. Teo to celebrate upskilled workers at the graduation ceremony for the Salesforce Professional Conversion Program, developed in collaboration with Workforce Singapore and SGTech. 15 | Operating with Integrity SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY Our suppliers are a critical part of the Salesforce ecosystem. In our supply chain, we work with suppliers who share and support our SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY core values and operate with integrity, respect, and transparency. At Salesforce, we are constantly working to incorporate sustainability into all areas of our business, including our supply chain. We know we’re most effective when we work together. We encourage all of our suppliers to go That’s why we made a commitment that by 2024, suppliers representing 60% of our Scope 3 beyond compliance to positively impact local greenhouse gas emissions will set their own science-based targets by 2024.* This target has communities, ecosystems, and the environment. been approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY We outline our global supply chain expectations in our Global Supplier Code of Conduct, which serves as a guide to ethical We believe that partnering with certified small and diverse suppliers is smart business. We supplier conduct. We require all third-party suppliers of products recognize diverse suppliers as businesses that are 51% owned and operated by at least one of or services that are paid directly by Salesforce to acknowledge our the following: minorities as defined by the country where the business was established; women; Supplier Code of Conduct. veterans; service-disabled veterans; persons who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender; or We pride ourselves on monitoring social and environmental persons with a disability. performance in our supplier management process. In FY20, we started a quarterly education series to upskill all our procurement In FY20, we invested in a new diverse supplier registration process, allowing us to recruit, advise, professionals on next-step supplier sustainability and supplier and engage at a deeper level with suppliers, industry leaders, and nonprofits. The new process has diversity best practice strategies. We’ve also started collaborating also enabled us to widen our diverse supplier database to show suppliers in specific geographical with over 20 key customers who require quarterly supplier diversity areas, revenue bands, and with diverse demographics. This commitment gives us a greater level of reporting on supplier thought leadership and developmental engagement with the suppliers and the supplier diversity certifying-organizations. programs. We are looking forward to continued development and growth from our supplier sustainability and supplier diversity programs. * “Scopes” are the standard way of categorizing emissions using the World Resources Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Our corporate commitments to reach 100% renewable energy and our internal price on carbon encompass our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 16 | Operating with Integrity OFFICE OF ACCESSIBILITY Disability inclusion is fundamental to our value of equality. We aspire to become the number one employer for people with disabilities, for the products we sell to be accessible by people with disabilities, and for all persons to have full and equal access to our offices, our meetings, and our events. Salesforce has joined The Valuable 500, a worldwide call for 500 of the most influential businesses to include disability in their leadership agenda and to end biased attitudes toward disability in business. We have committed to the following: • Launch a centralized Office of Accessibility, led by a chief accessibility officer, to drive thought leadership across the industry, and accountability and compliance across the company. • Grow representation of people with disabilities throughout the Salesforce ecosystem. • Continue to develop accessible products that allow all individuals to succeed in the Salesforce ecosystem. Beyond striving to comply with industry standards, we work toward providing effective usability for our customers with disabilities. • Continue to develop our Global Workspace Design Standards to focus on universal and inclusive design beyond compliance to meet the needs of all our employees and guests with disabilities. • Continue to focus on improving our employee and customer experience to enhance the accessibility of our events, our internal tools and technology, and communications to foster an inclusive environment for all. Learn more about our accessibility efforts and commitments. 17 | Operating with Integrity PROTECTING OUR PLANET 18 | Protecting Our Planet PROTECTING reduction targets — advancing Salesforce’s commitment to creating a sustainable, low-carbon future and economy. OUR PLANET At Salesforce, we’re thinking big. From our suppliers and our customers, to our technology and our brand, we are identifying our biggest levers of influence and determining how we can make them change agents in the greatest and most highTHE ENVIRONMENT IS A stakes challenge ever — the climate emergency. Because in this KEY STAKEHOLDER adventure, winning slowly is the same as losing. We need all leaders from all sectors to create planetary-scale impact, and fast. Climate change is the greatest challenge humans have ever faced. 2019 was a year in which natural disasters occurred with To read more about our environmental initiatives, visit unprecedented force and frequency. Global experts agree that salesforce.com/sustainability. we need to immediately and collectively create a significant year-on-year decline in global CO2 emissions in order to keep GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AND global temperature rise to 1.5°C. Even 1.5°C will not be pleasant. With the 1 degree of change we have already created, we are COLLABORATION seeing devastating and heartbreaking consequences — droughts, To deliver unprecedented, timely environmental action, we need floods, fires, and storms, causing harm to human and other life to achieve new levels of collaboration among businesses, NGOs, and fueling the sixth great extinction. As U.N. Secretary-General governments, and other institutions on a global scale. António Guterres said: “The time for action is now. We need multilateral action by all governments. And we need them to We also know we’re stronger together. That’s why Salesforce work hand in hand with the private sector and civil society.” At participates in key environmental coalitions and working groups Salesforce, we recognize swift action is imperative to address including: climate change and know we can’t do it alone. Collaboration with • Accounting for Sustainability other corporations, the public sector, and NGOs is a key step in • Advanced Energy Buyers Group driving positive change. • Ceres BICEP Network Earlier this year, Salesforce, along with a coalition of business, • Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance civil society, and U.N. leaders, committed to set 1.5°C science• Step Up Coalition based emissions reduction targets, the ambitious goal needed • We Are Still In to prevent the damaging effects of climate change. The Science • We Mean Business Based Targets initiative has approved Salesforce’s emissions 19 | Protecting Our Planet SALESFORCE SUSTAINABILITY CLOUD Empowering Every Business to Drive Impactful Climate Action Since its founding, Salesforce has harnessed the company’s culture of innovation to drive positive social impact through serving the interests of all its stakeholders — including the environment. Salesforce’s vision is for customers to use the entire Customer 360 Platform for environmental good. Salesforce Sustainability Cloud is a prebuilt solution that empowers businesses to quickly track, analyze, and report reliable environmental data to help them reduce their carbon emissions. A company’s carbon data is easily integrated into Salesforce and surfaced in Salesforce Einstein Analytics, which creates dynamic reports and dashboards — both for audit purposes and for executive engagement — with insights that empower businesses to drive climate action programs at scale. Salesforce uses the platform to manage our own environmental footprint and deliver high-quality data to our own stakeholders. For the past three years, we have obtained limited third-party assurance for a number of our key environmental metrics and included these metrics in our financial filings. Learn more about Salesforce Sustainability Cloud. 20 | Protecting Our Planet 1 TRILLION TREES In January 2020, the World Economic Forum and partners, including Salesforce, launched 1t.org to connect, empower, and mobilize a global reforestation community of millions, unleashing their potential to act at an unprecedented scale and speed. 1t.org has a goal of conserving, restoring, and growing 1 trillion trees within this decade. This could result in up to 12 gigatonnes (Gt) of CO2 being sequestered from the atmosphere each year, with the same trees possibly storing up to 205 Gt of CO2 once mature. That’s two-thirds of all the CO2 humans have emitted since the Industrial Revolution. By conserving, restoring, and planting 1 trillion trees by 2030, we can help slow the planet’s rising temperatures, as well as stimulate biodiversity and revitalize some of the planet’s ecosystem. Carbon sequestration is one important step in addressing climate change, but we know we must also quickly drive down emissions to create a viable 1.5°C future. Salesforce has set a goal to support and mobilize the conservation and restoration of 100 million trees by 2030. 1T.ORG WILL: • Work to overcome the many socioeconomic barriers that hold reforestation back by catalyzing top-down system change — such as policy change, incentives, market creation, and access to funding and technology. • Raise the level of ambition and spending from business, governments, and philanthropists, and provide guidance to turn that ambition into action. • Encourage and enable millions more grassroots reforestation champions by providing a digital platform, UpLink, to connect them with the opportunities, tools, and resources they need to thrive. As a founding supporter of 1t.org and development partner of UpLink, Salesforce is excited to help 1t.org achieve this monumental goal. 21 | Protecting Our Planet ADVOCATING FOR OUR CLIMATE POLICY EFFORTS Decreasing the Carbon Intensity of our Increasing Access to Renewable Energy IN FY20 WERE FOCUSED ON Electricity Supply CLIMATE POLICY THREE MAJOR PILLARS: In addition to working to increase the proportion The cloud runs on electricity, which today of clean energy in the communities where we A 1.5°C future will require a transformation at an Decreasing GHG Emissions Broadly comes predominantly from burning fossil fuels. operate, we also strive to improve access for unprecedented pace and scale, more than any In fact, approximately 70% of the world’s ourselves and others who are looking to purchase single country, company, or group of companies Our first and biggest priority is to advocate for internet traffic flows through data centers in renewable energy. Last year, Salesforce engaged can do alone. This transition is achievable, but it clear and consistent government policies that Virginia, a state where electricity was only about in Dominion Energy’s utility resource planning will require collaboration, as well as regulatory drive the full decarbonization of every part of the 7% renewable in 2018.1 In 2019, Salesforce process in Virginia in an effort to increase access to changes and technological advances. economy, in alignment with a 1.5°C pathway. With stepped forward to challenge Virginia to do renewable energy. this in mind, CEO Marc Benioff joined 70+ CEOs more, calling on the state, lawmakers, and in signing a letter that calls for the U.S. to remain Our work has only just begun. We encourage every utilities to embrace a clean energy future. Every individual, institution, in the Paris Agreement. The letter highlights that a business, individual, government, and community government, community, and consistent signal will allow all businesses, not just to use their voice to influence policy and step up to corporation has an essential role to voluntary leaders, to be confident in making lowthe urgent challenge of climate change. carbon investments. play in reaching a 1.5°C future. Moreover, governments must put forth a robust 1 eia.gov/state/analysis.php?sid=VA package of policies that embed the cost of carbon It’s not enough for Salesforce, or any other into our products and services, drive innovation company, to only think about its own footprint. and deployment of new technologies, and create Only through catalyzing global systemic change clear demand for zero-carbon products and can we hope to reach a 1.5°C future. One of our services. In May 2019, Salesforce joined more than most powerful tools to drive change at the pace 75 companies in the largest business gathering and scale the planet needs is our voice and our focused on climate on Capitol Hill in over a decade influence. That’s why Salesforce is committed to to advocate for climate legislation. The business advocating for policies that set the geographies we leaders called on lawmakers for a well-designed operate in on a path to a just transition to a price on carbon as an important part of the U.S. policy solution. In 2019, Salesforce was recognized as a State Champion by low-carbon economy. Ceres for its leadership in state climate and clean energy policy. 22 | Protecting Our Planet COMMITMENT Meeting our 100% renewable energy goal is a key part of our sustainability strategy. However, TO CLEAN AND the ultimate goal is something bigger and more RENEWABLE ENERGY complex, because balancing our fossil fuel use alone won’t be enough. Our commitment to 100% renewable energy means sourcing renewable electricity from renewable energy sources equivalent to what we We want a future in which clean and use globally on an annual basis. Achieving this in renewable energy is powering all of an impactful way means thinking about deliberate, the communities where we operate. lasting, long-term grid transformation. Salesforce focuses on purchasing renewable energy in a way that adds new renewable energy to the grid, avoids Reaching this goal will take time, the deployment CLEAN & RENEWABLE ENERGY STRATEGY and reduces the greatest possible emissions, and of new technologies, financial investment, and Salesforce is committed to reaching 100% renewable blazes a trail for others to follow. regulatory changes. energy by FY22. Learn more about our Clean Energy Strategy. REACHING 100% RENEWABLE BLAZING A TRAIL FOR OTHERS Learn more about our Renewable Energy Projects. ENERGY TO FOLLOW In FY19, we published our Clean Energy Strategy, In 2019, Salesforce announced an exciting new detailing how we plan to get to 100% renewable renewable aggregation with some incredible energy by FY22. In FY20, we procured electricity partners and Salesforce customers — Bloomberg, from renewable energy resources equivalent to 63% Cox Enterprises, Gap, and Workday. Together the of what we used globally, predominantly through group demonstrated a new approach to renewable large-scale, long-term purchases that add additional energy procurement, proving that smaller buyers renewable energy to the grid. can pool their demand and support largescale projects in the same impactful way larger We’re pleased to announce that the Bright Stalk Wind companies do. The project received the 2019 Farm began operations in late 2019. The Bright Green Power Market Development Award from Wind turbines from the Bright Stalk Wind VPPA Stalk Wind VPPA is Salesforce's largest renewable the Center for Resource Solutions and the 2020 energy agreement to date. Salesforce is supporting Innovation Award from Smart Energy Decisions. 80 megawatts of the 205 megawatt Illinois wind project. Check out our Renewable Energy Projects list Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 67–70 to learn more about our renewable energy portfolio. for its Independent Accountants' Review Report. 23 | Protecting Our Planet FY20 GLOBAL ELECTRICITY MIX Location-Based Methodology Total FY20 Electricity Consumption GWh 700 61.7 600 32.9 In FY20, Salesforce consumed 659 GWh of electricity globally. In alignment with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Salesforce calculates its carbon footprint using two established methods: location-based and 500 152.3 market-based emissions, as presented in the graph on the right. Key 400 LOCATION-BASED METHODOLOGY Renewable Energy 300 208.5 Hydro We measure the actual (physical) carbon intensity and energy mix of the electric grids on which we operate. Nuclear 200 This is known as the location-based methodology and is the key indicator of society’s collective progress toward Natural Gas achieving the long-term goal of transitioning the electric systems we operate on to low-carbon resources. We 184.6 Coal 100 believe businesses need to prioritize and transparently disclose location-based performance because it more Other Fossil Fuels 19.0 accurately reflects the opportunities and roadblocks to a clean and renewable grid. 0 MARKET-BASED METHODOLOGY Market-Based Methodology 700 Total FY20 Electricity Consumption GWh The second method, known as a market-based methodology, is largely based off of the contracts we have in 600 place for electricity, rather than the mix of resources providing the electricity physically used in operations. The 236.3 graph illustrates our efforts to balance or offset the impacts of our brown power consumption by bringing new 500 sources of clean and renewable energy online today. 16.2 400 Key As we have progressed toward our 100% renewable energy goal, our market-based emissions have declined. 148.7 Indirect large offsite purchases 3 300 This reduction is in line with our Science Based Target of reducing our Scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions 12.2 Utility renewable energy tariffs 5 by 50% by 2030 from a 2018 base year. However, critically, our location-based emissions have increased over 200 Supplier-provided renewable energy 4 the same period, reflective of our business growth and the comparatively slow clean energy transition taking 245.6 Grid-mix renewable content 6 100 place on the grids where we operate. This is why, through policy advocacy, we continue to work toward a 24/7 clean energy supply for all our global operations. Since FY18, Salesforce has also offset the remainder of our Grid-mix remainder 2 0 market-based emissions through the purchase of high-quality carbon credits. Scope 1 & 2 Market-based Emissions 2 The energy mix we didn’t balance with renewable energy purchases. 3 Utility-scale projects that require long-term contracts for energy/environmental attributes. These include our Virtual Power Purchase Agreements. Tons of 150,000 4 Renewable energy procured by the lessor of a data center or office to meet our electricity use at that site. CO2e 5 Programs in which our utility procures renewable energy specifically on our behalf for sale and delivery to us. The three buildings 120,000 at our corporate headquarters in San Francisco sourced 100% renewable energy in FY20. 6 The portion of the grid-mix where we operate that comes from renewable energy not otherwise used by specific consumers. FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 24 | Protecting Our Planet ANNUAL EMISSIONS Annual Emissions by Source Including Scope 1, 2, and 3 Emissions (MTCO2e) Salesforce works to avoid and reduce our emissions where possible. To achieve this, we are committed to measuring and transparently disclosing our annual emissions, indicated in the 201,000 following charts. For more detail on our environmental footprint, see the Report Details. 244,000 Scope 1 and 2 Emissions by Source (MTCO2e) DATA CENTERS 264,000 FY18 240,000 112,000 FY19 286,000 132,000 FY20 297,000 BUSINESS 146,000 TRAVEL 7 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 DATA CENTER OFFICE OTHER 35,000 38,000 Scope 1 includes direct emissions such as those from onsite natural gas combustion, leaked refrigerants, and so on. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from the generation of acquired and consumed electricity, steam, OFFICES 28,000 heat, and cooling. The above emissions were calculated using a location-based methodology. 26,000 28,000 EMPLOYEE COMMUTING 38,000 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 FY18 FY19 FY20 The EPA defines MTCO2e as the number of metric tons of CO2 emissions with the same warming potential as one metric ton of another greenhouse gas. The above emissions were calculated using a location-based methodology. 7 In addition to Scope 3 Business Travel, this number includes Emissions from Private Jet usage that are included in Scope 1 emissions. 25 | Protecting Our Planet SETTING AN INTERNAL These include emissions from employee commuting and business travel; our data center PRICE ON CARBON supply chain, such as the manufacture of servers, production, and distribution of energy use at our data centers; and the impact of our customers Offsetting all of Scope 1 and 2 using Salesforce on their personal devices. These emissions and parts of Scope 3 actions have also formed the basis of our net-zero puts an internal price on our greenhouse gas emissions claim since FY18. We greenhouse gas emission. This expect new guidance on the definition of net-zero creates a financial incentive to after the publication of this report. support decisions throughout the At Salesforce, business travel and employee business that reduce greenhouse commuting form a large part of our emissions gas emissions. footprint. We have strategies in place to reduce these emissions, including placing offices in metro areas near mass transit and utilizing virtual meeting Salesforce is proud to deliver all customers a software that allows for a large number of remote carbon neutral cloud and to offset all employee workers. We also know there is more work to be commuting and business travel emissions. done. We have rolled out travel dashboards to executives to show the emissions associated with OUR STRATEGY SELECTING HIGH-QUALITY their team’s travel, so they can make responsible CARBON OFFSET PROJECTS For many years, Salesforce has worked to mitigate travel choices. In the meantime, and as a way to its emissions from its operations by following deliver some of the relief the planet needs today, In evaluating sustainable development projects, we Read more about our journey to delivering a a three-step, iterative process: avoid, reduce, beginning in FY20, we now offset all emissions look for projects that maximize environmental and carbon neutral cloud. offset. In addition to our energy management and from business travel and employee commuting. social benefits. Additionally, projects go through renewable energy work, to offset the remaining independent third-party verification to ensure emissions from our operations and provide adherence to strict internationally recognized customers a carbon neutral cloud, we support methodologies for quantifying emissions sustainable development projects through the reductions, such as the Gold Standard. We partner Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 67–70 purchase of carbon credits.8 These credits offset with carbon project specialists who conduct for its Independent Accountants' Review Report. Salesforce’s global Scope 1 and 2 emissions as additional audits, have scale and reach, and share 8 Each carbon credit represents the removal/avoidance of one metric ton of carbon dioxide (or its equivalent) from well as parts of our Scope 3 (indirect emissions). our core value of innovation. the atmosphere. 26 | Protecting Our Planet SUSTAINABLE SITING FOR SUSTAINABILITY REAL ESTATE We infuse sustainability into the very beginning of Salesforce’s real estate process by incorporating STRATEGY sustainability criteria as part of initial site search, prioritizing green-certified buildings, and negotiating For Salesforce, real estate is more than architecture green lease terms for new and existing buildings. and design; it’s a physical manifestation of our culture. It’s about creating a place where employees In FY20, Salesforce received the Institute for feel empowered to do their best work and one Market Transformation and Department of Energy’s that has a lasting positive impact on our partners, Green Lease Leaders Silver Award. customers, communities, and the environment around us. Through our robust global Sustainable Built Environment Program, we’ve implemented In July 2019, Salesforce received HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE our spaces. The scoring results are used to make intentional measures to reduce our environmental the Building Health Leadership MATERIALS IN THE WORKPLACE incremental improvements in our purchasing decisions and partner with suppliers to create impact by delivering consistent sustainable-certified Award for our approach to The Salesforce design standard promotes sustainable products — from installing carpet made space while always looking for ways to innovate. address occupant health and collaboration, sustainability, employee wellness, from recycled fishing nets, to using low-VOC paint, wellbeing through all phases of and fun. It’s about creating a unified Salesforce to piloting a new water-based, nontoxic finish on We collaborate with industry leaders who are construction and operations. real estate experience across the globe for our shifting the standards of our built environment, conference room tables. The implications of this employees, customers, partners, communities, including: work go beyond our own employees by directly and the environment. Our Design, Procurement, impacting those communities and individuals who • Paris Solutions Campaign and Sustainability teams work in close partnership CONSTRUCTION AND manufacture these products. • ILFI Tech 20 to drive innovative sustainable design and healthy CERTIFICATION • Embodied Carbon in Construction Calculator materials standards into all of our spaces. As part To learn more about our approach to building and • mindful MATERIALS Catalyst Circle At Salesforce, we build our workspaces to meet of this comprehensive mission, we launched our material health, read our Healthy Materials in the leading green building standards around the world, Healthy and Sustainable Materials Program in 2016 Workplace guide. We are signatories of important initiatives, such as: such as LEED™, BREEAM®, Green Mark®, and Fitwel. in order to understand, mitigate, and improve We see the certification process as a helpful guide the environmental and health impacts of our • World Green Building Council’s Net Zero for real estate project accountability, transparency, building products. Through our comprehensive As of FY20, Salesforce has Carbon Buildings Commitment and for driving sustainability. But our sustainable scoring tool, we evaluate all suppliers across achieved or is pursuing green • Center for Environmental Health’s (CEH) built environment strategy is much more than just a holistic criteria including human health, carbon, building certification for 74% of Pledge For Safer Furniture Without Flame certification process; it’s a framework for delivering materiality, water and waste, and social attributes our office space. Retardants world-class, high-performing, healthy spaces. in order to ensure we know what is going into 27 | Protecting Our Planet SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Salesforce's global design standard is continuously improved upon to reduce waste, optimize for LEED®, and lower our energy and water consumption. EMBODIED CARBON We’ve standardized reusable dishes in our kitchens to reduce waste and centralized waste bins to All major, new Salesforce office interiors will align with LEED Platinum v4 avoid contamination of the waste streams. We also standards by 2020 and pursue International Living Future Institute’s Zero identify opportunities to remove single-use plastics Carbon certification by 2030. in our snack program and offer snacks in bulk when possible to reduce unnecessary packaging. Salesforce is engaged in several efforts to reduce the embodied carbon of the products we specify, creating awareness in the industry and influencing a lowEnergy efficiency measures, like LED lighting and carbon supply chain. Carbon emitted during the manufacturing, transportation, occupancy sensors, are prioritized in our design installation, and end of life of a product is called the embodied carbon of a standard to deliver energy savings, and we install product. Embodied carbon is responsible for 11% of annual global GHG floor-level submetering with real-time data to emissions. Since we have a limited amount of time to reduce carbon emissions continuously improve our operational efficiency. in order to set us on a path to a 1.5°C future, the carbon reductions we can We also pursue innovative pilot solutions such as battery storage and smart sensors to operate make now are more valuable than future carbon reductions. high-performance, sustainable buildings. As a result of these efforts and LEED certification, the average global carbon intensity of our real estate offices is steadily declining despite our Annual Office Carbon Intensity (kgCO2e/Sq ft) real estate portfolio growth. 8 7 kgCO2e/ 6 Sq ft 5 4 FY18 FY19 FY20 28 | Protecting Our Planet INSPIRING EMPLOYEE ACTION Our green team, Earthforce, is made up of more than 9,000 passionate employee volunteers dedicated to promoting and celebrating environmental responsibility at Salesforce. Earthforce is one of Salesforce’s many employee resource groups. For more information on our Equality Groups, see page 41 of this report or visit salesforce.com/equality. FY20 HIGHLIGHTS: 40+ TEAMS 100+ EARTH MONTH CELEBRATIONS 20,000+ HOURS OF VOLUNTEER TIME 11,000+ BADGES EARNED ON TRAILHEAD COMPLETING INTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING 29 | Protecting Our Planet WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT 30 | Workforce Development WORKFORCE SALESFORCE IS CONSISTENTLY DEVELOPMENT RANKED A BEST PLACE TO WORK: GREAT PLACE • AUSTRALIA #1 in 2019 • GERMANY #4 in 2019 SALESFORCE CULTURE We also believe that it’s about meaningful work, purpose, and belonging, which we cultivate through TO WORK • FRANCE #1 in 2019 • CANADA #4 in 2019 • U.K. #1 in 2019 • INDIA #36 in 2019 At Salesforce, culture continues to be a significant transparency in our business processes, equality, our • JAPAN #1 in 2019 • EUROPE #1 in 2019 competitive advantage — it engages our people, 1-1-1 philanthropic model, and wellbeing initiatives. • BAVARIA #1 in 2019 • ASIA #9 in 2019 drives the creation of our innovative products, and • U.S. #2 in 2019 • LATIN AMERICA #18 in 2019 Culture continues to be a significant • SINGAPORE #2 in 2019 • WORLD’S BEST #3 in 2019 ultimately helps our customers succeed. competitive advantage — it engages • IRELAND #3 in 2019 • UK’S BEST WORKPLACES The way we see it, culture is no longer a nice-toour people, drives the creation of our • NETHERLANDS #3 in 2019 IN TECH 2019 #1 in 2019 • ARGENTINA #4 in 2019 have. It’s a business imperative with real return on innovative products, and ultimately investment. In fact, according to Harvard Business helps our customers succeed. FORTUNE • FORTUNE 100 BEST COMPANIES TO WORK FOR #2 in 2019 School, when culture is treated as a business • BEST WORKPLACES FOR MILLENNIALS #3 in 2019 strategy, companies can see as much as a 50% Because of our culture, we’ve been able to attract • BEST WORKPLACES IN TECHNOLOGY #3 in 2019 improvement in employee performance. Further and retain world-class talent and earn customer • BEST WORKPLACES FOR WOMEN #7 in 2019 • FUTURE 50 #9 in 2019 studies show that a focus on culture drives up loyalty to become the fastest-growing enterprise • BEST WORKPLACES FOR PARENTS #15 in 2019 levels of innovation by 30% and levels of employee software company with $17.1 billion in revenue in • BEST WORKPLACES FOR DIVERSITY #25 in 2019 retention by as much as 40%. FY20. We have also been named an “Innovator of the Decade” by Forbes and one of the “100 Best PEOPLE • COMPANIES THAT CARE #1 in 2019 Over the past 21 years, we have been able to build Companies to Work For®” by Fortune for the past a reputation as a great place to work and scale our 12 years in a row. culture as we’ve grown because of our focus on values — our four core values are trust, customer Full-Time Employees GLOBAL GROWTH success, innovation, and equality. We live these Salesforce announced two new towers around the values everyday — both inside and outside the FY18 29,000 world that will result in more than 3,000 jobs created: company. We are also highly intentional about our • TOKYO • SYDNEY culture. We write it down; we prioritize it; we put FY19 35,000 programs behind it; we measure it; we innovate FY20 49,000 on it; and we hold ourselves accountable to it. 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 31 | Workforce Development TALENT DEVELOPMENT Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, and develop a SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE GROWTH talented workforce. With technology changing so rapidly, companies need to look beyond traditional, one-size-fits-all solutions and seek out new Leading Ohana approaches to learning. Leading Ohana is a program designed to transform executives over a year-long period into mindful, purpose-driven, globally oriented leaders ready to take our business and ecosystem to the next level. At Salesforce, we do this foremost by offering learning and development content to all employees through myTrailhead, our learning experience It is a transformational leadership program designed to help vertical development with an emphasis platform. myTrailhead empowers our employees with customized learning on encouraging complex thinking. A key component of this program is working with purpose-driven content, designed just for them. With myTrailhead, we’re creating a organizations in developing communities and helping individuals apply the leadership skills gained culture of continuous learning at Salesforce, where we put a focus on through the program. 193 115 learning at every stage of an employee’s career journey. With an eye on building the next generation of global leaders and EXECUTIVE PARTICIPANTS APPROXIMATED HOURS OF high-impact teams, Salesforce’s Talent Development team also creates TO DATE DEVELOPMENT PER PARTICIPANT and facilitates customized, long-term development programs for our employees. These programs last anywhere from a few days to an entire Accelerate year, with an emphasis on people managers and senior leaders. Accelerate is a year-long program for high-potential Our talent development work focuses on building high-impact teams that employees who are not yet managers to prepare them have a common purpose, act with courage and compassion, are mutually to be future team leaders. The program provides accountable, are willing to broaden their thinking, drive execution, and participants with tools to become more aware of create a supportive and inclusive climate. We are on a journey to create themselves and others, equips them with leadership a workplace where employees push boundaries and address challenges behaviors, and teaches them what it means to be a using our hearts and minds in order to collaborate on meaningful and leader at Salesforce. impactful work. At Salesforce, 92% of employees 900+ PARTICIPANTS TO DATE 55+ APPROXIMATED HOURS OF STRUCTURED* DEVELOPMENT say their workplace is great. PER PARTICIPANT 2019 GREAT PLACE TO WORK® SURVEY * Each participant is expected to drive their own development beyond structured hours. 32 | Workforce Development FUTUREFORCE Our Futureforce University Recruiting program is dedicated to attracting and cultivating next-generation talent. Our interns and new graduates work on real projects that affect how our business runs, giving them the opportunity to make a tangible impact on the future of our company. Never was that more apparent than FY20 when we saw Futureforce alumni take the main stage at the Dreamforce keynote, earn patents from their intern projects, and take on key roles within our Equality team as their generation leads the charge for change. In FY20, we hired more than 1,200 new graduates and over 850 interns — and we’re just getting started, with a goal to hire 18% of Salesforce’s workforce in FY21 from this group. 33 | Workforce Section Development PREPARING A FUTURE-READY WORKFORCE U.K. Apprenticeship Programs We’re committed to building a more diverse and inclusive global In FY20, we expanded our apprenticeship programs in London, continuing our partnership with WhiteHat workforce prepared with the skills to thrive in the 21st century, beginning and launching a new apprenticeship program in partnership with Ada, the National College for Digital in our own offices and communities. Establishing a strong professional Skills. Both WhiteHat and Ada are focused on closing the opportunity gap and developing a diverse foundation begins with early career exposure, on-the-job training, and the talent pipeline by providing young adults from underserved and underrepresented communities with the opportunity to build professional networks. This is why, for the past 12 years, Salesforce has partnered with workforce development organizations opportunities, training, and support needed to progress into meaningful careers. to connect untapped talent to meaningful paid work experiences. WhiteHat apprentices joined our Customer Success, Marketing, Employee Success, and Global Philanthropy & Engagement teams, while we launched Salesforce’s apprenticeship program with Ada in We are proud that 53% of the Year Up interns who partnership with our Solution Engineering team. Both partnerships demonstrate the growing demand joined us in FY20 continued with Salesforce following for apprentices across different business units, a testament to the significant value these young adults the program, bringing tremendous value to our bring to Salesforce. company and community. U.S. Internship Programs In FY20, we welcomed our largest intern classes to date in the United States, hosting more than 100 Year Across the globe, over Up and Genesys Works interns across our Atlanta, Bay Area, Bellevue, Chicago, Dallas, Herndon, and 700 young adults have New York City offices. joined Salesforce through various workforce Following six months of intensive technical and professional training, Year Up interns spend six months development partners, at Salesforce, completing internships across a wide range of business functions. These young adults pursuing internships (ages 18–24) often come from communities where opportunity is not abundant; yet they possess the and apprenticeships that talent and drive necessary to grow, succeed, and contribute to the workforce. help them gain valuable skills while contributing Genesys Works provides high school students with pathways to career success through skills training, to our teams. meaningful work experience, and impactful relationships. Genesys Works interns spend nine months at Salesforce while attending school half time, gaining what is typically their first professional experience and exploring potential career paths before beginning college. 34 | Workforce Development SKILLING UP FOR THE FUTURE TRAILBLAZER HIGHLIGHT TRAILHEAD Salesforce is committed to enabling the workforce to learn the skills needed to Jesse Twum-Boafo Rebecca Aichholzer thrive in the jobs of today and tomorrow. SOLUTIONS ARCHITECT HEAD OF BUSINESS SYSTEM SUCCESS PwC QIC Cape Town, South Africa Brisbane, Australia At the core of this commitment is Trailhead. @Jesse_tb @bextabooo Trailhead, Salesforce’s free gamified online Jesse’s plans for a career in nonprofits changed when he discovered the Rebecca had a solid job as a sales manager, but she didn’t discover her true learning platform, empowers anyone to skill up power of the Salesforce Platform. Despite his limited tech background, purpose and passion until she implemented Salesforce for her team. As for the future. Trailhead’s mission is to reduce Jesse chased the opportunity to work in the ecosystem. He challenged Rebecca learned on Trailhead and got engaged in the Trailblazer Community, the barriers to learning and provide anyone, himself to master the platform by learning on Trailhead. Now Jesse holds she fell in love with the platform and fellow Trailblazers. She is now a regardless of their background or education 10 Salesforce certifications, leads cutting-edge Salesforce implementations technology leader and an advocate for Women in Tech. Rebecca is head level, with the tools needed to land a job in the in South Africa, enjoys engaging in the global Trailblazer Community, and of Business System Success, a community group leader, a Women in Tech thriving Salesforce ecosystem. With Trailhead, inspires anyone who will listen to start learning on Trailhead. advocate, and an inspiring speaker on conquering imposter syndrome. anyone can learn in-demand skills, earn resumeworthy credentials that companies are hiring for, and connect to opportunity from mentorship to employment with the Trailblazer Community. Alvaro Mattos Althea Taite FOUNDER SALESFORCE ADMINISTRATOR Sottama L’Oréal Sao Paulo, Brazil Jacksonville, FL, USA @alvaromattos @iamtaite Since its launch, nearly 2 million Trailblazers have earned over Alvaro needed a fresh start after the age of 60. After a 40+ year career in Althea wanted to skill up on technology to stay relevant in the changing IT and sales, Alvaro discovered Salesforce and enjoyed working on the marketing landscape. So she searched for ways to add tech skills to her 20 million badges on Trailhead. platform. When he faced an unexpected layoff, Alvaro immersed himself traditional marketing background, found Salesforce, and started learning in learning on Trailhead and earned hundreds of badges and several on Trailhead. Then she went deep by joining a PepUp Tech cohort to learn certifications. Alvaro had a tough time finding a job due to his mature age with peers, get mentorship, and build connections. Now Althea is thriving and career experience, so he started his own consulting company. Now he’s as a full-time Salesforce Admin, and she’s excited about lifelong learning having the time of his life working on his own terms. and continued growth in the Salesforce ecosystem. 35 | Workforce Development PATHFINDER TRAINING PROGRAM Salesforce’s Pathfinder Training Program is a workforce development initiative designed to train individuals with the technical and business skills necessary to pursue a career in the Salesforce ecosystem. Launched in 2018 in collaboration with Deloitte, Pathfinder began with a commitment to train the next generation of Trailblazers. Our vision is that all individuals — regardless of background, demographics, and socioeconomic status — have the skills and support necessary to pursue careers in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. By providing a rigorous curriculum, fostering community support, and collaborating with a network of diverse institutions and employers, Pathfinder gives participants access to the technical training and resources necessary to transform their lives and careers. To date, 269 individuals have graduated from the Pathfinder Program — and we plan to welcome six more cohorts in FY21 “I feel extremely grateful for the lifeas part of our global expansion this year changing opportunities the Pathfinder to the Bay Area and EMEA. Program has brought me. A year ago, I did not know how to write a line of code, and now I’m working for a tech company configuring their processes by point-and-click programming and Apex.” — Anh Nguyen Pathfinder Graduate 36 | Workforce Development SALESFORCE MILITARY In May 2019, we launched the Salesforce Military Alliance, in partnership with In November 2019, Salesforce Military celebrated Accenture Federal Services and Prudential, the five-year anniversary of our commitment to the military community. We support veterans and to create a larger movement to prioritize TRAILBLAZER SPOTLIGHT: CIARA SKILES military spouses by investing in training and career and accelerate the interviewing and hiring of veterans and military spouses for Ciara Skiles, an active duty military spouse, discovered Salesforce Military at support to help them transition to rewarding Salesforce ecosystem roles. a Hiring Our Heroes Career Summit while stationed in Yokosuka, Japan. She civilian careers in the Salesforce ecosystem. This successfully reskilled as a Salesforce Administrator and is now thriving in a ecosystem will drive an estimated 4.2 million new jobs by 2024, and the Salesforce Military Program These Salesforce partners and customers commit remote consultant role. to guaranteed job interviews for any veteran or enables the military community to be first in line. military spouse who completes online training and Not only did Ciara double her salary, but she is now able to build a career We know it isn’t enough to train the military earns an administrator certification, and/or offers while frequently moving as a military spouse. community with the necessary technology skills reskilling opportunities to their current veteran or to succeed. Transitioning veterans are often military spouse employees through the Salesforce overlooked during the hiring process because their Military Program. unique experiences might not translate directly The Alliance has grown to 20 partners, and more to a posted job description. They need help to get than 115 military community members have their resumes to the top of the pile. signed up for interviews. These partnerships will drive tangible opportunities for military community job seekers and bring military talent into the Fourth Industrial Revolution. . HERE ARE SOME OF SALESFORCE MILITARY'S ACHIEVEMENTS OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS: 24,000+ MEMBERS SIGNED UP ON 2,100 SALESFORCE CERTIFICATIONS EARNED SALESFORCE.COM/MILITARY AND ACTIVELY LEARNING 170,000+ 600 SALESFORCE MILITARY TRAILBLAZERS CURRENTLY TRAILHEAD BADGES EARNED WORKING IN THE SALESFORCE ECOSYSTEM 37 | Workforce Development EQUALITY FOR ALL 38 | Equality for All EQUALITY FOR ALL EQUALITY Equality is a core value at Salesforce, and we believe in Equality for All. We’re working to create a workplace that reflects the diverse communities we serve and where everyone feels empowered to bring their full, authentic selves to work. We do this through increasing representation — we strive to make our workplaces FY20 DIVERSITY INDICATORS reflect society; creating opportunity — we believe everyone should have an equal opportunity to succeed in tech; and through empowering allyship — we believe U.S. Employees by Ethnicity Global Employees by Gender everyone has a responsibility to be an ally, and help build a more equal world. Creating a culture of Equality isn’t just the right thing to 61.6% White do; it’s also the smart thing — empowering us to innovate, 25.6% Asian & Indian build deeper connections with our customers, and 4.3% Hispanic or Latino 33% Female ultimately become a better company. 3.0% Black 66.8% Male 2.8% Two or More Races .2% Non-Binary or 2.2% Undisclosed Undisclosed Foundational to this journey is understanding the data. We know there is more .3% Hawaiian/Pacific Islander work to be done on this path to creating a workplace that reflects society. .2% American Indian/ Alaska Native As part of our mission to create a workplace that reflects society, we set a new goal and strategies to accelerate growth and drive change within our company. We aspire to have 50% of our U.S. workforce made up of Underrepresented Groups (Women, Black, Latinx, Indigenous, Multiracial, LGBTQ+, People with Disabilities, Data as of 2019 and Veterans) by FY24 and to continue building a workplace that reflects society around the globe. 39 | Equality for All OUR PATH TO Invest in Development We are investing in empowering our future diverse Cultivate Supplier Diversity We also are committed to giving access to diverse EQUAL PAY FOR EQUALITY leaders with two new initiatives – our Equality business owners and vendors through our Supplier EQUAL WORK Mentorship program and a partnership with the Diversity program. We are humbled to be recognized by Fortune as one In 2016, Salesforce made a commitment to ensure Executive Leadership Council on an in-house of the best workplaces for diversity, but we know Adopt Workforce Development Programs equal pay for equal work. As of April 30, 2020, program focused on underrepresented minorities. there is much more work to be done. We believe we We believe in widening access to the tech the company has spent more than $12 million to have a broader responsibility to the world in which Adopt Inclusive Business Practices industry by training and enabling the diverse address unexplained differences in pay among we live and work. We have established Inclusive Hiring and Inclusive workforce of tomorrow through various workforce genders, as well as between race and ethnicity Leadership trainings for our managers and have development programs. These efforts include our in the U.S. The Salesforce salary assessment As part of our commitment to being a platform methodology analyzes the employee population invested more than $12 million to ensure Equal Pay Pathfinder program in partnership with Deloitte, for change, we: based on objective factors that determine pay for Equality Work. Salesforce Military, Futureforce, Trailhead, and our partnership with external programs, including Year such as job function, level, and location. The Lead with Data Invest in the Diverse Workforce of the Future Up and Genesys Works. assessment then groups employees in comparable Our senior leaders are empowered monthly with We have invested $67.4 million in San Francisco roles and analyzes salaries of a given group to a scorecard detailing the head count, hiring, and Oakland public schools and over $90 million determine where there are statistical differences attrition, and promotion data by Gender (Global) worldwide. across race in the U.S. and gender globally. and Race (U.S.). We pair our largest organizations Salesforce will continue to focus on equality, with an Equality Board made up of their Recruiting, Lead in Ethical and Humane Use diversity, and inclusion at all levels and review Employee Success, Equality Partners, and senior We established an Office of Ethical and Humane employee compensation on an ongoing basis. leaders to drive prescriptive actions based on data. Use as part of our Office of Equality to help ensure our products are developed and used in ways that Empower Our Equality Groups are ethical and uphold the fundamental human Our Equality Groups are employee-led rights of every individual. organizations to support our underrepresented communities. Their leaders are on the front Focus on Accessibility lines of Equality, driving progress together as We strive to be Trailblazers in ensuring accessibility, volunteers. Our employees receive 56 hours a year from our products to workplaces, through our new to volunteer — time spent leading this important Office of Accessibility. work counts toward their hours. We encourage everyone to participate as allies to build empathy, learn, and stand up for their colleagues. 40 | Equality for All OUR EQUALITY GROUPS At Salesforce, we strive to create workplaces that are reflective of the communities we serve and where everyone feels welcomed, valued, heard, and included in our company. One of the ways we do this is through our employee resource groups, which we call Equality Groups. Salesforce empowers its 12 Equality Groups to create community for underrepresented groups and their allies, offer professional development and mentoring opportunities, and empower employees to be impactful equality leaders in their community. In FY20, the Equality Groups organized to contribute over 110,000 volunteer hours to our global community. Over 100 new regional groups were launched to localize conversations around equality and ensure inclusion in our global offices. Salesforce has 12 official Equality Groups: asiapacforce Abilityforce, Asiapacforce, BOLDforce, Earthforce, Faithforce, Genforce, Latinoforce, Outforce, Southasiaforce, Vetforce, WINDforce, and Women’s Network. Read about all of our Equality Groups at salesforce.com/equality. southasiaforce WINDforce 41 | Equality for All ETHICAL AND of this process, we released an updated policy to prohibit the sale of certain firearms and accessories HUMANE USE OF to private citizens on our platform. TECHNOLOGY Multistakeholder dialogue is key to the Office of We opened the the Office of Ethical and Humane Ethical and Humane Use. We are in our second Use within our Office of Equality in 2018 to create year of convening our Ethical Use Advisory Council, technology and policies that drive customer which meets quarterly to provide guidance and success, while upholding the basic human rights counsel for our ethical use initiatives. Our Council of every individual. is composed of internal front-line employees, executives, and external experts in academia The Office of Ethical and Humane Use, led by Paula and civil society in the fields of human rights and Goldman, Chief Ethical and Humane Use Officer, ethics in tech. focuses on three key areas: One of the ways we have done this is through ADVANCING THE FIELD ETHICS BY DESIGN the “Responsible Creation of AI” module, which Ethical Use Policy: Understanding the direct Salesforce participates in a variety of organizations We are deliberate in embedding ethical and launched in May 2019. This trail is a primer in impact of our products on the world and human rights advocacy groups to further the humane principles and features into our products some foundational ethical concepts and helps Ethics by Design: Creating a culture of ethics by ethical use of technology. We partner with several and processes. We empower all Trailblazers — our employees and customers address potential bias design throughout Salesforce civil society organizations to collaborate and teams, customers, and stakeholders — to consider and harms in their data and models. To help Advancing the Field: Enabling multistakeholder advance the field of ethics and tech. technology’s potential harms, so we can build employees build ethical AI, we teach ethics as a dialogues tools and features together that help us navigate core part of our monthly Machine Learning course One of the groups we have partnered with unprecedented uncertainty, increase trust, and for product managers. We do this by engaging with a diverse set of repeatedly is the WEF at the Center for the stakeholders to include a wide range of views to positively impact the world. For example, we offer Fourth Industrial Revolution. Salesforce is on Finally, Salesforce Research has been active in inform our work and reflect our core value of equality. customers’ Salesforce admins the ability to flag the Responsible Use of Technology Steering developing AI for Social Good. In November 2019, sensitive fields (for example, age, race, gender), find Committee and has participated in workshops on we launched SharkEye, a research partnership ETHICAL USE POLICY highly correlated variables (proxies), and “protect” the Public Procurement of AI, AI Board Toolkit, and with Benioff Ocean Initiative and San Diego State (exclude) them from use in an AI model. We’re Generation AI. Furthermore, Salesforce seconded Our first area of focus is understanding the direct University that uses Einstein Vision to detect great extending this strategy to non-AI products as well. three employees to the WEF as fellows on the topics impact of our products in society. The Office of white sharks to learn more about their biology Ethical and Humane Use works across product, of Ethics in Tech and Ethical AI. and help people safely share the ocean with legal, policy, and ethics to develop and implement We strive to empower our marine wildlife. You can read more about our Office of Ethical and a strategic framework to help our customers use customers to implement AI safely, Humane Use at salesforce.com/company/ethicalour products in a responsible manner. As a result accurately, and ethically. and-humane-use. 42 | Equality for All INVESTING FOR IMPACT PORTFOLIO IMPACT At Salesforce, we believe that technology has the power to accelerate We are proud of the growing portfolio, its impact on all our stakeholders, and its potential for the future. Here are the key milestones that the Impact Fund's 21 portfolio companies achieved in solutions to solve some of the world’s calendar year 2019: most urgent problems. 57% 8M The United Nations estimates that reaching the Sustainable Development Goals in developing countries will cost approximately $3.9 trillion per OF PORTFOLIO COMPANIES HAVE INDIVIDUALS DIRECTLY SERVED DIVERSE** FOUNDERS OR CEOS 3M year,* and we believe that impact investing will play a critical role in advancing market-based solutions that address many development challenges. 89% STUDENTS SERVED 1M The Salesforce Ventures Impact Fund continues OF PORTFOLIO COMPANIES HAVE A DIVERSE** BOARD OF DIRECTORS to advance the growth of companies that are building products and solutions to drive positive 254 M LOW-INCOME STUDENTS SERVED impact for people and the planet. Our investments $ span across four key focus areas: workforce development, sustainability, diversity and inclusion, and the social sector. In 2019, we supported four REVENUE GENERATED 112,500+ METRIC TONS OF CO2 REDUCED $ 319M of our existing portfolio companies with follow-on investments and invested in five new companies. We work closely with our portfolio companies NEW INVESTMENT CAPITAL RAISED 4.8M INDIVIDUALS RECEIVED ACCESS TO to help them leverage the power of the growing NEW FINANCIAL SERVICES 1,173 Salesforce ecosystem, with the goal of deploying $ 9.6B and scaling their technology to communities that need them the most. NET NEW JOBS CREATED AT PORTFOLIO COMPANIES IN DONATIONS AND GRANTS UNLOCKED * mckinsey.com/business-functions/sustainability/our** Diversity is defined as having female or underrepresented minority representation. insights/how-impact-investing-can-reach-the-mainstream 43 | Equality for All PORTFOLIO COMPANY SPOTLIGHTS Guild Education Reaches Unicorn Status Unite Us Is Bridging the Gap Between Healthcare and Social Services In November 2019, a $157 million Series D fundraise at a $1 billion valuation placed Guild Education in rarified unicorn territory. Led by CEO and Co-Founder To address the social factors that contribute to people’s health outcomes, Rachel Carlson, this education technology company upskills the workforce of Unite Us created a technology platform that standardizes how health and today for jobs of tomorrow by partnering with Fortune 1000 employers like social care providers communicate and track outcomes together. Its proven Walmart, Disney, Lowe’s, and Chipotle. Guild helps these leading companies infrastructure provides both a person-centered care coordination platform offer debt-free education pathways to their front-line employees, all of which and a hands-on community engagement process. By generating meaningful is deeply aligned with the companies’ broader corporate strategies. In line data on services and outcomes, Unite Us empowers its network partners with Guild’s mission to unlock opportunity for America’s workforce through to consistently improve the services they’re providing and optimize the education, more than 400,000 working way care is being delivered in their adults have used the company’s communities. Unite Us is now active platform and network of nonprofit, in 35 states, working with many of accredited universities to explore a the largest insurance companies, debt-free path to pursuing programs healthcare providers, governments, that include bachelor’s and master’s and community-based organizations. degrees, certificates, trade diplomas, The Salesforce Ventures Impact Fund’s ESL classes, and high school completion. strategic investment aims to scale and strengthen the power of this technology to address real challenges in the social determinants of health. 44 | Equality Section for All PHILANTHROPY 45 | Philanthropy PHILANTHROPY IN FY20: SALESFORCE & economic mobility. Ultimately, we seek to create a SALESFORCE.ORG more diverse and inclusive global workforce prepared with the skills to thrive in the 21st century. Salesforce provided more than 46,000+ nonprofit and higher education organizations with the use of our service offerings for free or at a discount. From the time Salesforce was founded, giving In June 2019, Salesforce.org was integrated into back has always been part of our DNA. Since Salesforce. Salesforce.org remains aligned with our 85% of Salesforce.org’s customers reported that using Salesforce helped them then, we have donated $330 million in grants customers and is singularly committed to improving to achieve their missions. and our employees have volunteered more the state of the world. We continue to provide free 20% improvement in operational than 4.9 million hours in our communities. and highly discounted technology to the nonprofit We empower 49,000 Salesforce employees to Salesforce.org customers reported an average 36% improvement in collaboration with their peers and and education sectors. With over 46,000 nonprofits, give back as citizen philanthropists and invest costs and an average educational institutions, and philanthropies in our local communities through strategic using our technology, we are dedicated to the communities they serve. investments by the Salesforce Foundation. creating solutions for the social impact sector to connect, organize, and scale their missions. Our philanthropic efforts are grounded in a commitment to advance equity and access, rooted in Our potential to drive positive change at scale has our belief that talent is everywhere but opportunever been greater. The philanthropic power of nity is not. Through our strategic investments and our global community has never been stronger. partnerships, we are strengthening public school And Salesforce.org’s capacity to innovate on top districts, helping young people find affordable paths of the world’s #1 CRM platform has never been to and through college, advancing demand-driven higher. We remain inspired by our customers, skills training, and connecting untapped talent committed to cross-sector collaboration, and with meaningful career opportunities that lead to optimistic about the impact we can have together. 46 | Philanthropy PHILANTHROPY CLOUD SALESFORCE.ORG PHILANTHROPY CLOUD IS LEADING WITH PURPOSE With Salesforce.org Philanthropy Cloud, we are ushering in a new era of giving. Today’s employees are more socially conscious and engaged than ever before with their local communities and with the world at large. That’s why Salesforce.org and United Way partnered to create a platform that connects employees with the causes they care about most, turning them into citizen philanthropists. Connecting Citizen & Corporate Philanthropy at Scale: • Employee Giving & Volunteering • Matching Gifts & Grants • Impact Reporting • Consumer Engagement Philanthropy Cloud lets every company and employee turn their values into action. Learn more about how Philanthropy Cloud empowers companies and employees to put their values into action at salesforce.org/philanthropy-cloud. 47 | Philanthropy GIVING FURTHERING OUR INVESTMENTS ELIMINATING FINANCIAL CELEBRATING SALESFORCE’S IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS BARRIERS TO HIGHER EDUCATION CITIZEN PHILANTHROPISTS In FY20, we invested more than $70 million in We take a holistic approach to supporting public Through our partnership with uAspire, a leading Salesforce employees are Trailblazers for a brighter grants and 1 million employee volunteer hours schools, with a focus on advancing educational nonprofit focused on college affordability, we are future. Through their outstanding commitments to support the communities where we live and opportunities, strengthening student outcomes, helping young people identify financially viable to schools and nonprofit organizations, they work. In particular, we’re committed to advancing and developing educators as leaders. In FY20, paths to and through college. In FY20, we granted are leveling the playing field and helping young access to high-quality education and meaningful we donated $19.1 million to U.S. public school $500,000 to uAspire, advancing its mission to people see what they can be. They are mentors, career opportunities, both of which are essential districts, including $8.5 million to San Francisco ensure that all young people have an equitable tutors, and role models, committed to building for helping young people reach their full Unified School District, $8.7 million to Oakland opportunity to graduate from college and reach a more inclusive and diverse global workforce. potential, building a more equitable society, Unified School District, $750,000 to Chicago Public their full potential. In FY20, we piloted the Future Ready Volunteer and strengthening our global economy. We Schools, $650,000 to Indianapolis Public Schools, Awards to recognize and celebrate our employee call this future-ready. and $500,000 to the New York City Department CREATING PATHWAYS TO citizen philanthropists and the organizations they of Education. Our newest investment in New York STRONG FIRST JOBS partner with to advance access to high-quality Here are just a few of our annual highlights: represents our fifth district partnership and will Only one in four college students from education and meaningful career opportunities. allow us to reach triple the number of students we underrepresented backgrounds graduates with After reviewing a set of competitive applications serve through our investments in public schools. a strong first job, leaving millions in low-wage from across the globe, we selected five winning roles and saddled with student loan debt. We nonprofits from the United States, Israel, Mexico, In addition to our strategic investments, we also Ghana, and India. Each winner received a $20,000 are committed to closing the education-toprovide technology in classrooms and volunteer donation for the organization they volunteer with, employment gap. In FY20, we invested $500,000 our time to support local schools. Through the furthering these organizations’ missions as well as in Braven, supporting the organization’s efforts Circle the Schools program, we are providing our collective vision for a future-ready workforce. to empower low-income, first-generation college a new model for how companies can support students in the United States with the skills, local schools. In Australia, we partner with the confidence, experiences, and networks necessary nonprofit Schools Plus to “circle” under-resourced to transition from college to strong first jobs, schools; in FY20, we hosted our second Schools leading to meaningful careers and lives of impact. Plus Collaboration Forum, convening teachers We also proudly invested $500,000 in Mozaïk RH, a and principals from 41 schools to advance best leading French nonprofit committed to supporting practices in STEM education. To date, we have young people from disadvantaged and migrant circled 122 schools across 43 cities and 12 backgrounds, enabling their successful transitions countries, and our employees have volunteered from university to meaningful careers. over 65,000 hours to strengthen schools in their communities. 48 | Philanthropy PLEDGE 1% Salesforce is a Pledge 1% founder, member, and champion. We are active in creating a movement of businesses that integrate social impact into their company DNA. Following the 1-1-1 model that Salesforce pioneered, Pledge 1% encourages companies to dedicate 1% time, 1% product, 1% profit, and/or 1% equity to improve the world. Since its launch, thousands of companies have joined Pledge 1% to make their communities a key stakeholder in their businesses. 10,000+ COMPANIES $ 250M+ IGNITED IN NEW PHILANTHROPY BY MEMBERS WHO SET ASIDE EQUITY AND UNDERWENT IPOS 100+ IN THE LAST 3 YEARS COUNTRIES Join the Pledge 1% movement at pledge1percent.org. 49 | Philanthropy REPORT DETAILS 50 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND that we believe are relevant to our ESG initiatives. Over time we will work to expand our disclosures In 2017, Salesforce signed a letter supporting the recommendations of the Task Force on ClimateDESCRIPTORS and align more closely to the leading frameworks, related Financial Disclosures and has since even as the frameworks themselves rapidly evolve. worked to align to the recommendations. TCFD We enhance the trust of our stakeholders by recommends disclosures, as they relate to climate transparently disclosing our environmental, social, In FY20, Salesforce joined the United Nations change, in four major categories: governance, and governance (ESG) policies and metrics. Our Global Compact and will continue to incorporate strategy, risk management, and metrics and voluntary reporting is informed by the following the Ten Principles of the UNGC into company targets. Salesforce continues to align its ESG frameworks: strategy, policies, and procedures. Each of the Ten strategy with the TCFD recommendations, included Principles is reflected in this section of the report. as part of our ESG reporting. Disclosures in • The Task Force on Climate-related Financial alignment with TCFD are available throughout this Disclosures (TCFD) We are supportive of the SASB and its mission report and Salesforce’s FY20 form 10-K. A detailed • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI to help businesses identify, manage, and report discussion of the recommendations is available as Standards on the sustainability topics that matter most to part of Salesforce’s 2019 Carbon Disclosure Project • The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board their investors by providing market-informed and (CDP) Climate Change response. (SASB) Sustainability Accounting Standard for industry-specific standards. We believe this will the Technology and Communications Sector, allow for increased transparency and comparability Software & IT Services industry (Version 2018-10) across companies. Although the SASB standards • The Ten Principles of the United Nations are designed for disclosure in financial filings to Global Compact (UNGC) the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), they have not yet been formally adopted for such Each of these frameworks recommends disclosing use. The investor community welcomes such policies and material metrics related to ESG topics. disclosures, and as such, we have included a table However, the concept of materiality is defined in this section as part of our sustainability reporting differently under these reporting frameworks, as well as links to our policies that contain more and we do not attempt to formally reconcile the information on our ESG initiatives. We have also divergent uses of the term materiality by the GRI, included a summary of our ESG initiatives in our SASB, and TCFD. At Salesforce, the key metrics we annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2020 filed disclose are cross-referenced to these frameworks, with the SEC on March 5, 2020. when applicable. We also disclose metrics that are not explicitly mentioned by these frameworks but 51 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC COMPANY OVERVIEW Organization name salesforce.com, inc GRI 102-1 Total revenue (in millions) 1 $17,098 $13,282 $10,540 GRI 102-7, 201-1 Geographic revenue split: GRI 102-7 Americas 71% 71% 72% Europe 20% 19% 18% Asia Pacific 9% 10% 10% Primary brands, products, services Product List GRI 102-2 Location of headquarters San Francisco GRI 102-3 Countries of operations Global Locations GRI 102-4 Ownership and legal form Salesforce Form 10-K GRI 102-5 Markets served Salesforce Form 10-K GRI 102-6 Association memberships U.S. Political Engagement GRI 102-13 Shareholders, customers, partners, employees, communities, Key stakeholders GRI 102-40 the environment Reporting period February 1, 2019–January 31, 2020 GRI 102-50 Report cycle Annual GRI 102-52 Report contact CRImpact@salesforce.com GRI 102-53 1 Prior period information has been adjusted for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606,) which the Company adopted on February 1, 2018. 52 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC GOVERNANCE Governance Structure Governance structure Corporate Governance Guidelines GRI 102-18 Audit Committee Practices Audit and Finance Committee Charter GRI 102-18 Board Compensation Practices Compensation Committee Charter GRI 102-35, 102-36 Board Nominating Practices Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter GRI 102-24 Total Executive and Non-Executive Board Members 11 13 12 GRI 102-22 Board Average Tenure 10.5 years 9 years 8 years GRI 102-22 Independent Board Members 82% 77% 83% GRI 102-22 Board Gender and Ethnic Diversity 36% 38% 42% GRI 102-22, 405-1 Nominating and Governance Committee periodically reviews the Yes Yes No GRI 102-29 Company’s environmental, social, and governance initiatives Board committee dedicated to privacy and ethical use of technology Yes Yes No Board Remuneration Disclosure Salesforce FY20 Proxy Statement GRI 102-35 CEO compensation linked to total shareholder return (TSR) Yes Yes Yes GRI 102-36 Code of Conduct Code of Conduct GRI 102-16 Principle 10 % of employees who read and acknowledged the Code of Conduct 100%2 100% 100% GRI 102-16 Principle 10 2 As of January 31, 2020. 53 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC GOVERNANCE, CONTINUED Trust and Security System performance and security trust.salesforce.com Commitment to customer privacy Privacy Policies GRI 418-1 TC-SI-220a.1 Principle 1 Our customers trust us to help them build meaningful relationships with their own customers. The privacy of the data that we are entrusted to protect is a top priority. Our customer agreements (templates of which are publicly Policies & practices related to user privacy available on our website) and our privacy policies (also publicly available on TC-SI-220a.1 our website) describe how we safeguard data with an effective privacy and security program. We also offer resources to help our customers operate globally in compliance with privacy laws such as GDPR and CCPA. Compliance Certifications and Attestations Compliance website Any interruptions or delays in services from third parties, including data center hosting facilities, cloud computing platform providers, and other hardware and software vendors, or from our inability to adequately plan for and manage service interruptions or infrastructure capacity requirements, could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. We have key business practices that help us mitigate risk from malicious actors and external forces. Our trust department Description of business continuity risks related to disruption of operations is set up to assess, approve, and guide our business in understanding and TC-SI-550a.2 remedying technology vulnerability that arise from any new technology vendor, data transfer, and/or business process. Our government affairs team is engaged at the local, state, and country levels to lobby for policies that are aligned to our values and business continuity. For a discussion of business continuity risks and our management approach, please see the Risk Factors section of the FY20 Salesforce Form 10-K. Public Policy Public policy practices Public Policy GRI 415-1 Political engagement Political Contributions GRI 415-1 54 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC SOCIAL Workforce Indicators Global Employees 49,000 35,000 29,000 GRI 102-7 Americas 65.4% 66.2% 68.6% Europe 18.9% 18.9% 18.3% Asia Pacific 15.7% 14.9% 13.1% With a highly distributed workforce in over 28 countries, we are able to deliver the highest levels of performance, availability, and security. Leveraging our own technology and other tools, we can coordinate, collaborate, and create effectively across borders. We recognize the diversity in our global workforce, and ensure we create a strong corporate culture based on our core values: trust, customer success, innovation, and equality. We operationalize these values through specific measurable actions around accountability, Description of systems for managing workforce and risk prevention alignment, transparency, integrity, and experience. Our employee TC-SI-330a.1 code of conduct, goal planning process, employee surveys, town halls, workforce analytics initiatives, and more allow us to manage and measure our culture and workforce, at scale, while developing local talent pools and reducing risks related to visa controls, relocations, and other business factors that we would face with a workforce tied to a single country or region. Our government affairs teams are also engaged at the local, state, and country levels to lobby for policies that are aligned to our values and business continuity. 55 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC SOCIAL, CONTINUED Diversity Indicators Commitment to Equality Equality Practices Principle 1, 6 Target for Underrepresented Group representation for U.S. workforce (Women, Black, Latinx, Indigenous, Multiracial, LGBTQ+, People with Yes Disabilities, and Veterans) established Target 50% Target year FY24 Progress3 43.9% Employees by Gender GRI 102-8 TC-SI-330a.3 Female 33.0% 31.6% 30.9% Male 66.8% 68.2% 68.7% Non-binary 0.2% 0.2% 0.4% Employees by Gender (VP+) TC-SI-330a.3 Female 23.7% 22.3% 20.9% Male 76.1% 77.5% 78.9% Non-binary 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% Employees by Gender (Tech) TC-SI-330a.3 Female 23.5% 22.0% 21.4% Male 76.3% 77.7% 78.4% Non-binary 0.2% 0.3% 0.2% 3 This goal was established in FY20, therefore FY20 is the first year we are reporting our progress toward this goal. 56 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC SOCIAL, CONTINUED Diversity Indicators Employees by Gender (Non-tech) TC-SI-330a.3 Female 40.5% 39.4% 38.9% Male 59.2% 60.4% 60.5% Non-binary 0.3% 0.2% 0.6% Employees by Ethnicity (U.S.-Only) GRI 405-1 TC-SI-330a.3 White 61.6% 63.0% 64.7% Asian & Indian 25.6% 25.1% 23.9% Hispanic or Latinx 4.3% 4.2% 3.9% Black 3.0% 2.8% 2.5% Two or more races 2.8% 2.7% 2.6% Undisclosed 2.2% 1.7% 2.0% Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% American Indian/Alaska Native 0.2% 0.2% 0.1% Equal Pay Completed thorough global equal-pay assessment4 Yes Yes Yes GRI 405-2 % of employees globally requiring pay adjustments 7% 5% 6% % of employees covered by an independent trade union 0% 0% 0% GRI 102-41 or collective bargaining agreements 4 T  o conduct the assessment, we group employees in comparable roles and analyze compensation of those groups to determine whether there are unexplained differences in pay. The global assessment considers differences in pay by gender. In the U.S., the assessment also considered differences in pay by race and ethnicity. 57 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC SOCIAL, CONTINUED Talent Development At Salesforce, we offer our employees learning and development opportunities in the form of Trailhead, in-person and virtual classes, guides and workbooks, and more. Salesforce's Talent Development team also creates and facilitates customized, long-term development Programs for upgrading employee skills GRI 404-2 Principle 6 programs for employees and people leaders in service of building high-impact teams. In addition, we offer a yearly education reimbursement to employees who wish to continue job-related education from accredited institutions or organizations. Employees appraised via management by objectives5 100% 100% 100% GRI 404-3 Organizational alignment and consistent and clear communication are a key part of our employee engagement, especially as our company continues to grow. When Salesforce was founded, we developed an internal management tool used by all employees on an annual basis called the V2MOM (Vision, Values, Methods, Obstacles, and Measures). Description of organizational alignment strategy Each year we complete a corporate V2MOM and then all employees TC-SI-330a.2 are expected to complete their own V2MOM that aligns with the corporate V2MOM. In addition, by using the Salesforce Platform, every individual employee V2MOM is available and searchable for the entire company. Learn more about the V2MOM and how to apply it to your own company or project. Open positions filled by internal candidates 28% 22% 20% Employee engagement6 95% 96% 96% TC-SI-330a.2 Employee satisfaction7 89% 90% 88% 5  he appraisal metric is defined as the percentage of employees who participate in our V2MOM organizational alignment process. T 6 The engagement metric is based on ratings from an annual employee survey for the statement “I am willing to give extra to get the job done.” 7 The satisfaction metric is based on ratings from an annual employee survey for the statement “I would recommend Salesforce as a great place to work.” 58 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC SOCIAL, CONTINUED Community Engagement Community engagement Salesforce.org Ventures Investment Impact Investment Fund Employee volunteering hours8 4,900,000 3,800,000 2,600,000 Year to date 1,100,000 Donations to charitable organizations (in partnership with Salesforce.org) 8 $330,000,000 $260,000,000 $200,000,000 Year to date $70,000,000 Nonprofit & higher education organizations offered services for free or at a discount 46,000 40,000 34,000 (in partnership with Salesforce.org) 8 Year to date 6,000 Human Rights Human rights commitment salesforce.com/company/human-rights/ GRI 412-1 Principle 1, 4, 5, 6 Commitment to responsible sourcing salesforce.com/company/legal/supplier/ GRI 103-3 Principle 4, 5, 6 Commitment to supplier diversity Supplier Diversity Policy GRI 414-1 Principle 6 Supplier code of conduct Global Supplier Code of Conduct GRI 414-1 Principle 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 Health and safety policy Health & Safety Policy GRI 403-1 Principle 6 Ethical Use of Technology Strategy for ethical use of technology salesforce.com/company/ethical-and-humane-use/ GRI 102-16 Principle 1, 2 8 Lifetime to date as of January 31, 2020. 59 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC ENVIRONMENTAL9 Strategy and Management Environmental policy salesforce.com/global-environmental-policy Principle 7 Environmental benefits of Salesforce products Salesforce Form 10-K Principle 8, 9 Renewable energy goal established Yes Yes Yes GRI 302-4 Principle 8, 9 Net-zero emissions goal achieved Yes Yes Yes GRI 305-5 Principle 8, 9 Frequency and time horizon for identifying, and assessing climate-related risks Every six months or more frequently GRI 201-2 Principle 7 Current regulation, emerging regulation, technology, legal, market, Risk types evaluated GRI 102-15 Principle 7 reputation, acute physical, chronic physical, upstream, downstream Process(es) for managing climate-related risks and opportunities Reporting Scope and Methodology GRI 201-2 Principle 7 Climate change risks and opportunities Salesforce Form 10-K GRI 201-2 Principle 7 Description of identified risks and opportunities Reporting Scope and Methodology GRI 102-15 Principle 7 Explanation of how climate-related issues are integrated into your business Salesforce Form 10-K GRI 201-2 Principle 7 objectives and strategy Climate-related scenario analysis Performed informal 2-degree scenario analysis and national input GRI 201-2 Principle 7 Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into strategic salesforce.com/company/sustainability/operations/ TC-SI-130a.3 Principle 8 planning for data center needs Emissions reductions initiatives salesforce.com/sustainability GRI 305-5 Principle 8 Engagement with supply chain on climate related issues Yes GRI 308-1 Principle 8 9 The recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) have informed the contents of this section. For a more detailed discussion, please see Salesforce's 2019 CDP Climate response. 60 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC ENVIRONMENTAL, CONTINUED Science-Based Targets10 Scope 1+2 Emissions Reduction Target Type Absolute Reduction Base Year FY19 Target Year FY31 Target 50% Absolute Reduction Curent 13% Absolute Reduction Achieved11 Scope 3 Fuel & Energy Related Activities Reduction Target Type Absolute Reduction Base Year FY19 Target Year FY31 Curent FY21 will be the first reporting year Scope 3 Upstream Suppliers Set Science-Based Target Target Type Upstream suppliers set their own Science-Based targets Target Year FY25 Coverage Suppliers representing 60% of Salesforce's upstream Scope 3 emissions Current 15% of targeted Scope 3 emissions are covered by suppliers with Science-Based targets12 10  he following targets were set and approved by the Science-Based Targets Initiative in FY20. Therefore, FY20 is the first year we are reporting our progress against these targets, unless otherwise noted. T 11 13% reduction compared to FY19 Scope 1+2 market-based emissions. 12 15% is estimated based on FY19 Scope 3 data. Targeted Scope 3 emissions represent 60% of Salesforce's total Scope 3 emissions. 61 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC ENVIRONMENTAL, CONTINUED Water Total water withdrawn (Million gallons)13, 14 16415 195 GRI 303-3 TC-SI-130a.2 In regions with Extremely High baseline water stress 23% In regions with High baseline water stress 4% In regions with Medium-High baseline water stress 15% In regions with Medium-Low baseline water stress 5% In regions with Low baseline water stress 53% Sustainable Built Environment Percentage of space achieved or pursuing green building certification 74% 65% 64% Net Zero Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Carbon Neutral Cloud Scope 1 and 2 Market-Based Emissions 141,000 16 163,000 146,000 GRI 305-1, 305-2 Percentage Offset 100% 100% 100% GRI 305-3 Scope 3 Carbon Neutral Cloud-Related Emissions17 142,000 181,000 236,000 GRI 305-3 Percentage Offset 100% 100% 100% GRI 305-3 Platform Performance Average power usage effectiveness (PUE) 1.39 1.40 1.41 GRI 302-3 TC-SI-130a.1 Average carbon usage effectiveness (CUE) 0.61 0.61 0.63 GRI-305-4 13  Y19 was the first year we published water withdrawal data externally; therefore we do not publish FY18 data. FY20 was the first year we reported water withdrawal disaggregated by baseline water stress. Therefore, we do not report this disaggregation for FY19. F 14 Regional baseline water stress calculated via WRI's Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas v3.0. 15 In FY20, water consumption declined due to a combination of factors including a move to more efficient sites across our portfolio (Offices and Data Centers). 16 In FY20 Salesforce's renewable electricity consumption increased, resulting in a decrease of gross global emissions. 17 For a detailed inventory of categories included in our carbon neutral cloud calculation, please refer to pages 67–70 for Ernst & Young LLP's Independent Accountants’ Review Report. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 67–70 for its Independent Accountants' Review Report. 62 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC ENVIRONMENTAL, CONTINUED Greenhouse Gas Emissions Emissions by Scope [MTCO2e] Scope 1 Emissions 6,000 5,000 4,000 GRI 305-1 Scope 2 Emissions18 291,000 281,000 236,000 GRI 305-2 Business Travel and Employee Commuting Scope 3 emissions 180,000 156,000 134,000 GRI 305-3 Emissions by Source [MTCO2e] Data Centers18 264,000 244,000 201,000 GRI 305-2 Business Travel19 146,000 132,000 112,000 GRI 305-3 Offices18 28,000 38,000 35,000 GRI 305-1, 305-2 Employee Commuting20 38,000 28,000 26,000 GRI 305-3 18 C  alculated using location-based methodology. 19 Includes Scope 1 emissions from company aircraft. 20 Includes Scope 1 emissions from company shuttle. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 67–70 for its Independent Accountants' Review Report. 63 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC ENVIRONMENTAL, CONTINUED Energy 100% Renewable Energy Target Set Yes Yes Yes Target Year FY22 FY22 FY22 Progress 21 63% 55% 50% GRI 302-4 Total electricity consumption [MWh] 659,000 628,000 514,000 GRI 302-1 TC-SI-130a.1 Office electricity 10% 12% 13% GRI 302-1, 305-2 Data center electricity 90% 88% 87% GRI 302-2 Electricity Mix Location-Based Methodology (all facilities) TC-SI-130a.1 Clean and renewable 9% 10% 10% Hydro 5% 5% 6% Nuclear 23% 22% 21% Natural gas 32% 32% 32% Coal 28% 28% 29% Other Fossil Fuels 3% 3% 2% 21 Calculated using a market-based methodology Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 67–70 for its Independent Accountants' Review Report. 64 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Description FY20 FY19 FY18 GRI SASB UNGC ENVIRONMENTAL, CONTINUED Energy, continued Electricity Mix Location-Based Methodology (data centers) Clean and renewable 9% 9% 13%21 Hydro 4% 4% –21 Nuclear 24% 24% 22% Natural Gas 32% 32% 32% Coal 29% 28% 29% Other Fossil Fuels 2% 3% 4% Electricity Mix Market-Based Methodology (all facilities) Utility renewable energy tariffs 2% 3% 6% Supplier-provided renewable energy 23% 13% 0% Indirect large offsite purchases 36% 37% 40% Grid-mix renewable energy content 2% 2% 4% Grid-mix remainder 37% 45% 50% 21 In FY18, Hydro was included in our clean and renewable percentage. Since FY19, we have separated it out for a more detailed breakdown. 65 | Report Details ESG METRICS AND DESCRIPTORS Electricity Use (kWh) Location-Based Emissions (MTCO2e) Market-Based Emissions (MTCO2e)23 GRI ENVIRONMENTAL, CONTINUED By City FY2022 GRI 305-2 Chandler, AZ 138,319,000 66,000 2,000 Chicago, IL 77,866,000 45,000 28,000 Ashburn, VA 66,834,000 25,000 0 Dallas, TX 64,144,000 30,000 0 Sterling, VA 45,869,000 17,000 0 Frankfurt, Germany 38,555,000 16,000 29,000 24 San Francisco, CA 25,570,000 7,000 025 Yokohamashi, Japan 23,583,000 13,000 13,000 Indianapolis, IN 22,282,000 13,000 13,000 Kobe, Japan 20,948,000 11,000 11,000 Atlanta, GA 19,523,000 10,000 10,000 Pantin, France 14,837,000 2,000 1,000 Paris, France 14,122,000 2,000 1,000 London, United Kingdom 9,702,000 3,000 1,000 Manassas, VA 9,545,000 4,000 0 22 L ocations included in data table represent over 90% of Salesforce's Scope 1 & 2 location-based emissions. 23 Market-based emissions are reduced using renewable energy credits (RECs) generated by renewable energy projects procured through vitual power purchase agreements or data center vendor's renewable energy procurement or a combination of both. 24 Market-based emissions are higher since a residual emission factor is used for emission calculations. 25 Market-based emissions are further reduced here through sourcing renewable energy directly through the utility provider for all the San Francisco towers. 66 | Report Details INDEPENDENT In performing our review, we have also complied with the independence and other ethical ACCOUNTANTS’ requirements set forth in the Code of Professional Conduct and applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA. REVIEW REPORT As described in the Schedule, the Subject Matter is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature To the Board of Directors and the Management of Review Engagements. Those standards require and the methods used for determining such salesforce.com, inc. that we plan and perform our review to obtain data. The selection of different but acceptable limited assurance about whether any material measurement techniques can result in materially We have reviewed salesforce.com, inc.’s modifications should be made to the Subject different measurements. The precision of different (“Salesforce”) accompanying Schedule of Select Matter in order for it to be in accordance with the measurement techniques may also vary. Sustainability Metrics (the “Subject Matter” or Criteria. A review consists principally of applying “Schedule”) and as presented in Salesforce’s analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons Based on our review, we are not aware of any Stakeholder Impact Report (the Report ) for responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an material modifications that should be made to the the year ended January 31, 2020 in accordance understanding of the data management systems Schedule of Select Sustainability Metrics for the with the criteria set forth in the Schedule (the and processes used to generate, aggregate and year ended January 31, 2020, in order for it to be “Criteria”). We did not review all information report the Subject Matter and performing such in accordance with the Criteria. included in the Report. We did not review the other procedures as we considered necessary in narrative sections of the Report, except where the circumstances. A review is substantially less in they incorporated the Subject Matter. Salesforce’s scope than an examination, the objective of which management is responsible for the Subject Matter is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether included in the Schedule and as also presented in March 4, 2020 the Subject Matter is in accordance with the the Report, in accordance with the Criteria. Our San Francisco, California Criteria, in all material respects, in order to express responsibility is to express a conclusion on the an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an Subject Matter based on our review. opinion. A review also does not provide assurance that we became aware of all significant matters Our review was conducted in accordance with the that would be disclosed in an examination. We attestation standards established by the American believe that our review provides a reasonable basis Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) for our conclusion. in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, 67 | Report Details SCHEDULE OF SELECT SUSTAINABILITY METRICS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2020 1 Metrics2 Reported Value Unit Criteria World Resources Institute (“WRI”) / World Business Council for Sustainable Metric tonnes carbon dioxide Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – Scope 13 6,000 Development’s (“WBCSD”) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting equivalent (“mt CO2e”) and Reporting Standard (GHG Protocol) GHG emissions – Scope 2, Location-based method (“LBM”) 4,5 291,000 mt CO2e WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance GHG emissions – Scope 2, Market-based method (“MBM”) 4,5 135,000 mt CO2e WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance GHG emissions – Scope 3, for the following: CarbonNeutral Protocol, CarbonNeutral Entity Certification – Data Centers10 • Non-use phase life cycle emissions of IT equipment in data centers 6,7 • Managed hosting8 Information and Communication Technology (“ICT”) Sector Guidance ‘Built on 142,000 mt CO2e • Energy production and transportation the GHG Protocol’ Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard11, • Emissions associated with end user device operation9 specifically Chapter 4: Guide for assessing GHG emissions of Cloud Computing • Transport of Data Center maintenance engineers and Data Center Services 1 The Company’s fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2020, for example, refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2020. 2  he geographical scope of the Subject Matter within the schedule includes Salesforce’s global facilities (offices and data centers) under its operational control. Assets that fall under Salesforce’s operational control during the fiscal year being reported as a result of an acquisition are T included in the boundary of the carbon footprint in the fiscal year following their acquisition. Where possible, based on Salesforce’s reporting timeline and requirements, Salesforce uses the most up to date emission factors available at the time of their carbon footprint calculation. 3 Scope 1 emissions capture owned office energy consumption and fugitive emissions, emissions from use of private jet, and emissions from use of the company shuttle. 4 Scope 2 emissions capture owned (electricity only) and leased (all energy sources) office and data center energy consumption and fugitive emissions. 5 F  or office facilities where actual data cannot be obtained, including facilities that are new to the Salesforce Portfolio in fiscal year 2020, energy use for electricity, steam, diesel, fuel oil, natural gas and refrigerants are extrapolated using Salesforce’s square footage data and energy intensity and regional energy intensity factors internally developed based on fiscal year 2019 data. For office facilities in the Northeast, Midwest, and Western U.S. where an internally developed intensity factor is not available, and no other heating source is identified, natural gas energy use is extrapolated using intensity factors supplied by the 2012 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (“CBECS”) report from the U.S. Energy Information Administration (“EIA”). For data centers where actual electricity consumption cannot be obtained, data center electricity is estimated at the contractual maximum amount of electricity for the site. For data center facilities where actual data cannot be obtained, including facilities that are new to the Salesforce Portfolio in fiscal year 2020, emissions for consumption of diesel and refrigerants are estimated using internally developed intensity factors. 6 Salesforce recognizes the entire embodied emissions of IT equipment in the first year of possession. 7 F  or servers, actual data and vendor-provided life cycle assessment (“LCA”) non-use phase emission factors are used to calculate embodied emissions. For non-server IT equipment electricity consumption and a non-use phase life cycle ratio percentage is used to estimate the embodied emissions. 8 Emissions from managed hosting are estimated based on Salesforce’s fiscal year expenditure for hosting services using an environmentally extended input output (“EEIO”) model per the ICT Sector Guidance. 9  alesforce product use emissions are calculated based on the assumption that users are utilizing Salesforce products on a laptop computer. As such, battery watts per hour and battery life data is based on publicly-available information for a laptop which Salesforce deems as a S reputable proxy for laptop power usage. 10 CarbonNeutral Protocol https://www.carbonneutral.com/the-protocol. 11 I CT Sector Guidance ‘Built on the GHG Protocol’ Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard developed by the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (“GeSI”) in collaboration with the WRI, WBCSD, and the Carbon Trust http://www.ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/ ghgp/GHGP-ICTSG%20-%20ALL%20Chapters.pdf 68 | Report Details SCHEDULE OF SELECT SUSTAINABILITY METRICS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2020 1 Metrics Reported Value Unit Criteria Salesforce calculates renewable energy as the amount of renewable energy in the grids Salesforce uses and the amount of renewable energy sourced through contractual instruments12. Salesforce divides this number by the total energy usage at its global facilities, which includes offices and data centers under its operational control to calculate renewable energy percentage. Percentage of total global electricity procured from renewable resources 63 % Renewable energy resources are defined in accordance with RE10013. Following the hierarchy laid out in the GHG Protocol’s Scope 2 guidance for market-based emissions, emissions factors and their associated renewable energy content are applied to electricity use for each facility. Total electricity consumed is calculated based on total kilowatt hours of electricity consumed. 12 Renewable energy can be sourced through contractual instruments including virtual power purchase agreements (“VPPAs”), green tariffs, and supplier contracts which meet the Quality Criteria as outlined within the GHG Protocol. 13 Renewable energy resources are defined in accordance with RE100, excluding electricity produced from water. 69 | Report Details SCHEDULE OF SELECT SUSTAINABILITY METRICS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2020 1 Adjusted “Net Zero” GHG Emissions Adjusted “Carbon Neutral Cloud” For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 (mtCO2e) (mtCO2e) Scope 1 GHG Emissions 6,000 Scope 1 GHG Emissions 6,000 Scope 2 GHG Emissions (MBM) 135,000 Scope 2 GHG Emissions (MBM) 135,000 Total 141,000 Scope 3 GHG Emissions14 142,000 Less: Carbon Credits (141,000) Total 283,000 0 Less: Carbon Credits applied to Scope 1 and Scope 215 (141,000) Less: Carbon Credits applied to Scope 3 (142,000) 0 Salesforce’s Net Zero GHG Emissions is calculated by totaling Scope 1 and Scope 2 (MBM) GHG emissions, Salesforce’s Carbon Neutral Cloud is calculated by totaling Scope 1, Scope 2 (MBM) and Scope 3 GHG per the criteria described above, less Carbon Credits purchased. Carbon Credits are certified under the emissions, per the criteria described above, less Carbon Credits purchased. Gold Standard or Verified Carbon Standard (“VCS”). All Carbon Credits are retired on a public registry at the amount equal to Salesforce’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 (MBM) GHG emissions. Carbon Credits are certified under the Gold Standard or VCS. All Carbon Credits are retired on a public registry at the amount equal to Salesforce’s Scope 1, Scope 2 (MBM), and select Scope 3 GHG emissions. Salesforce defines its boundary and calculates emissions for its Carbon Neutral Cloud based on the CarbonNeutral Protocol, CarbonNeutral Entity Certification – Data Centers. Salesforce has also followed the guidance on boundary and emissions sources set forth by the ICT Sector Guidance built on the GHG Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard, specifically Chapter 4: Guide for assessing GHG emissions of Cloud Computing and Data Center Services. Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. 14 Limited to Scope 3 GHG emissions identified in the table above. 15 Because of Salesforce’s Net Zero GHG Emissions commitment they have offset additional sources of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions beyond the scope of the Carbon Neutral Cloud boundary defined in the CarbonNeutral Protocol. 70 | Report Details
