Sustainability Report 2019 ENERGY FOR TOMORROW CONTENTS 08 Message from the Chairman and CEO 13 Corporate Profile 13 About Us 14 Shareholding Structure 16 Production Portfolio 18 Vision and Mission 20 Strategy and Objectives 22 Investment Strategy 24 Sales Strategy 26 Developments in 2019 28 Sustainability Approach 30 Sustainability Management 32 Sustainability Material Topics 34 Stakeholder Relations and Communication Channels ABOUT THIS REPORT 36 Memberships and Supported Initiatives We hereby present our sustainability performance 37 Governance Approach and progress report on our environmental, social and 37 Corporate Governance Structure economic impacts and corporate governance practices to 38 Code of Ethics and Transparency our stakeholders. 40 Risk Management Our sustainability report aims to inform all our 42 Sustainability Performance stakeholders in a transparent manner about our business 42 Environmental Sustainability activities and our sustainability approach based on the 44 Climate Change and Energy pillars of “Environmental Sustainability,” “Employees” 46 Air Emissions and “Social Responsibility.” This report covers the period 47 Waste Management between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019. 48 Water and Wastewater Management Unless otherwise stated, the scope of data in the report 50 Biodiversity includes all our operating regions in Turkey and abroad. 52 Employees 54 Safe Working Environment This report was prepared in accordance with 56 Employee Efficiency and Development GRI Standards (Core); and the Electric Utilities Sector 58 Equal Opportunity and Diversity Disclosure was used as a reference guide. In preparing our 59 Social Responsibility report, we also complied with the principles of the 60 Contribution to Local Economy and Employment United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), to which 62 Social Responsibility Projects we are a signatory, and followed the guidelines of the 64 Performance Indicators United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). 64 Environmental Performance 65 Social Performance You can access our sustainability report at http://www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en/home and send 68 Annexes your questions, feedback, and recommendations 68 Annex-1: UN Global Compact (UNGC) regarding this report to surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com.tr. Communication on Progress (COP) 69 Annex-2: GRI Content Index GRI 102-46 We shape our business and sustainability strategy as a global energy company pursuing investments in Turkey, TRNC, Ghana, Mali and Madagascar. Embracing a vision of becoming a socially responsible global energy company, Aksa Energy moves forward by focusing on creating sustainable value for the economy, environment and society. We are working toward a common goal: Providing people with access to energy in different countries of the world. Message from the Chairman and CEO Total Employees in Africa 406 Implementing its investment decisions toward becoming a global energy company, Aksa Energy commissioned three power plants in Africa in 2017. With a total installed capacity of 476 MW in Africa today, we are meeting a major part of the energy needs of Ghana, Mali and Madagascar. Total Installed Capacity in Africa 476 MW 2 ENERGY FOR DEVELOPMENT Aksa Energy meets the urgent energy needs of the local population with power plants in three African countries, while adding value to Turkey’s economy with the foreign currency cash flow generated. Our power plants in Ghana, Mali and Madagascar are preparing a new future for these countries and the African continent by providing energy necessary for social and economic development. Message from the Chairman and CEO ENERGY FOR THE COMMUNITY Aksa Energy boosts local employment while supporting development of local communities with various social responsibility initiatives in all the regions it operates in. With our ENERGY FOR TOMORROW project, which was launched in 2019, we have provided education on energy and conservation to thousands of schoolchildren across Turkey. Distance Traveled for ENERGY FOR TOMORROW 6,500+ Km With ENERGY FOR TOMORROW, a joint initiative of all Aksa Group companies within Kazancı Holding, we provided education on energy and conservation to students at 22 rural schools in 19 provinces across Turkey in just nine months. Number of Students Reached 2,000+ 5 Message from the Chairman and CEO Amount of Water Recovered at Power Plants 355,225 m3 Aksa Energy’s Environmental Policy defines our responsibilities related to the environmental impacts of operations. Our responsibilities in this arena include fighting against climate change, effectively managing natural resources, prudently managing waste, and protecting biodiversity. Land Protected via Biodiversity Projects 12,000 Decares Aksa Enerji 2019 Sürdürülebilirlik Raporu 6 ENERGY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Aksa Energy operates in an industry that has a high environmental impact. Therefore, we consider climate change, air emissions, water and waste management, and protection of biodiversity in our regions of operation as our material topics. Since 2015, we have conducted efforts to protect biodiversity. We actively support projects to preserve endangered species, such as the mountain gazelle, red deer, striped hyena and brown bear. Message from the Chairman and CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO In 2019, we demonstrated a successful financial and operational performance, increasing the value we create for all our stakeholders. Dear Distinguished Stakeholders, compared to the previous year, climbing to TRY 1,467 million. Meanwhile, we increased Energy is an essential part of our everyday our consolidated net profit threefold, reaching lives and it is critical for industrial TRY 455 million at year’s end – the highest production and economic development of ever in our Company’s history. We successfully countries. However, dependence on natural Revenue reduced our net financial debt to EBITDA resources in energy production, challenges posed by climate change, opportunities 5.6 ratio to 2.1 at end-2019, down from 3.6 at end-2018. In addition, we have managed to provided by technological advances and TRY Billion decrease our net financial debt significantly global economic fluctuations continue to in recent years. We had reported net financial stoke uncertainty about energy-related debt of USD 860 million in 2015, when we issues. decided to expand internationally; and as at year-end 2019, we reduced this figure to While negative developments in world USD 529 million while making international commerce diminished global foreign trade investments in three countries during this in 2019, real sector confidence dipped, We are aware that period. energy production is resulting in decreased risk appetite and a basic requirement therefore lower investment. Despite the Today, Aksa Energy conducts business for national economic negativity caused by a sluggish business operations in 5 countries on 2 continents. growth and social climate and geopolitical risks, in this year’s development. With this We have made large-scale investments in contracting global economic environment, perspective, we have different countries in a very short time, Turkey adopted a successful stabilization adopted a business thanks to our unique service approach that strategy and recorded significant model that embodies embodies a commitment to quality and social improvements in its key macroeconomic a holistic approach to responsibility. We started out on our journey indicators. sustainability since 2014. to become a global brand in 2015 with the motto “Power Beyond Borders”, and since 2019 was a difficult year for the world then, we have been working to consolidate energy industry, in line with challenging our brand reputation with new international economic developments in both global and investments. In January 2019, we reached full national markets. The deadlock between capacity at our power plant in Madagascar, the expanding demand for energy in for which we executed a rehabilitation and developing countries and the rising need operation agreement in 2018 and undertook for initiatives to transition to a low-carbon operation of the plant for 5 years. future has set the agenda of the global energy sector. At Aksa Energy, we conduct our business operations with the awareness that energy Despite this challenging environment, Aksa is a vital need for national economic growth Energy demonstrated a successful financial and social development. With this perspective, and operational performance, increasing the EBITDA we have adopted a business model that value we create for all our stakeholders. Our year-end financial results have proven that 1.5 embodies a holistic approach to sustainability. We embrace the concept of sustainability at we are moving in the right direction on our TRY Billion every level of our corporate organization; and journey toward achieving our globalization we take the considerations and priorities in objective. At year-end 2019, our Earnings this key area as seriously as financial strategies Before Interest Tax Depreciation and while setting our business objectives. Against Amortization (EBITDA) increased by 42% the backdrop of the sustainability initiatives Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 8 that we launched in 2014, we pursue At Aksa Energy, we build our sustainable development by contributing sustainability efforts on three main to social welfare, without compromising pillars “Environmental Sustainability,” our environmental responsibilities in all the “Employees” and “Social Responsibility” regions we operate in. in alignment with widely recognized domestic and international standards. When formulating our corporate strategies, At Aksa Energy, we We regularly update our policies on the we assess the potential environmental, build our sustainability Environment, Occupational Health & Safety, social and governance impacts, as well as efforts on three main Quality, Energy and Corporate Social the economic risks and opportunities of our pillars “Environmental Responsibility to provide a framework on business activities. Sustainability,” how we manage sustainability issues. “Employees” and “Social Responsibility” in Our aim is to ensure continuous value Being keenly aware of the environmental alignment with widely creation for our stakeholders. To that impacts of the energy industry, we recognized domestic and end, we have been included in the international standards. embrace the core principle of “maximum BIST Sustainability Index since 2015; energy production with minimum natural we also signed the “The Trillion Tonne resources” to manage the impacts of our Communiqué,” in 2015, and the United operations on the environment. In line with Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2017. this principle, we made an environmental These initiatives are indicators of our investment of TRY 1.96 million in 2019. commitment to sustainability, both locally As a company that attaches great and internationally. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 9 Message from the Chairman and CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO We support the economic, social and cultural development of the local communities residing in the regions where we operate in order to create value for our wide network of stakeholders. importance to the use of efficient and We are committed to creating value for environmentally friendly technologies in our our wide network of stakeholders, whom power plants, we completed the necessary we approach with a sustainability-oriented environmental investments at our Bolu perspective and a sense of social responsibility. Göynük Thermal Power Plant, while it To that end, we take initiatives to support the was still under construction. Thanks to its Local Residents Employed economic, social and cultural development of fluidized bed combustion technology and in African Power Plants the local populations residing in the regions flue gas treatment system, the Plant has been compliant with the European Union’s 60% where we operate. We also carry out efforts to promote education and culture, with a target emission limits for 2018 since its particular focus on children, who are our commissioning in 2015. Thanks to this future. In March 2019, we launched a social approach, Bolu Göynük Thermal Power responsibility initiative called “ENERGY FOR Plant continues to generate electricity TOMORROW” with all other Aksa companies uninterruptedly while several power plants, under Kazancı Group. As part of the project, which did not have flue gas filters were we visit village schools across Turkey and forced to suspend operations. In addition to reducing explain the concept of energy to middle school Turkey’s foreign students. Under this effort, we visited 19 Furthermore, we have continued our dependence on energy, provinces and 22 village schools from the very efforts to preserve biological diversity we actively work to East of Turkey to the West in only 9 months. with various collaborations since 2015. In increase local residents’ During this short time, we travelled more than access to energy in 6,500 km and provided education on energy 2019, we sponsored initiatives in Bolu for developing countries the preservation of the brown bear (Ursus to more than 2,000 middle school students. In through our operations arctos), the largest predator and the only 2020, we aim to visit more village schools to in Africa. bear species living in Turkey, to protect the introduce the topic of energy to students in a species in its native habitat and contribute simple and comprehensible way and reach out to scientific literature on this topic. We plan to a total of 4,000 children by the year end. to support a similar project in 2020. As Aksa Energy, we are proud to voluntarily At Aksa Energy, we embrace our release our Sustainability Report once again responsibility as a global energy company this year. As in the prior six years, we aim to while conducting our business operations. carry out significant sustainability projects in In addition to reducing Turkey’s foreign the coming year; and consolidate our global dependence on energy, we actively work competitive edge and position among the to increase local residents’ access to leading brands in the energy industry by energy in developing countries, through pursuing growth opportunities that create our operations in Africa. Furthermore, we Environmental added value. I hereby would like to express my take utmost care to recruit local residents Investments gratitude to all of our stakeholders, particularly at our power plants. We have hired 60% of our 406 employees in African countries 1.96 our employees, who have supported us on the path to sustainability. from the local residents. With this strategy, TRY Million we further support socio-economic Respectfully yours, development of local communities by creating employment opportunities in addition to offering access to energy in these energy-strapped countries. Ş. Cemil Kazancı Aksa Energy Chairman and CEO Sustainability Report 2019 10 Aksa Energy Sustainability ReportAli 2019 Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 11 Message from the Chairman and CEO Corporate Profile ABOUT US Aksa Energy is one of Turkey’s largest independent power producers, and a global energy concern with its overseas power plants in Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Africa. Aksa Energy was established as a biogas, natural gas, hydroelectricity, and subsidiary of Kazancı Holding in 1997. We wind. Taking our know-know on power commissioned our first energy investment generation overseas with power plant in 1998, and diversified our power plant installations in energy-strapped countries, portfolio over time by using various energy we provide flexible and fast solutions to sources. We completed our first international Installed Capacity meet the urgent need for energy in these power plant investment in Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Shifting our investment 1,946 countries. strategy in 2015, we decided to expand MW We have secured guaranteed energy sales abroad and entered the African market and power plant installation contracts with the power plants we commissioned in with the governments of TRNC, Ghana, Ghana, Madagascar, and Mali. Madagascar and Mali to transfer our efficiency and sustainability-oriented Today, Aksa Energy is one of Turkey’s largest approach to overseas markets. We closely independent energy producers, and a global monitor new investment opportunities energy concern with its overseas power We provide flexible abroad to further expand our global plants in the Turkish Republic of Northern and fast solutions with presence. Cyprus and Africa. As at year-end 2019, we low-cost, high-speed operate in 5 countries on 2 continents with a investments in energyAksa Energy emphasizes key issues such total installed capacity of 1,946 MW strapped countries to as protection of the social structure and thanks to our globalization-driven meet their urgent energy promotion of socio-economic development, investments. demand. human rights, energy conservation and efficiency in the regions where its operates. Aksa Energy performs all steps in plant Aksa Energy’s stock has been traded on BIST installation – from project development, 100 since 2010; and on BIST Sustainability procurement, construction and installation Index since 2015. to operation, maintenance, and repair – inhouse with its well-qualified technical staff. To date, we have installed and operated more than 30 power plants using diverse energy sources, including coal, fuel oil, Power Plants Built and Operated to Date 30+ Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 13 Corporate Profile ABOUT US SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE 21.39% of Aksa Energy’s shares are traded on BIST 100 and BIST Sustainability Indices under the ticker AKSEN. Free Float Kazancı Holding* 21.39% 78.61% Other 0.003% TOTAL 100% * As of December 31, 2019, Kazancı Holding A.Ş. owns a total of 4,958,962 free float shares acquired though share purchases. These shares are shown in “Free Float” shares above. Details on our Shareholding Structure are available in Aksa Energy Annual Report 2019. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 14 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Northern Cyprus Kalecik Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 15 Corporate Profile ABOUT US PRODUCTION PORTFOLIO As at year-end 2019, we operate in 5 countries on 2 continents with the international investments we have undertaken as part of our globalization strategy. Bolu Göynük Mali 270 MW 40 MW Ghana 370 MW Manisa 115 MW* Antalya Şanlıurfa 900 MW 147 MW Madagascar TRNC 66 MW 153 MW 24 MW * The generation license of Manisa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant was revoked in 2019. Number of Power Plants 7 Installed Capacity 1,946 MW Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 900 MW Bolu, Göynük Thermal Power Plant 270 MW Şanlıurfa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 147 MW Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 370 MW TRNC Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 153 MW Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 66 MW Mali Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 40 MW Number of Power Plants Operated for Madagascar 1 Installed Capacity Operated for Madagascar 24 MW Madagascar CTA-2 Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 24 MW Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 16 1,047 MW Natural Gas – Total Installed Capacity Antalya 900 MW 2 Natural Gas Şanlıurfa Combined 147 MW Cycle Power Plants 629 MW Heavy Fuel Oil Total Installed Capacity Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus 153 MW Ghana 370 MW Madagascar 66 MW 4 Mali Heavy Fuel Oil 40 MW Power Plants 270 MW Lignite – Total Installed Capacity 1 Bolu, Göynük Thermal 270 MW Power Plant 24 MW Operated on Behalf of the Country 1 Madagascar CTA-2 Heavy Fuel Oil 24 MW Power Plant Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 17 Corporate Profile VISION AND MISSION Our Vision To become the largest and most reliable power in the region. Our Mission To capitalize on our deep experience and know-how in the energy industry in order to continue implementing high performance projects, with a focus on cutting-edge technologies and a well-educated, highly skilled workforce. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 18 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Şanlıurfa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 19 Corporate Profile STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES Our corporate values, combined with an innovative business model and effective change management, have been instrumental in our geographic expansion and transformation into a global company. Aksa Energy is the electricity generation In line with our globalization strategy, we company of Kazancı Group, a leading group undertook significant investments in three of companies with long-standing experience African countries in 2017, and we aligned across the entire power supply chain our economic sustainability and profitability from production to distribution and sales. targets with this strategy. While conducting We undertook significant As a result, we have major competitive negotiations with various energy-strapped investments in Ghana, advantages – such as cross-selling, higher countries abroad to expand our overseas Mali and Madagascar; brand recognition, and integrated service and set our economic investments, we also focus on effective capability alongside the vertical and sustainability targets management of our domestic power plant horizontal integration that we have built in line with our portfolio. As part of this strategy, we cancelled with other Group companies. Our corporate globalization strategy. the production licenses of some of our power values, combined with an innovative plants, which became less competitive due business model and effective change to rising natural gas costs and lower profit management, have been instrumental in margins on domestic market or temporarily our geographic expansion and ultimately ceased production at some plants to transformation into a global company. reduce operating costs. Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed 2017 2018 2019 i. Direct Economic Value Generated (TRY) Net Sales 3,599,311,868 4,669,249,102 5,578,594,781 Gains on revaluation of property, plant and equipment 1,148,789,260 0 1,855,172,202 Income from investment activities 591,940,550 2,640,864 633,402 Financial income 88,925,423 424,894,229 398,409,926 Revenues 5,428,967,101 5,096,784,195 7,832,810,311 ii. Economic Value Distributed (TRY) Cost of sales (Operating costs included) 3,292,553,203 3,967,572,291 4,572,664,580 Employee wages and benefits* 22,291,121 21,064,254 31,670,357 Community investments 89,633 201,068 411,854 Financial expenses 598,027,562 886,863,321 828,696,646 Tax expenses (Payment to government)** 58,902,533 27,022,279 23,501,379 Payment to shareholders (Dividend) 0 0 0 Expenses 3,971,864,052 4,902,723,213 5,456,944,816 iii. Economic Value Retained (TRY) Revenues 5,428,967,101 5,096,784,195 7,832,810,311 Expenses 3,971,864,052 4,902,723,213 5,456,944,816 Economic Value Retained 1,457,103,049 194,060,982 2,375,865,495 * Blue collar wages are not included as they are included in cost of sales. ** Includes total tax payments to government by Turkey-based subsidiaries of Aksa Enerji Üretim A.Ş., which are consolidated into the Company’s financial statements. Tax payments made in Africa and TRNC are not included as these payments are made to other governments. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 20 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 21 Corporate Profile STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES INVESTMENT STRATEGY Having transformed from a local energy company into a global powerhouse, Aksa Energy supports the Turkish economy with hard currency revenues, and actively pursues new investment opportunities in overseas markets. Aksa Energy formulates its investment Subsequently, in 2016, we entered into strategy by closely monitoring global and an agreement in Madagascar for the local risks and opportunities. In line with construction of a power plant and the sale this strategy, we cancelled licences of of the electricity generated with guaranteed some of our natural gas and heavy fuel capacity payment. The plant was initially oil power plants in Turkey, and undertook Investments commissioned with an installed capacity significant investment overseas by using their equipment. 1.34 of 25 MW in July 2017, and it reached an installed capacity of 66 MW in September TRY Billion 2017. Positioning energy-deprived Africa as its (2015-2019) primary focus market, Aksa Energy has We signed our third contract in Africa to become one of the major energy players build a power plant in Bamako, the capital on the continent with its significant of the Republic of Mali. As in previous investments. We minimized total investment international agreements, this contract costs and significantly shortened the includes guaranteed capacity payment and construction period by utilizing equipment energy sales. First commissioned in August from the existing plants in our portfolio in Positioning energy2017, the Plant continues its commercial the construction of African power plants. By strapped Africa as operations with an installed capacity of completing the construction of our power a primary focus market, 40 MW since September 2017. plants in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali Aksa Energy has become and commissioning them in a very short one of the major energy In 2018, we undertook the rehabilitation time, we boosted our profitability and hard players on the continent and operation of a 24 MW power plant in currency-denominated sales. These power with its significant Madagascar and commissioned 12 MW of plants also enabled us to create a natural investments. the plant’s capacity in December 2018. The hedge mechanism and to reduce the FX Plant reached an installed capacity of rate exposure caused by foreign currency 24 MW in January 2019. loans on our financials. Having transformed from a local energy In 2015, we signed our first agreement company into a global powerhouse, Aksa in Africa with the Republic of Ghana for Energy supports the Turkish economy the construction of a power plant, along with hard currency revenues, and actively with electricity generation and sales with pursues new investment opportunities in guaranteed capacity payment. Ghana Heavy overseas markets via ongoing negotiations Fuel Oil Power Plant started commercial with countries that have an urgent demand operations with an installed capacity of for energy in Latin America, Asia and Africa. 192.5 MW in March 2017 and the Plant’s Total Installed Capacity of installed capacity rose to 370 MW in Power Plants in Africa November 2017. 476 MW Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 22 Aksa Energy Sustainability ReportAli 2019 Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 23 Corporate Profile STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES SALES STRATEGY We have accelerated our foreign currency based income and profitability by relocating the power plants in our portfolio, which had diminishing competitive advantage on domestic market, to the high-potential African continent with low installation costs. As Aksa Energy, we have boosted our Aksa Energy focuses on flexible and effective foreign currency based income and portfolio management, efficiency optimization profitability by relocating the power plants and operational excellence. We pursue a in our portfolio, which had diminishing sales strategy that prioritizes profitability competitive advantage on domestic market, rather than sales volume by operating to the high-potential African continent FX-Based EBITDA combined cycle power plants in Turkey on with low installation costs. Thus, we aim to increase the share of our foreign 73% days and hours when spot energy prices are high. In line with this risk management currency-denominated sales in total approach, we have reduced the number of revenues to forestall potential effects of bilateral contracts relative to previous years, exchange rate differences. focusing primarily on spot energy sales. The increase in spot energy prices boosted the Hard currency-denominated sales form the profitability of local coal-fired Bolu Göynük HFO power plants in Ghana, Madagascar, Thermal Power Plant. Recording about half and Mali, which commenced operations its sales on the spot market, the Plant sells in 2017, in addition to that of Kalecik HFO We pursue a sales the remainder of its generation to Electricity strategy that prioritizes Power Plant in Turkish Republic of Northern Generation Company of Turkey (EÜAŞ) within profitability rather Cyprus, became the cornerstone of our the framework of the tender for “Purchase of than sales volume by financial transformation. As at year-end Electricity from Private Companies Operating operating combined 2019, 73% of Aksa Energy’s Earnings cycle power plants in Only Domestic Coal-Fired Power Plants”. Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Turkey on days and Amortization (EBITDA) is denominated in hours when spot energy Furthermore, we also benefit from the hard currency. prices are high. capacity payment provided by EÜAŞ to licensed power plants that meet the Despite potential risks in overseas markets, determined efficiency and age criteria, including changing energy demands of under the Regulation on Electricity Market each country, seasonality and electricity Capacity Mechanism issued by Energy Market generation by renewable power plants; Regulatory Authority (EMRA). Capacity our international power plant portfolio payments are made within the scope of an significantly contributes to the Company’s annual budget provided to establish profitability, as the guaranteed capacity and/or maintain an adequate installed power payment constitute a larger portion in capacity, including the reserve capacity total overseas turnover. The guaranteed in order to ensure supply security on the capacity is 332 MW out of 370 MW at electricity market. In 2019, Ali Metin Kazancı Ghana HFO Power Plant; 60 MW out of Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Capacity Payment 66 MW at Madagascar HFO Power Plant; Plant and Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant Received in 2019 30 MW out of 40 MW at Mali HFO Power received a total capacity payment of Plant; and 120 MW out of 153 MW at Northern Cyprus Kalecik HFO Power Plant. 114 TRY 114,425,220. Both plants are deemed eligible to be included in the capacity TRY Million Guaranteed capacity payments for CTA-2 mechanism in 2020. Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant, for which we have undertaken operations for five years from year-end 2018, are not collected on the basis of a guaranteed capacity but at a fixed monthly amount set forth in the contract. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 24 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Northern Cyprus Kalecik Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 25 Developments in 2019 DEVELOPMENTS IN 2019 Madagascar CTA-2 Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant, commissioned with 12 MW installed capacity in December 2018, reached an installed capacity of 24 MW in January 2019. CTA-2 Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant Aksa Energy Pursues New Investments in Reached 24 MW Installed Capacity Cameroon and the Republic of Congo In 2018, we executed an agreement with In 2019, Aksa Energy established local the Government of Madagascar for the companies to develop projects in Cameroon rehabilitation and operation of a 24 MW and the Republic of Congo where power plant (CTA-2), owned by Societe negotiations are underway. We signed a Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy, located next to our 12-month Memorandum of Understanding existing 66-MW power plant in Madagascar with the Ministry of Water Resources and for five years. After the commissioning of Bolu Göynük Thermal Energy (MINEE) of Cameroon to develop its 12 MW capacity in December 2018, Power Plant passed a 150-MW natural gas-fired power plant Madagascar CTA-2 Heavy Fuel Oil Power the Integrated project in Cameroon, and a non-binding Plant reached an installed capacity of Environmental Inspection agreement with Gaz du Cameroon S.A. 24 MW in January 2019. carried out by Bolu for natural gas supply. We also obtained a Provincial Directorate 12-month pre-license for two natural gasMinority Shares of the Company in of Environment and fired projects on electricity generation and Madagascar Acquired Urbanization, with zero sales in the Republic of Congo. Aksa Madagascar B.V., a fully-owned offense. subsidiary of Aksa Energy, acquired all In order for these developments to become shares of Aksaf Power Ltd., 41.65% of effective agreements in both countries, the which was held by a foreign partner as parties must agree on various conditions such minority shareholder, for USD 15 million. as tariff price, financial guarantee, project With this transaction, Aksa Energy became development, equipment to be used, and the sole owner of Aksaf Power Ltd., the fuel supply during this period. owner of Madagascar power plant. Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant Passed the Integrated Environmental Inspection with Zero Offense As the period given for thermal power plants to complete their flue gas filtration investments expired on December 31, 2019, Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant, which had previously made flue gas filter and all other necessary environmental investments, was not included in this scope. We continued the environmental monitoring activities during the year to ensure continuation of the “Environmental Permit and License Certificate” granted to Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant on air emissions, wastewater discharge and landfill. In 2019, Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant Plant passed the Integrated Environmental Inspection carried out by Bolu Provincial Directorate of Environment and Urbanization, Aksa Energy with zero offense. Sustainability Report 2019 26 Mali Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant Manisa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Aksa Energy in Sustainability Index Power Plant’s License Cancelled Since 2015, Aksa Energy has been included The electricity generation license of our in the Sustainability Index of Istanbul Stock 115-MW Manisa Natural Gas Combined Exchange, which incorporates publiclyCycle Power Plant was cancelled on April traded companies with high corporate 30, 2019 as per our application filed with Aksa Energy qualified sustainability performance. As one of the Energy Market Regulatory Authority once again for the 14 firms that were included in the index in (EMRA) as the power plant has diminished Sustainability Index for 2015, our Company qualified once again prospects of electricity generation at the period November for the Sustainability Index for the period 2019-October 2020, as in competitive prices under free-market November 2019-October 2020, as in previous periods. conditions in Turkey. However, we plan previous periods. to re-commission it if market conditions change, or alternatively, use its equipment in potential projects abroad with hard currency denominated revenues and higher profit margins. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 27 Sustainability Approach SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Embracing a vision of becoming a socially responsible global energy company, we base our sustainability approach on the three pillars: “Environmental Sustainability,” “Employees” and “Social Responsibility.” Aksa Energy is keenly aware of the We attach great importance to aligning our responsibility placed upon the energy business processes and methods with the industry to build a secure future and a more rapidly advancing technology as technological livable world, and the increasing role of innovation is an integral part of a sustainable sustainability in accomplishing this goal. business model. At Aksa Energy, we believe that By closely monitoring the developments encouraging our employees to embrace this in the field of sustainability, we regularly innovative understanding and corporate culture will assess our business processes and strive to facilitate the holistic development of our Company. We support the growth embed sustainability in all our operations. This approach also supports our sustainability of energy-strapped We shape our business and sustainability countries by meeting performance as we constantly improve and develop strategy as a global energy company with their urgent need our business strategy while creating additional power plants in 5 countries on 2 continents. for energy, while social benefits through transfer of our technology Embracing a vision of becoming a socially contributing to the and know-how in the regions where we operate. responsible energy company, we base our socio-economic sustainability approach on the three pillars: development of local As a global company with international “Environmental Sustainability,” “Employees” communities with investments, Aksa Energy manages its sustainability and “Social Responsibility.” the employment efforts with a global perspective, and closely opportunities we create. monitors local and global sustainability platforms. We conduct our business operations with Our Company has been included in the BIST the awareness that energy is a vital need for Sustainability Index since 2015, and a signatory economic growth and social development. to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Embracing this perspective, we have since 2017. We are committed to conducting our adopted a business model that embodies a business operations in line with the 10 principles holistic approach to sustainability. Thanks outlined in the Global Compact. To this end, we to our sustainable business model, we add prioritize identifying and managing the significant value to Turkey’s economy by reducing environmental impacts of our industry, respecting dependence on imported energy, and by As a global company human and employee rights, and contributing providing foreign-currency cash flow into with international to social development in the regions where we the country. Meanwhile, with our operations investments, we manage operate. In line with our vision of becoming a in developing markets such as African our sustainability socially responsible global energy company, we also countries, we expand access to energy for efforts with a global signed the Trillion Tonne Communiqué in 2015, the local population. Thus, we support the perspective; and closely which is a declaration to the world from companies growth of these countries by meeting their monitor local and global that are sensitive to climate change and demand urgent need for energy, while contributing sustainability platforms. measures to combat it. to the socio-economic development of local communities with the employment To make sustainability a core part of our business opportunities we create. conduct and long-term strategic approach, we take utmost care to regularly update our policies We conduct effective communications across on the Environment, Occupational Health and the organization to convey the sustainability Safety, Quality, Energy and Corporate Social goals, set by top management in line with Responsibility; and engage in continuous our strategies by focusing on creating value communications with our stakeholders. We report across three main pillars of our sustainability our sustainability performance to the public approach. Additionally, we implement multithrough our Sustainability Reports which we stakeholder feedback efforts to monitor our voluntarily issue in accordance with GRI standards performance against these goals. every year since 2016. Aksa Energy GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 28 Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Environmental Sustainability Main Pillars of Our Sustainability Approach Social Employees Responsibility Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 29 Sustainability Approach SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Aksa Energy Sustainability Committee aims to develop the strategies, policies, and objectives required to manage environmental, social and governance risks with a view to creating long-term value. Aksa Energy Sustainability Committee reports To foster a multi-faceted sustainability approach, directly to the Chairman of the Board of the Sustainability Committee members have been Directors and CEO. The Committee develops appointed from among the top executives the strategies, policies, and objectives of the production, business, financial affairs, required to manage environmental, social operations, investment, engineering, corporate and governance risks in order to ensure communications and investor relations, human integration of sustainability with the resources, supply chain, risk, internal audit Company’s decision-making, management, and QHSE units. If necessary, senior executives operation and audit processes, and to create The Sustainability from other relevant departments are invited to long-term value. Committee is comprised meetings held by the Committee. of members from The Committee regularly updates the multiple departments The Sustainability Committee contributes to to ensure that all of Company’s sustainability priorities; the reporting of sustainability performance, as our business activities determines the focus areas in light of well as to the management and integration are in compliance with these priorities; evaluates the impact of of sustainability-related matters with the sustainability principles sustainability efforts on Aksa Energy’s and values, and relevant Company’s business processes, with a more operations; and presents recommendations recommendations are holistic approach. Committee members play and suggestions to the CEO. provided to this end. a crucial role in managing key and material sustainability-related issues that fall within their The Sustainability Committee is comprised respective areas of expertise. Sustainability risks of members from multiple departments to and opportunities related to key and prioritized ensure that all of Aksa Energy’s business issues are evaluated by the relevant units, activities are in compliance with sustainability and the utmost care is taken to analyze the principles and values, and relevant environmental, social and economic impacts recommendations are provided to this end. of these actions in an integrated manner. The Sustainability Coordination and Working Group established under the Sustainability Committee assists the Committee in carrying out these tasks. CHAIRMAN AND CEO Sustainability Committee Sustainability Coordination and Working Group Chief Operating Officer (COO) Environment & Energy Systems Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Quality & Social Responsibility Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Director Occupational Health & Safety Domestic Power Plants Operation & Maintenance Director Human Resources Human Resources Director Financial Affairs / Budget & Reporting Supply Chain Director Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Risk & Control Director Supply Chain Internal Audit Director Risk & Control Environmental & Energy Legislation Executive Internal Audit Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 30 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant 31 Sustainability Approach SUSTAINABILITY MATERIAL TOPICS While determining our sustainability material topics, we reviewed and evaluated global and industrial trends, risks and opportunities, management opinions and corporate strategy, in addition to the stakeholder analysis we conducted in 2018. At the core of Aksa Energy’s sustainability Since we operate in an industry that has approach lie several material topics, which a high environmental impact, we consider we prioritize and revise in line with our issues related to climate change, air evolving business strategy and stakeholders’ emissions, water and waste management, opinions. While determining our material and protection of biodiversity in our regions topics, we reviewed and evaluated global of operation among our material topics. and industrial trends, risks and opportunities, As one of Turkey’s management opinions and corporate largest independent Occupational health and safety, another strategy, in addition to the stakeholder energy producers, we key concern for the industry, remains to be analysis we conducted in 2018. We also took prioritize corporate one of material topics. Additionally, social into account international guidelines, such governance, ethics and responsibility projects are incorporated as United Nation’s Sustainable Development transparency as well as among our material topics, considering our Goals, and the UN Global Compact, to which equal opportunity and relations with society. As a global energy we are a signatory. diversity as our material company with international investments, topics. Aksa Energy’s material topics also encompass In line with the three pillars of our economic, political, and market conditions, sustainability approach, namely contribution to local economy and Environmental Sustainability, Employees and employment, and accessible energy. Ranking Social Responsibility, we group our material among Turkey’s largest independent energy topics in four focus areas: Environment, producers, we also prioritize corporate Society, Products and Services, and governance, ethics and transparency as well Governance. as equal opportunity and diversity as our material topics. Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant Aksa Energy GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 32 High Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Wastes and Wastewater Climate Change and Energy Water Management Accessible Energy Ethics and Transparency Contribution to Local Economy and Employment Corporate Governance Significance for Stakeholders Air Emissions Equal Opportunity and Diversity Economic, Political and Market Conditions Biodiversity Social Responsibility Human Rights Projects Impact on Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Employee Efficiency and Development Uncertainties in Electricity and Fossil Fuels Emergency Management Low Significance for Aksa Energy High Environment Society Products and Services Governance Relation Between Our Material Topics and UN Sustainable Development Goals Contributed Sustainable Group Material Topics Development Goals Climate Change and Energy Wastes and Wastewater Environment Water Management Air Emissions Biodiversity Products and Services Accessible Energy Contribution to Local Economy and Employment Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Society Economic, Political and Market Conditions Social Responsibility Projects Corporate Governance Ethics and Transparency Governance Equal Opportunity and Diversity Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47, GRI 102-49 33 Sustainability Approach STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS AND COMMUNICATION CHANNELS We believe in the importance of interacting and cooperating with stakeholders in all our business processes; and we take into account the potential social impacts on our stakeholders while conducting our operations. As part of our sustainability approach We believe in the importance of interacting at Aksa Energy, we value building and and cooperating with stakeholders in all our maintaining relations with our stakeholders. business processes; and we take into account We seek to understand stakeholder As part of our the potential social impact on our stakeholders expectations and integrate their opinions sustainability approach, while conducting our business operations. into our business processes. We obtain our we value building and Furthermore, we consider contributing to the stakeholders’ opinions on sustainabilitymaintaining relations economic and social development of local related matters via stakeholder surveys. with our stakeholders; communities in the regions where we operate In 2018, we conducted a stakeholder we seek to understand as our primary objective. analysis, which we first carried out in stakeholder expectations 2015, with employees, brokerage firm and integrate their As disclosed in our Quality Policy, which is analysts, banks, investors, clients, members opinions into our available on our corporate website for the of the media, public officers, and NGOs. business processes. information of all our stakeholders, while As part of the survey, stakeholders stated maintaining our business, we are committed to their expectations in the framework of fulfilling the expectations and demands of our sustainability and their opinions about our stakeholders everywhere where we operate, material topics and sustainability efforts. and continuously improving our business According to stakeholder analysis results, processes. Aksa Energy’s stakeholders expect the Company to lead others in the field of Details on our Quality Policy are available on our website. sustainability and serve as a role model for l Employees stakeholders in the value chain. ca Or Se / Lo ies ga ct t y i t niz or cie un ati So mm on s C o tit ors l cia s mp an on e Fin ituti t Co Ins Customers Our Local Stakeholders Authorities P sti ubli Me tu c tio dia ns In I nal Sh nves No ment s are to ho rs/ rn ation ve lde Go ganiz rs Suppliers Or Aksa Energy GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 102-43, 102-44 34 Our Communication Channels Annual Reports Ethics Hotline Investor Presentations Press Releases, Interviews Requests/Suggestions Boxes Social Media Stakeholder Surveys Corporate Websites Face-to-Face Meetings and Public Disclosure Platform Forums Announcements Write to Us Form Sustainability Reports Investor Relations & Sustainability E-mail Addresses Via our request & complaint platform, we collect and evaluate requests and complaints of all our stakeholders and inform relevant parties appropriately. Aksa Energy’s diversified stakeholder communications channels include: E-mail addresses: “Write to Us” form on the corporate Phone numbers: • enerji@aksaenerji.com.tr website: Ethics Hotline: +90 850 511 11 12 • surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com.tr http://www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en/write-to-us/ • etik@aksa.com.tr • investorrelations@aksaenerji.com.tr Aksa Energy GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 35 Sustainability Approach MEMBERSHIPS AND SUPPORTED INITIATIVES As a pioneering company in field of sustainability in Turkey, Aksa Energy collaborates with and supports several associations and initiatives. Associations Energy Traders Association of Electricity Producers Association Distribution System Association (ETD) Operators (ELDER) (EÜD) Association of Coal Turkish Investor Hatay Nature Producers Relations Society Conservation Association (KÖMÜRDER) (TÜYİD) (TAKODER) Initiatives UN Global Compact The Trillion Tonne (UNGC) Communique Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 102-40 36 Governance Approach CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Aksa Energy is committed to complying with the four principles of corporate governance – transparency, fairness, responsibility, and accountability – and the requirements of the Corporate Governance Principles. Good governance is a basic requirement to in the market, in July 2019, Chairman of the ensure the sustainability of companies. Board of Directors was appointed to the CEO Aksa Energy is committed to complying position, which was vacated on December with the four principles of corporate 31, 2018. Our Board members have all the governance – transparency, fairness, We issue annual qualifications specified in the Corporate responsibility, and accountability – and the Corporate Governance Governance regulations issued by the Capital requirements of the Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Markets Board. Principles. We transparently share Reports to transparently relevant developments and actions taken share the relevant The committees that directly report to to reinforce our compliance with these developments and the Board of Directors include the Audit principles, via the Corporate Governance actions taken to Committee, Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report we issue reinforce our compliance Committee, and Early Risk Assessment annually. with these principles. Committee. The Corporate Governance Committee executes the duties of At Aksa Energy, the Board of Directors the Nomination Committee and the is the highest executive body. The Board Remuneration Committee. Additionally, the consists of eight members -one of whom Sustainability Committee reports directly to is femaleincluding three independent the Chairman of the Board and CEO. members appointed by the General Assembly. To enhance our competitiveness Details on our Corporate Governance and Committees are available on our website. Ant itio n Ant Bribery n era i-Co rru and u Rem Polic y Poli ption cy Donations and Dividend Charities Policy Distribution Policy Our Policies Public Human Disclosure Rights Policy Policy Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 37 Governance Approach CODE OF ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY Aksa Energy Code of Ethics aims to embed ethical behavior and high corporate governance standards in our corporate culture to ensure an effective corporate governance. At Aksa Energy, we are aware that effective Any issues or violations related to the corporate governance can only be achieved Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy or with a corporate identity based on strong the Code of Ethics can be reported via the foundations. Aksa Energy Code of Ethics email address etik@aksa.com.tr or the Ethics aims to embed ethical behavior and high Hotline at +90 850 511 11 12. The Ethics corporate governance standards in our Committee is responsible for investigating corporate culture. Our Code of Ethics is and resolving complaints and notifications. focused on eliminating risks relevant to All reports received by the Committee are business ethics, providing ethical guidelines treated with strict confidentiality and held in for employees, auditing the healthy and anonymity. The Committee consists of the continual execution of reporting processes Internal Audit Director, General Counsel and for unethical conduct, and ensuring Human Resources Director, and reports to the continuity of the corporate culture, which Chairman of the Board of Directors. is reinforced by ethical values. The Code of Ethics is applicable to all board members, Compliance with the Anti-Bribery and managers, and employees. In addition, each Any issues or violations Anti-Corruption Policy and Program is closely newly recruited employee is required to sign related to the monitored by all business units. In 2019, no Anti-Bribery and the Code of Ethics Commitment Form. non-compliance was reported to the Ethics Anti-Corruption Policy or Committee or the senior management. the Code of Ethics can be In addition to our Code of Ethics, which Likewise, no complaints regarding bribery reported via requires acting sensitively to the needs and etik@aksa.com.tr or corruption were received from the interests of all stakeholders in conducting or the Ethics Hotline at employees or those acting on behalf of the business operations; Aksa Energy Anti+90 850 511 11 12. Company. Compliance with the Policy and Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy is the Program was internally audited in 2019 designed to protect stakeholders against and their effectiveness was also reviewed. risks and boost the corporate value and The Corporate Governance Committee reputation of our Company. Our also presented an independent report on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy compliance with this Policy and Program to sets forth principles, practices, audit the Board of Directors. and reporting standards related to bribery, corruption, facilitation payments, The function of the e-mail address compliance with applicable laws, rules and etik@aksa.com.tr has been communicated regulations, political donations, travel and to all employees and publicly disclosed on entertainment expenses and gifts. The Policy the corporate website under the heading applies to all board members, managers “Ethical Principles.” In 2018, all employees and employees of Aksa Energy, as well as all were provided with a one-hour online ethics business partners and any individuals acting training based on the Human Resources Policy on behalf of the Company. and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. This training is planned to be repeated in 2020. Details on our Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption Policy are available on our corporate website. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 38 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 39 Governance Approach RISK MANAGEMENT We implement an effective risk management policy to prevent and mitigate all risks in line with our risk management philosophy, which is based on safeguarding the value of company assets, operational security and sustainability. High vulnerability of the energy sector to Aksa Energy implements an effective risk the impacts of global and local market management policy in order to prevent and conditions, combined with the fierce mitigate all risks. Our risk management global competition, increased the need for philosophy is based on safeguarding the effective risk management in the energy value of company assets, operational industry. The scope of risk management has security and sustainability. We regularly expanded and diversified to cover additional review the Company’s risk management issues such as sustainable growth, stable policies and systems in order to identify revenue, reducing costs, combating climate and analyze potential risks, set appropriate change, legal and regulatory compliance. We handle our financial risk limits and establish risk controls, and Thus, it is more important than ever to risks with a centralized monitor risks relative to the relevant limits. accurately evaluate existing and future risks management approach; In addition, we aim to develop a disciplined and effectively faced by the industry and ensure the energy and constructive control environment where manage the risks and sector’s financial, social and environmental all staff members recognize their roles and opportunities faced by sustainability. obligations through training, management the Company by revising our policies where standards, and procedures. Aksa Energy is committed to managing necessary. risks effectively and efficiently. Our Board We handle our financial risks with a of Directors has overall responsibility for centralized management approach, the establishment and oversight of our managing risks and opportunities faced by Company’s risk management framework. the Company effectively via policy revisions, The Board of Directors has established if deemed necessary. We purchase hedging the Early Risk Assessment Committee to instruments in line with policies determined oversee the development and monitoring by senior management to minimize risk of risk management policies. The Early Risk exposure. Evaluating existing Assessment Committee convenes under and future risks faced the chair of an Independent Board Member Aksa Energy operates in an by the industry and twice a year. The Committee conducts ensuring the energy investment-intensive industry and mainly efforts to identify risks and implement sector’s financial, social finances its investments with bank loans. necessary measures regarding potential and environmental Therefore, we regularly monitor liquidity, risks, to manage and review these within sustainability has currency and interest rate risk positions the framework of the risk management become more important and market developments. For all our system, and to report the results to the than ever. operational facilities, we perform on-site Board of Directors. and organizational controls; and group the identified risks into three categories as operational, strategic and compliance risks. We monitor the identified actions via technical studies regularly, and report the eliminated risks. Through regular follow-ups, we systematically monitor and manage new risks that arise in our operations. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 40 At Aksa Energy, we regularly monitor and Our Internal Audit Department performs identify our non-financial risks as well as risk-based assessments in order to evaluate our financial risks. For each risk identified, and develop the control and governance we establish the Key Risk Indicators (KRI); processes of the Company. The Internal and we gather data from the relevant Audit Department conducts regular audits units at regular intervals to report to senior on the reliability of our financial reporting management. We holistically consider We consider system; compliance of the Company’s the environmental, social and economic the environmental, investment and operating activities implications of the actions to be taken. social and economic with legal and internal regulations; the Starting from the investment decision, we implications of our risk effectiveness and efficiency of business perform environmental risk assessments at management actions operations; the security and reliability every stage of our business operations. with a holistic approach; of the our information systems; and To ensure compliance with legal and and starting from the reports its activities to the Board Member regulatory requirements on environmental investment decision, we Responsible for Audit. In 2019, the Internal matters, we identify potential risks by perform environmental Audit Department performed on-site risk assessments at every performing onsite visits. We take actions to internal audits at power plants along stage of our business prevent these risks and regularly monitor with centralized internal audits at the operations. the actions taken to mitigate risks. headquarters. Details on our Risk Management procedures are available in Aksa Energy’s 2019 Annual Report. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 41 Sustainability Performance ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY In addition to our exemplary initiatives to minimize environmental impacts caused by energy generation, we also lead the industry with our environmental management practices covering all aspects of our value chain. Aksa Energy sees environmental While carrying out our business activities, sustainability as one of the three we strive to use natural resources efficiently, fundamental pillars of its sustainability reduce greenhouse gas and air emissions, approach. We conduct our business minimize waste generation, and preserve operations in an environmentally sensitive biodiversity. way for a sustainable future with our Environmental Investments core principle of “maximum energy production with minimum natural 1.96 We have a Framework Environment Management System (FEMS) in place in order resources.” In addition to our exemplary TRY Million to ensure that our environmental goals and initiatives to minimize environmental targets are set, managed, monitored and impacts from energy generation, we also controlled in line with the Environment Policy. lead the industry with our environmental We strive to comply with environmental laws management practices covering all aspects and other legal and regulatory requirements of our value chain. We are committed to through FEMS, which sets forth the rules and continuously improving our environmental Our Environmental responsibilities regarding the Environmental performance. Policy ensures regularly Policy. reporting, monitoring, We execute our environmental and communication In addition to FEMS, which is designed to management practices with a risk-based of the Company’s provide an effective and living environment and systematic approach in accordance with performance toward management system, Aksa Energy has applicable legal and regulatory requirements our sustainability received certifications for ISO 14001 applicable in our regions of operation as goals based on Environmental Management System, well as the corporate environmental and efficiency, transparency, ISO 9001 Quality Management System, energy policies, and internationally-recognized stakeholder ISO 50001 Energy Management System, engagement, and management systems. ISO/IEC 27001: 2013 Information Security cooperation. Management System and OHSAS 18001 Aksa Energy Environmental Policy has been Occupational Health and Safety Management developed to introduce our environmental System to support our environmental management understanding at the management system. corporate level and ensure that it is adopted and implemented by all stakeholders. The In addition to the headquarters, Bolu Göynük Policy is built on four core principles: climate Thermal Power Plant and Şanlıurfa Natural change, natural resource management, Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant are also waste management and conservation included in the scope of ISO/IEC 27001: 2013 of biodiversity. Our Environmental Policy Information Security Management System. ensures regularly reporting, monitoring, In October 2017, we initiated efforts to Environmental and communication of the Company’s Management Training extend the Integrated Management Systems performance toward its sustainability practices under ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO goals based on efficiency, transparency, stakeholder engagement, and cooperation. 88 50001 and OHSAS 18001, which are already in effect at the headquarters, to Ali Metin Man x Hours Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 42 Our Certifications ISO 50001 ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ISO 9001 QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OHSAS 18001 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined suppliers. In 2019, we implemented 88 man x Cycle Power Plant and Bolu Göynük hours training on environmental management. Thermal Power Plant. As of year-end 2019, ISO 14001 ENVIRONMENTAL Additionally, we boosted our environmental MANAGEMENT SYSTEM the required documentation has been investment spending to TRY 1.96 million completed by 95%. We plan to obtain the during the reporting year. Furthermore, we certification by the first half of 2020 by were not issued any penalties due to nondeveloping field applications. In addition, compliance with environmental laws and we began operating at the Ghana Heavy regulations. Fuel Oil Power Plant under the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and At Aksa Energy, we conduct ongoing studies ISO 45001 OHS Management System. on the environmental effects of our existing production facilities. We also carry out an We promote responsible environmental environmental impact analysis for our new management across all our stakeholders, production facilities to be established, prior in particular our employees. We regularly ISO/IEC 27001: 2013 to the project. In the coming year, we plan to organize training sessions for employees on INFORMATION SECURITY further our investments aimed at mitigating MANAGEMENT SYSTEM this key topic and raise awareness of our the environmental impacts of our activities and boosting our performance. Details on our Environmental Policy are available on our corporate website. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 43 Sustainability Performance ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY We are keenly aware of our responsibilities regarding the ever-increasing impact of climate change; and we strive to continuously improve our performance on climate change and energy efficiency. As a company operating in the energy emissions. Since 2015, we have periodically sector, Aksa Energy is keenly aware of its prepared Greenhouse Gas Emission Reports responsibilities regarding the ever-increasing to track greenhouse gas emissions at our impact of climate change. We strive to power plants. We submit our reports to continuously improve our performance on the verification bodies approved by Turkish climate change and energy efficiency as part Energy Savings Republic Ministry of Environment and of our holistic approach to environmental sustainability. 280,000+ Urbanization, which are then presented to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. MWh Our 2019 Greenhouse Gas Emission Report Our Energy Policy is designed to ensure is currently being prepared and will be that the Company’s energy management presented to the Ministry of Environment and system is implemented in accordance with Urbanization, gradually during the year. We the ISO 50001 Energy Management System notify stakeholders about our environmental standard. We aim to fully comply with performance data, such as energy applicable laws, rules and regulations at all consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, locations where we operate, improve our Considering energy via our sustainability reports. In addition, we energy production efficiency and reduce efficiency an essential plan to set new objectives related to energy energy losses. component of our consumption and greenhouse gas emissions environmental policy, we for our investments in Africa. Energy efficiency is an essential component generate energy through recovery of the waste of our environmental policy. Aksa Energy Pursuant to our sustainability approach and heat emitted during generates energy through recovery of the vision of becoming a socially responsible production processes waste heat emitted during production global energy company, we signed the via combined cycle processes via combined cycle technology. Trillion Tonne Communiqué in 2015, which technology. With this technique, we reduce energy is a declaration made by companies that consumption per unit by an average of acknowledge the issue of climate change and 10%. We generate energy through waste demand significant measures to fight against heat recovery at all of our natural gas it. We are proud to be a signatory to the power plants and Northern Cyprus Kalecik Prince of Wales Corporate Leaders Group’s Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant. declaration, which has over 1,000 signatories in 60 countries and advocates that immediate, Thanks to our efficiency-enhancing new and long-lasting measures should be projects, we achieved energy savings of enforced to combat climate change. We over 280,000 MWh and natural gas savings continue to shape our energy investments in of over 11 million m3 during the reporting this regard. period. Natural Gas Savings Furthermore, at Aksa Energy, we We conduct a wide range of activities 11.3 consistently inform all our employees, to mitigate the adverse effects of our Million m3 including subcontractors, through various operations on the environment. Our communication tools and trainings to raise technological investments and initiatives awareness about climate change and energy help reduce costs and cut greenhouse efficiency. gas emissions. We monitor and assess our performance both in terms of energy Details on our Energy Policy are available on our corporate website. consumption and greenhouse gas Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 44 We conduct a wide range of activities to mitigate the adverse effects of our operations on the environment, including technological investments and initiatives taken to reduce our costs and cut greenhouse gas emissions. Energy Savings per Unit through Waste Heat Recovery 10% We signed the Trillion Tonne Communiqué in 2015, which is a declaration made by companies that acknowledge the issue of climate change and demand significant measures to fight against it. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 45 Sustainability Performance ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AIR EMISSIONS We regularly monitor and measure the impact of our activities on air quality including air emissions arising from our business operations. Aksa Energy is aware of the possible effects technologies to mitigate its air emissions of all air emissions on the environment and and minimize the potential risks it poses. human health that originate from its energy With the “fluidized bed combustion production processes. We regularly monitor technology and flue gas treatment system” and measure the impact of our activities used at Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant, With the “fluidized bed on air quality including air emissions arising legally mandated emission values that the combustion technology from our business operations. To that end, European Union targeted for 2018 are and flue gas treatment we monitor and strive to reduce other being achieved by our power plant since it system” used at Bolu air emissions besides greenhouse gases. Göynük Thermal Power first became operational in 2015. Thanks to Emissions are controlled on a real time basis Plant, we meet the the fluidized bed combustion technology, through continuous emission measurement European Union legal the desulphurization process is realized systems installed in our power plants; emission target for directly in the boiler using limestone air emissions from domestic plants are 2018 since the plant’s during combustion. This technology both also monitored online by the Ministry of commissioning in 2015. minimizes emission of the gases harmful Environment and Urbanization. to the environment and boosts the plant’s efficiency. We strive to minimize Besides implementing measures to ensure air emissions from our activities with the that all emissions remain within legally efficiency-boosting projects we carry out on prescribed limits, Aksa Energy conducts an ongoing basis. We also use Oxicat filters multiple initiatives and invest in new to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our natural gas power plants. Air Emissions (kg) NOx * SOx 19,285,292 5,129,198 4,014,876 13,953,207 2,477,841 5,417,461 2017 2018 2019** 2017 2018 2019** * Indicates the amount in NO2. ** The decrease in the number of stop/startups at Aksa Energy plants effectively reduced air emissions in 2019. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 46 WASTE MANAGEMENT In 2019, we recycled 37,000 tons of hazardous waste. Waste management is a key component of our send non-hazardous packaging waste and scrap environmental sustainability approach. At Aksa materials, to recycling companies accredited by Energy, all waste is disposed of in accordance municipalities in the areas where our facilities with applicable laws, rules and regulations, are located. In 2019, we recycled 37,000 tons of and in line with our Environmental Policy. hazardous waste. We recycle hazardous We recycle hazardous and non-hazardous and non-hazardous waste sourced from our operations within the Prior to commissioning Bolu Göynük Thermal waste sourced from our periods defined in the Waste Management Power Plant, Aksa Energy planted over 6,000 operations in line with Regulation. In addition, we regularly enhance Waste Management trees to prevent erosion around the plant site and our waste management processes with Regulation; and we to reinforce the surface ground. Furthermore, innovative technologies to mitigate resource regularly enhance our ashes that are discharged from power plant use and waste generation. waste management operations are stored at Southern Regular Ash processes with Landfill, which was constructed in 2017. This We store hazardous waste – such as waste innovative technologies site was granted environmental approval from oil, contaminated packaging, contaminated to mitigate resource use the Provincial Directorate of Environment and clothing, absorbent filters, sludge in oil/water and waste generation. Urbanization, and replaces the formerly used separators – originating during the course of temporary ash landfill. We rehabilitated the our business operations in temporary waste Southern External Dump Site, which completed landfills at our facilities. During this process, its lifecycle in 2019, and handed over the site we prevent substances and materials that to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The may affect human and environmental health Ministry has planted approximately 140,000 from contact with the external environment. saplings in this site area. Each year, we strive to Later, these materials are transported in enhance our waste management performance licensed vehicles to recycling or disposal with efforts to generate less waste, reduce facilities, at regular intervals. In addition, we resource use and boost process efficiency. Recycled Non-Hazardous Recycled Hazardous Waste (Tons) Waste (Tons) 52,395 83,665 36,659 10 303 4,156 2017 2018 2019 * 2017 2018 2019* * The increase in the amount of Recycled Non-Hazardous Waste in 2019 mostly comes from the recycling of scrap material remaining from the construction phase at the Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant site. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 47 Sustainability Performance ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY WATER AND WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT In 2019, the amount of groundwater used in our operations dropped to zero, while our municipal water consumption decreased by 59%. Furthermore, the amount of water we recycled increased more than 3.5 times compared to the previous year. Many factors that impact the world overall – The Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant such as climate change and urban migration employs a reverse osmosis technology to – lead to depletion of natural resources. collect wastewater in a different pool and Aksa Energy is committed to efficient use of reuse it for ash humidification. Moreover, we water, which is critically important among created Çatak Pond with a TRY 17.5 million the world’s dwindling natural resources. Decarbonization Investments investment to meet the power plant’s water We structure our business activities and processes to reduce water consumption 5.3 requirement. The regional community also benefit from this water resource via the through effective management. Using an EUR Million General Directorate for State Hydraulic innovative approach, we carry out efforts Works. We employ the reverse osmosis to enable efficient use of water across the method also in Şanlıurfa Natural Gas organization. Combined Cycle Power Plant, and we use the recycled water in the facility’s cooling towers. Aksa Energy uses water from varied Since 2013, we have recycled 12% of the resources, such as municipal water supply, total water consumed and achieved 78,000 surface water, and groundwater, depending The seawater m3 total water savings. In 2019 alone, we on the region of operation. We ensure that desalination system recorded a total of 5,674 m3 of water savings. wastewater from our operations is analyzed installed at Northern by accredited laboratories and discharged Cyprus Kalecik Heavy The seawater desalination system installed pursuant to the Water Pollution Control Fuel Oil Power Plant at Northern Cyprus Kalecik Heavy Fuel Oil Regulation. meets 100% of Power Plant meets 100% of the facility’s the facility’s water water requirements. Modification of the In 2019, the amount of groundwater used requirements. purifier tank system for seawater treatment, in our operations dropped to zero, while which was established in 2019, improved our municipal water consumption decreased the efficiency of internal consumption by by 59% compared to 2018. Furthermore, commissioning a pump that consumes the amount of water we recycled increased 37 kW per hour, down from 200 kW per hour more than 3.5 times compared to the with the previous pump. With this effort, previous year. we decreased internal water consumption demand by 10%. We also purify wastewater Aksa Energy continues to implement various by evaporating and condensing it with the methods and develop projects to conserve Evaporator Treatment System for natural gas water. We use decarbonization systems in closed-cycle systems and internal needs. production processes at Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power At Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant in Water Savings at Plant and Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Bolu Göynük Thermal Africa, where water resources are more plant. With a EUR 5.3 million investment, Power Plant limited, we have built measurement tools to we installed decarbonization facilities at monitor water consumption. We also use both plants. With these facilities, over 1.8 the wastewater discharged from the power 272,000 m3 of water was saved in our plant Million m3 plant’s water-softening unit for garden in Antalya, and over 1.8 million m3 of water irrigation purposes. in our plant in Bolu in 2019. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 48 Water Use (m3) 2017 2018 2019 Municipal Water 226,713 148,643 61,630 Surface Water 7,649,666 7,000,446 7,289,340 Groundwater 161,987 112,095 0 TOTAL 8,038,366 7,261,184 7,350,970 Recycled Municipal Water Wastewater (m3) Consumption (m3) 355,225 As part of our 148,643 sustainability efforts, we increased the amount 266% of recycled wastewater 59% at our facilities by 266% year-on-year to 61,630 355,255 m3. 96,969 2018 2019* 2018 2019 Wastewater Amount (m3) 2017 2018 2019* TOTAL 1,869,430 1,656,947 1,894,771 * The amount of wastewater increased in 2019 due to water consumption to improve the quality of water used in production processes. Recycled Wastewater (m3) 2017 2018 2019 567,969 96,969 355,225 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 49 Sustainability Performance ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY BIODIVERSITY We take into account our potential effects on the living species in the regions where we operate; and conduct environmental risk analyses starting from the initial investment decision stage. As Aksa Energy, we are aware that natural 12,000 decares in Hassa district of Hatay, resources play a significant role in securing Turkey has been registered as Natural the continuity of our operations. We Monument by the Ministry of Agriculture and place great importance on protecting Forestry. and monitoring the natural habitat and biodiversity in the areas where our power In 2015, with our first biodiversity project plants are located. We take into account We have developed – Conversation Project for Hatay Mountain our potential effects on the living species projects to monitor Gazelles – we supported conservation of the in the regions where we operate; and endangered species, and mountain gazelle species and its native conduct environmental risk analyses starting minimize the detrimental habitat in Hatay, Turkey. As part of this project, from the initial investment decision stage. effects upon their a special Mountain Gazelle Observation habitats in collaboration In addition to monitoring, assessing and Event was organized on World Environment with Hatay Nature reporting on the impacts of our operations Day. Students selected from the region’s Conservation Association on biodiversity, we also support various rural schools had the chance to observe since 2015. projects through our collaborations to mountain gazelles from the observation tower mitigate and supervise potentially negative constructed on the land. impacts in the regions where we operate. In 2016 and 2017, Aksa Energy supported Since 2015, we have collaborated with a project to study striped hyenas (hyaena Hatay Nature Conservation Association hyaena), an endangered species residing (TAKODER) to develop projects to monitor nearby Gölbaşı Village in Kırıkhan, Hatay. endangered species, and minimize the As part of the project, local residents were detrimental effects upon their habitats. interviewed and photo traps were placed Thanks to this collaboration, an area of in the region to assess the current status of Aksa Energy 2016 Biodiversity Project – Hatay/Kırıkhan Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 50 Aksa Energy 2019 Brown Bear Project – Bolu/Yedigöller striped hyenas and collect information network and status of agricultural activities about their natural habitats and ecology. – affecting the distribution of the population During these efforts, the rock gerbil were determined. Visual records were collected (gerbillus dasyurus), which had not been about the species via photo-traps installed observed for 22 years in the region and to obtain exact information about the size of was thought to be extinct, was also the population. At completion of the project, encountered. Even though the rock gerbil the size, density, distribution, natural habitat, was not the target species in the project, food, and nutritional sources of the red deer this discovery was a key output for initiation population, as well as their social behavior and of research for conservation of the species. interaction with humans and the threats facing Observation of the rock gerbil was included In 2019, we conducted the species, were defined. Alongside prescribed studies in Bolu in the report titled “Preliminary Study measures to be taken for preservation of in cooperation on the Determination of Striped Hyenas’ the species, notes were also created to raise with TAKODER for Dispersion and Ecology in the Kırıkhan – public awareness for continuity of the red deer conservation of the Reyhanlı Region.” The report reveals the brown bear (Ursus population. need for meticulous protection of habitats Arctos) population – the with rich mammal diversity. In addition, only bear species and In 2019, we initiated activities in Bolu the results of this study were published in the biggest predator in in cooperation with TAKODER for the regional and national press, raising public Turkey. conservation of the brown bear (Ursus arctos), awareness on this important topic. the biggest predator and the only bear species living in Turkey. This initiative aims to preserve In 2018, we continued our efforts on the species in the Yedigöller region of Bolu, biodiversity in cooperation with TAKODER. and raise awareness of the public. As part of A project was conducted to determine protection efforts, the threatening factors in the presence and ecology of the red deer the geographic areas that the species inhabits (Cervus elaphus), an iconic species in were identified and protection measures terms of biodiversity, around Yedigöller were established. Informational signage was National Park. The population of red deer Thanks to our placed in road networks and areas where – which is included on the Red List of the biodiversity efforts, tourism activities are conducted; and ecological International Union for Conservation of existence of the bridge passages were identified. Additionally, Nature (IUCN), indicating an endangered rock gerbil (gerbillus measures taken to protect the species were species – is gradually decreasing. Under dasyurus), which had reported to the Bolu Branch of the Nature the project, key factors – such as height, not been observed for Conservation and National Parks. inclination, flora, water resources, road 22 years in the region and was thought to Aksa Energy plans to further promote research be extinct, was also Aksa Energy Biodiversity Projects in this area in the future, and manage the confirmed. Company’s impact on biodiversity. Our efforts Year Project Location will focus on the continuity of endangered animal species in Turkey. In line with these 2015 Mountain Gazelles Hatay objectives, we aim to conduct a project in 2016 Striped Hyenas I Hatay 2020 to reveal the existence of the bobcat (lynx lynx) in Bolu, identify factors that 2017 Striped Hyenas II Hatay threaten the species and set forth protection recommendations. 2018 Red Deer Bolu 2019 Brown Bear Bolu Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 51 Sustainability Performance EMPLOYEES Adopting the approach “Our most valuable asset is our human capital,” we implement modern human resources systems and practices, aligned with our strategic objectives. Aksa Energy shapes its human resources targets requires quality human capital. approach around the core values of right Our Human Resources Policy, which also person for the right job, management of includes our recruitment criteria, is disclosed diversity, equal opportunities for all, and to the public on the corporate website. personal and professional development. For recruitment needs, we assess internal We embrace an approach best summarized Employees and external resources within the context as “Our most valuable asset is our human capital,” which serves as the cornerstone 907 of job description and requirements. In recruitment process, we consider not only of our Human Resources Policy. In line with the current needs for personnel vacancies, our mission of being the employer of choice but also our long term objectives. in the industry, we implement modern human resources systems and practices We manage employee relationships through aligned with our strategic objectives. We our Human Resources Department, which offer a workplace environment that respects is staffed by human resources professionals employees’ rights, supports training and We offer a workplace with specific roles and responsibilities. In development, and allows us to create a environment that addition, our Board of Directors provides competent, best-in-class team to continue respects employees’ support in developing a succession plan for our sustainable growth. rights, supports training key management positions. and development, and At year-end 2019, 19% of our 907 allows us to create a Aksa Energy continues to develop its employees are white-collar and 81% are competent, best-in-class policies and practices to further improve blue-collar; 6% of the employees work team to continue our employee engagement. We place great at headquarters and 94% work at power sustainable growth. importance on employee satisfaction and plants. Aksa Energy has 418 staff members loyalty, one of the immutable elements of in Turkey, 83 in TRNC, 191 in Ghana, 76 in the Company’s human resources vision. Mali and 139 in Madagascar, conducting As of 2018, we have introduced Request business operations in 5 countries on Boxes at headquarters and the power 2 continents. We are committed to plants in order to manage the suggestions, employing local residents at our facilities requests and complaints of our employees located in Turkey and abroad. As a result, systematically. Our other communication 60% of our 406 employees in African channels include the “Write to Us” form countries are local residents. on the corporate website, the Ethics Hotline, and the email address We prioritize employing well-educated, enerji@aksaenerji.com.tr. In 2019, we highly skilled, successful individuals with received 458 requests via Request Boxes. the awareness that achieving our corporate All requests were assessed individually, Local Residents and necessary actions were taken for 28 Employed in African Power Plants requests that were deemed feasible. 60% Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 52 White-Collar Blue-Collar 19% 81% Employees By Category Headquarters Plants 6% 94% Employees By Location Mali Madagascar 8% 15% Ghana Employees 21% By Country Turkey 46% TRNC 9% Details on our Human Resources practices are available on our corporate website. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 53 Sustainability Performance EMPLOYEES SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT We take all requisite safety measures across the organization to meet our target of “zero-accidents”; and prevent occupational diseases. As a global organization, we recognize OHS-related assessments and improvement our responsibilities in occupational health actions are carried out by the OHS and safety (OHS) management, one of Committee at Aksa Energy. The Committee our material topics. We are committed to is comprised of Aksa Energy employees and complying with applicable local and global represents the entire Company workforce. regulations and other legal requirements OHS Training The Chairman of the OHS Committee to ensure that our employees work in a healthy and safe environment. At 20,229 reports directly to the Chief Operating Officer (COO). Additionally, the Quality, Aksa Energy, we implement pioneering Man x Hours Health, Safety & Environment (QHSE) OHS practices, and pursue continuous department collects OHS data from power improvement of our performance in this key plants on a monthly basis, and reports on area. the overall OHS performance biannually. Aksa Energy effectively manages its OHS We take all requisite safety measures practices and processes in compliance Aksa Energy across the organization to meet our with the corporate Occupational Health effectively manages OHS target of “zero-accidents”, and to prevent and Safety Policy and applicable legal processes in compliance occupational diseases. Our Corrective requirements as well as the standards of with legal requirements and Preventive Action Reports include OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and and the standards of assessments and recommendations to Safety Management System certification. OHSAS 18001 prevent situations that may cause injury to Currently, efforts are underway to extend Occupational Health and employees; enhance our OHS performance; the OHSAS 18001 standard at our power Safety Management and eventually, help us achieve the plants, which we already implement at our System. zero-accident objective. These reports also headquarters. Using a risk management provide emergency plans for all scenarios in approach, we define, assess, and classify order to be prepared for possible incidents the OHS related risks and threats, and take and emergencies. In 2019, Aksa Energy measures to reduce risks to an acceptable recorded 4 work accidents with minor degree. In accordance with OHSAS 18001 injuries (injuries requiring outpatient care notification instructions, we fully record the or first aid only) and 1 accident with severe health and safety data of our employees. injuries at its domestic power plants while In addition, we conduct assessments and 3 accidents with minor injuries occurred at improvement efforts by comparing our data the overseas power plants. Our Company with overall Turkey and European statistics. completed 2019 with no fatal work We are committed to taking preventive accidents. In 2019, 7 lawsuits were raised OHS measures at our subcontractors and against the Company alleging liability for affliated parties. work accidents; 1 lawsuit filed in 2018 for Decline in Accident fatal work accident is still ongoing. Frequency Rate (2018-2019) 48% Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 54 Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant – Applied Fire Extinguishing Training In 2019, we maintained our efforts To optimize OHS management processes, to enhance the health and safety conditions we plan to introduce an integrated system at our domestic and overseas power by 2020 to ensure systematic recording plants, and reduce work accidents and of all accident data, and reporting of occupational diseases. During the year, accident details to the Head Office, and we provided 20,229 man x hours of OHS facilitate notification to authorities within training to our employees. We strive to three business days by Human Resources In 2019, accident raise the OHS competency of our workforce frequency rate decreased department. This new system will allow to achieve the “zero accident” target at by 48% compared to the recording and investigation of any incidents as our power plants. In 2019, OHS training previous year. well as unsafe situations that might give rise accounted for 93.6% of all the training we to accidents or near misses. provided to our workforce. At year’s end, our accident frequency rate declined by Details on our Occupational Health and Safety Policy are available on our corporate website. 48% compared to the previous year. Accident Frequency Rate* Domestic Overseas Total 2.00 1.75 1.65 1.50 1.25 1.00 0.95 0.75 0.54 0.50 0.41 0.25 0.42 0.22 0 0.12 2017 2018 2019 * Calculation: Number of accidents / Total annual working hours (Man*Hour)*100,000. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 55 Sustainability Performance EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE EFFICIENCY AND DEVELOPMENT We invest in our human capital to make our employees feel that they are members of a team that cultivates development and creativity, rewards efforts and appreciates achievements. Aksa Energy understands that it is only For more effective and efficient possible to achieve its long-term goals with management of human resources, we the help of its employees. We strive to aim to develop integrated ERP (enterprise recruit and retain staff members, who are resource planning) systems; and to that dynamic, motivated, open to creativity and end, we plan to formulate career maps and change. At Aksa Energy, we are committed a talent pool by 2021. to investing in our human capital to make our employees feel that they are members We aim to recruit skilled Remuneration and Benefits of a team that cultivates development and employees who can Aksa Energy focuses on remuneration creativity, rewards efforts and appreciates adopt and actively work and benefits to provide the most suitable achievements, from the day of recruitment to realize the Company’s conditions that are meaningful to onwards. vision. As a rule, we employees and sustainable for its business. primarily meet our In parallel with our objective of being the We recruit skilled employees who can adopt staffing needs internally employer of choice within the industry, and actively work to realize the Company’s from the current we implement a remuneration policy that vision. As a rule, we primarily meet our workforce. is competitive, sensitive to the market staffing needs internally from the current conditions, and which aims to improve the workforce. To fill vacancies that cannot be quality of life of our staff. The Corporate met internally, via promotion or transfer, Governance Committee is responsible for we use external resources to facilitate new execution of our Remuneration Policy* staff recruitment. We discover and recruit on behalf of the Board of Directors. In our current and potential human capital via line with the Remuneration Policy, which talent management efforts. Career paths is available on our corporate website, we are created on a common ground that offer performance-based remuneration, as benefits both employees and the Company, per the core principle “equal pay for equal enabling staff members to improve their performance”. Additionally, we closely skills and help the Company achieve its monitor macroeconomic factors and trends corporate goals. in the industry to ensure implementation of a fair and accurate remuneration policy At Aksa Energy, job descriptions are across the Company. documented under ISO 9001 Quality Management System, and shared with In addition to remuneration and benefits all staff members. We implement career For more effective and provided to employees, Aksa Energy has and performance management systems efficient management of furnished health and personal accident human resources, we aim developed with a target-based approach; insurance to 614 personnel in total. This to develop integrated and set smart objectives for manager number includes headquarters staff who ERP systems, and plan to positions and above. Aksa Energy plans visit the power plants as part of their job formulate career maps to establish specific performance targets and a talent pool by descriptions, along with those working at to evaluate individual performance in the 2021. the power plants. coming year. We also aim to introduce a risk and opportunity assessment matrix in 2020 to analyze human capital needs more effectively and faciliate management of vacancies that cannot be filled by internal transfer or promotion. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 56 Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant Personal and Professional Development In 2019, Aksa Energy provided its workforce Aksa Energy promotes personal and with 21,621 man x hours of training in professional development of its staff total. members, and organizes frequent training sessions to support employees. We provide Features of Aksa Energy’s various training opportunities to all staff remuneration system: members in order to meet their career and personal development needs; fulfill Fair occupational requirements occurring over time; and achieve the Company’s targets Transparent and strategies. These trainings are designed Total Training Hours Based on measurable and balanced to ensure that employees acquire new skills and remain aware of innovations in 21,621 Man x Hours performance targets the energy industry, where ever-advancing Promotes sustainable success technology is the norm. Our training efforts Compliant with the Company’s risk aim to continuously improve employee management principles performance while providing access to all technical and professional knowledge they Details on our Remuneration Policy are available on our require to become more competent in their corporate website. respective roles, and develop their personal skills. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 57 Sustainability Performance EMPLOYEES EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND DIVERSITY We are firmly against discrimination based on race, religion, language, gender or sexual orientation, in any stage of our business operations including the nomination, recruitment and promotion processes. Believing that diversity promotion processes. We support women’s As a global energy company, we respect and respect to diverse the rights of all our employees and participation in the labor force to ensure beliefs and opinions business partners, and advocate respect for gender equality in the workplace. At Aksa enrich corporate fundamental human rights in the society Energy, female employees account for 9.5% culture, we provide across all countries where we operate with our employees with of the total workforce; meanwhile, 13% of an efficiency and sustainability-oriented equal opportunities our board members are female. We believe approach. to strengthen their that returning to work after maternity leave competencies. should be considered as part of gender We have committed to meeting basic equality in business, and encourage our human rights requirements with our Aksa female employees in this regard. In 2019, Energy Human Rights Policy,* which we 50% of our female staff returned to work prepared in 2016 and translated into the after maternity leave. official languages of all of the countries where we operate. Our Human Rights Policy We take every precaution and actively is shaped around the Universal Declaration implement the Code of Ethics to prevent on Human Rights and International Labor discrimination among employees and Organization (ILO) Conventions, United protect the staff from physical, mental and Nations Global Compact, UN Guiding emotional abuse within the organization. Principles on Business and Human We encourage our employees to contact Rights, and OECD’s Guiding Principles for the Human Resources Department if they Multinational Enterprises. The Policy is experience any kind of management related disclosed to the public on the corporate Rate of Female Board problems. In 2019, no complaints alleging website. Our Human Rights Policy further Members discrimination by race, religion, language or states that we are opposed to child labor gender were received from our employees. and forced labor. The Policy covers our 13% Details on our Human Rights Policy are available on our employees, business associates, and corporate website. suppliers, and is executed by the Ethics Committee. Believing that diversity and respect for diverse beliefs and opinions enrich corporate culture, we provide our employees with equal opportunities to We take every strengthen their competencies. Aksa precaution and actively Energy and its subsidiaries are firmly against implement the Code discrimination based on race, religion, of Ethics to prevent language, gender or sexual orientation, discrimination among employees and protect in any stage of its business operations the staff from physical, including the nomination, recruitment and mental and emotional abuse within the organization. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 58 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We aim to create further value for our extensive network of stakeholders, directly or indirectly affected by our operations, with a strong sense of social responsibility. As a global company with operations Aksa Energy actively works to minimize spanning 5 countries on 2 continents, the adverse impacts of its operations. We Aksa Energy considers all individuals and We carry out initiatives evaluate potential outcomes that may arise entities, directly or indirectly affected by to support economic, from these impacts and take responsive its business operations, as stakeholders. social and cultural measures as needed, by listening to the With this perspective, and coupled with a development of the local opinions and suggestions of local residents strong sense of social responsibility, we aim communities residing in in the areas where our power plants are our regions of operation. to create further value for our extensive located. Moreover, we carry out initiatives network of stakeholders. We manage our to support economic, social and cultural corporate social responsibility pursuant to development of the local communities the principles outlined in our Corporate residing in our regions of operation. Social Responsibility Policy. Details on our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy are available on our corporate website. Madagascar Orphelinat Etoile du Matin Orphanage Visit Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 59 Sustainability Performance SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTRIBUTION TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY AND EMPLOYMENT We meet the urgent energy needs of developing markets, such as African countries; indirectly support growth and contribute to their socio-economic development by creating employment opportunities. Aksa Energy is keenly aware that energy In line with its vision of being a socially generation is a vital need for economic responsible energy company, Aksa growth and social development. Embracing Energy expects its suppliers to comply this perspective, we help reduce Turkey’s with international standards in terms foreign dependence on energy while of occupational health and safety and meeting the urgent need for energy environmental policies. Our Supplier in developing markets such as African Relations Management (SRM) system, countries, through our operations. Thus, Local Residents Employed scheduled for implementation in 2020, is we indirectly support the growth of these in African Power Plants designed to facilitate supplier selection at countries by expanding access to energy, the Company by methodically assessing and contributing to the socio-economic 60% suppliers from a social and environmental development of local communities with the perspective. employment opportunities we create. Aksa Energy also carries out infrastructure We employ the human resources we work and maintenance projects in the need from the local population in order regions where it operates to support to provide employment opportunities for local economic development and create people in our operating regions. As at lasting value. We provide dedicated year-end 2019, 60% of our staff in African feedback mechanisms to receive and countries and 85% in TRNC are local assess the requests and expectations of our residents. Similarly, Bolu Göynük Thermal stakeholders and local communities in this Power Plant’s staff was recruited from the regard. In 2019, we made donations of villages of Bölükcekova, Himmetoğlu and Local Suppliers TRY 264,603.78 in order to meet various Karaardıç, in the vicinity of the plant. 94% local requirements in places where we conducts business. In addition, we donated In addition to providing employment a total of TRY 411,853.78 to various opportunities at our power plants, we also associations, including TRY 147,250 to select subcontracting companies from the Hatay Nature Conservation Association, region when additional services are sports clubs and schools. needed at the power plants. Thus, we contribute to the expansion of the local Local labor market, and create a source of Location Employees income for the local population. As at year-end 2019, 94% of our 1,112 suppliers Ghana 60% in 15 countries across four continents are local, along with subcontractors, brokerage Madagascar 60% houses and consultancy firms operating in Mali 63% energy production and mining. In 2019, Local Residents our procurement spending amounted to Employed in TRNC Northern Cyprus 85% TRY 634.8 million in nine main and nine sub-merchandise groups; and 35% of this 85% amount was paid to local suppliers. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 60 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant 61 Sustainability Performance SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS In 2019, we teamed up with Aksa Natural Gas, Aksa Electric and Aksa Power Generation under Kazancı Group to execute a joint social responsibility project: “ENERGY FOR TOMORROW.” Social responsibility constitutes one of the We intented to entertain the children while three pillars of our sustainability approach. reinforcing the information and concepts, As part of our strong commitment in this presented during the training, with an energykey area, we develop and carry out various themed math game developed specifically social responsibility projects to promote for the project. Numerous energy-themed education and culture, with a particular Distance Traveled with experiments were also used to demonstrate focus on children, the future of us all, ENERGY FOR TOMORROW key points. The energy-themed math game especially those living in rural regions. 6,500+ was specially designed for the Aksa brand. The innovative game was developed by taking In 2019, we teamed up with Aksa Natural Km into account the mathematics skill level of Gas, Aksa Electricity and Aksa Power each class. With this game, we intended Generation under Kazancı Group to execute to entertain the children while supporting a joint social responsibility project, “ENERGY their learnings as they try to solve the FOR TOMORROW.” Under this initiative, math questions in a fun game. The game is employee volunteers from participating played with groups of four and specifically Group companies travel across Turkey and designed for all groups to be completed at provide training sessions on energy in rural With a strong a similar time, thus it does not allow any middle schools. commitment to social team to win by a landslide, considering the responsibility, we carry emotional development of children, as well. As part of the nationwide effort, which out efforts to promote The educational gameplay is conducted by a started in March 2019, we covered more education and culture, team of advisors consisting of math teachers; than 6,500 km and reached more than with a particular focus these instructors support those children who 2,000 students at 22 village schools in on children the future experience difficulties during the game. 19 cities. Prioritizing regions where Aksa of us all. Energy and other Group companies At the end of the instructional activities, operate, we visited village schools in students are presented with various school Rize, Trabzon, Ağrı, Van, Elazığ, Malatya, supply products, a backpack and the Energy Balıkesir, Çanakkale, Amasya, Tokat, Ordu, Encyclopedia -a specially designed illustrated Giresun, Zonguldak, Düzce, Bolu, İzmir, book on energy. We also provide a copy of the Manisa, Bursa and Bilecik in a nine-month energy game to each school, so that teachers period. During our visits, we provided can use it as an educational tool in their comprehensive energy education for 5th-, classes. In 2020, we plan to provide further 6th-, 7thand 8th-grade students. Formed energy education at village schools by by the Corporate Communications staff traveling across Turkey with the “ENERGY FOR of Group companies, the ENERGY FOR TOMORROW” team. By year-end 2020, we Total Number of TOMORROW team provided students with Students Targeted aim to reach out to 4,000 students in total. useful information on many energy-related by End-2020 subjects, including energy resources, energy In addition to this initiative, we organize efficiency, conscious use of energy, clean energy concept and energy production. 4,000 technical trips and training sessions to contribute to the development of our youth. In addition, students had the opportunity to In 2019, Aksa Energy hosted 227 visitors from learn about the Group companies operating various schools and institutions at Ali Metin in the energy industry. Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant, Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant and Şanlıurfa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 62 Impact Groups Targeted with the “ENERGY FOR TOMORROW” project 5th to 8th grade students at rural schools in Turkey Teachers Families Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 63 Sustainability Performance PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Energy Consumption (GJ) 2017 2018 2019 Electricity (Internal Consumption from Own Production) 1,288,598 1,292,659 1,223,834 Natural Gas 33,523,085 20,124,335 16,410,100 Lignite 19,713,139 22,148,489 12,741,995 Fuel Oil 13,450,687 14,275,678 13,724,053 Diesel 1,958.4 323,392 9,793 Total 67,977,468 58,164,552 44,109,775 Energy Consumption per GJ of Electricity Generation 2.18 2.50 1.64* * In 2019, calculation method for Energy Consumption per GJ of Electricity Generation has been revised as Total Fuel Energy Used / Total Energy Generated (Electricity and Steam Power). Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e)* 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 4,888,820 4,446,485 3,882,434 Scope 2 183,315 182,049 0** Total 5,072,135 4,628,534 3,882,434 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per MWh Production (kg CO2e/MWh) 586 716 535*** * The calculation methodology is based on activity data multiplied by GHG emission/removal factors. The calculation methodology is based on the GHG Protocol. Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) are based on Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPPC) Fifth Assessment Report Values. ** GHG emissions from use of electricity generated at the plants were included in Scope 2 in previous years. However, emission from fuels used to produce electricity for internal consumption is already included in Scope 1. To avoid double-counting, Scope 2 value is revised as 0 in 2019. *** In 2019, the steam power generation is also included in calculation of GHG emissions per MWh Production. Otherwise this value is calculated as 612 kg CO2e/ MWh. GHG intensity has decreased as a result of resource and energy efficiency policies and practices. In calculation of GHG inventory for Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant, only CO2 emissions from lignite combustion are included as recommended by the Turkish Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for the industry. Air Emissions (kg) 2017 2018 2019** NOx* 19,285,292 13,953,207 5,417,461 SOx 5,129,198 4,014,876 2,477,841 * Indicates the amount in NO2. ** The decrease in the number of stop/startups at our plants effectively reduced air emissions amount in 2019. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 64 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Employees by Location* 2017 2018 2019 Domestic 512 501 501** Overseas 507 476 406 Total 1,019 977 907 ** Includes TRNC. Employees by Gender* 2017 2018 2019 Female 84 87 86 Male 935 890 821 2017 2018 2019 Employees by Category* Female Male Female Male Female Male White-Collar 65 179 37 190 38 138 Blue-Collar 19 756 50 700 48 683 Total (By Gender) 84 935 87 890 86 821 Employees by Type of Employment* 2017 2018 2019 Full Time 1.019 856 907 Part Time 0 121 0 2019 Employees by Tenure* Female Male 0-5 Years 70 583 5-10 Years 10 156 10 Years and Above 6 82 Total (By Gender) 86 821 2019 Employees by Gender and Age* Female Male Above 50 Years 5 50 Between 30-50 Years 54 575 Below 30 Years 27 196 Total (By Gender) 86 821 * Includes five Board Members, excluding Independent Board Members. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 65 Sustainability Performance PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2018 2019 Managerial Employees by Gender and Age* Female Male Female Male Female Male Above 50 Years 1 3 0 5 1 5 Between 30-50 Years 3 3 2 11 1 10 Below 30 Years 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total (By Gender) 4 6 2 16 2 15 Total 10 18 17 * Includes Members of the Board of Directors (except for Independent Board Members), CFO, COO, Directors and Country Managers. 2017 2018 2019 Board of Directors by Gender and Age* Female Male Female Male Female Male Above 50 Years 1 2 1 3 1 5 Between 30-50 Years 0 5 0 4 0 2 Below 30 Years 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total (By Gender) 1 7 1 7 1 7 Total 8 8 8 * Includes Independent Board Members. 2017 2018 2019 Newly-Recruited Employees by Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Above 50 Years 2 5 0 11 0 5 Between 30-50 Years 13 64 12 93 5 45 Below 30 Years 24 129 7 78 7 31 Total (By Gender) 39 198 19 182 12 81 Total 237 201 93 2017 2018 2019 Employees Resigned by Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Above 50 Years 0 20 1 15 0 6 Between 30-50 Years 20 229 6 151 4 72 Below 30 Years 3 83 13 99 1 27 Total (By Gender) 23 332 20 265 5 105 Total 355 285 110 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 66 2019 Employee Turnover Rate* 10.98% * Calculation method for average number of employees: Total Number of Individuals Employed in 2019/12 Training Hours 2017 2018 2019 Total Training Hours 21,183 25,817 21,621 Average Training Hours per Employee 20.8 26.4 23.8 Disabled Employees by Gender 2017 2018 2019 Female 2 1 2 Male 11 11 10 Total 13 12 12 2017 2018 2019 Parental Leave Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Employees Taking Parental Leave 4 0 4 29 3 46 Number of Employees Returned to Work after Parental Leave 3 0 4 29 2* 46 Number of Employees Retained 12 Months after Returning from Parental Leave 3 27 1** 38 * Excludes one employee who is still on parental leave. ** Excludes two employees, as the 12-month period has not elapsed yet after their return to work. Subcontractors by Gender 2018 2019 Female 19 34 Male 749 466 Total 768 500 Occupational Health and Safety 2019 Domestic Overseas Number of Employees 501**** 406 Number of Accidents 5 3 Number of Fatalities 0 0 Number of Occupational Diseases 0 0 Number of Absentee Days* 2,237 Injury Rate (IR)** 0.41 0.12 Occupational Disease Rate (ODR) 0 0 Absenteeism Rate*** 1.56 * Absences other than paid leave, such as annual leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, compassionate leave and training leave. Indicates only domestic employee data. ** Injury Rate (IR) = [(Number of Accidents) / (Total Annual Working Hours (Person*Hour))] x 100,000 *** Absenteeism rate = [Number of Absentee Days / Total Annual Working Days Person*Day)] x 100. Indicates only domestic employee data. **** Includes TRNC. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 67 Annexes ANNEX-1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Annex-1: UN Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) Principles Related Topic Principle 1: Businesses should Sustainability Approach support and respect the protection Equal Opportunity and Diversity of internationally proclaimed Human Rights Policy Human rights. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2: Make sure that they Sustainability Approach are not complicit in human rights Equal Opportunity and Diversity abuses. Human Rights Policy Principle 3: Businesses should GRI Content Index uphold the freedom of association Human Rights Policy and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms Equal Opportunity and Diversity of forced and compulsory labor. Human Rights Policy LABOR Principle 5: Effective abolition of Equal Opportunity and Diversity child labor. Human Rights Policy Principle 6: Elimination of Employees discrimination in respect of Human Resources Policy employment and occupation. Human Rights Policy Principle 7: Businesses should Environmental Sustainability support a precautionary approach Environmental Policy to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives Environmental Sustainability to promote greater environmental Climate Change and Energy responsibility. Biodiversity Memberships and Supported Initiatives ENVIRONMENT Contribution to Local Economy and Employment Principle 9: Encourage the Sustainability Approach development and diffusion Climate Change and Energy of environmentally friendly Air Emissions technologies. Waste Management Water and Wastewater Management ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should Code of Ethics and Transparency work against corruption in all its Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy forms, including extortion and bribery. Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 68 ANNEX-2: GRI CONTENT INDEX We developed the content of this Report in accordance with the GRI Standards ‘Core’ option requirements. The accuracy of the references for the General Disclosures between 102-40 and 102-49 is reviewed and confirmed based on the Turkish version of the Report by GRI within its Materiality Disclosures Service. GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES SECTION / ANSWER PAGE NUMBER GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 About This Report Inside Front Cover About Us 13 102-2 Production Portfolio 16-17 http://www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en/ 102-3 69 contact-us/ About Us 13 102-4 Production Portfolio 16-17 102-5 Shareholding Structure 14 About Us 13 102-6 Shareholding Structure 14 Production Portfolio 16-17 About Us 13 Shareholding Structure 14 102-7 Production Portfolio 16-17 Strategy and Objectives 20 Employees 52-53 Employees 52-53 102-8 Social Performance 65-67 Contribution to Local Economy and 102-9 60 Employment GRI 102: General Developments in 2019 26-27 Disclosures 2016 102-10 Contribution to Local Economy and 60 Employment Sustainability Management 30 102-11 Risk Management 40-41 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 Sustainability Approach 28 102-12 Memberships and Supported 36 Initiatives Memberships and Supported 102-13 36 Initiatives Strategy Message from the Chairman and 102-14 8-10 CEO Strategy and Objectives 20-24 Developments in 2019 26-27 102-15 Sustainability Approach 28-36 Corporate Governance Structure 37 Risk Management 40-41 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Vision and Mission 18 102-17 Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 69 Annexes ANNEX-2: GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES SECTION / ANSWER PAGE NUMBER Governance Sustainability Management 30 Corporate Governance Structure 37 102-18 https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Sustainability Management 30 Corporate Governance Structure 37 102-19 Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Sustainability Management 30 Corporate Governance Structure 37 102-20 https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Sustainability Approach 28 Sustainability Management 30 102-21 Sustainability Material Topics 32 Stakeholder Relations and 34-35 Communication Channels GRI 102: General https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// Disclosures 2016 102-22 Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Corporate Governance Structure 37 102-23 https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// 102-24 Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Sustainability Management 30 102-26 https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Sustainability Management 30 102-27 https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Sustainability Management 30 Corporate Governance Structure 37 102-29 Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 70 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES SECTION / ANSWER PAGE NUMBER 102-30 Risk Management 40-41 https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// 102-31 Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Sustainability Management 30 102-32 Sustainability Material Topics 32 Sustainability Management 30 Sustainability Material Topics 32 102-33 Stakeholder Relations and 34-35 Communication Channels Memberships and Supported 36 Initiatives http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/ 102-35 Aksa Energy Remuneration Policy corporate-governance/remunerationpolicy/ Remuneration and Benefits 56-57 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/ 102-36 Aksa Energy Remuneration Policy corporate-governance/remunerationpolicy/ https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// 102-38 Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General Stakeholder Relations and 34-35 Disclosures 2016 Communication Channels 102-40 Memberships and Supported 36 Initiatives No employee is covered by 102-41 71 collective bargaining agreement. Sustainability Approach 28 Sustainability Material Topics 32-33 102-42 Stakeholder Relations and 34-35 Communication Channels Sustainability Approach 28 Sustainability Material Topics 32-33 102-43 Stakeholder Relations and 34-35 Communication Channels Sustainability Approach 28 Sustainability Material Topics 32-33 102-44 Stakeholder Relations and 34-35 Communication Channels Reporting Practice https://629811665.r.radorecdn.net// 102-45 Annual Report 2019 media/7554/aksa-energy-annualreport-2019.pdf About This Report Inside Front Cover 102-46 Sustainability Approach 28 Sustainability Material Topics 32-33 Sustainability Approach 28 102-47 Sustainability Material Topics 32-33 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 71 Annexes ANNEX-2: GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES SECTION / ANSWER PAGE NUMBER Emissions sourced from internal consumption of the electricity generated at power plants are excluded from Scope 2 emissions 102-48 72 to rectify the double-counting in previous years. Steam power is also included in calculation of the total energy production. GRI 102: General 102-49 Sustainability Material Topics 33 Disclosures 2016 102-50 About This Report Inside Front Cover 2018 Sustainability Report 102-51 72 (1 January – 31 December 2018) 102-52 Annual 72 102-53 About This Report Inside Front Cover 102-54 About This Report Inside Front Cover 102-55 GRI Content Index 69 No external assurance service has 102-56 72 been received for the report. GRI 200: Economic Standard Series Economic Performance Strategy and Objectives 20-24 103-1 Developments in 2019 26-27 GRI 103: Management Strategy and Objectives 20-24 103-2 Approach 2016 Developments in 2019 26-27 Strategy and Objectives 20-24 103-3 Developments in 2019 26-27 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Strategy and Objectives 20 Performance 2016 Indirect Economic Impacts About Us 13 103-1 Strategy and Objectives 10 Investment Strategy 22 About Us 13 GRI 103: Management 103-2 Strategy and Objectives 20 Approach 2016 Investment Strategy 22 About Us 13 103-3 Strategy and Objectives 20 Investment Strategy 22 Developments in 2019 26-27 203-1 Environmental Sustainability 42-51 GRI 203: Indirect Social Responsibility 59-63 Economic Impacts 2016 Developments in 2019 26-27 203-2 Environmental Sustainability 42-51 Social Responsibility 59-63 Aksa Energy GRI 102-48 Sustainability Report 2019 72 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES SECTION / ANSWER PAGE NUMBER Anti-Corruption Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/ 103-1 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption corporate-governance/anti-bribery-andPolicy anti-corruption-policy/ Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/ Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption GRI 103: Management corporate-governance/anti-bribery-and103-2 Policy Approach 2016 anti-corruption-policy/ http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/ Ethical Principles corporate-governance/ethical-principles/ Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/ 103-3 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption corporate-governance/anti-bribery-andPolicy anti-corruption-policy/ 205-1 Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 GRI 205: AntiCorruption 2016 205-2 Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 205-3 Code of Ethics and Transparency 38 GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series Energy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Climate Change and Energy 44-45 Approach 2016 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 103-2 Climate Change and Energy 44-45 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 103-3 Climate Change and Energy 44-45 Environmental Performance 64 302-1 Environmental Performance 64 302-3 Environmental Performance 64 GRI 302: Energy 2016 Environmental Performance 64 302-4 Climate Change and Energy 44-45 Water Water and Wastewater 103-1 48-49 Management Environmental Sustainability 42-43 GRI 103: Management 103-2 Water and Wastewater 48-49 Approach 2016 Management Environmental Sustainability 42-43 103-3 Water and Wastewater 48-49 Management Water and Wastewater 303-1 48-49 Management GRI 303: Water 2016 Water and Wastewater 303-3 48-49 Management Biodiversity 103-1 Biodiversity 50-51 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 GRI 103: Management 103-2 Biodiversity 50-51 Approach 2016 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 103-3 Biodiversity 50-51 GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3 Biodiversity 50-51 2016 304-4 Biodiversity 50-51 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 73 Annexes ANNEX-2: GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES SECTION / ANSWER PAGE NUMBER Emissions 103-1 Air Emissions 46 Climate Change and Energy 44-45 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 103-2 Climate Change and Energy 44-45 GRI 103: Management Air Emissions 46 Approach 2016 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 Climate Change and Energy 44-45 103-3 Air Emissions 46 Environmental Performance 64 305-1 Environmental Performance 64 305-2 Environmental Performance 64 305-4 Environmental Performance 64 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Climate Change and Energy 44-45 305-5 Air Emissions 46 Environmental Performance 64 305-7 Environmental Performance 64 Effluents and Waste Waste Management 47 103-1 Water and Wastewater 48-49 Management Environmental Sustainability 42-43 Waste Management 47 GRI 103: Management 103-2 Water and Wastewater Approach 2016 48-49 Management Environmental Sustainability 42-43 Waste Management 47 103-3 Water and Wastewater 48-49 Management GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste Management 47 Waste 2016 Environmental Compliance 103-1 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 GRI 103: Management 103-2 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 Approach 2016 103-3 Environmental Sustainability 42-43 GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Environmental Sustainability 43 Compliance 2016 GRI 400: Social Standards Series Employment 103-1 Employees 52-58 GRI 103: Management 103-2 Employees 52-58 Approach 2016 Employees 52-58 103-3 Social Performance 65-67 401-1 Social Performance 65-67 Remuneration and Benefits 56-57 GRI 401: Employment 401-2 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 2016 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 401-3 Social Performance 65-67 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 74 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES SECTION / ANSWER PAGE NUMBER Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Safe Working Environment 54-55 GRI 103: Management 103-2 Safe Working Environment 54-55 Approach 2016 Safe Working Environment 54-55 103-3 Social Performance 65-67 403-1 Safe Working Environment 54-55 GRI 403: Occupational Safe Working Environment 54-55 403-2 Health and Safety 2016 Social Performance 64-67 403-3 Safe Working Environment 54-55 Training and Education Employee Efficiency and 56 Development 103-1 Personal and Professional 57 Development Employees 52-53 Employee Efficiency and 56 GRI 103: Management 103-2 Development Approach 2016 Personal and Professional 57 Development Employee Efficiency and 56 Development 103-3 Personal and Professional 57 Development Social Performance 65-67 Personal and Professional 57 404-1 Development Social Performance 65-67 Employee Efficiency and GRI 404: Training and 56 Development Education 2016 404-2 Personal and Professional 57 Development Employee Efficiency and 404-3 56 Development Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 GRI 103: Management Employees 52-53 103-2 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 Approach 2016 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 103-3 Social Performance 65-67 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 Social Performance 65-67 405-1 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/ GRI 405: Diversity and Aksa Energy Board of Directors about-aksa-energy/board-of-directors/ Equal Opportunity 2016 There is no gender discrimination 405-2 in remuneration. Remuneration is 75 based on performance. Non-Discrimination 103-1 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 GRI 103: Management Employees 52-53 103-2 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 Approach 2016 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 103-3 Social Performance 65-67 GRI 406: Non406-1 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 58 Discrimination 2016 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 75 Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Website: http://www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en/home/ http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/home/ Headquarters: Rüzgarlıbahçe Mahallesi Özalp Çıkmazı No: 10 34805 Kavacık, Beykoz ISTANBUL/TURKEY Social Media: tr.linkedin.com/company/aksa-enerji https://www.youtube.com/channel/ UC5529x2REflXdIHU-qHKO8A Reporting Consultancy: Proudly produced by FİNAR. www.finarkurumsal.com Aksa Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Aksa Enerji Üretim A.Ş. Rüzgârlıbahçe Mahallesi, Özalp Çıkmazı No: 10 34805 Kavacık Beykoz ISTANBUL/TURKEY Tel: +90 216 681 00 00 Fax: +90 216 681 57 83 www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en www.aksainvestorrelations.com
