COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 0 1 9 -2 02 0 Communication on Progress 2020 Table of content Executive summery 3 Christensen & Co Architects 4 The UN Global Compact’s principles 5 How we work with the SDGs 6 Our work with the SDGs 2019-2020 7 Workshops and materiality assesment 10 Staff: circular economy and materials 12 Collaboration: SDGs in the building industry 13 Office: Learning from Corona lock-down 14 Office: Reducing CO2 emssions 15 CSR Action plan 2020-2025 18 Measurement on Key Performance Indicators 19 Cover: Front: Linneaus University seen from above. We’ve created the university building complex for a multidisciplinary campus community.The solar panels supply the buildings with green energy, and they were in use during the construction phase. The buildings holds green roofs that provide shelter for bees and hold local plant species, thus supporting biodiversity in the area. Back: Learning stairs in an open social environment fostering interdisciplinary collaboration. Client: Svea Fastigheter, Sweden Area: 22.000 m² Year: 2018 Location: Kalmar, Sweden Photos: Front Skanska, Back: Niels Nygaard Communication on Progress 2020 Executive Statement of Commitment for 2020 We are pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment and support to UN Global Compact and the 10 principles covering the issue areas; human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our support for the principles, which are part of the core values of Christensen & Co. Architects. During 2019-2020 we have further developed our strategic focus on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), both in our projects and as an architectural practice with an office of around 50 employees. To ensure a holistic approach to our CSR-activities we have conducted two workshops focused on rhe SDGs: A workshop on how we address the SDGs in our projects A workshop on how our office and business operations impact the SDGs. As a result, of the two workshops we have strengthened our focus on documentation. Thus, in this report we define actions to be taken for the coming three years. We will measure our CSR-activities according to these. Our action plan is divided into actions that needs to be put into action during 2021, 2022 and 2023. In addition, we are including our first preliminary accounting on CO2 emissions. We have decided to conduct the accounting our selves as this provides us with the best insight into how we can prioritize actions. However, this also means that for this first year, we are only including the major items in our accounting covering emissions under scope 1,2 and 3, but not all listed under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. As a continued effort, we use our SDG screening tool for identifying sustainable solutions in our projects. As an added dimension, we are focusing on both positive and negative impacts of our projects, thus identifying possibilities for mitigating negative impacts as well as strengthening positive influence (the method can be seen under our materiality assessment). We will continue to asses and select solutions that address the SDGs throughout the phases of each projects. From the early stages of setting the team to the evaluation of the suppliers, we continue to carefully select potential collaborators in order to ensure Human rights, Labour rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption standards are upheld, during 2019-2020 this means that 60 out of 61 requests for proposal includes an anti-corruption agrement (ESPD). We continue our work wit CSR through our membership in the Danish Association for Responsible Construction and commitment to the CSR charter for the Danish Building Industry and we urged collaborators to work with issues related to the SDGs as well as the CSR charter. Copenhagen, 2020 Michael Christensen, Creative Director and founder Christensen & Co Architects Vibeke L. Lindblad, CEO and partner at Christensen & Co Architects 3 Communication on Progress 2020 Christensen & Co Architects projects facts Currently our new school GABYs is among the first five projects that will integrate Copenhagen Municipality’s strategic focus employees on circular economy. 41 people in total 19 women Sustainable projects certified under 22 men leading sustainability schemes such as DGNB, LEED and Miljø Bygnad Guld. Participated in more than 50 competitions, and won half, for learning C and research buildings within the past 10 years. project statistics Completed more than 400.000 m2 20% culture and sport T of learning and research buildings, all with a focus on sustainability to established 2006 2% housing the extent possible. Copenhagen A 3% others Danish Energy Award 2018: Kistefoss75% learning dammen Kindergarten in Norway. The W bulding reduce CO2 emissions by 61% compared national building standards. First public carbon neutral building in Denmark, Green Lighthouse, first DGNB certified project after pilot phase, Soil Center Copnehagen, and first energy+ kindergarten in Denmark, The Sunhouse. S 02 # At Christensen & Co Architects, every single project is an To us, sustainability is about creating beautiful architecture with opportunity to realise a unique architectural potential. We believe progressive, innovative energy solutions that ensure long-lasting architecture makes a difference, and that architects with intention, quality of life for people and the environment. This means that empathy and thoroughness can create buildings that can actively our buildings, both in terms of their aesthetics, social ambition, change people’s lives. Consequently, we build social environments materials, and technology are made to last. We ensure high in close collaboration with the people who populate our buildings architectural quality, including the UN Sustainable Development and our architecture is always focused on creating synergy and Goals (SDGs) into our designs. strengthening social interaction. 4 Communication on Progress 2020 Our commitment to the 10 UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption We support and respect the inWe hire architects, constructiEnvironmental sustainability is an We demonstrate independence ternationally proclaimed human on designers and administrative integrated part of our architecand anti-corruption practices. We rights: We conduct screenings staff according to the Danish law tural design. We consider energy do not engage in any form of praof collaborators and througof engagement. We acknowledge optimization and choice of matectice which in any way comprohout our supply chains, which and respect the law on workers rials as equal to a building’s archimise our basic principles of soenables us to offer clients adright regarding salary and work tectonic and functional discourse. cial responsible and professional vice on how suppliers perform hours and the general right to We strive to use sustainable prinpractice. We take steps to inform according to international CSR have a good work/life balance. ciples in all parts of our building and seek dialogue with clients, guidelines. We work under EUWe choose collaborators who projects. I.e. by the incorporation collaborators and supplier should law and sign collaboration agpractice the same principles. We of the 17 SDGs. We screen all our we find conflicts of interest. We reements on respecting Human are strive use materials and proprojects for solutions addressing systematically assess whether Rights. ducts that are certified to ensure the 17 SDGs. We strive to use we are observing the principles labour rights are respected fx. sustainable principles in all parts of the Danish CSR Charter for the the EU Ecolabel. We have a close of our building projects and we inbuilding industry in our projects. Human Rights (UN Global Comcollaboration with all relevant parcorporate international standards We continue to incorporate our pacts’ principle 1 and 2) ties and labour organisations. We and certifications, such as the CSR focus in our risk analyses have an ongoing dialogue with DGNB, LEAD, BREEM etc. To do screening tools. For 60 out of 61 Danish building industry orgathis, we also conduct screenings public RFPs and 2 out of 3 private nisations, networks, The Danish of collaborators and throughout RFPs. Association for Responsible Conour supply chain. Thus both inforstruction, and play an active part ming us about relevant collaborain CSR events and conferences. tors and enabling us to offer client Anti-corruption (UN Global Compacts’ We work under EU-law and sign advice on how suppliers perform principle 10) collaboration agreements on reaccording to international CSR specting Human Rights and aboguidelines. lishing all forms of forced labour, including child labour. Environment (UN Global Compacts’ principle 7, 8 and 9) Labour (UN Global Compacts’ principle 3, 4, 5 and 6) Christensen and Co. Architects continue to commit to the 10 To us, the SDGs are an added layer to our work with the 10 principles principles of UN Global Compact defined under the four areas of Global Compact. We use the SDGs as a tool for driving innovation, human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We do select projects and create brand value while ensuring license to opthis as described below and specifically we uphold our standards erate for Christensen & Co Architects. Since 2006 we have worked by committing to The Danish Association for Responsible with sustainable solutions that ensure long lasting quality of life for Construction’s CSR Charter. people and the environment. 5 Communication on Progress 2020 How we work with the SDGs SDG An architect’s perspective Society Economy Ecology 62# 62# Process Micro Climate Functionality Biodiversity Partnerships Energy Place Community Mobility #26 Users Economy Materials Society Aestetics Vision Approach We use the Sustainable Development Goals as a communicative We screen all new projects systematically, mapping out the potenand strategic tool to create architectural quality in all our projects. tial for contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals in each project. We apply qualitative methodologies supported by data to Mission show the value thatv architecture creates. We select target goals We work with all 17 Sustainable Development Goals, as the frameand related facilitating goals, to clearly document how working with work was intended. In addition, we have a strategic aim of always one goal sets off a domino effect activating several other goals in addressing SDG 4: Quality Education target 4.a, as designing theoverall framework. For each phase, we evaluate opportunities / learning environments is one of our key ambitions / needs, applying relevant tools such as LCC and LCA. 6 Communication on Progress 2020 Our work with the SDGs in projects 2019-2020 .7 17.17 16 15 .6 .9 16 17.16 15 .5 .5 3.4 .3 16 15 3.5 .2 15 3.8 .1 15 3.9 4.a 4.7 14.3 4.5 14.2 4.3 14.1 4.2 13.3 13.1 13. a 5.5 5.1 12 6.2 .2 12 6.3 .4 12 6.4 .5 12.7 11 6.6 .3 3 12 7. .8 11 2 .4 10.1 7. 11 8.4 .6 9.5 10.3 11 8.6 .7 8.7 8.8 This diagram shows identified potentials not realized solutions. In future reports we will show two measurements; one for potentials, one for solutions. Currently we are conducting screenings of all new projects. Based on our materiality assesment methodology (see more page 11), we identify specific positive potentials and negative impacts for each project. During 2019-2020 we have conducted 6 full SDG screenings out For each phase of a project we re-evaluate our initial priorities of 15 competiontion, and all 15 projects include a focus on the in collaboration with our clients and team, thus ending up with a SDGs. As we are continuing to elaborate on our methodology, only materiality assesment with a specfic focus and defined indicators 6 are fully screened we expect to have all new projects screened in to evaluate from. In 2019-20 our full screenings include the new 2020-2021. In total, our screenings identify solutions for 49 out of School GABYs at Nørrebro, laboratory research facility B112 the 169 targets for the 17 SDGs. We have suggested solutions for at Technical University Denmark, NOL nuclear storage and the 15 out 17 SDGs. In our screenings we assesses both positive and competion for Søborg School in Gladsaxe. negative impacts. 7 We have designed Stejlepladsen Masterplan so that the architecture supports diversity. The project includes communal spaces and dwellings for both shared and public housing. Different types of dwellings ensure living spaces for an array of family constellations. Housing options support a vibrant local community for senior citizens and students. Client: Copenhagen City & Harbour Authorities, Area: 72.000 m2 Year: 2021 Location: Copenhagen, Denmark Communication on Progress 2020 Workshops and materiality assesment The workshop was specfically designed to explore all the sustainable solutions that we already work with an identify areas of sustainability in architecture that we whish to strengthen. Workshop on integrating the SDGs in our architecture Thus, at the workshop, we collected concrete experiences, mapped On 24 January 2020 we held a workshop on how to incorporate out possible actions related to the different phases of a building the SDGs into our projects.During the three hour workshop we project, from competition proposal to finalized project. discussed how our work is relation to the SDGs both in terms of our different proffessions, the different phases of a building project and The result of the workshop is a catalogue for inspiration on how how our clients ambtions play an important role in our possibilities. to work with the SDGs according to building phase. We see the value of continuing our collective work to define a vocabulary and The workshop was specfically designed to explore all the scope for our work with sustainability. Our focus provides us insight sustainable solutions that we already work with an identify areas of into relevant methodologies (eg energy cuts, materials, screening sustainability in architecture that we whish to strengthen. tools etc.). And it also help us define focal areas for staff trainings, developing specfic skills on sustainable architecture. 10 Communication on Progress 2020 high impact Negative effects Possitive effects Low impact Our Materiality Assessment mappes positive and negative impacts. During a workshop four individual groups assessed impacts at target levels on the SDGs. The individual conclusions were discussed and combined in a joint materiality assessment for all the SDGs. The materiality assesment were moderated by Carve Consulting. Four groups discussed impacts related to employees, office operations, collaborators and studio activities. The results were combined in a joint materiality assesment. Workshop on Materiality assesment The materiality assessment included two sessions. First session, On 6 March, our entire studio held a workshop on how our daily four groups, assessed which targets were relevant to our practice. operations impact the SDGs, both in terms of positive and negative The groups identified relevant actions that could be implemented. impacts. The workshop’s focus on our environmental, social and SDG 17 were integrated into discussions on all the other goals. The economic impacts are closely linked to our practices focus on life result of the assesment were presented to our management at a long learning, decent employment and transparent dicision making. meeting held in late april. Here the partner group decided on the following focus areas for the coming years (see action plan p. 18): At the workshop we assessed our own activities, devided into actions related to staff, office operations and collaborators not An employment policy with specfic KPIs on diversity on project results The workshop started by defining the scope of A procurement policy with KPIs on sustainability the assessment and an introducing on how our CSR activities are Mapping of CO2 emissions related to our business linked to the SDGs. We continued by going through the 17 SDGs A code of conduct on the UN SDGs for business partnerships and the 169 targets, specifically focusing on the crosscutting goals 5: Gender equality and 17: Partnerships, and finally reviewing We chose to have Carve Consulting moderate the workshop. how to go through the five steps of the working methodology Having an external moderator helped us avoid blind spots in our recommended in the SDG Compass. own practice and introduced new perspectives on our profession. 11 Communication on Progress 2020 Staff: circular economy and materials Professor Anne Beim presented Center for Industrial Design’s work with circular economy in architecture. The materials pyramid is developed by The presentation included three architecture students’ experimental roof pipe material, which is the Pelle Much Petersen as part of his PhD result of their work with circular materials. At, Christensen & Co we see staff trainings as an inherent part of emssions for production. DNA. All employees have written trainings and education into their contracts. To define relevant education and training we have an One result of our focus on circular economy is our work with education committee comprised of all the different professions incorporating LCA (Life Cycle Analysis) calculations early on in our employed at the studio. Each year the committee define a topic, projects. These calculations present scenarios for how a building’s plan lectures and give input to management on relevant external carbon footprint can be reduced. One example is our ongoing trainings. project Building B112 at DTU, where analysis of materials has lead to the current project proposal. The project is screened for During 2019-2020 we have had a specific focus on circular solutions within the SDG framework and it is part of the test phase economy and we have had presentations by various experts on for DGNB diamond certification. The certification holds a specfic how to work with circular economy in architecture. Among theses focus on architectural quality as a driver for sustainability. presentations were PHD Pelle Munch Petersen and Professor Additionally, we explore posibilities for reusing materials, which Anne Beim, from the Center for Industrialized Design (CINARK) adheres to circular principles for materials. Currently, we are at institute at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. Their developing Stejlepladsen Masterplan (page 8) the new School presentations focused on how to select materials with a focus on Gabys at Nørrebro (page 16). Both projects hold specfic solutions the relationship between to performance, dimensions and CO2 for how to incorporate circular principles in architecture. 12 Communication on Progress 2020 Collaboration: SDGs in the building industry OPS E TAR NC T VERDENSMÅLENE SOM AGENDA FOR FORANDRING ERA V VERDENSMÅL LE AKTØRER HANDLING REDSKAB CASE D BU UD RECIR KUL OG ER ING ALER AF T FBSA CHARTER. ANBEFALINGER TIL HANDLING FOR ALLE PARTER G NIN TAG DES ED IGN N ROADMAP SE EFA T DRIF GG BY The road map for how to integrate the 17 SDGs into building processes are developmed The Danish Association for Responsible Construction’s CSR Charter. As the road map only excist in Danish as it is designed for the Danish building industry. We continue to push for crosscutting collaborations that Driving sustainability in the construction industry strengthens architects’ voice in the debate on sustainable change Our CEO, Vibeke Lindblad, continues her board membership at the in the building industry. We recognize that some sustainable Danish Association for Responsible Construction and she has been changes cannot be made through our own effort on projects. Thus, co-authoring 3 opinion pieces on diversity and gender equality We see the need for cross sectoral and broader sector initiatives during the last year. The association has also established a working to reach the goals set under the SDG agenda and in the Paris group on integrating the SDGs in building process. Christensen & Agreement. Therefor we contribute to sector specific activities in Co Architects is represented by Trine Ivarsen in this working group. associations. During 2019-2020 the working Group has developed a road Consultation on national indicators for the SDGs map for collaborations in constrution incorporating the SDGs (see During 2019-2020 our focus has specifically been on increased above). Trine Ivarsen, has been a key stakeholder in developing and awareness on documentation of architectures contribution to UN designing the road map. SDGs. To ensure this focus in a national context we have given input to the Danish hearing on national indicators for the 169 targets for SDGs. The input for the consultation was compiled by the Association for Danish Architectural Firms. 13 Communication on Progress 2020 Office: Learning from corona lock-down On 11 March 2020 Denmark’s Prime minster sent a large To ensure having a meaningful mapping of experiences we have proportion of Danish public employees home. subsequently the conducted interviews and questionnaires with the entire office and management at Christensen & Co Architect decided to do the the end result will be a best practices manual for our studio’s online same. 13 March the home work stations were establised and the meetings. The reason for this being two fold: first of seven briefings from management were sent out to all. The result was a crash course in online collaboration and team We see a great opportunity to minimize on CO2 emissions work. During the period it became clear that working from related to commute (scope 1 and 3) home presented both challenges and opportunities. For one we Optimizing work flow for employees. Thus reducing stress and experience a new focus during online meetings, and employees encreasing a good work-life balance. reported that working from home could in some instances increase productivity. 14 Communication on Progress 2020 Office: Reducing CO2 emsission Visuals and photos curtesey of SustainSoultions. We take reducing CO2 emissions seriously, and we are pleased to The solar panels were activated in May 2020, and we expect to report that during 2019-2020 we have had solar panels mounted see their contribution to our electricity consumption in next year’s on our roof. The solar panels are part of an overall retrofitting of our documentation of CO2 emissions. offices and they are financed by our administrator. SustainSolutions has mounted the solar cells. They cover 2,649 m2 The solar cells will produce 120,000 kWh per year, which property, which house our studio, in Bragesgade 10 at Nørrebro in corresponds to the electricity consumption in a residential area with Copenhagen. 25 detached houses. This summs up to saving 40t CO2 per. 15 For the new School at Nørrebro, called GABYS, we have developed a strategy for circular use of materials. The strategy specif ically focus on reducing CO2 emssions and raw materials. Client: Municipality of Copenhagen Area: 10.200 m2 Year: 2023 Location: Copenhagen, Denmark 16 17 Communication on Progress 2020 Action plan for CSR 2020-2023 Staff Off ice Collaborators 2020 Current state Current state Current state Staff policy on gender, age Policy on procurement and diversity reflecting for office supplies, lunch Danish demographic and print material (information documentation 2021 Documentation on staff KPI for carbon emisions trainings according to GRI 2022 Change to electric comCode of conduct for collapany car borator based on SDG’s 2023 As a result of the materiality assessment, the partner group at Christensen & Co. Architects has decided on the following actions during 2020-2023. The action plan should be seen as a preliminary plan, not an exhaustive list of activities for the coming three years. This means additional relevant Key Performance Indicators might be added but none will be removed. 18 Communication on Progress 2020 Documentation Company car 1.05 t Energy supply 5.11 t scope 1 Business travel by taxi 0.48 t 3% Heating 0.43 t scope 2 Business travel by plain 55 % 7.42 t Study trip scope 3 7.32 t 44 % Waste management CO2 budget Following city guidelines * All numbers are for 30/6-2019-23/06-2020 The emssions are calculated from estimates not a correct amount of kWh used as this factor was not available through our administration* 19 www.ccoarch.com
