From Santa Marta to the world Sustainable value chain management Environmental Responsibility Commitment to the community Human development About this report GRI index TABLES FROM T O THE WORLD “We are a united family creating sustainable development, from our hearts to the world” Message from our CEO The period of 2012-2018 was a positive one. As a We also just relaunched our consumer-facing result of our internal management efforts we brand, Organic Mountain, with a new look that have achieved many important accomplishhighlights the Sierra Nevada mountain range of ments in our various regions of operation, Santa Marta and the ancestral people who used demonstrating the experience we have gained in sustainable and organic methods to produce our broad trajectory and our tireless committheir crops. The brand has a vast portfolio of ment to a responsible and sustainable operation. organic and sustainable products in more than six categories; beverages, sweeteners, grains Thanks to our ongoing search for creative and and flours, oils, bakery products and snacks. The innovative solutions we have transformed our brand will first be launched in the Asia Pacific operations; we have not only developed solumarket. tions that mitigate our impact, but also solutions that enable us to adapt to ongoing changes. Through the various advancements we have made over the last several years, our Group has Over the last few years we have independently learned that people are the driving force of our developed significant additional capacity;exgrowth. In which case we understand the imporpanding the scope of our operations by integratance of supporting and enhancing the wellbeting an industrial cluster, opening two new proing of our workers. With this in mind we have duction plants, and commissioning the biggest promoted an organizational culture based on oil refinery in Latin America (with a capacity of self-care and the protection of others, under one 1,200 tons per day). slogan: “I take care of you, I take care of myself and we take care of each other.” In addition, we have optimized our processes, decreasing our consumption of natural resourAlso, we recognize that to achieve a better ces and preventing pollution by using waste as future we must depend on people who are coman input; reusing it in our operations. For exammitted to finding more and better solutions to ple, the palm oil milling process at our Tequenthe challenges faced by our businesses, therefodama extraction mill uses waste fibers (seeds re our goal is to provide the tools necessary to and husks) for compost and effluents (a blend of increase the skills of our workforce through oil, water and sludge) to generate energy. on-the-job training programs, an incubator for young talent, professional plans and educational Our vision and quality standards have enabled aid. us to consolidate our company in the B2B (Business to Business) market, with an important porWe also understand that given the nature of our tfolio of ingredients for the global food, pharmabusiness and the vulnerability of agribusiness ceutical and cosmetic industries. In addition, by systems to climate change, we must increasingly the end of 2018, we have extended our business understand and manage our impact and strive model to engage the B2C (Business to Consuto adapt to this challenge while maintaining our mer) market, offering products to the end confocus on sustainable and responsible producsumer in the confectionary (chocolates) and tion. personal hygiene (soap bars) segments. This was made possible by the acquisition of manuWe are committed to strengthening sustainable facturing companies, including the latest addidevelopment, abiding by globally recognized tion to our supply chain; Soapworks Ltd, the voluntary standards through which we have learlargest manufacturer of soaps in the United ned strategies to empower small producers, Kingdom with more than 30 years of experience. reinforce each level of our value chain, and operate under fair, responsible and respectful trade criteria with high conservation values of our land. We are continuously searching for opportunities to support our community, mainly for those located in areas of conflict or for those that are highly vulnerable. Our commitment to sustainable development is evidenced by the fact that the Daabon Group is the first RSPO Next-certified company worldwide. In addition to the strategies required by our standards, we have developed our own initiatives, focused on granting benefits to the families in our local communities. From 2012-2018, we implemented various community development programs in the areas of education, entrepreneurship, food safety, sports and recreation. In the future we plan to reinforce this approach towards sustainable development in our businesses, including investing in the development of renewable energies to achieve greater energy efficiency with the potential use of solar power on our Caribbean Coast. We also strive to prevent greenhouse gas emissions through the capture and use of biogas, and to extend this process to all of our mill operations. Looking ahead, we are developing several new projects. First, in our logistics unit we plan to expand our Free Trade Zone through the acquisition of the Tayrona Free Trade Zone and the construction of Las Americas port . This will allow us to be more efficient in our port operations, as well as optimize the transport of goods via pipes, reducing the dependence on mobile transport and the resulting environmental impact. Additionally, we will work to carry out a multimodal logistics revolution by actively participating in the implementation of the Santa Marta La Dorada rail service. Our heritage The Daabon Group was founded based on the family vision of working the land in a responsible way. The company name is a combination of the last names of the founding couple; Mr. Alberto Davila Diaz Grandados and Mrs. Carmen Abondano Alzamora, who have built DAABON on a foundation of Respect, Integration, Sustainability and Love (RISA), an acronym that means “laughter” in Spanish. The Group anticipates market trends, and as such it has positioned itself as a pioneer in the establishment of a production, transformation and trade model for vertically integrated organic agricultural and sustainable products; always based on its company motto: “from the soil to the market”. “As a family, we have seen three generations grow united with the same purpose in mind, caring for people” * For the purposes understood as the of this document, 'Daabon Group' or 'Group' is set of the 12 companies: CI Tequendama SAS, CI Samaria SAS, Terlica, Construproyec, Zona Franca Las Americas, AFD, Voltaje Empresarial, Ecobio. Family activities that gave rise to the Daabon HISTORY Group more than 100 years ago started in the state of Magdalena with cotton crops. Since it was founded, Daabon has become a well-known international brand established in more than ten countries; we have been leaders in quality and transformation of organic and sustainable agricultural products. First banana and livestock Cotton crops in 5 hectares Daabon Group crops for the first generation consolidation Creation of the San Francisco of the Davila Family pasteurizer (milk and derivatives) Creation of the Corona First palm oil crops Extraction Mill (12 ton/day) Organic certification in palm oil, coffee and banana Dehydrated fruit plant (bananas, mangoes and pineapple) Daabon becomes international by First exports of organic coffee establishing allied companies in Japan, (Kogee Brand) Germany, United States and Australia Refinery established Creation of the Alliances for Peace (35 ton/day) smallholder palm cooperatives Stake purchase in the Refinery expansion including a new Santa Marta Port fractionation plant NOP (USDA Organic) and Rainforest Alliance certificationsin banana, coffee and cocoa plantations Terlica (liquid bulk oil terminal) was established First Colombian company to duly implement the RSPO First Colombian company to be certification standard RSPO certified New palm shortening plant Palm oil crops certified Rainforest Alliance Expansion of farms to 4,000 Creation of CDM (Clean hectares in La Guajira zone Development Mechanism) using palm oil mill effluents Creation of the Zona Franca Las Americas free trade zone New refinery plant (DAMA 4) with a processing capacity of 1000 tons/day Commercial liason established First company in the world to First honey production in our in the United Kingdom be certified RSPO Next conservation areas Strategic alliances formed with First exports of organic, Rainforest Concession contract signed by the Soapworks UK, Ltd. (soap Alliance Hass Avocadoes to Europe Colombian government to develop company in Scotlland) Las Americas Port. Soy degumming and refining Fair Trade USA certification was Additional free trade capacity capacity installed in our existing achieved in our palm oil installed by acquisition of the processing facilities. plantations. Tayrona free trade zone. Integral business operation with global vision. The operation of the DAABON Group is based on strong client relationships built on trust and on a long-term vision. This operation model, which requires strict crop planning and innovation in the industrial area, enables the development of a trade strategy that defines effective logistics processes and new brands or sustainable products. We have identified four areas of business that frame these operations: AGRICULTURE OILSEEDS Palm oil production FRESH FRUITS Banana and Hass avocado production COFFEE Coffee production LIVESTOCK Beef and milk production SERVICES OIL EXTRACTION Processing of oil palm fresh fruitbunches to obtain crude palm oil, crude palm kernel oil and palm kernel. Refining of vegetable crude oils for direct consumption OIL REFINING AND or the separation into stearin (solid part of the oil used FRACTIONATION for baking) and olein (liquid part used as a cooking oil) Renewable energy production from unconventional ENERGY PRODUCTION sources (methane gas and biomass) LOGISTICS STORAGE OF LIQUID Temporary storage for loading and unloading of large BULK OILS volumes of liquid oils to ships anchored outside the Port of Santa Marta. Export procedures and logistics at the maritime port of PORT OPERATIONS Santa Marta Land transportation in containers (perishables and non CARGO TRANSPORTATION perishables), non containerized and tanks (liquid bulk) MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT Handling of heavy equipment for the development of OPERATION Civil Works Projects. REAL ESTATE CONSTRUCTION OF CIVIL Development of civil and architectural works WORKS PROJECTS Management of areas with tax benefts for the FREE TRADE ZONE development of new investments and commercial projects. Services related to the Santa Marta International Marina TOURISM and alliances with hotel chains. The DAABON Group is made up of diverse companies created to satisfy market demands, with a focus on vertical integration. Some companies were incorporated to carry out transformation processes and others assume the role of offering logistical or service support. This leads to a high specialization that results in more competitiveness and effective movement of resources. The main products and services (by business area) produced between 2012-2018 were as follows: COMPANIES BY AGRICULTURE BUSINESS AREA INDUSTRIAL LOGISTICS REAL ESTATE AND LIVESTOCK Bovine Livestock Fresh fruit: Banana Oilseeds Milling plant Vegetable oil and byproduct refinery Machinery and equipment Civil and architectural worls. Cargo transportation Coffee Fresh fruits: Hass avocado Oilseeds Extraction Mill Port Operador Liquid bulk oil storage terminal Liquid bulk port terminal Energy Free trade zone operations [Table page 173 176] The DAABON Group’s headquarters are located in Santa Marta, Colombia and it serves its customers through commercial allies located around the world: Our strategic allies provide information about the needs and preferences of their customers through this international commercial network, allowing DAABON to provide just-in-time products and services based on their expectations. Being close to the social and regulatory context of those buying DAABON products guarantees timely responses; during times in which market conditions are favorable, as well as in periods in which some potential risk exists in the supply chain. D A A B O N C O L O M B I A U N I T E D S T A T E S J A P A N G E R M A N Y A U S T R A L I A U N I T E D K I N G D O M COMPANIES SERVE THE FOLLOWING MARKETS: Colombia Colombia, Japan, France, Italy United States Colombia, United States, Canada, Japan, Germany, Austria, Australia, Ecuador, United Kindom, Holland, Switzerland, China Colombia Colombia, Japan, France Colombia Colombia Colombia Colombia Colombia Colombia The Group has grown thanks to the diversification of its services and products, as can be seen in recent years’ revenues. [Table page 176] The highest performing business units in terms of revenues for the DAABON Group are agribusiness and their processing units. Other business opportunities stem from this main axis. [Tabla página 177] OUR PRODUCTS ORGANIC BANANA ORGANIC COFFEE HASS AVOCADO 35 36 37 VEGETABLES OILS 38 39 40 SOAP BASES USP GLYCERIN 45 SOAPS 46 47 First banana and livestock crops for the first generation of the Davila Family 48 1.4 H I GH STANDAR DS IN CORPO RATE GOV E R N AN C E 49 The Group’s corporate governance management guarantees the cross-sectional integrity of all of its companies, aligned under the same principles, standards and values. Our mission is to grow, transform and sell organic and sustainable products of the highest quality, based on an ongoing research process for innovation and framed within corporate policies that guarantee the wellbeing of our employees, environmental protection and economic profitability. We focus on worldwide recognition as leaders in the production, transformation and export of organic and sustainable products, with the highest quality and innovation standards, aimed at customer satisfaction, human development of employees, workers, communities and financial consolidation of its business units. 50 The Group’s ongoing commitment is articulated for all companies in the Ethics Code and Business Commitment, which identifies respect as the core principle in all corporate relationships, and goes hand-in-hand with seven additional values that consolidate a healthy and harmonious relationship with all of our stakeholders. 51 52 R For every human being, their culture, their community. Assess the differences between, and the potential of, each person to ensure the fair and equitable growth of employees, partners, communities and customers. Equity Give each person what corresponds to him/her based on his/her needs, merits, capabilities or attributes. Solidarity Recognize the common good, a sense of a succesful life for all. Loyalty A behavior that guarantees maximum fidelity. 53 B Ensure a productive and sustainable cycle that, by fully integrating the operation from cultivation to commercialization, guarantees product quality and reduces waste, prevents contamination and promotes reuse in the production of biofuel and renewable energy. Efficiency Use less resources to achieve the same goal, or to achieve more goals with the same or less resources. 54 S Through an economically viable, environmentally sustainable and socially responsible productive system, we are committed to contributing to the prosperity of not only this generation, but the generations to come. Generosity Being available and offering help. 55 L Achieving results is the result of working hand-in-hand with our people, doing work we enjoy, and being the best at doing what we love. Leadership A process of incentives and aid to help others to go after their own Responsibility Ability to asume the consequences of our actions when complying with our commitments and labor competencies acquired at the personal and team level and orient them towards the achievement of institutional goals “These are our “R.I.S.A” values, they identify us as a family” 56 Moreover, we have designed three additional commitments that apply to the entire Group to help integrate universal societal values and principles: With Shareholders Invest what’s necessary to comply with social and economic objectives. With the Government Carry out each one of our activities or operations according to the regulations applicable in the country where business is conducted and make sure shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and/or contractors adhere to those regulations. Against Corruption and Money Laundering Carry out operations with transparency and integrity and reject any type of illegal activity. 57 The Group has a Security Policy, aligned with the implementation of a Control and Security Management System, according to the BASC standard, version 3 from 2008. The objective of this system is to identify risks and minimize vulnerabilities in light of illegal activities (drug trafficking, smuggling, money laundering and/or terrorism). 58 ALFONSO DÁVILA ABONDANO (FOUNDER) THE (FOUNDER) DAABON GROUP 59 60 BOARD The Corporate Board is the main administrative body of the Daabon Group. The Board’s decisions factor into the entire corporate structure, by way of guidelines that become operational in the companies, backoffice areas and strategic departments. The Corporate Board is chaired by Carmen Abondano de Dávila and includes the CEO, the Vice Presidents (such as Agroindustrial, Operations, Production, Commercial and Public Affairs). Additionally, the Board includes four external consultants: members who are well respected and whose accomplishments are well known in the business world. 61 Chair of the Corporate Board Mrs. Carmen Abondano de Dávila Chief Executive Officer Mr. Manuel J. Dávila Agribusiness Vice President Mr. Alfonso Dávila Production Vice President Mr. Juan C. Dávila Commercial Vice President Mr. Alberto Dávila Public Affairs Vice President Mrs. Rosa Paulina Dávila Mr. Alvaro Jaramillo External Advisors Mr. Jose Alberto Velez Mr. Jeroen Douglas Mr. Martin Acero Secretary General Mr. Jose E. Barreneche Mr. German Zapata Internal Advisors Mr. Raul Arenas Mr. Ernesto Ritzel Mr. Sergio Espinosa 62 63 MISSING 64 INVESTORS VICE PRESIDENTS MANAGEMENT ASSEMBLY The Investors Assembly is the highest Vice Presidents provide feedback to The highest operational and decision-making body for each of the the President on business administrative position for each DAABON companies. It consists only development and strategy. They Daabon company. Its decisions are of Davila Abondano family members. participate in the decision-making based on the guidelines given by the process and contribute technical, Board of Directors. The Management economic and relevant analysis Committee is the body used by the through the Company’s political Board of Directors and Managment guidelines. to give their feedback related to the each company’s performance. DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTORS The departments support the management of all the companies. They include: Sustainability, Health and Safety, Human Resources, Certifications, Exports, IT, and Legal. 65 FAMILY FAMILY COUNCIL FAMILY ASSEMBLY FAMILY PROTOCOL The Family Council, the The Family Council meets once a year The Family Protocol is an agreement overarching body of the family, is during the Family Assembly to be assumed by the Family Council, composed of the first and second informed about the results of determining their rights and generation members. The Council investments, within the framework of obligations. The following decisions addresses all aspects of the family the DAABON group of companies, as are part of this protocol: the that have an impact on the well as investments outside the group. minimum age at which the new company, such as formation of This same meeting is used to cover family members can be part of the future members who will enter the topics related to profit management Council (the moment at which the business, communication and and to new family members interested generational replacement process conflict resolution. in assuming positions within the shall begin), and requirements to companies (generational relay). hold a position within the companies, among others. The Family Observer is the Council’s external member, in charge of verifying compliance with the Protocol. FAMILY FUND THE FAMILY OFFICE The Family Fund manages the The Family Office manages the family’s family’s exclusive investments, and is properties and also schedules and managed by an external agent coordinates the generational (Inversiones FDF S.A.S.). Three replacement processes of the younger percent (3%) of all of the company’s generations. profits are transferred to the family members through this Fund. 66 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO Planning and Project International VP Agroindustrial VP Development VP Daabon Organic Terlica Germany Superportuaria Australia C.I Tequendama Mills Japan Strategic Alliances Project coordinator United State Palmed United Kingdom Oleoyuma Administrative Assistant Palma y Trabajo Soapworks Progreso Palmero Export Las Americas Port 67 Production Corporate Financial VP Executive Corporate VP and Operations VP Air operations Comptroller Certifications C.I. Tequendama Refinery Treasury Human Resources Construproyec Accounting Security Superlogistic Costs and Budgets Legal Las Americas Free Zone Billing and Portfolio Sustainability Voltaje Empresarial Purchase Occupational Safety and Health Business Intelligence Integrated Management System Systems Eco Bio Internal Auditor C.I. La Samaria Trade Marketing 68 SUSTAINABILITY FOR PROSPERITY “The certifications that accredit us become a motivation to continue increasing our quality standards” 69 The competitive advantage of our Group’s companies, in markets that are increasingly segmented and demanding products that exceed quality expectations, are based on the compliance of standards that transfer trust to consumers in the areas of sustainability, best agricultural practices, traceability, safety, physical security, fair trade and corporate social responsibility, among others. This has become the basis for our companies to achieve and incorporate the following certifications into their technical and administrative management. In addition, DAABON is a founding member of the Palm Oil The United Nations has stipulated 17 Sustainable Innovation Group, “POIG.” This organization is comprised of Development Goals (SDGs), some of which the Daabon palm oil producers and was launched in November 2013 with Group has chosen to incorporate through different the goal of promoting innovation and responsible activities, listed below: development in palm oil production, focusing on three different areas:environmental, social, and supply chain. POIG is supported by renowned international NGOs. Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship throughout Clean Devolpment Mechanism Directly hired personnel Income diversification our supply chain (CDM) 3.5 mW biogas plant Wages in line with the Minimum wage acording to Inclusion of peace and LWC (Living Wage Coalition) LWC (Living Wage Coalition) entrepreneurship in school Productive lands Methane gas emissions capture United Nations environment program Local products throughout Organic agriculture the supply chain Compost process (1700 tons/month) [Table page 179 180] 70 71 72 SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT 73 74 VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT Our business management is regulated by our Social Corporate Responsibility Policy, framed within Colombian legislation and our principles and values, and it is focused on three main areas: Market management Supplier management Human rights in the value chain 75 MARKET MANAGEMENT Our Fair Trade Policy guarantees responsible management in every single link of the productive and value-added chain. This policy ensures that, the Group’s companies will do everything possible to avoid interacting with vendors and customers, individuals or companies involved in illegal processes related to smuggling, terrorism, human rights violations, drug trafficking, human trafficking, smuggling of weapons and/or wild fauna, and illegal transportation of toxic or highly pollutant substances, in addition to other illegal activities, attempting to infiltrate the commercial and/or administrative structure of the DAABON Group. 76 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT We have more than 2,000 suppliers, therefore responsible management of each and every one is crucial for our sustainability. [Table page 175] Independent processes are used at each company to manage suppliers. All new suppliers go through a regulatory evaluation according to a risk matrix, which is adapted to each company’s requirements based on their products, services and level of critical operations. Moreover, certifications required from suppliers depend on the project’s objective and/or context. Below are some requirements used to evaluate suppliers, as appropriate: Environmental permits, licenses and/or concessions for the use of, or effects on, natural resources. Approval of contingency plans by the relevent environmental authority. INVIMA sanitary registry. Sanitary certification issued by the health authority. Compliance with national regulations regarding the operation of machinery and/or driving of vehicles. ISO/PAS 17712 Certification 77 IN 2018, 73 NEW VENDORS WERE EVALUATED AGAINST ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA. As part of the Procurement Policy, the Group’s companies have implemented unified procurement processes for goods and services, through the SAP (Systems, Applications, Products in Data Processing) IT system. The following steps must be met in every case: Creation of suppliers Service Order Release Strategies process by which an individual document issued to the supplier process by which an authorized or a company is added to the to proceed with the purchase of vice president processes the list of suppliers, after having a good or the provision of a service order and enables the been audited and verified to service. system to submit it to to the meet the existing conditions for supplier. registration. 78 HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Throughout its value chains, the Group ensures there are no attitudes or decisions that endanger the rights each person has to be treated on equal terms and with equal rights. This is what the The Policy of Human Rights states: “DAABON understands and embraces with responsility its social role of looking after the full respect for human resources. The Company understands that its compliance does not distinguish nationality, place of residence, sex, national or ethnic origin, color, creed, language or any other condition. It also assumes that one of its greatest efforts must be aimed at preventing the violation of human rights and promoting the same achievement in all our productive activities” As an on-going commitment, every organization within the DAABON Group must adhere to a due diligence process to assume the necessary responsibility for the Human and Customary Rights of those communities in the shared territory. Our aim is to identify and prevent impacts related to: Posession of property on the land Presence, use and habits of ethnic groups or traditional communities settled in the territory (Customary Rights). Presence of communities declared in conditions of vulnerability. Natural resources of local, regional or national importance. This process includes the consultation of institutional sources and a series of participative dialogues and diagnostic activities, geared towards the mutual knowledge and understanding of the parties involved. 79 80 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 81 82 Operations related to value chains are based on respect towards the environment, understanding that it is a dynamic system; one in which the aim is to seek interactions in balance with natural resources and the environment. The Group is aware of its responsibility to future generations, therefore the focus is not only on an adequate use of resources (to produce high-quality products), but also on ensuring that operations are based on goals and objectives structured within a productive system that is economically feasible, environmentally sustainable and socially just. 83 The commitments resulting from the Environmental Policy encompass the following principles: Ensure compliance Prevent, mitigate and Lead the development Preserve rare, with the reduce negative of projects and/or threatened and environmental environmental activities towards the endangered fauna and legislation and impacts, and protection of High flora species included voluntary encourage positive Conservation Value in national and commitments entered impacts by means of: (HCV*) and High international red into within the scope Conservation Value books or lists (UICN, of its actions. Increase in energy Forests (HCS*). CITES and others); as efficiency; well as the banning of hunting, captivity and Use of cleaner fuels; trafficking of wild animals Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; Rational and efficient use of natural resources, mainly water and energy; Proper liquid and solid waste disposal. 84 Make sure burning is Verify the NON use of Make sure that the Ban the use of not used in the Genetically Modified DAABON Group’s Paraquat, Pesticides preparation of land, Organisms (GMO*) products, as well as 1A/1B (OMS) or any waste management, or within the productive the inputs used, have other substances listed for any other reason; chain of the Group’s never been tested on in the Rotterdam or except for justified various companies. animals. Stockholm Conventions. cases of phytosanitary emergencies, with prior consent of competent authorities. Development of cultural resect for the environment with our stakeholders that can be transmitted to all of our employees and communities. 85 The Group seeks an efficient and sustainable value chain productive cycle, implementing strategies to prevent and mitigate pollution resulting from the reutilization or recycling of resources, wastes and by-products; it also focuses on the reduction of emissions and effluents. The Group’s aim is to guarantee cleaner and environmentally-friendly agricultural and industrial processes. 86 To ensure adequate management, companies have included the development of an Environmental Management Plan – EMP, which includes at least the following: Detailed description of procedures and/or activities needed for operational reasons. Theoretical and legal framework for the execution. Physical, biotic and socio-economic characterization of the operation’s area of influence. Identification and assessment of aspects and impacts. Design of management measures to prevent, mitigate, correct and/or offset identified negative impacts and potentiate positive ones. Continuous improvement plan. Risk management plan. Emergency and contingency plan. 87 WATER RESOURCE PROTECTION Water is widely used in DAABON companies productive processes, therefore the Group depends on the availability of water resources from surface, underground and rainfall sources. [Table page / 182 183] 88 Most of the Company’s waste water PRODUCTION volumes result from oil processing and fresh fruit milling. OF WASTE WATER Based on the data above, the Tequendama Extraction Mill generated 46,88 % of the total waste water volume during the years covered in this report, or 665.195 cubic meters cumulatively. It is important to note that this volume is quantified before the effluents run through a treatment phase. This process is an integral part of the Group’s water resource management, which reutilizes the total existing amount. The waste water produced by the mill (known in English as POME) goes through a stabilization process: biodigestion in covered pools and aereation. This system enables the biological decomposition of the organic matter present in the water and captures the biogas produced, which is used for the production of clean energy. [Table page 184] 89 90 The final disposal of other treated effluents is done by discharging them in water bodies according to permits granted by the relevant environmental authority, or they are delivered to third parties that have the appropriate licences for final disposal. [Table page 184] 91 92 ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND EMISSIONS REDUCTION The Group’s companies’ energy consumption depends on three main energy sources: Non renewable resources. Mainly fossil fuels. Renewable resources through suppliers Own cogeneration [Table page 184 186] 93 We have defined the following strategies to achieve an efficient use of energy that optimizes the execution of our processes and operations. Some of the strategies have already been put into place and others are considered future opportunities: Efficient energy use and savings plan Control of fuel consumption Auto-generation of alternative energies: Biomass combustion obtained from oil extraction by-products (current development) Use of biogas produced in oxidation lagoons utilizing effluents from the palm oil extraction process (current development) Solar energy generation (at the feasibility stage) Wind energy generation (at the pre-feasibility stage) 94 CDM CLEAN DEVELOPMENT MECHANISM 95 96 THE GROUP HAS SUBSTITUTED 10% OF THE OVERALL ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF ITS COMPANIES WITH RENEWABLE SOURCES. 97 In Tequendama, we are planning to develop different proposals for renewable energy for the shortto medium-term, in order to avoid greenhouse gas emissions, to achieve self-sufficiency in our business units, and to sell energy to the public grid. 98 Our organization has a Greenhouse Gas Policy, which requires the measurement of, and compensation for, the greenhouse gasses that result from all of our operations, in order to mitigate the impact on atmospheric conditions. Consequently, all of our companies have made the commitment to invest in technologies and/or adopt strategies that minimize emissions, according to the regulations applicable to each business area: Capture and reutilize methane gas By-products composting Identification of areas devoted to conservation Use of alternative energy sources Reforestation of important conservation areas Maintenance and conservation of of vegetation coverage in cultivation areas. [Table page 187] 99 We have committed to measuring and publishing the PalmGHG Summary Report, under the guidelines of the RSPO standards and the RSPO PALM GHC Calculator v3 calculation tool for all of our business units devoted to agribusiness, mainly the oilseed line (Tequendama and Palma y Trabajo). [Table page 187 188] Our Group’s most successful strategy in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is the use of biogas (Carbon dioxide and methane) resulting from our operation’s wastewater degradation, as a source of alternative energy. We developed this project under the framework of the Clean Development Mechanism – CDM, from the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. Emissions reduction is the result of capturing gases during the biodigestion process, from the water effluents resulting from our palm oil milling process. We dump wastewater into large pools for its stabilization and de-oiling. The water is then transferred to a biodigestor (covered pool) in which an anaerobic environment is created, where millions of bacteria interact with the organic matter load to degrade it. Then the waste-free water goes back to its natural environment through the irrigation system. 100 WE ALSO PRODUCE NOX AND SOX EMISSIONS IN OUR PROCESSES FROM OUR OPERATION’S FIXED AND MOBILE SOURCES: FIXED SOURCES Terlica, Tequendama, Palma y Trabajo (machinery and equipment). MOBILE SOURCES Construproyec (transportation). Emissions depend on the quality of the fuel supplied by a third party supplier (Terpel). For control purposes we have enacted preventative and corrective maintenance plans for our machinery, equipment and vehicles, which allows us to keep our emissions within the parameters set forth in the current regulation. 101 102 BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION Biological diversity represents every single level of life on the planet, from genetic variability, to the richness of species from different taxons, to the configuration of ecosystems in each region. To protect and conserve biodiversity with regards to the most significant potential negative impacts, we have implemented measures through our Environmental Management Plans – EMP-, mainly for the agribusiness sector, to avoid the following: Ecosystem fragmentation and habitat reduction. Risks for the conservation of vulnerable species vulnerability. Loss of species that benefit biological control. Inadequate use of renewable natural resources. Pollution of natural areas resulting from discharges or overdose of phytosanitary products that affect populations of beneficial organisms. Changes in the quality of water resources Changes in the availability of soil nutrients given the use of agricultural inputs. 103 THE MAIN MANAGEMENT MEASURES ARE BASED ON BIOLOGICAL CONTROL AND PLANT HEALTH: Planting and maintenance of arvense plants (cover plants and management of reservoirs of native plants) for the protection of water sources and conservancy of natural areas. Crop agronomical management: pruning, short-cycle harvesting, balanced nutrition, contributions of organic matter, composting and earthworm fertilizers, soil decompacting, selective management of manual and/or mechanical weed. Non use of agricultural inputs of chemical synthesis. Biological controls with fungi, bacterias and virus. On-site monitoring of pests, with the use of traps. In addition, and as a primary strategy for the protection of ecosystems and habitats, we have carried out several studies during the period of this report to identify High Conservation Value Areas, related to our operations, according to the guidelines and standards set forth by the Forest Stweardship Council – FSC – and the HCV Resources Network, the most appropiate tool available worldwide for this topic. 104 105 106 We have identified, assessed and defined management and monitoring activities in our studies, as applicable: Concentrations of biological Ecosystems and mosaics of Rare, threatened and diversity that include endemic large-size ecosystems at endangered ecosystems, or rare threatened or landscape scale and important habitats or shelters. endangered species, which are at the global, regional or of utmost importance at the national scale, which contain global, regional or national viable populations of most scale. species present in a natural form under natural distribution and abundance patterns. Basic ecosystem services in Fundamental sites and Sites, resources, habitats and critical situations, such as the resources to satisfy basic needs landscapes that are relevant protection of water capturing (food and water supply) or because of cultural, historical areas and control of soil erosion local communities or and archeological reasons, at and vulnerable hillsides. indigenous towns, previously global or national scale, or of identified through dialogues cultural, ecological, economic, with population. religious or sacred reasons for the traditional culture of local communities or indigenous communities. 107 In addition, we utilize a public declaration; LANDSCAPE APPROACH, DEFORESTATION AND FIRE MONITORING, through which we commit to the erradication of deforestation and burns as agricultural practices in our value chain; including the company’s areas as well as those of small farmers who are part of our supplier network. As of 2017 we have been using tools provided by the World Resources Institute – WRI – to monitor and control deforestation and fire risks. This encompasses monthly reviews and registries by the Group’s Sustainability Department. To date we have not experienced any incident and our risk is indeed low. Nevertheless, each business unit has a fire response plan that includes community training and incident and equipment management. MONITORING OUTREACH INCLUDES: North Coast (Magdalena, Cesar, Guajira): 13,800 ha. Central Area (Santander): 3400 ha. 108 In our Group we have divided the land surfaces related to our productive systems into effective crop areas, conservation areas, livestock and other specific areas. We have done so according to the guidelines and methodologies defined by Golden Agri-Resources – GAR -together with Greenpeace and TFT, based on the High Carbon Stock Approach within the Non Deforestation and Natural Forests Conservancy framework. [Table page 189] Moreover, we have also identified protection or restoration areas, related to our operation in the following companies: La Samaria Conservation Area: 256,65 ha Conservation Area: 1012,31 ha Tequendama Restoration or Reforested Area: 18 ha ECO BIO Colombia Conservation Area: 90 ha Oleoyuma Conservation Area: 243,38 ha 109 As part of our commitment to a responsible and environmentally sustainable process, regarding our oilseeds production (palm oil), we have conducted research projects to identify High Conservancy Values in the states of Magdalena and Cesar, mainly related to the Group’s plantations and to those of our suppliers. This project started as a study under the framework of the GEF Project, Biodiverse Oil Palm Landscape or Biodiversity Conservancy in Oil Palm Areas in Colombia, ATN/FM-13216-CO, signed by the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) and the Colombian Federation of Oil Palm Growers (Fedepalma) with the support of public and private insitutions. Its main objective is to contribute to the identification, protection and restoration of High Conservancy Value Areas (HCVA) and to sustainable management of oil palm agricultural ecosystems, by means of better planning and the adoption of agroecological practices in oil palm expansion areas. 110 111 RESPONSIBLE USE OF INPUTS The responsible use of inputs by our Group’s companies is based on three principles: Elimination of chemical products in our crops (organic agriculture). Guarantee of a clean supply chain. Ban the use of Genetically Modified Organisms – GMO. Organic crops allow the protection of native forests and promote the presence of wild fauna that use plantations as shelter and/or as ecological corridors. Controlled use of biological products for pests and diseases allows the reduction of damage caused by agrochemicals to the biodiversity present inside crop areas and/or through transfer in the area of influence. The non-use of GMO allows us to avoid negative side effects, such as: toxicity in human consumption and repercussions on other natural species. 112 INTEGRATED WASTE MANAGEMENT We have included the following measures within the Group’s companies’ cross-sectional Environmental Management Plans for integrated management of hazardous and non hazardous solid wastes, as well as for all of the value chain levels (employees, customers, suppliers and contractors): 113 Selection and classification of solid waste at the source to determine uses and final disposal. Construction and assembly of the necessary infrastructure for the adequate management of each type of waste. Promotion of recycling, reutilization and recovery. Development of technologies that lead to minimizing the production of waste at source. Development of educational campaigns. Reduction of the use of input with pollutant characteristics until totally erradicated. 114 COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY 115 116 “REACHING OUR GOALS IS THE RESULT OF WORKING HAND-IN-HAND WITH OUR PEOPLE” 117 BUILDING PEACE We recognize that every human environment is subject to be altered or affected by conflict, with repercussions that could be unpredictable to the parties involved. Hence, our aim is to attack the roots of the conflict by working on the relationships with individuals in their communities and families. We focus on potentiating the capability of human beings to create caring and respecftul relationships. “MUTUAL RESPECT IS OUR KEY TO SUCCESS” 118 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COMMUNITY We acknowledge the fact that having a “two-way” We utilize a Stakeholders Service Manual and and open dialoque with neighboring communities through our Questions, Claims and Complaints is a basic strategy to become a legitimate party in Manual, we offer an adequate procedure that te territories we are engaged in and to assume our facilitates a two-way and direct communication. role as economic agents in those communities. The latter is available in our web page: We fully understand the broad concept of a “neighbor and we believe that being a good http://www.daabon.com/daabon/es/contact.php#x neighbor allows us to channel positive feelings towards the company, to understand local dynamics that determine interactions and to IN 2018 WE RESOLVED AND CLOSED 90 adjust our Corporate Social Responsibility COMMUNICATIONS WITH OUR NEIGHBORING proposal based on real problems. COMMUNITIES A transparent relationship between our Group’s We have quite a challenge ahead of us with the companies and their nearby social environment is Taganga community, which still has fresh a way to mitigate the risk that usually exists in memories of the 2008 palm oil spill. In spite of carrying out our activities, and thus avoid negative complying with the actions set forth in the feedback from our stakeholders. Environmental Management Plan and the Mitigation and Compensation Plan, we have not We constantly strive to have an honest dialogue yet been able to establish a fluent relationship wth with the communities or the people that are part this community. of our area of influence, always with a common language and in spaces and moments they In addition to this, there are several uninformed consider appropiate. perceptions about the new Puerto de las Americas Project, which have had a negative effect on the Group’s relationship, mainly between Terlica and the Taganga community. In spite of this, we continue to strengthen our actions until a fluent communication is attained. 119 120 121 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Part of our commitment with neighboring Formal education (educational quality) communities is crystallized through community Entrepreneurship development projects, designed to address various issues: Food Security Education for peace Alliances with small producers IN 2018, 728 FAMILIES OF THE LOCAL COMMUNITY BENEFITED FROM COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS. 122 123 124 EDUCATION: The company provides educational institutions with coaching for managing situations that jeopardize retention levels in the schools. 125 “KIDS, ONE STEP TO THE CHILDREN THAT READ, MIDDLE” WRITE AND DREAM The aim of this project is to create a proper school This project was implemented with the objective environment for the education of children and of supporting the Reading Plan, which is part of adolescents. This project is in place at the the Ministry of National Education policy with the “Institucion Educativa Centro Pedagógico del purpose of creating peaceful environments in Caribe” (educational center) in Pelechua and educational institutions. Puente Bomba in the municipality of Riohacha – Guajira. It is conducted through three components: Psycho-social orientation: school for parents. For children: artistic and literary creation focused on respect, care and healthy coexistence topics. Biodance of the Rolando Toro System: strengthen the creative potential of mothers and teachers 126 ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP Entrepreneurship is developed through three programs: Adolescents + entrepreneurs DAABON microcredit fund Inclusive businesses 127 ADOLESCENTS DAABON INCLUSIVE + ENTREPRENEURS MICROCREDIT BUSINESSES FUND This program is aimed at This is a tool designed to This program is carried out strengthening the mission of strengthen the initiatives of with women of working age public educational institutions nearby communities and of the that are part of the worker’s to contribute to the creation of families of DAABON’s immediate family (wives, an entrepreneurial culture. The employees. In addition to sisters, daughters, etc.). Its idea is for schools to become financing, the fund provides main goal is to identify goods capable of creating an managerial consulting to and services that could be educational environment that strenghten the productive unit, manufactured or provided by will reinforce in students their and to the extent required, it small, local enterprises in order ability to become also offers technical to foster the creation of new entrepreneurs in productive assistance. business units that could areas, whether by working become vendors for our freelance or as employees. supply chain. This has been currently implemented in educational As part of this program, new institutions in the Santa Marta companies were established school district. and they now manufacture work uniforms required by our oil palm and banana plantations. 128 FOOD SECURITY: One of our main goals is to promote the availability of crops cultivated in backyards and in small areas that could be used as part of the family’s food security, mainly in rural areas. This program becomes an opportunity to train This program is carried out in neighboring people on a healthy diet, that is, to include in their communities and in public schools, at the school diets low-cost products of a high nutritional value. garden level. Likewise, productive areas are created at the company-owned farms to facilitate access and promote vegetable consumption by our workers. 129 130 EDUCATION FOR PEACE 131 Tequendama has implemented a reading program and sport academies as part of the Education for Peace project, which uses sports and creative centers for children to promote human values directly related to a healthy coexistence. 132 SMALL PRODUCERS Our company Tequendama was the first Colombian palm oil company that engaged in the “Productive Alliances for Peace” program as a framework to incorporate small organized producers into our supply network. 133 Below is information regarding the alliances with small producers as of 2018: Number of families linked to productive alliances: 125 Number of established hectares 2,330.00 and in production 1,752.76 Annual production volume obtained by small producers: 27,967,884 kilograms equivalent to 27,967.88 tons. 134 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 135 136 It is extremely important for our Group to maintain proper working conditions in our companies, through activities focused on labor wellbeing. 137 138 UMAN RESOURCES With more than 2,000 employees, our goal is to depend on well-trained and committed human talent as the foundation for our sustainability. [Table page 190] 139 IN 2018 WE HAD IN OUR COMPANIES We utilize a Corporate Policies Manual for our human resource management, which applies to all of the Group’s companies and provides the base guidelines for hiring, protection of minors, respect for reproductive rights, as well as total detection and erradication of discriminating attitudes and judgements. Moreover, we have developed a competencies-based management model to monitor each worker using the following tools: Job profile Education and training Periodic evaluation processes A centralized human resources reporting and follow-up system was established through an online platform, which helps us unify the desired human capital training support processes and provide a timely response to the requirements identified by organizational climate and performance evaluation measurements. 140 141 WE HAVE IDENTIFIED 20 THE FOLLOWING GOALS: Attain adecuate competency in 90% of the plant’s staff through job descriptions and performance evaluations. Less than 5% index in psycho-social risk factors. A staff turnover of less than 2%. Compliance with the generational replacement process for the third generation of the Davila Abondano family. 142 A new program that was given the name of R.I.S.A. (for its acronym in Spanish) was established to create an organizational culture based on corporate principles: Respect, Integration, Sustainability and Love. Collective and integrated awareness and motivational activities, based on informed and shared goals were developed within this same framework. DEFINITION OF 143 RESPECT Respect towards human beings, their culture and their community. Value the differences and the potential of each person to guarantee fair and equitable growth of our workers, allies, communities and clients. INTEGRATION Ensure an effective and productive cycle which, through a complete operational integration of the brand, from the soil to the market, guarantees product quality and enables waste reduction, avoids pollution and allows the reutilization of waste in fuel production and renewable energies. SUSTAINABILITY For us, sustainability is not only satisfying the needs of our generation without affecting its future, because through an economically viable, environmentally sustainable and socially responsible productive system, we are committed towards a contribution to the prosperity of future generations. LOVE Attaining our goals is the result of working hand-in-hand with our people, of doing what we like most, devoting the time it deserves and to be the best at doing what we love. 144 HEALTH AND SAFETY 145 The commitment of our Group’s companies is to carry out every single activity in a safe environment, always protecting our employees, contractors, customers, the environment and our visitors. We work on the continuous improvement of working conditions to avoid accidental losses, doing our best to identify, assess and control operation-related risks, in order to operate within regulatory parameters, and to identify improvement opportunities. We strive to guarantee our We utilize an Industrial Safety Policy employees’ health, safety and and Health and Safety Committees in wellbeing, thus ensuring the proper most of the work units of the conditions for the development of companies that comprise DAABON their functions and constantly Group, according to applicable laws working on followup to prevent and certifications. Our companies’ any conditions with risk. supervisors are in charge of looking after the compliance of values and principles and replicating them within our staff. [Table page 195 196] We use different indicators for each company to assess our management in this area: During the last 7 years we have had one fatality per labor accident and labor diseases in all of our companies. [Table page 196 197] 146 We have developed a risk matrix (risk scenario) to identify jobs with significant risks and to adopt preventive and corrective actions whenever necessary. AROS, named for its acronym in Spanish (Risk Analysis based on Trades), which is based on the accident rate characterization from 2015 and 2016, helped define strategic plans that started being implemented in 2018. Below are the most significant risks identified in our companies: [Table page 198] We have established different initiatives and programs in our companies to guarantee our employees’ wellbeing and healthbased on the context and needs of each work site, such as: Monthy Zumba classes Active breaks at the offices Breaks during agricultural production activities Physical fitness with the support of ARL (Labor Risk Association) physical therapists Supervision program Chemical risk management program Preventive medicine program Hygiene and industrial safety program Training program Emergency preparedness and response plan Alcohol and drug prevention program Epidemiological Psycho-social Supervision Program Epidemiological program for Visual Conservancy Musculoskeletal supervision program Order, cleanliness and best practices in HSE Infrastructure and equipment maintenance Management program to avoid falls from heights Program for the prevention and protection against falls from heights Drivers’ assessment program Road safety program [Table page 198] 147 Data on accident rate records is managed and reported according to the guidelines of the management system under the following channels: SIG management indicators for the Board of Directors (monthly) Results Assessment Committee (monthly) Accountability (yearly) SST self-assessments: cross-sectional in all the companies Management reports Research project Ionizing measurements in oil palm cultivations Solar radiation intensity per worker in his/her shift. The radiation measurement project was conducted in two periods of 3 months each, from October to January 2018, excluding part of December and January because those were rainy months, starting again on February 5, 2018 to April, when the measurement cycle was completed. Our strategic ally, SURA is currently analyzing the data given that the measurements were submitted in November 2018 by 3 additional companies that are part of the target study. Identify potential impacts resulting from the prolonged exposure to ionizing radiation. Group’s cross-sectional campaign I take care of myself, I take care of you, we take care of each other: Work of the holistic being. Culture around one’s protection and of those around me. Training of Prevention Leaders: Employees are trained to prevent occupational accidents within the Group. In 2018, 80 leaders were trained and this activity is expected to continue in the future. 50 Hour Course on Work Safety and Health: for Copasst, Cocol, Emergency Leaders and Process Leaders, around 300 workers have received a course certificate. Physical Fitness Program: quarterly organization of marathons by work centers, bike routes for palm oil workers every 5 months, warming-up before starting labor activities for workers of Agrícolas de Palma, leaders of active breaks in industrial park’s companies. 148 TRAINING Development efforts favoring work teams guarantee adequate labor In 2018 11,402 training hours were environments which result in higher offered to our employees productivity, thanks to a motivated labor force. It also ensures human talent retention and attraction of new [Table page 199] talent. 159 A training plan is designed every year, geared towards bridging the gaps between job profiles and personal and labor competencies required. In addition, we aim at supporting formal education through career plans and educational aid with commitment clauses. This plan is adjusted based on performance evaluation results, which are conducted at every level of the organization. [Table page 199] 150 ABOUT THIS REPORT 151 152 SCOPE 153 This report has been prepared according to GRI Standards: Essential Option, and it covers the operations of twelve (12) DAABON Group companies, for the period between January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2018. Some of the data does not cover all of the companies. 154 STAKEHOLDERS It is of utmost importance as a The following table lists the Group to have long-lasting and DAABON Group’s stakeholders, trustworthy relationships with our the most important topics stakeholders. This implies having identified through the clear communication through development of our ongoing which our stakeholders will have communication structure and the access to accurate and timely different channels through which information about the business. the relationships take place. [Table page 200 201] 155 156 MATERIALITY 157 158 159 For the preparation of this report, materials were reviewed and selectedbased on the DAABON Group’s (and its companies’) business strategy, the impacts of this strategy, and accountability needs of our key stakeholders. Internal interviews, trends and best practices analyses were conducted with an external consultant to identify and validate the most relevant topics for the DAABON Group’s sustainability management. Moreover, the issues addressed by the various certifications help the Group´s companies with regards to social, environmental and corporate governance were also taken into account. Once this process was completed, the various materials were placed into four categories: Value Chain Sustainable Management, Environmental Responsibility, Commitment to the Community and Human Development. Two topics that apply to the entire operation were also identified: High corporate governance standards and Sustainability for prosperity. [Table page 202] 160 INDEX 161 162 GRI Index Contents GRI Standard Content Chapter No. Subchapter No. Page or comment Nº General Contents Organizational profile 102-1 Organization name 1 1.2 Page No. 17 102-2 Activities, brands, products and 1 1.3 Page No. 15-17-18 services 102-3 Venue location 1 1.3 Page No. 19 102-4 Operations location 1 1.3 Page No. 19 102-5 Property and legal structure 1 1.4 Page No. 51 102-6 Markets served 1 1.3 Page No. 25 102-7 Organization size 1.5 1.3 5.1 Page No. 18-26-132 102-8 Information on employees and 5 5.1 Page No. 132 other workers 102-9 Supply chain 2 n.a. Page No. 69 No significant 102-10 Significant changes in the organin.a. n.a. changes to be GRI 102: zation and its supply chain reported 2016 General contents DAABON counts on an 102-11 Warning principle or approach environmental policy and a 3 n.a. risk matrix within its warning principle. 102-12 External initiatives 1 1.5 Page No. 64 102-13 Membership in associations 1 1.5 Page No. 64 Strategy 102-14 Statement of top managers responsible for decisión making 1 1.1 CEO message Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and 1 1.4 Page No. 45 code of conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure 1 1.4 Page No. 52 163 Participation of Stakeholders 102-40 List of stakeholders linked to the 6 6.1 Page No. 149 organization 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreement 6 6.1 Page No. 149 102-42 Stakeholders identification and 6 6.1 Page No. 149 selection 102-43 Approach for stakeholders 6 6.1 Page No. 149 participation 102-44 Key topics and concerns mentio6 6.1 Page No. 149 ned Practices for report preparation 102-45 Entities included in consolidated financial statements 1 1.3 Page No. 26 102-46 Definition of reports content and their coverage 6 6.2 Page No. 154 102-47 List of material aspects 6 6.2 Page No. 154 GRI 102: There was no information 2016 General 102-48 Re-expression of informaiton n.a. n.a. re-expression for this contents report’s target period. No significant changes in 102-49 Changes in report preparation n.a. n.a. report preparation 102-50 Report target period 6 6.1 Periodo January to 102-51 Date of last report n.a. n.a. December 2011 This report includes the 2012102-52 Report preparation cycle 2017 period. It is expected to n.a. n.a. prepare yearly reports as of next year. Felipe M. Guerrero 102-53 Contact to ask questions on the n.a. n.a. Sustainabilty Director report fguerrero@daabon.com.co 102-54 Report preparation statement 6 6.1 Page No. 148 according to GRI Standards 102-55 List of GRI Contents 7 n.a. Page No. 155 This Report has not been 102-56 External verification n.a. n.a. subjected to External Verification 164 Material Aspects Indirect economic impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its Management 4 4.3 Page No. 44 components approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach GRI 203: 203-2 Content: Significant indirect 2016:Indirect 4 4.3 Page No. 116 economic impacts economic impacts Procurement Practices 103-1 Explanation on the material aspect and its coverages GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its Management components 2 2.2 Page No. 44 approach 103-3 Assessment of management approach GRI 204:2016 204-1 Share of expenses in local DAABON does not count on Procurement suppliers n.a. n.a. this data for the period practices subject of this report Anticorruption 103-1 Explanation on the material aspect GRI 103:2016 and its coverages Management 103-2 Management approach and its 2 2.1 Page No. 44 approach components 103-3 Assessment of the management approach No corruption cases were GRI 205: 2016 205-3 Confirmed corruption cases and foundduring the period n.a. n.a. Anticorruption measures adopted under review. Energy 103-1 Explanation on the material aspect and its coverages GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its Management 3 3.2 Page No. 44 components approach 103-3 Assessment of management approach GRI 302:2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the Energy organization n.a. n.a. Page No. 87 302-4 Energy consumption reduction 165 Water 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 Management 103-2 Management approach and its 3 3.1 Page No. 44 components approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach 303-1 Water extraction by source 3 3.1 Page No. 82 GRI 303: 303-2 Significantly affected water sources by water extraction 3 3.1 Page No. 82 2016 Water 303-3 Recycled and reutilized water 3 3.1 Page No. 83 84 Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its 3 3.3 Page No. 44 Management components approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity 3 3.3 Page No. 97-103 GRI 304: 2016 Biodiversity 304-3 Protected or restored habitats 3 3.3 Page No. 97-98 Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its 3 3.2 Management Page No. 44 components approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach 305-1 Direct Greenhouse gases emis3 3.2 Page No. 93 sions (scope 1) GRI 305: 2016 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gases 3 3.2 Page No. 87 Emissions emissions 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx) and other significatn 3 3.2 Page No. 95 emissions into the atmosphere 166 Effluents and waste 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its Management components 3 3.1-3.5 Page No. 83 approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach 306-1 Water emissions based on its quaity and destination 3 3.1 Page No. 85 GRI 306: 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 3 3.5 Page No. 107 Effluents and waste 306-5 Water bodies affected by water 2 3.1 emissions and/or runoffs Page No. 82 Environmental compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 Management 103-2 Management approach and its 3 n.a. components Page No. 78 approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach GRI 307: 2016 No cases of non-compliance 307-1 Non-compliance of legislation and Environmental environmental regulation n.a. n.a. have been identified during compliance the period under review. Environmental evaluation of suppliers 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 Management 103-2 Management approach and its 2 2.2 Page No. 71 components approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach GRI 308:2016 308-1 New suppliers that have passed Environmental the evaluation and selection filters Page No. 71 2 2.2 evaluation according to environmental criteria of suppliers Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 Management 103-2 Management approach and its 5 5.1 Page No. 132 approach components 103-3 Assessment of the management approach GRI 401: 2016 401-1 New employees hiring and staff turnover 5 5.1 Page No. 134 Employment 167 Employee – Company relationships 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 Management 103-2 Management approach and its components 5 5.1 Page No. 137 138 approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach GR 402: 2016 It is included under the 402-1 Minimum notification terms on communications protocol Employee – n.a. n.a. operational changes of the Corporate Policies Company relationship Manual Health and safety at work 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its Management 5 5.2 Page No. 140 components approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach 403-1 Representation of employees in formal employees-company committees 5 5.2 Page No. 140 on health and safety GRI 403: 2016 Health and safety at work 03-2 Types of accidents, accident rate, occupational diseases, lost days, absen5 5 Page No. 140 teeism and number of occupational fatalities or diseases. Training and teaching 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect GRI 103:2016 and its coverages. Management 103-2 Management approach and its 5 5.3 components Page No. 140 approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach 404-1 Mean of training hours per year Page No. 143 5 5.3 per employee GRI 404: 2016 Training and teaching 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving periodic performance and profesio5 5.3 Page No. 144 nal development evaluations 168 Rights of indigenous communities 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its Management 2 2.3 Page No. 113 components approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach GRI 411: 2016 No indigenous communities 411-1 Cases of violations of indigenous rights violations identified Rights of indigenous n.a. n.a. communities rights during the period under communities review. Assessment of human rights 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect GRI 103:2016 and its coverages. Management 103-2 Management approach and its 2 2.3 Page No. 73 approach components 103-3 Assessment of the management approach GRI 412: 2016 412-1 Operations subject to impact on 2 2.3 Human rights Page No. 73 human rights reviews or assessments assessment Local communities 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its Management 4 4.2 Page No. 116 components approach 103-3 Assessment of the management approach 413-2 Operations with significant, real GRI 413: 2016 and potential negative impacts on 4 4.2 Page No. 116 Local communities local communities Social evaluation of suppliers 103-1 Explanation of the material aspect and its coverages. GRI 103:2016 103-2 Management approach and its Management components n.a. n.a. approach No suppliers have been 103-3 Assessment of the management approach assessed with social criteriaduring the period under review GRI 414: 2016 414-1 New suppliers that have passed Social evaluation evaluation and selection filters accorn.a. n.a. of suppliers ding to social criteria 169 170 TAB LES 171 172 1.AGRICULTURE A. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS: OIL PALM FRUIT, HASS AVOCADO, ORGANIC COFFEE AND ORGANIC BANANA. Palm oil fruit (kg) Avocado (kg) Coffee (kg) Banana (Boxes 20 kg-13 kg) B. LIVESTOCK Milk (liters) Calves (kilograms) Livestock (kilograms) 173 2.INDUSTRY A. PALM OIL (IN KG) Palm oil product Natural crude palm oil Organic crude palm oil Natural stearin Organic stearin Natural olein palm oil Organic olein palm oil Natural RBD Organic RBD Natural shortening Organic shortening B. PALM KERNEL OIL (IN KG) Palm Kernel oil product Kernel cake Natural palm Kernel stearin Organic palm Kernel stearin Palm Kernel olein Natural crude palm Kernel oil Organic crude palm Kernel oil Natural RBD palm Kernel oil Natural RBD palm Kernel oil C. BLEND OF VEGETABLE OILS (IN KG): Blends of vegetable oils Natural Blend vegetable oils Organic Blend vegetable oils 174 3.LOGISTICS A.TRANSPORTATION Containerized cargo B. LIQUID BULK OIL STORAGE Volume of liquid bulk stored Metric tones Cubic metric 175 4.REAL ESTATE A. CONSTRUCTION PROYECT, CIVIL AND ARCHITECTURAL WORK Construproyect AFD Corporation Colombia La Samaria Colombia, Japan, France, Italy, United States Colombia, United States, Canada, Japan, Germany, Austria, Australia, Tequendama Ecuador, United Kingdom, Holland, Switzerland, China Construproyect Colombia ECO BIO Colombia, Japan, France Oleoyuma Colombia Palma y Trabajo Colombia Superportuaria Colombia Terlica Colombia Voltaje Empresarial Colombia ZFA Colombia Annual incomes *thousand of millions (COP) 176 Gruop companies incomes GROUP COMPANIES INCOMES 177 Chair of the Corporate Board Mrs. Carmen Abondano de Dávila Chief Executive Officer Mr. Manuel J. Dávila Agribusiness Vice President Mr. Alfonso Dávila Production Vice President Mr. Juan C. Dávila Commercial Vice President Mr. Alberto Dávila Public Affairs Vice President Mrs. Rosa Paulina Dávila Mr. Alvaro Jaramillo External Advisors Mr. Jose Alberto Velez Mr. Jeroen Douglas Mr. Martin Acero Internal Advisors Mr. Jose E. Barreneche Mr. Geman Zapata Secretary General Mr. Raul Arenas Mr Ernesto Ritzel Mr. Sergio Espinosa 178 ORGANIC CERTIFICATIONS Korea (FIPA) / EU/Europe Agricultural Resolutions Reg. 834/2007 JAS / Bio Suisse / Production) abd 0187/2006 Japan Switzerland Korea (EAFA) / and 0199/2016 / y 889/2008 Processing / Colombia Korea EU/Europe JAS / Reg. 834/2007 Japan Bio Suisse / (Smallholders) and 889/2008 (Alliances (Alliances Switzerland Group) Group) (Alliances Group) EU/Europe JAS / Resolution Bio Suisse / Reg. 834/2007 0187Japan Colombia Switzerland and 889/2008 EU/EuroeE Reg. 834/2007 JAS / Bio Suisse / Japan Switzerland and 889/2008 EU/EuroeE JAS / Bio Suisse / Reg. 834/2007 Japan Switzerland and 889/2008 179 QUALITY AND FOOD SAFETY, SOCIAL/ENVIRONMENTAL, SECURITY, CUSTODY CHAINS CERTIFICATES Rainforest Rainforest RSPO P&C RSPO SCCS (Refiinery) Alliance: Alliance (Agricultural (Traceability) (Processing) (Agricultural Custody Production) Production) Chian (Traceability / processes) Rainforest Alliance Custody Chian RUC (Uniform Contractors Registry) 180 TOTAL NUMBER OF EXISTING SUPPLIERS PER YEAR IN EACH COMPANY 181 MOST SIGNIFICANT SURFACE AND UNDERGROUND WATER SOURCES USED BY THE GROUP’S OPERATIONS COMPANIES WATER SOURCES Underground water, San Francis aquifer, Santa Marta, Magdalena Tapias and Corual Rivers (basins of the Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta mountain area, Department of La Guajira) Buritaca and Guachaca Rivers, (basins of the Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta mountain area, Department of La Guajira) Fundación and Aracataca Rivers(basins of the Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta mountain area, Department of La Guajira), Ariguani River, (basins of the Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta mountain area, Department of Cesar Tapias River, basn of the Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta mountain area, Department of La Guajira). Underground Waters, Saint Francis aquifer, Santa Marta, Magdalena Tributary of Piedras River, Trasjordania Path, Santa Marta, Magdalena Tributary of the Sogamoso River, Municipality of Puerto Wilches, Department of Santander. Tributary of the Sogamoso River, Municipality of Puerto Wilches, Department of Santander. Water supply system, Santa Marta, Magdalena Underground Waters, Saint Francis aquifer, Santa Marta, Magdalena Water supply system, Santa Marta, Magdalena 182 REGISTRIES ON SURFACE WATER USE *Measurement Unit: cubic meters REGISTRIES ON UNDERGROUND WATER USE CONSTRUPROYEC AND TERLICA ARE THE ONLY COMPANIES THAT RELY ON THE SANTA MARTA WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM *Measurement Unit: cubic meters PRODUCTION OF WASTE WATER 183 VOLUME OF TREATED WASTE WATER, DUMPED INTO WATER BODIES EVERY YEAR BY EACH COMPANY *Measurement Unit: cubic meters VOLUME OF TREATED WASTE WATER THAT IS DELIVERED TO A THIRD PARTY FOR ITS FINAL DISPOSAL PER COMPANY PER YEAR *Measurement Unit: cubic meters ENERGY COMING FROM NON RENEWABLE SOURCES Diesel, Gasoline Diesel, Gasoline, Natural gas Diesel, Gasoline, Natural gas Diesel, Gasoline, Natural gas, steam Diesel, Gasoline, Natural gas Natural Gas Diesel, Gasoline 184 ENERGY COMING FROM NON RENEWABLE SOURCES Electric power (hydro) Electric power (hydro) Biomass Combustion Electric power (hydro) Electric power (hydro) Electric power (hydro) Electric power (hydro) *Measurement Unit: kWh 185 Company Energy type ACPM Gasoline Natural Gas (mil m3) Gasoline (mil galones) ACPM (mil galones) Energy (mil kWh) Natural Gas (mil m3) ACPM Gasoline Steam Gasoline ACPM Natural Gas (mil m3) Electric energy (kWh) Gasoline ACPM Electric energy (kWh) Electric energy (kWh) Natural Gas (mil m3) ACPM Gasoline 186 DIRECT EMISSIONS GENERATION SOURCES RELATED TO THE GROUP’S PROCESSES Livestock development in open or in semi-stables areas Application of fertilizers, use of fuels, cargo transportation and waste production Application of fertilizers, use of fuels waste water treatment, cargo transportation and waste production Energy cogeneration, waste production Cargo transportation Waste production Application of fertilizers, use of fuels, cargo transportation and waste production Application of fertilizers, use of fuels waste water ,treatment, cargo transportation and waste production Port logistics development, transportation activities Waste production, logistics development Waste production 187 188 Company 189 EMPLOYEES PER AGE GROUP 190 TOTAL NUMBER OF ANNUAL EMPLOYEES BY GENDER IN EACH COMPANY Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman 191 TOTAL NUMBER OF ANNUAL EMPLOYEES BY GENDER IN EACH COMPANY Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day 192 TOTAL NUMBER OF ANNUAL FEMALE EMPLOYEES PER TYPE OF CONTRACT IN EACH COMPANY Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day Fixed term Unlimited term Full day Half a day 193 ANNUAL TURNOVER RATE PER COMPANY 194 COMMITTEES BY COMPANY Safety and health Coexistence Road Safety Joint committee Company committe at work Committee Committee on health and (COPASST, acronymin (COCOL, acronym safety Spanish) in Spanish) 195 PERCENTAGE OF WORKERS REPRESENTED IN FORMAL WORKERS-HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES PER YEAR PER COMPANY ANNUAL ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE PER YEAR PER COMPANY 196 LOST TASA DE DAYS RATE PER YEAR DÍAS PERDIDOS PER YCOMPANY POR AÑO POR EMPRESA LABOR ABSENTEEISM RATE PER YEAR PER COMPANY 197 SITE RISKS MECHANICAL RISKS CHEMICAL RISKS THERMAL RISKS Level falls and fall of objects Extra muscular effort by cargo Exposure or contact with Exposure or contact with extreme manipulation hazardous ATTENDANCE PERCENTAGE (BASED ON THE TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES) TO ANNUAL PROGRAMS PUT IN PLACE FOR PREVENTION AND/OR AWARENESS BY COMPANY 198 NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS FOR MEN AND WOMEN (YEARS 2016, 2017 Y 2018) Year 2016 Year 2017 Year 2018 Company Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman NÚMERO TOTAL DE EMPLEADOS A LOS QUE SE LES HA REALIZADO EVALUACIÓN DE DESEMPEÑO PERFORMANCE NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS FOR MEN AND WOMEN EVALUATIONS IN 2016 AND (YEARS 2017 2016, 2017 Y 2018) ANUAL, POR SEXO EN CADA EMPRESA Year 2015 Year 2016 Year 2017 Year 2018 Company Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman 199 Stakeholders Topics of interest for the relationship Communication channels New labor sector’s provisions (Mininstry of Labor) Web page and their implications in the company’s relationships. Radio advertising Changes in internal regulations and disciplinary measures. Policy, procedures and protocols distribution Knowledge about work safety and health plans. Employees Workers’ wellbeing program and Corporate Social Responsibility Program. Changes in production activities’ processes or procedures. Information on certification processes. Organizational climate Claims, complaints and suggestions Timely information on price, changes in procurement Web page policy; developments directly related with collection, transportation and receipt processes. Radio advertising Learn about certification processes and changes in Posters located in places visited by Suppliers and contractors the standards being applied. community members Information and participation in technical commitPolicies, procedures and protocols tees. distribution Social, labor and environmental performance. Web page Projects of interest in their communities. Radio advertising Community Company’s management capability before governPosters located in places visited by ment agencies. community members. Communities’ social-environmental conditions. Policies, procedures and protocols distribution Learn about processes being conducted at headquarWeb page ters. Radio advertising Harmonize local programs with global trends Posters located in areas visited by Communication and contact with markets. community members. Consumer’s preferences; Policies, procedures and protocols International Offices distribution. Forms to access the product; Influence on buying decisions produced by moving different origins or trends Potential market opportunities Risk situations. 200 Strengthen academia with profesional practice. Web page Professional training Radio advertising Academia Job opportunities to the areas of influence Posters located in places visited by community members. Exchange spaces for knowledge transfer. Policies, procedures and protocols distribution. Training for work Web page Environmental performance Radio advertising Public Administraiton Regulatory compliance Posters located in places visited by community members. Social responsibility programs Policies, procedures and protocols distribution. Definition of corporate policies Web page Business strategic framework. Policies, procedures and protocols. Business development: achievements, difficulties; Property and Corporate definition of new goals, budget allocation. governance Job creation Changes in the suppliers’ network Certification processes Compliance with labor law Web page Company’s corporate social responsibility programs Radio advertising that could benefit the families. It is important for the Employees’ families Group to learn about the employee’s family percepPosters located in places visited by tion on the company’s corporate performance. community members. Policies, procedures and protocols distribution. 201 VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Market management Water resource protection Supplier management Energy efficiency and emissions reduction Human rights in the value chain Biodiversity protection and conservancy Respnsible use of inputs Integrated waste management COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Building peace Human talent Relationships with the community Safety and health Community development projects Training High corporate governance standards Sustainability for prosperity 202 DESIGN AND LAYOUT Carlos Monroy Juan Felipe Vives EDITED Daabon Group TEXT AND CONTENT REVISION Felipe Guerrero Sustainability Directo Reneta Uribe Marketing Manager Ligia Solano Legal Manager Esther Meima Sales Daabon USA BSD Counsulting ALL PHOTOGRAPHS Grupo Daabon Guillermo Rodriguez Rafael Zuñiga Mar Salazar Juan Felipe Vives
