2 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Key Performance & Achievements Company Growth & Achievements Highlights S$1,172,9 Green Building million in revenue 5 Greenmark Certified buildings • Sales of Development Properties: S$946.5 million • Sinar Mas Land Plaza – BSD City • Rental & Related Income: S$139.7 million • MyRepublic Plaza BSD City • Hotel and Golf Operation: S$26.8 million • Green Office Park 9 BSD City • Service Concession Arrangements: S$11.6 million • Green Office Park 1 BSD City • Others: S$48.3 million • Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta Scope: 53 projects = 2,535,858.54 m2 total GFA in 2019 à 261% increase from 2018 Awards • FIABCI World Prix d’Excellence Awards 2019 World Silver Winner – Sustainable Development Category – Green Office Park 9 • FIABCI World Prix d’Excellence Awards 2019 World Silver Winner – Office Category Green Office Park 9 • BCI Asia Awards 2019 Sinar Mas Land Top 10 Developer 2019, Indonesia • Property Guru Indonesia Property Awards 2019 Best Condo Development (Greater Indonesia) The Nove Apartment Nuvasa Bay • Property Guru Indonesia Property Awards 2019 Best Condo Landscape Architectural Design (Greater Indonesia) The Nove Apartment Nuvasa Bay • ASEAN Energy Award 1st Runner Up Green Building – Green Office Park 9 • CECT Sustainability Award Overall Sustainability Performance: Property, Real Estate & Building Construction Industry • CECT Sustainability Award Project-Based CSR & Business Sustainability: Creating Sustainable Living Area • UN Global Compact Network Indonesia Most Committed New Member of the Year 2018. Sinarmas Land Limited 3 Sustainability Report 2019 Governance Highlights 0 reported cases of non-compliance 0 concerning: reported cases of corruption • market communications and product information, • health and safety impacts of BSDE’s product and • services, all relevant social and economic laws and 0 regulations Significant fines or non-monetary • all relevant environmental laws and regulations sanctions were imposed on SML HR Highlights 3,727 Total employees 8.45 Average training hour per employee 100% Full time 98% 100% Return to Work Rate 1,132 2,595 (from Maternity/Paternity Leave) No Variation of Minimum Wages Level between male and female employees 4 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Key Performance & Achievements Health and Safety Highlights 0 reported cases Customer and Public Health Safety of fatalities or any work-related injuries • Number of injuries for members of public: in all our buildings under the Asset decreased from 19 in 2018 to 8 in 2019 Management, Commercial and Retail & • Number of dangerous occurrences: decreased 54% Hospitality Group Divisions from 76 in 2018 to 35 in 2018. Community and HR Environmental Initiatives 53% 200 decrease in single-use plastic bottles as a result of trees planted and 100 biopori holes through the #lessplastic initiative by SML and BSDE BSD green festival. Health and Safety Initiatives • Safety awareness and socialisation to employees, tenants and customers • Annual assessment on OHS activities’ related risk • Implementation on OHS requirements for contractors • Technical and Safety Audits • Firefighting training for Emergency Response Team (ERT) • Fire and earthquake drills simulations with employee, tenants and customers Community Service Highlights 293 6,923 600 schools benefitted from Gerakan students for BSD Knowledge House market managers and related sellers Sekolah Menyenangkan (GSM) in 2019 benefitted from Pasar Rakyat School activities 30 3 3 IT students graduated and renovated schools in Bekasi social healthcare service events employed from Techpolitan Regency benefiting 935 community IT Programming Scholarship members 1,200 students participated in Badminton scholarship program Sinarmas Land Limited 5 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Highlights 137.14 kWh/m 2 254,645,441 kWh Overall Energy Intensity by GFA Occupied Total energy consumption (9% increase from 2018) 8,069,480 kWh 143.82 kWh/m 2 Green Building Energy Consumption (4% decrease from 2018) Green Building Energy Intensity Energy by GFA Occupied (5% decrease from 2018) 1.30 m /m 3 2 2,418,608 m 3 Overall Municipal Water Intensity by GFA Occupied Total Municipal Water Consumption (5% decrease from 2018) 71,687 m 3 Green Building Municipal Water 1.28 m /m 3 2 Consumption Water Green Building Municipal Water Intensity (16% decrease from 2018) by GFA Occupied (17% decrease from 2018) 0.0989 tonnes CO e/m 2 183,700 tonnes CO2e 2 Overall GHG Emissions Intensity by GFA Total GHG emissions Occupied (9% increase from 2018) 5,804 tonnes CO2e GHG Emission Green Building GHG emissions (3% decrease from 2018) 0.1034 tonnes CO e/m 2 2 Green Building GHG Emissions Intensity by GFA Occupied (4% decrease from 2018) 543,081 m 3 Of recycled and reused water 15.4 mg/l = average of BOD effluents (59% decrease from 2018) 22% Recyle & Of total water consumption Reused Water (increase from 4% in 2018) Contents 08 About Sinarmas Land 47 Climate Change & the Environment 47 Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean 12 Message from the Chairman & CEO Environment 55 Providing and Maintaining Green Open Space 15 About the report 56 Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public 19 Board Statement Transportation 60 Responsible Waste Management Program 20 Our Approach 20 Sinarmas Land Sustainability Vision 64 Sustainable Community 23 Governance & Risk Management 64 Engagement Program for All Stakeholders 23 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 65 Improving Community Welfare in Surrounding 24 Stakeholder Engagement on our Materiality Development Area Assessment 67 Educational Patronage 28 Best in Class Real Estate 67 Initiating Program to Support Knowledge 28 Providing Excellent Facilities & Services Enhancement 37 Attention to Customer and Occupational Health & 68 Improving Educational Method and Facility Safety 40 Setting Programs to Achieve Sustainable 73 Appendix Development 73 Appendix A: Notes for Sustainability Performance 45 Compliance to All Related Regulatory Data Requirements 75 Appendix B: GRI Content Index d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sininarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas s land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sininarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas s land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sininarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas s land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinSinarmas Land Limited 7 Sustainability Report 2019 Abbreviations Project Category Group Division AM Asset Management ARC Audit and Risk Management Committee BCA Building and Construction Authority Singapore BSDE PT Bumi Serpong Damai Tbk Comm Commercial ERMC Executive Risk Management Committee ESG Environment, Social, Governance FGD Focus Group Discussion FY Financial Year GFA Gross Floor Area GHG Greenhouse Gas GOP Green Office Park GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSM Gerakan Sekolah Menyenangkan (Fun School Movement) HSE Health, Safety and Environment ITC International Trade Centre Jabodetabek (JBDTK) The Greater Jakarta metropolitan area (an acronym of Jakarta-Bogor-Depok-Tangerang-Bekasi) MOM Singapore Ministry of Manpower Singapore MSME Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise OHS Occupational Health and Safety PIC Person-in-Charge RH Retail & Hospitality RTH Ruang Terbuka Hijau (Green Open Space) SGX Singapore Exchange Limited 8 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 About Sinarmas Land As a leading property developer, we recognise that our operations have impacts on Mother Nature, our communities, and our stakeholders including tenants, customers, and residents who live and work within or surrounding our developments. We continue to incorporate sustainability across our operations and take action as a leader in the real estate development industry in Indonesia. Sinarmas Land Limited (“SML”) is listed on the Singapore Indonesia, SML has completed development projects Exchange and headquartered in Singapore. We are and holds long-term investments in commercial and engaged in property business throughout our operations hospitality assets, across markets including Malaysia, and investments in Indonesia, Malaysia, China, Australia China, Australia and the United Kingdom. and the United Kingdom. Our Indonesia Division covers all sub-sectors of the property business, including The Group delivered a resilient performance of S$1,172.9 township development, residential, commercial, industrial million in revenue and EBITDA of S$616.0 million for and hospitality-related properties. In addition, SML has the financial year ended 31 December 2019. As at long-term investments in major commercial buildings, 31 December 2019, the Group’s total assets stand at hotels and resorts. S$7,757.5 million, with total debt of S$2,055.0 million and total equity of S$4,698.7 million. Our revenue can SML operates mainly through three publicly listed be broken down into: S$946.5 million from sales of Indonesian subsidiaries, namely PT Bumi Serpong Damai development properties, S$139.7 million from rental Tbk (“BSDE”), PT Duta Pertiwi Tbk (“DUTI”) and PT and related income, S$26.8 million from hotel and golf Puradelta Lestari Tbk (“DMAS”) – with a combined market operations, S$11.6 million from service concession capitalisation over S$5.8 billion as of 31 December 2019. arrangements and S$48.3 million from others. Please As a result, we are one of the largest property developers refer to our Annual Report 2019 for additional details on in terms of market capitalisation in Indonesia. Outside our corporate structure and our financial results. Sinarmas Land Limited’s Properties by Market Segments RESIDENTIAL Property Portfolio/ (LANDED & COMMERCIAL RETAIL Market Segment HIGH-RISE) Market Segment Modern Market Trade Centres Shophouses, Offices Malls Business Loft Property Portfolio/ HOTEL INDUSTRIAL Low Market Segment Middle Market Segment High Sinarmas Land Limited 9 Sustainability Report 2019 Network of Operations Portfolio Overview 4 16 1 21 City & Township Hotels, Resort & Convention Retail & Properties Golf Courses Centre Trade Centres 21 18 3 Residential Commercial Industrial Properties Properties Properties BSDE is one of the largest property development companies in Indonesia based on a market capitalisation of IDR 23.2 trillion (S$2.3 billion) as of 31 December 2019. Established in 1984 by a consortium of shareholders, BSDE’s operations started in 1989. Our flagship project, BSD City, is the largest privately City, including ITC BSD, Ocean Park Water Theme Park developed township and the most ambitious urban and Green Office Park, which is a low-density office planning development in Indonesia with a development park including ten low-density office buildings and a area (including land rights) of approximately 5,950 shopping mall sitting on a land area of 25 hectares. BSD hectares. BSD City’s Master Plan is for the city to City is well-connected to the central business districts comprise approximately 80 residential estates, which will in Central Jakarta through two toll roads, Kebon Jeruk cover approximately two-thirds of BSD City’s effective and Pondok Indah. To further enhance its accessibility, area, with seven commercial sub-town centres and three BSDE commenced construction of the Serpong-Balaraja dedicated central business districts. toll road connecting to BSD City in July 2019. Upon completion, this will provide direct toll road access to the The development of BSD City’s residential, business and Jakarta-Merak toll road, the main highway linking Jakarta commercial properties, as well as supporting amenities to western Java, as well as linking BSD City directly to the and infrastructure is being carried out in three phases. Soekarno-Hatta International Airport. In addition, there are Phase 1 was completed in 2008. We are currently in three train stations within BSD City that offer commuters’ Phase 2 which is expected to be completed in 2020. direct access to Central Jakarta through a double-track Phase 3 is targeted to commence in 2020, with expected railway service. completion by 2035. As at 31 December 2019, BSD City has more than 20,000 residential properties, five Outside of BSD City, BSDE has property development commercial sub-town centres which include commercial projects and landbank situated in Central Jakarta, West and industrial facilities, schools, hospitals, parks and Jakarta, North Jakarta, South Jakarta, Bekasi, Cibubur, utilities, with a total population size exceeding 160,000. Surabaya, Medan, Balikpapan, Makassar, Samarinda, Manado, Palembang, Semarang, Depok and Cikarang. In addition to property development, our subsidiary company, BSDE, also provides facility services, such Apart from property development, the Group owns and as water treatment and estate management services, operates investment properties comprising of office and operates several investment properties in BSD buildings, retail space and hospitality-related assets narmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinar s land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas l . sinarmas 10 land. sinarmas Sinarmas Land Limited land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. Sustainability Report 2019 narmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinar s land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas l About Sinarmas Land nd. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas lan d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. . sinarmas la d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. . sinarmas land. sinarmas la . sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. in key Indonesia cities and abroad. In Indonesia, the of the few integrated golf and leisure destinations in the Group has jointly developed Kota Deltamas with Sojitz state of Johor. It is a 30-minute drive from Singapore’s Corporation from Japan. Kota Deltamas is a modern Tuas Checkpoint, a 5-minute drive from Johor Senai self-sustainable integrated township development that International Airport and strategically located within the consists of industrial, commercial and residential estates Flagship Development Zone E of Iskandar Malaysia. strategically located in Bekasi, Jakarta. Also, the Group has entered a joint venture with Itochu Corporation from In the Indonesian island of Batam, the Group owns and Japan to jointly develop Karawang International Industrial operates Palm Springs Golf & Beach Resort, one of City (“KIIC”), an award-winning green industrial estate the best golf courses in Batam that provides excellent located in Karawang, West Java. club facilities together with warm hospitality and firstclass services. Within the resort, the Group has carved In the United Kingdom, the Group owns three out 228 hectares for the development of Nuvasa Bay, strategically located freehold Grade A office buildings the first integrated luxury residential and mixed-use in Central London namely Warwick House, Alphabeta development in Batam. Nuvasa Bay offers a panorama of Building and 33 Horseferry Road – with a total leasable the Singapore Straits along its 1.2 km coastline, which is area of approximately 500,000 square feet and assetsa 30-minute ferry ride away from the bustling downtown under-management close to S$1.0 billion. area of Singapore. Located in and amongst a 27-hole international championship golf course and equipped In Malaysia’s southern state of Johor, the Group owns with commercial facilities, hotels and high-end residential and operates the 54-hole Palm Resort Golf & Country property, Nuvasa Bay aims to provide residents and Club and 330-room Le Grandeur Palm Resort Hotel, one tourists with a balanced and luxurious lifestyle. Sinar Mas Land Plaza BSD City Sinarmas Land Limited 11 Sustainability Report 2019 At the end of 2019, SML employed 3,727 people across around sustainability by being a member of the following the Group’s operation in Indonesia. For further details on organisations: our workforce, please refer to the section “Our Employee” from page 30. • Founding Corporate Member of the Green Building Council Indonesia SML’s supply chain covers a wide range of vendors, • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), via the contractors and consultants. We outsource different Indonesia Global Compact Network (IGCN) stage of project development ranging from architectural • Indonesia Developers Association (Persatuan design to building construction and cleaning services Perusahaan Real Estate Indonesia) to each subject professional. In doing so, SML brings • Indonesia Energy Conservation Society (Masyarakat benefit to the wider community, through the provision Konservasi Energi Indonesia /MASKEI) of jobs and economic growth. During the FY2019 • Indonesia Industrial Estate Association (Himpunan reporting period, there were no significant changes to the Kawasan Industri Indonesia) organisation’s structure or its supply chain. • Indonesia Retail Building Management Association (Asosiasi Pengelola Pusat Perbelanjaan Indonesia) / We believe that complex sustainability issues often APPBI require a collaborative approach. To this end, we • Indonesia Hotel and Restaurant Association actively participate in a range of collaborative initiatives • Jakarta Hotel Association Property Low-Rise High-Rise Industrial City Land Sales & Human Corporate Management Product Product Product Development Acquisition Marketing Capital IT Maintenance Design Consultant, eg. Consultant: Land External Sourcing Disaster Contractor Structural Masterplan Acquisition Sales Vendor Recovery Architect City Infra. Contractor Agent Centre Provider Plumbing M&E Outsourcing Training eg. Security Contractor, eg. Consultant: Above The Provider IT Vendor: Cut & Fill Permit Line Application Technician Building Contractor, eg. Cleaning Structural Electricity Legal Vendor Infrastructure Architect Road Operation Services Plumbing Water Supply M&E Below The Goods Line Supplier Infrastructure Vendor Infrastructure Material Contractor, eg. Supplier Landscaping Material Supplier: Building Infrastructure armas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. si land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarma 12 Sinarmas Land Limited sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas lan Sustainability Report 2019 armas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. si land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarma Chairman and CEO Statement . sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas la sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas lan sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas lan sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas lan Dear Valued Stakeholders, 2019 saw the strengthening of sustainability policies and implementation within Sinarmas Land Limited (“SML” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively “the Group”). This report showcases our continuous commitment to integrating sustainability into the Company’s core business, in order to create value for all stakeholders. As we close the decade in 2019, businesses, governments, and society at large are realising that in order to create a sustainable future, there needs to be greater involvement and action from all stakeholders. With this comes increased prominence of sustainability disclosure and reporting by corporations around the world. While SML has been relatively new to sustainability reporting, we are committed to playing our part in championing ESG issues and serving as an example for other organisations in Indonesia and Southeast Asia. To date, SML has produced three annual sustainability reports, which have displayed consistent improvement in reporting standards and alignment with international and national guidelines such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and 2016 SGX Sustainability Reporting Guide. In this report, you will be able to see SML’s growing commitment to continually strengthen our sustainability efforts. What started out as an initial focus for sustainability within our flagship BSD City project is now transforming into a comprehensive sustainability strategy and reporting across our operations. In 2019, we have significantly expanded the scope of our report, to be in tandem with our increasing influence and potential to create an impact in Indonesia and beyond. As a step up from previous years, we have included buildings and projects within BSD City, and in Jabodetabek. The scope expansion in 2019 led to the increase of Gross Floor Area (GFA) and GFA Occupied, by 261% and 346% to 2.5 million m2 and 1.86 million m2 respectively. In striving for more complete reporting, we will continue to expand our scope in the future. To facilitate this, we have set out a clear roadmap outlining SML’s sustainability progress in reporting scope expansion, as well as future scope expansion targets. This roadmap is set to lead us to cover all our Indonesia operations’ developments and properties by 2021. FRANKY OESMAN WIDJAJA Executive Chairman In 2019, we engaged our stakeholders to review our material sustainability issues as we look to stay relevant in today’s ever-changing business landscape. Through focus group discussions and surveys with our stakeholders, alongside the help of an independent narmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinar s land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas l d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas Sinarmas Land Limited land. sinarmas13 land. Sustainability Report 2019 narmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinar s land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas l nd. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. . sinarmas l d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. . sinarmas land. sinarmas l d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. . sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas l d. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sustainability consultant, we were able to assess and categorise material issues into areas of focus, and subsequently prioritising them. This resulted in the integration of the revised areas of focus into four pillars under SML’s Sustainability Vision, of which will form the central framework of SML’s sustainability approach and reporting moving forward. The four pillars of SML’s Sustainability Vision are, Best in Class Real Estate, Climate Action, Sustainable Community, and Educational Patronage – all of which are mapped to the relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In this report, you will learn about the progress we have made and the targets set under each pillar. In striving to be the best in class within the real estate industry, we focus on creating quality development projects to our customers, as well as implementing human resource policies that are above industry norms. Beyond just creating high-quality projects with excellent facilities and services, SML stands out in our evergrowing commitment to embed sustainable development into our core business strategy, specifically through incorporating “Green” building design and technological innovation in our products. These efforts have been recognised in Indonesia and internationally. In 2019, SML continued to add the following awards to its existing portfolio: • FIABCI World Prix d’Excellence Awards 2019 – World Silver Winner – Sustainable Development Category – Green Office Park 9 • FIABCI World Prix d’Excellence Awards 2019 – World Silver Winner – Office Category Green Office Park 9 • BCI Asia Awards 2019 – Sinar Mas Land Top 10 Developer 2019, Indonesia • Property Guru Indonesia Property Awards 2019 – Best Condo Development (Greater Indonesia) The Nove Apartment Nuvasa Bay • Property Guru Indonesia Property Awards 2019 – Best Condo Landscape Architectural Design (Greater Indonesia) The Nove Apartment Nuvasa Bay • ASEAN Energy Award – 1st Runner Up Green Building – Green Office Park 9 • CECT Sustainability Award – Overall Sustainability Performance: Property, Real Estate & Building Construction Industry • CECT Sustainability Award – Project-Based CSR & Business Sustainability: Creating Sustainable Living MUKTAR WIDJAJA Area Executive Director and • UN Global Compact Network Indonesia – Most Chief Executive Officer Committed New Member of the Year 2018. As a company, we understand the significance of climate change and recognise our responsibility as one of Indonesia’s leading real estate developers to contribute sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinar sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinar 14 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarm Chairman and CEO Statement to Indonesia’s Paris Agreement Contributions. In applying reviews to support career growth and up-skilling of international green building standards, SML is able to employees. We believe that such efforts will create a create positive impacts in the environments we operate ripple effect on the wider society, and is also beneficial in. An example of this is The Breeze BSD City, a lifestyle to the future growth of our Group. Externally, we continue retail mall dubbed as “the mall with no walls”. Through to make a significant impact within the wider community harnessing passive design strategies, the mall reduces to enable equal opportunity and access to education energy consumption from air-conditioning and lighting. through scholarships and capacity building programs. While BSD City remains our flagship development, we One of such initiatives in 2019 was the Gerakan Sekolah are expanding the scope of environmental performance Menyenangkan (GSM), a social movement aimed at disclosures, as mentioned above. We have also helping educators in the Tangerang District and South established clear monitoring and reporting systems for Tangerang City to improve their soft skills, thereby materials, energy, and water used within our construction enabling them to nurture successful future leaders. and operation of our developments. This not only promotes transparency but also allows us to utilise Certainly, such achievements and success will not such data to better manage and optimise our building be possible without our employees and workers. SML operations. It is for these reasons of scope expansion places great emphasis on occupational health & safety that you will notice an increase in materials, energy, and for its employees and takes the workplace accidents water usage for 2019, as disclosed in the report. very seriously. Resulting from our continuous initiatives, we are pleased to report that there were no fatalities or Our efforts also extend beyond SML’s projects and any work-related injuries in all our buildings under the properties. As a founding corporate member at Green Asset Management, Commercial, and Retail & Hospitality Building Council Indonesia, we share these bestGroup Divisions. practices on sustainability with the industry. Lastly, we would like to acknowledge our stakeholders We recognise that the wellbeing and progress of local once again, for providing valuable insight into our communities in the areas we operate in are key to SML’s materiality assessment, enabling us to continually sustained prosperity and success. Aside from providing improve on our disclosures and better realise SML’s larger infrastructural development and support, the Sustainability Vision. Moving forward, we hope to sustain Company often participates in community engagement and improve on the level of stakeholder engagement and and development initiatives across our operating areas. involvement that we saw in 2019. In 2019, we continued to engage our stakeholders within these communities actively, through regular surveys, 2020 marks the start of a new decade, one that will see campaigns, communications, and community events. a greater emphasis on sustainable development. We These channels allow for members of the communities to hope that the strategic alignment and centralised focus raise concerns, feedback and suggestions. of our Sustainability Vision will be able to create greater economic, environmental and social value for Indonesia SML considers education to be one of the key and beyond. We are excited to work together with you to foundations of sustainable development. Internally, we realise this vision. conduct annual employee training and performance Franky Oesman Widjaja Muktar Widjaja Executive Chairman Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer mas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. . sinarmas land. sinarmas land. mas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. . sinarmas land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. Sinarmas Land Limited 15 as land. sinarmas land. sinarmas land. Sustainability Report 2019 About The Report Our sustainability report demonstrates our ever-growing commitment to a greener, healthier, safer and more prosperous Indonesia. This year, we have significantly expanded the scope of our reporting, both in terms of data disclosure and the breadth of operations, as we continue to integrate sustainability values and principles deeper into the fabric of our organisation. This report covers the period from January 1 to Scope Expansion December 31, 2019 (FY2019). Going forward, we will continue to publish this report on an annual basis. Using Since publishing our first report in 2018, the Group established and recognised sustainability leaders among has expanded the report’s coverage significantly from our peers as a yardstick, we continue to apply the GRI the initial focus on BSD City to developments outside reporting framework to ensure accuracy, reliability, the flagship development. We aim to cover all of our clarity, and comparability of the information presented in operations’ developments and properties in Indonesia this report. and internationally by 2021 and 2022 respectively. Below is a roadmap of SML’s sustainability progress in terms of During 2019, we reviewed our material issues and made our reporting scope expansion, as well as future scope subsequent updates to our material issues to better expansion targets. reflect changes in the environment, our business and our stakeholder’s priorities. When reviewing materiality, In this year’s report, we have expanded the scope we adopted a comprehensive, structured and holistic significantly to include additional buildings and projects approach to include the society, environment and within BSD City and Jabodetabek. The table below communities in which we operate. We engaged a wide provide a detailed list of data collected in this report on a range of stakeholders during our materiality review, to per project/ property basis. ensure that we took into consideration both internal and external viewpoints on the sustainability issues that are most pertinent to our long-term value creation. See page 24 for full details of the review. BSD JBDTK Outside JBDTK Building (AM, RH, Comm) 2017 l Green Building Building (AM, RH, Comm) 2018 l Green Building l Non Green Building Building (AM, RH, Comm) Building (AM, RH, Comm) l Green Building l Green Building 2019 l Non Green Building l Non Green Building Landed Houses Building (AM, RH, Comm) Building (AM, RH, Comm) l Green Building l Green Building 2020 l Non Green Building l Non Green Building Landed Houses Landed Houses Building (AM, RH, Comm) Building (AM, RH, Comm) l Green Building l Green Building Building (AM, RH, Comm) 2021 l Non Green Building l Non Green Building l Green Building l Non Green Building Landed Houses Landed Houses 16 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 About The Report Material GRI Topics for our Development Project Category Group Division List of Projects Projects Material Use OHS Data included Data included within this report within this report Development Commercial Ruko Golden Vienna ü Project Support BSD City Green Office ü Services Park (GOP) 1 Foresta Business Loft 6 ü ü Southgate Mall ü ü Southgate Serviced ü ü Apartment Southgate Apartment ü ü Ruko The Icon 5 ü ü Residential Amarine ü Caelus ü Jadeite ü Savia ü Tevana ü Visana ü Zeva ü Project Group Division List of Projects Material GRI Topics for our Development Projects Category Water Waste Energy OHS Data Data Data Data included included included included within this within this within this within this report report report report Property Asset ITC BSD ü ü ü ü Management Management BSD Junction ü ü ü ü ITC Mall Ambasador ü ü ü ü Mall Mangga Dua ü ü ü ü ITC Cempaka Mas ü ü ü ü ITC Depok ü ü ü ü ITC Fatmawati ü ü ü ü Graha Cempaka Mas ü ü ü ü ITC Kuningan ü ü ü ü ITC Roxy Mas ü ü ü ü ITC Permata Hijau ü ü ü ü ITC Mangga Dua ü ü ü ü Asset Sinar Mas Land Plaza – BSD ü ü ü ü Management City Office My Republic Plaza ü ü ü ü GOP 9 ü ü ü ü New Additions to 2019 Projects from 2018 Sinarmas Land Limited 17 Sustainability Report 2019 Project Group Division List of Projects Material GRI Topics for our Development Projects Category Water Waste Energy OHS Data Data Data Data included included included included within this within this within this within this report report report report Property Asset Sinar Mas Land Plaza ü ü ü ü Management Management Jakarta (Tower 1) Office Sinar Mas Land Plaza ü ü ü ü Jakarta (Tower 2 & 3) Dimo Space ü ü ü ü Marketing Office ü ü ü ü Wisma BCA ü ü ü ü Customer Care Office ü ü ü ü Sinarmas MSIG Tower ü ü ü ü BSD Permit and Township ü ü ü ü Office Retail & Q-Big ü ü ü ü Hospitality The Breeze ü ü ü ü Le Grandeur Mangga Dua ü ü ü ü Hotel Commercial Casa De Parco ü ü ü ü Saveria ü ü ü ü Akasa ü ü ü ü The Elements ü ü ü ü Foresta Business Loft 1 ü ü Foresta Business Loft 2 ü ü Foresta Business Loft 3 ü ü Foresta Business Loft ü ü Signature Ruko The Icon 1 & 2 ü Ruko The Icon 3 ü ü Residential Club House The Avani ü ü Club House The Icon ü ü Strategic Land BSD Modern Market ü ü ü Bank New Additions to 2019 Projects from 2018 18 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 About The Report As our commercial and residential properties are At present, we are not seeking external assurance for managed by external parties, some of these properties this report as our main focus remains on expanding are unable to provide waste, health and safety data for the scope of our reporting and continuing to integrate this year’s report. sustainability into the organisation. We group buildings under our property management into We recommend reading this report together with our 3 broad categories, namely Green buildings, high-rise Annual Report 2019, which provides key information on office buildings, and the rest of the buildings. As the our financial performance, as well as additional detail nature of each building differs, we have set out specific on our corporate governance and risk management. targets for each respective category. Both reports are critical communication materials in our ongoing engagement with stakeholders. We also invite GREEN HIGH-RISE OFFICE TRADE REST OF BUILDINGS BUILDINGS CENTRES BUILDINGS GOP 9 SINAR MAS LAND ALL INTERNATIONAL NON-GREEN OFFICE PLAZA – JAKARTA TRADE CENTRES BUILDINGS SINARMAS LAND PLAZA BSD CITY SINARMAS MSIG RETAIL AND HOSPITALITY TOWER MYREPUBLIC PLAZA COMMERCIAL, RESIDENTIAL AND TOWNSHIP Building GFA Building GFA Occupied 1.86 (in million m2) 2.54 (in million m2) 0.70 0.42 0.08 0.06 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 To quantify the scope expansion of our FY2019 report, our readers to read BSDE’s first standalone sustainability we used GFA and GFA Occupied as a yardstick for report that focuses on the performance of BSD City. measurement. Our GFA and GFA Occupied in FY2019 surged 261% and 346% to 2.54 million m2 and 1.86 This report uses standard units of measurement. million m2 respectively. A comparative chart of our Conversion factors, where required and applicable, are increasing scope coverage can be found in the chart explained in their respective sections. above: For any questions regarding this report, please contact Mohammad Reza Abdulmajid, Chief Risk Officer, Sinarmas Land at sustainability@sinarmasland.com. Sinarmas Land Limited 19 Sustainability Report 2019 Board Statement tenant’s satisfaction survey conducted by an external vendor. Details of our stakeholder engagements can be The Board of Sinarmas Land has the ultimate found under the sections of “Stakeholder Engagement responsibility for the preparation of this Sustainability on our Materiality Assessment” in page 24 and Report. Our sustainable development strategy and “Engagement Program for All Stakeholders” on page 64. activities highlighted in this report are guided by These engagements have allowed the Board to focus internationally recognised frameworks (GRI reporting our attention and efforts on issues most relevant to our standards) and institutions such as the United stakeholders. Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Brundtland Commission. We are proud to be an early adopter of the The Board is constantly working with the Audit and Risk UN Sustainable Development Goals, and the first major Management Committee (“ARC”) to provide oversight on Indonesian real estate developer to become a signatory significant environmental, social and governance issues of the UNGC through the Indonesia Global Compact that might potentially have an impact on SML’s long-term Network (IGCN). business objectives. The ARC, in turn, reviews SML’s sustainability programs and ensures the Board is kept This report has been prepared following the GRI up-to-date on all relevant developments. Standards: Core Option. It also meets the requirements of the 2016 SGX Sustainability Reporting Guide in all The Board has reviewed SML’s material issues material aspects. determination processes and acknowledged that the list provides a fair representation of SML’s material ESG As part of our continual improvement towards issues. Together with the Management, the Board will sustainability, we have actively engaged our stakeholders continually monitor and review these material issues, as in 2019 through various initiatives such as independent part of our commitment and responsibility to the company consultant-led focused group discussion, and customers and our stakeholders. Pasar Modern (Modern Market) Intermoda 20 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Our Approach The four pillars of our Sustainability Vision are entrenched in our identity as an economically, environmentally, and socially responsible organisation. As one of Indonesia’s leading real estate developers, our pillars enable us to create transformative strategies and actions that bring value to our stakeholders, communities, nation and the preservation of Mother Nature. In this section Sinarmas Land’s Sustainability Vision The following pages introduce Sinarmas Land’s All of SML’s projects, spearheaded by our flagship sustainability vision and strategy, including our approach BSD City project, are perfect embodiments of our to materiality and stakeholder engagement. Sustainability Vision, which is based on the four foundation pillars outlined below. Each of the foundation pillars shapes SML’s sustainability principle and core business strategies. Through them, the Group sets sustainability targets driven by various initiatives and measurement metrics. SINARMAS LAND’S SUSTAINABILITY VISION BEST IN CLASS CLIMATE CHANGE AND SUSTAINABLE EDUCATIONAL REAL ESTATE THE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY PATRONAGE By providing state-ofWe recognise the need As part of our commitment We are committed in the art facilities and to mitigate climate towards the Indonesian ensuring that everyone services of the highest change and are in a people, we actively engage within the communities of quality and with excellent position to contribute with our stakeholders and operations, independent value, we are making a positively to Indonesia’s work on a number of large of their gender or age, and unique contribution to the commitments under scale community projects. at thier own discretion, prosperity of current and the Paris Climate has equal access to our future generations, as Agreement. education ecosystem. well as to Indonesia as a whole. SINARMAS LAND’S SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND CORE VALUES • be the best-in-class city planning (as represented by BSD City in its entirety); • develop top-quality offices, commercial (e.g. Best in Class Real Estate Indonesia Convention Exhibition), retail (e.g. AEON Mall BSD City) spaces, residential properties, Our top priority and greatest strength: By providing statein accordance with leading engineering and of-the-art facilities and services of the highest quality, we environmental standards; and are making a significant contribution to the prosperity of • contribute to the development of modern physical and current and future generations, as well as to Indonesia as public transport infrastructures, including schools, a whole. We are committed to hospitals and neighbourhood markets Sinarmas Land Limited 21 Sustainability Report 2019 In 2019, we have set four areas of focus in our efforts to No Description Types of Target 3 years target be the best in class real estate developer: 1 Tree Planting Number of trees To plant 31,803 (Township, planted new trees • Providing Excellent Facilities & Services Residential & • Attention to Customer and Occupational Health & Commercial) Safety 2 Ruang Number of 1,420,110 m2 • Setting Programs to Achieve Sustainable Terbuka Hijau developed RTH Development (RTH) or (Public & Private) • Compliance to All Related Regulatory Requirements Green Open Space These activities are aligned with Sustainable 3 Biopori Number of biopori 17,916 Development Goals (SDG) number: (Residential & holes Commercial) 4 Public Number of Bus Bus stop: 20% Transport Stops from existing units Program for and Passengers: BSD City Passengers 5,5% (p.a) from existing number of passengers 5 Length of Number of 9,749 metres Pedestrian developed Climate Change and the Environment walkway pedestrian length Sinarmas Land recognises the need to mitigate climate We have also set the following environmental change and preserve the environment, to contribute performance targets specifically for the following types of positively to Indonesia’s commitments under the Paris buildings: Climate Agreement. We are committed to Energy • steadily growing the percentage of developments No Topics Baseline Coverage Target built following internationally recognised “Green” standards (e.g. BCA Green Mark, LEED, Greenship); 1 Energy 2017 SML Green 5% reduction Intensity Buildings in in 8 years or by • continue to develop public transport and logistics BSD City 2025 facilities within its projects to minimise unnecessary carbon emissions during transportation of humans 2 Energy 2019 SML High3% reduction and goods; and Intensity Rise Office in 8 years or by Buildings in 2027 • contribute by any means possible to the Jakarta decarbonisation of Indonesia’s economy (e.g. through energy-saving efforts within our projects, lobbying, collaboration with industry peers) Water No Topics Baseline Coverage Target In 2019, we have set four area of focus in our efforts to 1 Water 2017 SML Green 10% reduction combat climate change and protect the environment: Intensity Buildings in in 8 years or by BSD City 2025 • Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean 2 Water 2019 SML High2% reduction Environment Intensity Rise Office in 8 years or by • Providing and Maintaining Green Open Space Buildings in 2027 • Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Jakarta Transportation • Responsible Waste Management Program Emissions These activities are aligned with the Sustainable No Topics Baseline Coverage Target Development Goals number: 1 Emission 2017 SML Green Similar with Intensity Buildings in energy target BSD City calculation 2 Emission 2019 SML HighSimilar with Intensity Rise Office energy target Buildings in calculation We have set the following targets in our efforts with 2019 Jakarta as our baseline to excel in this area of focus: 22 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Our Approach Sustainable Community Educational Patronage As part of its commitment toward the Indonesian people, Sinarmas Land acknowledged that education is one not just within BSD City, SML has contributed positively of the most important prerequisites for the sustainable back to Indonesia’s society through numerous key development of our society. We are committed initiatives. We are committed to to ensuring that everyone within our operational communities, independent of their gender or age, and • create jobs and business opportunities within BSD at their discretion, has equal access to our education City and beyond; ecosystem. We are committed to • improve the surrounding community’s wellbeing by enhancing their entrepreneurial skills and capabilities; • investing in state-of-the-art educational facilities in • ensure the sustainability of Micro, Small and Medium and around BSD City; Enterprises (MSMEs) businesses within SML’s • ensuring students are well-prepared for the growing surroundings by introducing Digital Payment System; demand of modern job markets through various • promote a healthy and clean lifestyle; and initiatives, such as providing scholarships for • conduct capacity building activities for MSMEs at computer programming; and SML’s modern markets • improving the learning process in Junior and Primary Schools through teacher training programs as well as In 2019, we have set two area of focus to help our economic and cultural knowledge programs for local communities to prosper and thrive: communities near SML projects • Engagement Program for All Stakeholders In 2019, we have set two areas of focus to provide • Improving Community Welfare in Surrounding education for all: Development Area • Initiating Program to Support Knowledge These activities are aligned with the Sustainable Enhancement Development Goals (SDG) number: • Improving Educational Method and Facility These activities are aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals number: We have set the following targets with 2019 as our baseline in our efforts to excel in this area of focus: Sustainable Community We have set the following targets with 2019 as our baseline in our efforts to excel in this area of focus: Types of Target No Activities Target (in 5 years) Educational Patronage 1 IT Coding Number of 100 students with School scholarship 80% employment Types of Target No Description Scholarship receivers rate. Target (in 5 years) 2 Pasar • Number of Activities: 60 1 Gerakan Number of 500 schools Rakyat events Number of Sekolah schools with green habit School • Number of participants: Menyenangkan program participants Sellers : (GSM) 1,400,000 2 BSD Number of 500 activities Market Knowledge activities from all centres Managers : House (Rumah 2,400 Pintar) 3 Berantas Buta Number of 1,500 Quran (Learn participants participants How to Read Quran) Sinarmas Land Limited 23 Sustainability Report 2019 Governance & Risk Management By integrating sustainability initiatives into our existing risk management structure, we can ensure that the Board The implementation of SML’s sustainability development is constantly kept abreast of our material sustainability strategy is developed around SML’s strong corporate issues, along with the follow-up progress and mitigation culture and our core values: actions taken. We reviewed and mapped the most significant issues to our Enterprise Risk Management • Positive Attitude (“ERM”), except for certain environmental topics, such • Integrity as risks relating to waste management and the materials • Commitment used in our construction activities. These omitted topics • Continuous Improvement will be mapped out progressively in later years as we • Innovation continue to integrate sustainability initiatives into our • Loyalty operations. In 2019, we further strengthen our corporate risk management practices by incorporating the risk of We have always taken a long-term view in creating not achieving our sustainability goals into our ERM. value for our stakeholders. Hence, we will continue to integrate our economic, environmental and social goals Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement across our business units through the implementation of sustainability-oriented practices. In 2019, we undertook a review of our material sustainability issues and updated the materiality Our sustainability initiatives are integrated into the assessment matrix. The review of our materiality Group’s overall governance and operations, with issues was based on GRI’s Principles for Defining direct guidance and involvement from the Company’s Report Content and follows GRI’s four-step approach management team. Our sustainability structure of identification, prioritisation, validation and review of comprises of senior management, middle management material issues. and employees from various functions. Our Executive Risk Management Committee (“ERMC”) comprises of As a key part of our materiality review, we engaged a 15 senior leaders from different strategic business units wide group of stakeholders through various approaches (“SBU”) and support functions. We have identified roles such as Focus Group Discussion (FGD), customer and and responsibilities, with three Person-in-Charge (“PIC”) tenant satisfaction surveys, and employee engagement each being responsible for overseeing the respective survey to better understand their concerns, feedback and environmental and social, employment and economic area of improvement. dimensions of the Company. They are supported by process owners for the respective sustainability topics and programs. Secretariat: Environmental 1 Board Enterprise Risk and Social Managements (ERM) 2 Audit Committee (AC) Employment Executive Risk Management 3 Committee (ERMC) Economic Roles & Responsibilities of Board and Committees 1 2 3 Provide oversight on significant Review SML sustainability program Review and recommend the board environmental, social and governance and reports and ensure full company statement required to be included in issues that might impact SML long-term support towards sustainable the annual sustainability report prior to business objective. development. its issuance. 24 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Our Approach Stakeholder Engagement on our Materiality Conducted by an independent external consultant, the Assessment discussion focused on issues relating to Sinarmas Land’s business processes, conflict of interest and suggestion To ensure our material topics address future risks and for future stakeholder engagement initiatives. opportunities, we undertook a comprehensive materiality review in 2019. Our economic, environmental and social Outcomes from the FGD have been incorporated into PICs conducted an internal assessment, ranking the SML’s materiality assessment and material topics in this degree of significance each topic potentially has on the year’s report. business, and its relative relevance to SML’s operations and sustainability pillars. The assessment results were 2. Customer and Tenant Satisfaction Survey reviewed internally by the ERMC. In 2019, we conducted a customer and tenant Alongside the internal review, SML engaged a wide satisfaction survey over a period of 10 weeks to track the range of internal and external stakeholders, to take following: into consideration their opinions on the topics that are key to future proofing SML’s long term value. We i. Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) and Customer adopted various engagement methods to enable us to Loyalty Index (CLI) successfully take into account multiple viewpoints: ii. Perception towards SML iii. Sources of satisfaction and dissatisfaction. • FGDs were conducted for selected stakeholders; iv. Performance and overall satisfaction of our customer • Customer and Tenant Satisfaction Survey was journey performed through interviews with our residential & v. Performance at each touchpoint which has a direct commercial customers, office building & mall tenants, interaction with customers and hotel guests; vi. Feedback from customers for future improvements • Employee Engagement Survey was performed by SML Human Capital using an online questionnaire. We conducted satisfaction surveys with office building tenants, mall tenants, and residential/customers. A total 1. Focus Group Discussion (FGD) of 201 office building tenants and 269 mall tenants participated in the survey. Occupational health and safety On the 5 and 6 November 2019, we conducted an remain the most important aspect of sustainability for FGD session with 50 individual stakeholders from both groups of tenants. This result aligns with SML’s area eight different stakeholder groups. These individuals of focus on “Attention to Customer and Occupational represent stakeholders from academia, civil society, Health”. Separately, both office building and mall tenants tenants, residential customers, media, business partners, now place a higher importance on green environment in regulators, and local communities from both BSD 2019, compared to 2018. Knowledge House and BSD Modern Market. Office Building Tenant SR Survey Result 95.56 94.07 94.38 92.74 92.34 91.14 89.63 90.55 83.70 Evacuation drill Complete Proper and Plastic waste Importance of and safety information of good air reduction save energy socialisation safety signage ventilation campaign 2018 2019 Sinarmas Land Limited 25 Sustainability Report 2019 Mall Tenant SR Survey Result 92.19 92.63 89.47 90.56 88.42 89.00 88.81 86.91 83.16 Evacuation drill Complete Proper and Plastic waste Importance of and safety information of good air reduction save energy socialisation safety signage ventilation campaign 2018 2019 603 residential and commercial customers also Program” and “Setting Programs to Achieve Sustainable participated in the survey. Based on the survey result, Development”. In addition, all survey participants (office waste management and air quality are the most building tenants, mall tenants, residential and commercial significant topics for them. This result aligns with SML’s customers) showed significant increase in the importance area of focus on “Responsible Waste Management of green environment in 2019, as compared to 2018. Residential/Commercial Customer SR Survey Result 93.20 91.33 93.20 90.73 90.40 90.60 92.00 88.56 84.40 88.03 79.20 86.60 84.61 76.00 78.80 84.58 83.81 82.40 83.47 Waste Air quality and Effluent The use of Safety Plastic waste The use of Developer The use of The use Management circulation management safety signage equipment reduction recycled water concern environmental of natural system for road repair availability on nature friendly technology for each house conservation electronic (e.g. solar and green appliances panel) environment 2018 2019 3. Employee Engagement Survey issues from employees. The assessment for each question is based on 4 scale of measurement and Employee Engagement Survey (EES) was conducted employees were encouraged to fill the questionnaires in 2019 for 2,308 internal employees (permanent and through online application. The result have been retired contract for staff level and above) with 77.34% compiled and presented to Management before participation rate. Questionnaire was prepared internally incorporated into SML’s materiality assessment and (SML Human Capital Team) based on employee material topics in this year’s report. engagement survey best practices to capture material 26 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Our Approach CATEGORY 2018 2019 Targeted Respondents 2,471 employees 2,308 employees Actual Respondents 1,815 employees 1,785 employees Participation Rate 73.45% 77.34% Changes in Participation Rate An increase of 3.89 percentage points All material issues raised by our stakeholders were our management, while the level of importance was assessed and categorised. Each area of focus has been determined from various stakeholder engagements and mapped on the materiality assessment matrix based on reviewed by our internal management. The materiality the significance and importance to each stakeholder. matrix maps out the result from our stakeholder The level of significance was determined internally by engagements against the area of focus. Materiality Matrix Chart 5 A C F,K,L B 4 E,H,J 3 Influence Level D,G,I 2 1 1 2 3 4 5 Significance Level A Providing Excellent Facilities & Services G Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transportation B Setting Programs to Achieve Sustainable Development H Responsible Waste Management Program C Attention to Customer and Occupational Health & Safety I Engagement Program for All Stakeholders D Compliance to All Related Regulatory Requirements J Improving Community Welfare in Surrounding Development Area E Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment K Initiating Program to Support knowledge Enhancement F Providing and Maintaining Green Open Space L Improving Educational Method and Facility Sinarmas Land Limited 27 Sustainability Report 2019 The updated materiality matrix was reviewed and and stakeholders, into SML’s four foundation pillars. approved by both our senior managers and the ERMC. Subsequently, we mapped the corresponding GRI topics We have integrated our revised area of focus, identified to the focus areas the table below. as being the most material issues to our business Sustainability Pillar Area of Focus GRI Topic Best in Class Real Estate Providing Excellent Facilities & 201: Economic Performance Services 202: Market Presence 205: Anti-Corruption 401: Employment 402: Labour-Management Relations 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Setting Programs to Achieve 201: Economic Performance Sustainable Development 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Attention to Customer and 403: Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health & Safety 416: Customer Health and Safety Compliance to All Related 307: Environmental Compliance Regulatory Requirements 416: Customer Health and Safety 417: Marketing and Labelling 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Climate Change and the Optimising Building Operation to 301: Materials Environment Achieve Clean Environment 302: Energy 303: Water and Effluents Providing and Maintaining Green 305: Emissions Open Space Providing and Facilitating Various 305: Emissions Type of Public Transportation Responsible Waste Management 306: Effluents and Waste Program Sustainable Community Engagement Program for All 413: Local Communities Stakeholders Improve Community Welfare in 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Surrounding Development Area 413: Local Communities Educational Patronage Initiating Program to Support 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Knowledge Enhancing 404: Training and Education 413: Local Communities Improving Educational Method 203: Indirect Economic Impacts and Facility We strongly encourage readers of this report to send Please contact Muhammad Reza Abdulmajid, Chief Risk us your feedback on the results of our materiality Officer, Sinarmas Land, sustainability@sinarmasland.com assessment and any other feedback you may have with on any of the above. We look forward to hearing from you regards to Sinarmas Land’s sustainability efforts. 28 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate We strive to be the best in class for real estate. As one of the largest property developers in Indonesia, we take this responsibility seriously and seek to continuously develop and improve our sustainability performance. In this section meet (and exceed) the need of our customers. We set targets and implement initiatives to maintain product The following section provides an overview of Sinarmas quality from development to management phases. When Land’s efforts to provide best in class real estate and developing property, we always perform the following to products to our customers. We have identified four areas ensure the quality of our products: of focus that is vital to our continuous successes: • conduct market research to capture customers’ • Providing excellent facilities and services needs and wants; • Setting programs to achieve sustainable development • perform selection and tender to obtain the best • Attention to customers and occupational health & material vendor and contractor; safety • perform quality assurance in certain steps of the • Compliance to all related regulatory requirements product development process; and • provide after-sales services after the product has SML is increasing our focus on sustainable development been sold and handed over to customers. by embedding “Green” concepts into our development projects. We work hard to address climate and After the completion of development projects, SML environmental issues, as well as minimising the actively provides the best services to customers and environmental impacts of our projects and products. tenants as the property and township manager. We As one of the founding corporate members of the ensure the facilities provided to our customers and Green Building Council Indonesia, we aim to remain an tenants are sufficient, efficient and in good conditions. exemplary and influential leader in driving sustainable Our services include: development in Indonesia. • conduct regular maintenance for building equipment; SML also places importance on technological innovation • ensure health and safety for building occupants; in our development projects. We aim to integrate digital • conduct regular maintenance in the residential and initiatives into our projects to improve management township environment; efficiencies post development. At present, we are • ensure the environment security of every property, gradually integrating the management of BSD City with residential and township managed by SML; and various digital initiatives to create a Smart City that • ensure the availability of public facilities based on provides high living standards to residents. residential needs, such as places of schools, worship, malls, hospital, etc. Our targets and aspirations to provide excellent facilities and services, to prioritise customer and occupational SML recognises that our human capital is an important health and safety, and to realise sustainable development asset in providing the best products and services. By are built upon a strong governance structure that is focusing on our employees’ well-being and personal ethical, transparent, and compliant to all rules and growth, we strive to be an Indonesian employer of regulations. We have implemented internal systems choice. We seek to hire the best and provide them with to monitor and investigate any potential incidents of ample opportunities to nurture their talents and enhance corruption or non-compliance in every aspect of our their skills. We have put in place various initiatives and business. We seek to remain a trustworthy brand and an policies to ensure that our workforce and talents develop industry leader with high ethics and integrity. fairly and effectively to be adept at providing the best services to customers. Our workforce turnover figures are a testament to our commitment to our valued employees. Providing Excellent Facilities & Services Our commitment to employees’ well-being is At the centre of our efforts is our commitment to provide demonstrated through our human resource (“HR”) the best for our customers. SML aims to develop firstpolicies and initiatives driven by our Human Capital team. class products with excellent facilities and services to The team explores and drives initiatives which are geared Sinarmas Land Limited 29 Sustainability Report 2019 towards building a conducive and inclusive workplace for • City dwellers and visitors alike are well served by our employees’ development, well-being and satisfaction. sports amenities, including tennis courts, Olympic Some of the initiatives are: size swimming pools, a Jack Nicklaus-designed 18-hole golf course, BSD Extreme Park for extreme • competitive remuneration packages; sports lovers and Ocean Park a Canadian-designed • fair benefits for full-time employees; an thematic water adventure park. BSD City also • equal opportunities provided for all genders on every provides a wide range of lifestyle amenities including level shopping, dining, multi-cineplex theatres, and many other recreation facilities. Also, traditional markets and In view of the importance that human capital has on numerous shopping centres formed part of BSD City’s our product and service excellence, we will be looking holistic development. at our overall employment statistics for the Group’s • Worship facilities for different religious groups in Indonesian operations (excluding any joint ventures), Indonesia. Worship facilities are one of the most our performance as an equal opportunity employer, and important amenities provided to our customers. benefits and welfare programs, in this section. Currently, SML plans to build a large mosque in Tangerang area within BSD City to provide our Muslim Outstanding Facilities and Services residents with a better place for worship. • Rather than treating waste as a cost and burden, As a consecutive winner of Prix d’Excellence Awards our waste and materials management program hope from The International Real Estate Federation (FIABCI) for to change peoples’ mindset by viewing waste as a innovative planning and design, Sinarmas Land always resource. This approach shall create a cleaner and include the best facilities and services for its customers healthier BSD City. in all of our development’s plan and design. Below lists down some of the facilities and infrastructure that are in On services amenities, SML has provided a number of place in BSD City: services to complement our products and facilities as follows: • A reliable power supply and fibre-optic cables provide the backbone to BSD City’s communication • Integrated customer service, led by our Customer infrastructure, ensuring consistent and speedy data Relations & Service Quality Division, consolidates connection. all complaints from customers and channel them • Public parks provide a place for our residents to internally to the respective departments for resolution. escape from the hustle and bustle of everyday Through this initiative, we will be able to keep track modern life. It plays an important role in conserving of the complaints and resolutions, ensuring that no the environment and protecting the well-being of city complaints will be left unattended. dwellers. The network of BSD City’s drains and canals • Implementation of OneSmile application. OneSmile provide reliable sewerage and flood management is an integrated mobile application with various infrastructure, designed to keep BSD City flood-free. features such as payments for Public Utility Board Moreover, BSD City is elevated 40 metres above sea (PUB), purchasing of tickets for events and theme level. parks, live chat with our customer care, news feed, • Our professional and well-trained security guards transportation schedules, food and grocery deliveries, are equipped with a high-end electronic security and household repair services. This is to improve the apparatus throughout BSD City as security and safety convenience and living quality for everyone in BSD is a vital aspect for residents’ comfort. City. • Healthcare facilities, which includes hospitals, clinics, • Rolled out in 2019, our mobile customer service outpatient care centres, and specialised care centres, allows our customers to reach out to us, independent such as birthing centres and psychiatric care centres. of time and location, as we seek to gather feedback There are two major hospital in BSD City being Eka on areas for improvement. Hospital and Medika Hospital BSD. • Implementation of integrated Front Liner Application • Credible education facilities. There is a strong System (FAS). FAS enables SML front liners – first emphasis towards education within BSD City with responders who direct customer complaints to more than 63 national and international schools and relevant units, to monitor complaint resolution from colleges. This includes the Prasetya Mulya University, related units of buildings and environments in International University Liaison Indonesia, Atma real time as to track and accelerate the complaint Jaya University and the all new Sinarmas World resolution process to be more efficiently. School. In the longer-term, SML aim to establish a centre of learning to attract both academics and research projects, turning BSD City into a township of educational excellence. 30 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate Below are some highlights of our initiatives to provide the best services and facilities to our communities in 2019: 3 Renovation of Cisauk Station The Group completed the renovating and upgrading work LOCAL COMMUNITY PROGRAM at Cisauk Train Station in February 2019. The renovated station can accommodate a larger number of commuters and encourages higher train ridership in and out of BSD 1 Social Service for Health Care City. Train transportation is a lower carbon alternative to other modes of transport. To improve the quality of public health in and around our projects, in 2019, we organised a total of three social health care services event (two in BSD City and one in Southgate Apartment Jakarta) that benefitted 935 beneficiaries. Renovated Cisauk Station Our Employees As at 31 December 2019, SML has employed a total of 3,727 (2018: 3,860; 2017: 3,870) employees, of which 2,595 are male (70%) and 1,132 are female (30%). The Social Service for Health Care nature of our business (construction and real estate development) tends to have a higher percentage of male workers. Being an equal opportunity employer, we encourage gender diversity of our workforce, especially 2 Clean Water Facilities Deltamas in middle management and above. In response to the long and dry summer season in Indonesia, the team at Kota Deltamas provided clean Total Number of Employees, water facilities for communities in the surrounding Bekasi by Gender Regency. This initiative aimed to equip communities with sufficient clean water reserves, as well as preparing them to cope with the dry summer season. 1,132 (30%) Clean Water Facility Deltamas 2,595 (70%) Male Female Sinarmas Land Limited 31 Sustainability Report 2019 100% of our employees work full-time. Of those fullOf the total number of 3,727 employed employees, time employees, 25% are hired on a fixed contract 2,029 employees are based in BSD City, 1,328 in term/temporary basis, with the gender breakdown of Greater Jakarta or Jabodetabek, and the remaining permanent and fixed contract term/temporary employees 370 employees are based in our other operations in the charts below. Fixed contracts typically have a term across Indonesia. The breakdown of employees by an of one year. employment contract for the three regional groups is shown in the chart below. Number of Temporary Employees, by Gender Total Number of Employees, by Region 1,533 960 271 (29%) 496 368 258 657 112 (71%) BSD City Jabodetabek Other excluding BSD Permanent Temporary Male Female Diversity and Equal Opportunity Number of Permanent Employees, Our commitment to fair labour practices is emphasised by Gender in our employee handbook and employment practices. We have an equal opportunities policy on employment, banning any form of discrimination based on race, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership and political affiliation. We believe that our employees should be treated equally, 861 fairly and with respect. (31%) 1,938 (69%) Kartini’s Day Male Female Some benefits that are provided exclusively to full-time employees of SML include: • Participation in our House Ownership Program; • Severance Payments; • Vehicle Cash Substitution Facility. 32 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate In 2019, our governance bodies consisted of 25% female We have 25% female employees in Top Management, and 75% male employees. None of our governance 33% females among Senior Managers (Divisional Heads), bodies’ members is below the age of 30. 40% of them are 36% female employees among Managers (Department between the ages of 30 and 50, while the remaining 60% and Section Heads), and 40% and 10% female workers are above 50 years of age. in the staff and non-staff categories respectively. Individuals in Governance Bodies, Percentage of employees per by Gender employment category, by gender Non-Staff 90% 10% 5 (25%) Staff 15 60% 40% (75%) Managers (Dept Head & Section Head) 64% 36% Male Female Senior Managers (Div Head) 67% 33% Individuals in Governance Bodies, Top Management (GDH Above) by Age Group 75% 25% Male Female 8 12 (40%) (60%) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Sinarmas Land Limited 33 Sustainability Report 2019 Ratio of the Basic Salary of Women to Men, by Employee Category and Location of Operation As SML values the diversity of its workforce, we continue Top Management (GDH Above) to practice the employment of mature workers. During 0.91 the reporting period, 60% of our employees in Top Management are above the age of 50, while 45% and 27% respectively of our Senior Managers and Managers Senior Managers (Div Head) were older than 50. 0.86 Managers (Dept Head & Section Head) Percentage of employees per 0.93 employment category, by age group 1.14 1.16 Non-Staff 12% 74% 14% Staff 0.96 1.12 Staff 1.08 22% 65% 13% Non-Staff 0.91 Managers (Dept Head & Section Head) 1.00 3% 70% 27% 0.93 BSD City Jabodetabek Other Senior Managers (Div Head) excludig BSD 56% 44% Ratio of the Remuneration of Women to Men, by Employee Category and Top Management (GDH Above) Location of Operation 40% 60% Non-Staff 0.91 <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Staff 0.86 As an equal opportunity employer, we compensate and remunerate our employees based on merit. The ratio of Managers (Dept Head & Section Head) basic salary and remuneration of women to men can be 0.94 found in the charts on the right1. 1.38 1.10 Senior Managers (Div Head) 0.96 1.19 1.12 Top Management (GDH Above) 0.91 0.90 0.82 1 Top Management (GDH above) and Senior managers (Div BSD City Jabodetabek Other Head) are based in BSD City only. excludig BSD 34 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate New Hires and Employee Retention New Hire, by Gender We recognise that welfare and career development contribute significantly to the satisfaction and reputation 12% of a workplace. 203 133 8% 5% 4% Male Female No. of new hires Rate of new hires (Denominator: total number of employees) Rate of new hires (Denominator: no. of employees in gender category) Indonesia Independence Day Celebration The results of our proactive engagement with employees show that there are no significant levels of dissatisfaction. New Hire, by Region During the year, we hired 336 (2018: 359; 2017: 541) new employees, contributing to a new hire rate of 9% (2018: 156 12% 9%; 2017: 17%). As we believe that a diversified team with different age groups, backgrounds, and skillsets will bring enriching perspectives to the workplace, our 137 new hires are from different age groups, including the re8% 10% employment of employees above age 50. 4% 4% 43 New Hire, by Age Group 1% 35% BSD City Jabodetabek Other 197 excluding BSD 136 No. of new hires Rate of new hires (Denominator: total number of employees) Rate of new hires (Denominator: no. of employees 5% 5% in region) 4% 3 0.08% 0.50% <30 years 30-50 years >50 years SML recorded a total turnover of 424 (2018: 391; 2017: 713) or an overall turnover rate of 11% in 2019 (2018: No. of new hires 10%; 2017: 18%). SML will maintain our ongoing effort Rate of new hires (Denominator: total number of and initiatives to improve our employee’s well-being and employees) their satisfaction level. Turnover and turnover rate by age Rate of new hires (Denominator: no. of employees group, gender and region are shown in the charts below. in age group) Sinarmas Land Limited 35 Sustainability Report 2019 Year-to-Year Rate of Turnover Employee Turnover, by Region 18% 713 18% 15% 10% 52 98 424 10% 11% 8% 296 7% 5% 4% 24 97 6% 112 2% 41 BSD City Jabodetabek excluding Other 2017 2018 2019 BSD Region Total turnover No. of non-voluntary turnover Overall turnover rate No. of voluntary turnover Overall voluntary turnover rate, for Rate of total turnover (Denominator: total number benchmarking with national rates of employees) (e.g. MOM in Singapore) Rate of voluntary & non-voluntary turnover (Denomintor: no. of employees in region) Benefits and Welfare Employee Turnover, by Gender Beyond competitive remuneration, we care for our 15% employees through welfare and benefit schemes, 122 including but not limited to insurance coverage, 10% healthcare benefits, parental leave, and retirement 7% 52 provision to all our employees. Full-time employees 5% also enjoy a house ownership program, vehicle cash 134 116 substitution facility, and severance payments. Male Female No. of non-voluntary turnover No. of voluntary turnover Rate of total turnover (Denominator: total number of employees) Rate of voluntary & non-voluntary turnover (Denomintor: no. of employees in gender category) Health Talk & Medical Corner 36 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate Family-friendly Employer Respecting Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Rights SML prioritises our employees’ welfare. We support our employees by providing benefits and welfare for SML respects all employees’ fundamental rights to the employees with family, including parental leave, medical freedom of association and the right to be members benefits, subsidy of marriage and grievance, etc. of trade unions. We are guided by the Indonesian government regulation (as ratified by the ILO) which In 2019, 65 eligible female employees and 138 eligible allows trade unions to represent our employees for male employees took their maternity and paternity collective bargaining, providing our employees with an benefits respectively. As at 31 December 2019, 64 of the avenue to seek redress for disputes. A total number 65 female employees have returned to work after their of 240 employees (6% of our total workforce) from the parental leave ended, while 1 is still on parental leave, Le Grandeur (LG) Hotel subsidiaries (PT. Sinar Wisata whereas all of 138 male employees have returned to Lestari & PT. Sinar Wisata Permai) are covered by work after their parental leave. Therefore, we recorded a collective bargaining agreements. return to work rate of 100% for both our female and male employees. Above the minimum wage level The tables below outline detailed information on male and We believe in providing decent work remuneration. female employees who took parental leave in 2019, as As such, our employees are remunerated based on well as the rate at which employees were still employed experience, position, and competency. We strictly comply 12 months after their return to work from parental leave in with the minimum wage level set by the Government2 and 2018. Return to Work Rate in 2019 No. of employees No. of employees No. of employees who returned to who are still on Type of Parental who utilised their work in 2019 after parental leave in Return to work rate Leave parental leave in their parental leave 2019 (as of 31 Dec 2019 (as of 31 Dec 2019) 2019) Maternity leave for 65 64 1 98% female employees Paternity leave for 138 138 0 100% male employees Retention Rate in 2019 No. of employees who No. of employees who returned to work after returned to work after parental leave ended and Type of Parental Leave Retention rate their parental leave in were still employed 12 2018 (as of 31 Dec 2019) months later (as of 31 Dec 2019) Maternity leave for female 60 48 80% employees Paternity leave for male 117 109 93% employees 2 The Provincial Wages Council determines any increase of Provincial Minimum Wages. The governor then issues a decree for each province. The current wage increase is based on Government Regulation No. 78 for 2015 stipulating a wage increase of 8.71%. Sinarmas Land Limited 37 Sustainability Report 2019 ensure that all our employees are rightly compensated 2. Mandatory Defined Contribution Plan (Jaminan Hari for their work. As an equal opportunity employer, there is Tua) no variation in minimum wages level between male and female employees. The chart below shows the minimum A mandatory Defined Contribution Plan (Jaminan Hari wage level used by SML for each gender and operations Tua) by BPJS Ketenagakerjaan is provided for both locations. permanent and non-permanent employees below the retirement age. Normally, an additional 3.7% of an employee’s base salary is contributed by the Minimum Wage, by Gender and Location employer and 2% is deducted from the employee’s salary. At SML, we have decided to cover both parts of this payment. As of 31 December 2019, all IDR IDR 4,270K 4,270K employees have been registered as BPJS Jaminan Hari Tua participants. A mandatory Defined Benefit Plan (Jaminan Pensiun) by BPJS Ketenagakerjaan is also provided for both IDR IDR IDR IDR permanent and non-permanent employees below the 4,200K 4,200K 4,201K 4,201K retirement age. Here, 2% are paid by the employer and 1% is deducted from the employee’s maximum salary limit which is detemined by the government regularly. As of 31 December 2019, all employees BSD City Jabodetabek Other have been registered as BPJS Jaminan Pensiun excluding BSD participants. Male Female Attention to Customer and Occupational Health & Safety A core aspect of product and service excellence is health Retirement Plans and other Defined Benefits and safety. We made customer and occupational health and safety (“OHS”) a priority through various initiatives, Sinarmas Land complies with all relevant government such as awareness programs for customers and tenants, regulations in the following ways: and OHS policies for employees and contractors. We seek to minimise risks of injuries, accidents and illnesses 1. Severance pay for retired employees in accordance at our development projects to maintain SML’s reputation with UU Tenaga Kerja No.13/2003 as a reliable developer and manager that upholds the highest standards of health and safety in the industry. Under this Act, an employee is entitled to the following severance payment from the employer upon Ensuring Customers’ and the Public’s Well-Being reaching her or his retirement age, based on their length of service to the company. We take all incidents relating to our customers’ or general public’s well-being very seriously. All health and safety Although this is not explicitly mentioned as an incidents involving members of the public such as employer’s retirement plan, this severance payment guests, visitors, occupants, tenants, and customers are can still be considered as a ‘defined contribution reported, and included in our Monthly Operations Report plan’. If the employer has their own defined which is submitted to Division Heads and the Group contribution program, the severance amount payable Division Head (CEO). is equal to the difference between these regulations and the employer’s defined contribution program. As part of our Health, Safety, Environment (“HSE”) Only permanent employees are eligible for these awareness program for tenants, we engage in several severance payments. regular activities to promote safety in our buildings. These include HSE socialisation, the placement of safety For every fiscal period, an independent actuary will signage in public spaces, corridors and food courts, assess the provision of severance payments, whose earthquake drills, and fire drills with tenants and visitors. findings are disclosed in our annual financial report. 38 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate In 2019, there were 8 injuries and 35 dangerous • Conducted regular maintenance checking based on occurrences or near misses involving members of the Equipment Maintenance program; public in our buildings in our property management • Performed safety equipment adequacy assessment portfolio. All injuries were minor, and victims were for all projects then addressed equipment-related quickly attended to and resolved. This is a significant safety issues immediately whenever necessary; improvement from 2018, and safety continues to be • Performed firefighting and first aid training for an area of focus for us. An investigation is carried out Emergency Response Team (ERT); after each incident, the results of which are reported • Conducted safety socialisation for SML employees in an incident investigation report, including follow-up and tenants. actions undertaken. This report is presented during the respective SBU’s Monthly Operations Meeting, and In addition, SML has developed and implemented actions are identified to continuously improve our safety emergency response and crisis management plan. track record. Fire drills and emergency simulations are conducted periodically to ensure that emergency procedures are understood and implemented correctly. We also conduct regular trainings and awareness programs on health Members of Public Safety Statistics in and safety for our workforce and tenants. Overall, these Buildings initiatives are implemented and conducted to ensure a safety culture is strongly practiced in our operations. 97 Similar to customer and tenant safety protocol, all 76 incidents are reported to the Safety Department, which will be included in the Monthly Operation Report that is submitted to Division Heads and the Group Division 35 Head (CEO). For certain categories of incidents, 25 such as breakdown of equipment or near misses due 19 to negligence, a thorough investigation report with 8 accompanying follow-up actions will also be submitted to the Division Heads. 2017 2018 2019 Resulting from our continuous initiatives, we are pleased to report that there were no fatalities or any work-related Number of injuries Number of dangerous injuries in all our buildings under the Asset Management, occurences/near misses Commercial, and Retail & Hospitality Group Divisions. As part of our commitment listed in the inaugural Our disciplined approach to ensuring Occupational sustainability report, we have started tracking the lost Health & Safety days and total man hours worked for both our employees and contractors by gender. We have also expanded the Several OHS initiatives conducted in 2019 are as follows: scope of our OHS data by including information from development projects in BSD City. • Regular assessments such as annual property hazard risk assessments by ERM team; There were 32 work-related injuries in FY2019. All injuries • Technical and Safety Audits conducted by SML were sustained by contractors working on Southgate Technical Advisor to ensure compliance by SML Phase 1 and 2 development projects. Most accidents employees; occurred due to negligence of safety procedures by • Annual OHS equipment certification for compliance contract workers, or misuse of equipment such as saw, with fire safety standards of the Indonesian Fire hammer, AC overcharged, etc. All cases were minor Department; or moderate injuries, requiring first-aid level medical • Annual assessment on OHS activities’ related risk and treatment only, with no lost days. As a result of these control by ERM team; injuries, we recorded a Rate of recordable work-related • Specific OHS-related audit by Internal Audit as part of injury rate (formerly AFR) of 9.94 and an Injury Severity its annual audit; Rate (formerly ASR) of 0.47 for our development projects • Implemented OHS requirements for contractors in FY2019. In 2019, our number of injuries increased during construction process; due to the increase in scope of our reporting, but in • Included third party insurance coverage in property particular due to the inclusion of high-rise buildings, such management and construction sites; as Southgate Apartments. Injury rates associated with Sinarmas Land Limited 39 Sustainability Report 2019 the development of high-rise blocks tend to be higher on We are pleased to report that the overall absentee rate average compared to low rise buildings (which were the of our employees is 1% (2018: 1.5%; 2017: 1.8%), with main development projects in 2018). the breakdown by gender and region shown in the charts below. . Rate of recordable work-related injuries Absentee Rate, by Gender 9.94 Number of recordable work-related injuries 9,503 2% 4,989 per million manhours worked 1.75 1% 0.42 0.47 Male Female 0.00 2017 2018 2019 No. of absentee days Absentee Rate Buildings Rate of Development Projects recordable workRate of recordable workrelated injuries related injuries Absentee Rate, by Region Injury Severity Rate 5,505 5,612 1.97 3% 1.84 3,375 Number of man days lost per 2% 1.09 1% million manhours worked BSD City Jabodetabek Other 0.00 excluding BSD 0.00 2017 2018 2019 No. of absentee days Absentee Rate Buildings injury Development Projects Severity Rate Injury Severity Rate We have implemented various initiatives to promote a healthy lifestyle and the well-being of our employees: • Discounted gym memberships for permanent employees; • Employees’ Running Club; • After work sports activities (basketball, futsal, badminton, volleyball, etc.); • Blood donation events. For health and safety, the following initiatives by SML are noteworthy: • Health and safety awareness through SML intranet and socialisation events; 40 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate strong intention by SML to ensure that our products are promising long-term investments for investors. In 2019, we initiated various projects that support sustainable development. Developed on a 26 hectares site, Digital Hub functions as a physical platform to serve the business and social activities of technology companies. Digital Hub’s main objective is to help businesses and institutions succeed within an environment that fosters collaboration, social interaction, and a sense of community. SML will continue to leverage on our green building expertise and technological innovation to improve quality and value of our products, thereby improving the well-being of our tenants. BSD Green Office Park is a centerpiece of SML’s sustainable development and digital innovation targets and aspirations. Futsal Cup 2020 to promote Work-Life Balance BSD Green Office Park To realise our commitment in implementing developments • Regular fire drills involving all employees and tenants; with an environmental cause, BSD Green Office Park, • Health and safety training for emergency response Indonesia’s first green office park, was developed in team; BSD City with an area of 25 hectares. BSD Green Office • Installation of safety signage in various critical areas Park will feature ten five-storey buildings and a parkof our buildings; like ambience for its tenants. BSD Green Office Park has complied with international green standards for Please note that this section includes data on our incorporating advanced green architectures to conserve construction activities in FY2019. energy, water and natural resources. All its buildings maximise sunlight penetration while reducing solar heat, thus boosting energy efficiencies, and optimising air Setting Programs to Achieve Sustainable circulation. For its eco-friendly practices, BSD Green Development Office Park has received the Green Mark Gold Award from Singapore’s BCA. SML is an industrial leader in green building and a In May 2013, BSD Green Office Park was awarded with role model for other property companies to embrace the Gold Award in the World FIABCI Prix d’Excellence and invest in “Green” concept building in Indonesia. Award in Taiwan under the Category Sustainable We emphasise on technological innovation and Development. In 2012, our BSD Green Office Park environmental preservation to uphold our responsibility received the International Property Award Asia Pacific and commitment to our stakeholders and Mother 2012 for Office Development. It is also the first office Nature. We are committed to developing a sustainable district in Indonesia to be certified as a ‘Gold’ Green city guided by the Smart City theme. We also aim to district by Singapore’s Building Construction Authority incorporate the “Green” concept into the developments (BCA). These achievements are testaments to SML’s of our products. continuous commitment to realise and promote sustainable development in the real estate industry. Firstly, we will gradually integrate the management of BSD City with digital initiatives such as city information The following are awards achieved by SML in the management system, traffic management system, reporting period: transportation system and customer care and complaint system to create a Smart City that can adapt and thrive • FIABCI World Prix d’Excellence Awards 2019 – with constant technological development. Integrated and GOP 9 Silver Winner for Sustainable Development digitalised infrastructures can lead to an efficient city that Category provides a high standard of living to residents. • FIABCI World Prix d’Excellence Awards 2019 – GOP 9 Silver Winner for Office Category SML is also increasing our focus on embedding “Green” • BCI Asia Awards 2019 Sinar Mas Land – Top 10 concepts into all new development projects to address Developer global climate and environmental issues. This is a • Indonesia Property Awards 201 – The Nove Nuvasa Bay Best Condo Development Sinarmas Land Limited 41 Sustainability Report 2019 • Indonesia Property Awards 2019 – The Nove • National Energy Awards (Subroto Award) GOP 9 Nuvasa Bay Best Condo Landscape Architectural for Green Building Category Design • ASEAN Energy Awards 2018 Runner Up Green • ASEAN Energy Award – GOP 9 1st Runner up for Office Park 9 (Energy Efficiency Building Category) Green Building Category • TOP CSR Award 2018 • CECT Sustainability Award – Overall Sustainability • Best CSR Property Developer Top CSR Leader Performance: “Property, Real Estate & Building • Asia Sustainability Reporting Awards 2018 Asia’s Construction Industry” Best First Time Sustainability Report. • CECT Sustainability Award – Project-Based CSR & • National Energy Awards 2012, 2013, 2014 (Energy Business Sustainability: Creating Sustainable Living Efficiency Award) winner (Sinar Mas Land Plaza Area Building) for energy-efficient, new and existing • UN Global Compact Network Indonesia – Most building category Committed New Member of the Year 2018. • National Energy Awards 2014, 2015 (Energy Efficiency Award) winner (The Breeze Mall) for energy-efficient building, tropical building category • Asean Energy Awards 2015 (Energy Efficiency Award) winner (The Breeze Mall) for energy efficient, tropical building category • Asean Energy Awards 2016 2nd runner up (ICE Convention and Exhibition) for energy efficient, new and existing building category • National Energy Awards 2015 (Energy Efficiency Award) winner (ICE Convention and Exhibition) for the category of energy-efficient, new and existing building category • National Energy Awards 2016 (Energy Efficiency Award) winner (MyRepublic Plaza) for energyefficient buildings, new buildings category • National Energy Awards 2016 winner (MyRepublic Plaza) for energy-efficient buildings, green building category • Asean Energy Awards 2017 1st runner up (MyRepublic Plaza) for Energy Efficient Buildings CECT Sustainability Award New and Existing Building Category • Asean Energy Awards 2017 1st runner up (MyRepublic Plaza) for Green Building Large Past awards include: Category • National Energy Awards 2017 (Energy Efficiency • FIABCI World Prix d’Excellence Awards 2018 Award) winner for energy efficiency and new building GOP 9 World Gold Winner for Conservation category • MIPIM Award 2018 Best Urban Regeneration • The Best Environmental Endeavor, The 3rd Project Kalijodo Park Outstanding Corporate Innovator Indonesia Award • BCI Asia Awards 2018 Sinar Mas Land Top 10 • Green Property Awards 2017, Intermoda District Developers 2018, Indonesia BSD City for Green Transportation TOD Concept – • Green Building Council Award 2018 – ‘Gold’ Township category predicate for Design Recognition for GOP 1 • Asia Pacific Property Awards 2018 – Mixed Used Development – BSD City • Asia Pacific Property Awards 2018 Highly UN Global Compact Network Award Commended for the Best Office Architectural Design Knowledge Hub at Digital Hub, BSD City • Asia Pacific Property Awards 2018 – Office Development BSD Green Office Park • Asia Pacific Property Awards 2018 – Special Recognition for Public Facility Kalijodo Park • Indonesia Property Awards 2018 Best Township Development 42 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate The consistent implementation of green building standards in three of our flagship properties has In total, the Group currently has five buildings within allowed us to achieve significant improvements in our its portfolio with Green Building Certification, three environmental impact. Encouraged by these results, we of which are part of the Green Office Park. We have have selected several new office buildings to be certified made significant progress between 2018 and 2019. with the same green standards and look forward to report We obtained green certification for Sinar Mas Land on their progress in our future reports. Plaza – Jakarta in 2018. In 2019, we have completed the development of GOP 1 and obtained green certification For our other existing buildings within BSD City, we will from Greenmark. consider implementing parts of these green standards guidelines, wherever feasible. We also strive to 1. Sinar Mas Land Plaza – BSD City: increasingly implement green building initiatives in our a. Built in 2010 development projects and existing buildings managed by b. Green Building Certification in 2010 SML to further our aspirations to be a best-in-class real c. Certified by Green Mark Singapore estate developer. 2. MyRepublic Plaza BSD City: a. Built in 2013 Case Study Green Building b. Green Building Certification in 2013 c. Certified by Green Building Council Indonesia (GBCI) 3. Green Office Park 9 BSD City: a. Built in 2015 b. Green Building Certification in 2015 Sinarmas Land’s Green Building initiative highlights c. Certified by Green Building Council Indonesia the Group’s dedication and investment in sustainable (GBCI) development. Green building is a solution by SML in response to the community’s increasing demand for 4. Green Office Park 1 BSD City: environmental-friendly office buildings with modern a. Built in 2018 designs and the best facilities situated in strategic and b. Green Building Certification in 2018 accessible locations. This initiative is a testament to c. Certified by Green Building Council Indonesia our commitments to support nature conservation by (GBCI) designing buildings that are environmentally friendly and energy-efficient following the Green District concept. 5. Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta: Green District concept encourages developments and a. Built in 1997 buildings that are environmentally, economically and b. Green Building Certification in 2018 aesthetically sound. On a grander scale, the Green c. Certified by Green Mark Singapore Building initiative also addresses climate change, as well as resource scarcity issues: What is Green Building? • Energy and water savings which reduce energy and Green building (also known as green construction or water consumptions, thus reducing the company’s sustainable building) refers to both a structure and operational cost; the application of processes that are environmentally • Low carbon emissions generated from building responsible and resource-efficient throughout a energy; building’s lifecycle: from planning to design, construction, • Zero run off technology with water recycle system and operation, maintenance, renovation, and demolition. rainwater harvesting system; This requires close cooperation with the contractors, • Less harmful for ozone (do not use ozone depleting architects, engineers, and client during the entire substances). development. The Green Building practice adds values to conventional building design through green features. For SML’s internal operation, opting for green building These new features can increase buildings’ economic design will lower operational cost in the long run as value as well as improve their utility, durability and aforementioned (although it requires a higher investment comforts of living by being environmentally friendly. in the initial development stage). The use of energy efficient material such as LED lights, automatic toilet Green Building Criteria flush, and air conditioner with automatic temperature adjustments are energy and water efficient methods to Based on Greenship New Building Concept Version 1.2 reduce SML’s buildings’ monthly operational cost. issued by GBCI (Green Building Council Indonesia), the six criteria of Green Buildings include: Sinarmas Land Limited 43 Sustainability Report 2019 1. Appropriate Site Development (ASD) (ODP) and ODS equal to or greater and to reduce the use of new raw materials. Maintain or expand the greening of town/surrounding to enhance environmental quality, reducing direct 5. Indoor Health & Comfort / Air Quality & Comfort runoff drainage system from overload pressure and minimise the impact on ground water systems for To maintain and improve indoor air quality by the building use. introduction of outdoor air including monitoring the concentration of carbon dioxide, and reducing 2. Energy Efficiency and Conservation (EEC) environmental and air pollution. Active monitoring and recording practices to reduce 6. Building Environmental & Management energy consumption through the application of energy efficient measures such as minimising lamps To manage the processes of a Green Building design with external lighting and reducing the use of air from early stages to facilitate and ensure that the conditioners with designs and materials that can development of the design meets the necessary reduce heat. standards and quality to preserve and protect the environment 3. Water Conservation As required in Green Building criteria, these green To minimise the usage of groundwater. Water features are featured prominently in our Green Building conservation devices such as water recycle system or rainwater harvesting system are installed. These • Every building was developed with high energy and systems are equipped with autodischarge function water efficiency, uses LED lamps and photovoltaic on the hand washer or use recycled water for flushing panels for street lighting. toilet. • Zero run off technology, with rainwater harvesting tanks on each building, natural and modern infiltration 4. Material Resources & Cycles wells, and a large lake used for rainwater retention and irrigation. Currently, we are in the process of The use of recycled materials to reduce production improving our rainwater harvesting system with the waste, the use of new raw materials, extend lifespans initial design discussion and budget calculations of existing material substances, and prevent the use being completed in FY2018. The implementation of of materials that have Ozone Depletion Potential this new system is being undertaken by contractor. Green Office Park 1 (GOP 1) 44 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate of the potentials and benefits of green concept in buildings development. Therefore, socialisation, education and awareness of green building and development need to be promoted among key industry players to elevate green concept to be a common industrial norm and practice. • Next, there is also reluctance among building owners in Jakarta and Tangerang area to implement green buildings. This is due to the lack of implementation of green building regulation in Jakarta and Tangerang area. Also, the lack of incentives offered by the government to companies to build and implement green building has also led to their reluctance as green building generally requires a higher capital investment in the initial stages. How to Overcome: • As a leader in the real estate industry, SML through its representative role in Real Estate Indonesia (REI) association, engaged with regulatory authorities to improve green building regulations and promote incentives to encourage the development of more green building in Indonesia, especially in Jakarta and Green Office Park 9 (GOP 9) Tangerang area. Opportunity for improvement • SML recognises that the impacts of green building can be further amplified if building occupants – being Specifically, our BSD Green Office Park epitomises our employees, tenants and other building occupants commitment to realising more Green Buildings in our develop and practice green habits to complement operation: with the green features that the building possesses. • Currently, SML has initiated the Green Habit 1.0 • Each building in BSD Green Office Park optimises program for three green buildings (Sinar Mas Land passive design to reduce thermal heat such as overall Plaza – BSD City, MyRepublic Plaza, GOP 9) which thermal transfer value (OTTV) design below 45 Watt/ focuses on energy and water efficiency. This program m2, and using Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) to can potentially be expanded to other SML buildings analyse climate change in this district. and tenants. • 80% of the buildings have a north-south facing • Going forward, SML is preparing to launch the Green orientation within 22.5 degrees of the east/west Habit 2.0 program which focuses on reducing plastic axis and are aerodynamically shaped to catch the waste consumption by building occupants. This prevailing west and south-west winds. program will supplement the previous Green Habit • Integrated connectivity, supporting facilities and 1.0 program and be implemented across all SML transportation systems (shuttle bus, bicycle tracks, buildings to further elevate SML’s green initiatives. etc.), and the availability of pedestrian tracks. • Maintenance of large green-open landscape spaces As a further indication of our commitment towards the between buildings and green roofs on most buildings development of green buildings, one of SML’s office to reduce heat island effect. buildings, GOP 9 was awarded two Silver Awards in the World FIABCI Prix d’Excellence Award 2019 in February Key challenges 2019 under the Sustainable Development and Office categories respectively. GOP 9 was also awarded first Challenges: runner-up Green Building by ASEAN Energy Award. • A key challenge in implementing and advocating for the increasing use of green building is the awareness, For information on how green building has impacted or lack thereof, on the importance of green building SML’s environmental performance, please refer to development to support climate action and “Climate Change and the Environment” section for our sustainable development. Most players in Indonesia’s environmental performance data. property industry (building owners, consultants, contractors and the government) are not fully aware Sinarmas Land Limited 45 Sustainability Report 2019 mandatory Supplier Code of Conduct. We are adopting Compliance to All Related Regulatory a phased approach, focusing our initiatives on key Requirements suppliers and vendors of our value chain. In 2019, we implemented new environmental requirements on We placed a strong emphasis on complying with the suppliers, contractors or vendors of key products and regulatory frameworks set up on the national and regional services. These requirements include: level. These include regulations on land acquisition, operational permits, design and construction, finance • ISO 14001 certification for suppliers of our and accounting, labour laws, customer protection, and construction and building materials such as cement, environmental frameworks. We have a zero-tolerance steel, aluminium, glass, gypsum, indoor paint, tiles, approach towards corruption throughout Sinarmas Land’s and sanitary materials; organisation. • Legal certification for our wood suppliers, as required by the Indonesian Ministry of Forestry; We are pleased to report that there were no reported • A minimum percentage of recycled content in incidents of corruption in FY2019. In addition, no public materials supplied by our steel and cement/concrete legal cases regarding corruption were brought against suppliers. the Group, or its subsidiaries, and no contracts with business partners had to be terminated due to violations Responsible marketing is another important aspect of our related to corruption. work to ensure compliance with all relevant regulations. We have worked hard over the last 47 years to build Through the engagement of external consultants, we are a reputation as a reliable partner to a multitude of actively educating our employees to be more aware of stakeholders, including the government, customers and fraud related risk management, how to address issues communities we operate in. A critical part of preserving relating to corruption (e.g. conflicts of interest, bribery, our standing with these stakeholders is to market our illegal gratuities, extortion), asset misappropriation developments appropriately and accurately. (e.g. cash, inventory and other assets), and accounting fraud (e.g. asset or revenue over/understatement). In We are pleased to report that in 2019, there were: December 2019, we conducted Fraud & Anti-Corruption seminars for selected department heads and look Zero incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing to extend these seminars to all staff in management communications and product information. There were positions. All newly hired staff are inducted with SML’s core values 0 and the policies listed above in mandatory orientation reported cases of non-compliance concerning: training courses which include New Hires Introduction & market communications SML Shared Values. and product information When we identify shortcomings in current regulations, such as in waste management, we proactively engage the relevant authorities and collaboratively develop solutions and frameworks to ensure the well-being of the 0 reported cases of non-compliance concerning: communities we operate in. health and safety impacts of SML’s product and services Our employees have received clear guidance on the standards of ethical behaviour required of them through our Code of Conduct policy, supplemented by our whistle-blowing policy that serves as an effective oversight measure for the prevention of fraud, corruption 0 reported cases of non-compliance concerning: and other types of misconduct. Also, we have policies All relevant social and economic laws in place that cover procurement activities and fair and regulations. employment practices. In the meantime, we are working to strengthen our governance framework to explicitly address environment, health and safety issues. Going forward, we will make details of these policies known to the public. 0 Significant fines or non-monetary sanctions In addition, we continue to build on our policy for were imposed on SML procurement activities to eventually develop it into a 46 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Best in Class Real Estate also zero incidents of non-compliance concerning the Environmental Compliance health and safety impacts of our products and services. Of equal importance is our compliance with all relevant Given our ever-growing scope, we are subjected to the laws and regulations in the social and economic areas. most stringent environmental regulatory frameworks in During the reporting period, no significant fines or nonIndonesia. monetary sanctions were imposed on SML. As part of our environmental compliance, based on In line with our stated goals in SML’s FY2017 Government Regulation No. 27 in 2012 on Environment sustainability report, we are pleased to report the Control Permits, we are required to submit an extensive following: Environment Management and Monitoring Effort (UKL/ UPL) report every six months. Within the report, it spells • Sustainability initiatives have been fully integrated out the specific limits for every aspect of environmental into our governance structure, including the Board’s impacts (e.g. water, waste, etc.) and we are to ensure active involvement through the Risk Committee, Audit that our operations must not breach these limits. The Committee and other ad-hoc meetings; report is submitted directly to the regional government • Other than the minor exceedances in the Biochemical and subject to government approval. Oxygen Demand (“BOD”) of our effluents in QBig Mall and Wisma BCA, which did not result in any For its ongoing operational permit, SML also has to penalisation or fines by the government, there were no comply with several HSE regulations such as liquid waste other incidents of non-compliance with any relevant management, fire safety certification, and equipment environmental and social regulatory frameworks; licenses. The related authorities will perform audits on our • We have started to expand the scope of our operational feasibility and issue permit certificates only sustainability reporting to include other SML projects upon compliance with these requirements. (please refer to page 15 in section ‘About this Report’); Other than the minor exceedances in BOD of our • All sustainability metrics have been successfully effluents which did not result in any penalisation or fines integrated into our ERM system. by the government, we are pleased to report that there were no incidents of environmental non-compliance during the reporting period. Sinarmas Land Limited 47 Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment At Sinarmas Land, we understand the significant impact of climate change and strive to protect the surrounding environment through policies and existing programs. We are a founding corporate member of the non-profit organisation “Green Building Council Indonesia” since its establishment in 2009. Our key role in the council is to ensure that our property development activities are sustainable and environment friendly. In this section in order for us to monitor and pursue our long-term environmental targets: This section of the report looks at the various ways in which SML’s operations impact climate change and • Green Buildings3: Sinar Mas Land Plaza – BSD City, the wider environment, and lays out our commitment to MyRepublic Plaza, GOP 9; minimise these impacts. We have identified the following • High-Rise Office Buildings: Sinar Mas Land Plaza – key area of focus: Jakarta and Sinarmas MSIG Tower; • Trade Centres4: All ITCs. 1. Optimising Building Operation to achieve clean • Rest of Buildings from the following property environment management categories: Non-Green Office buildings, 2. Providing and maintaining Green Open Space retail and hospitality, commercial, and residential and 3. Providing and facilitating various type of public township; transportation 4. Responsible waste management program We continue in our progress to achieve our targets. Please refer to our sustainability targets in “Our Covered in this section are: Approach” section for more details. Details of our performance against the targets are covered in the • Our efforts to reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) following sections. We aim to expand our reporting scope emissions, and improve energy efficiency, associated to include the Group’s other operations in our monitoring with our developments and support the Indonesian and reporting processes over the next few years. government’s commitment to the Paris Agreement; • Main materials used at our construction sites; • Our water usage along with data on our effluents and * Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta is a certified discharges generated; green building. It is classified as a high-rise office • Statistics on waste created and how we handled it. building as part of our new sustainability targets for high-rise buildings. Please refer to “Setting In 2019, we monitored the progress of all these Programs to Achieve Sustainable Development” environmental performance through the analysis of data for more information on our Green Buildings collected. As mentioned in “Our Approach” section on page 20, these topics are classified into development or property management stages according to their impacts Optimising Building Operation to Achieve in each stage: Clean Environment • Development: materials While BSD City remains our flagship development, we are • Property management: energy, water, emissions, and expanding the scope of our environmental performance effluents and waste disclosures to include other developments and assets in other locations. In so doing, we are taking a step In addition, we have also classified environmental data of closer to disclose our sustainability performance and our property management portfolios into four categories improvements across all parts of our organisation, as 3 Green Buldings’ occupancy rate in 2018 was revised from 91.50% to 70.13% due to a correction to MyRepublic Plaza’s GFA Occupied. As a result, GFA Occupied in 2018 is also revised from 72,121 m2 to 55,278.10 m2 in this report. 4 ITC BSD’s GFA in 2018 was revised from 40,884 m2 to 100,788 m2. As a result, GFA Occupied in 2018 was also revised from 39,277.89 m2 to 96,828.60 m2. 48 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment part of a transparent and model company that represents the best of Indonesia. More importantly, we want to as the Wisma BCA and GOP. The Green Habit program showcase our ability and dedication towards sustainable has been implemented in several BSD City’s residential development by creating and providing efficient and clusters such as Victoria River Park and Green Cove. optimal buildings and infrastructures, and managing Since the program began, SML has succeeded in halving services to achieve clean environment. the usage in its offices to 5,446 cartons of 400 ml mineral water plastic bottles, or an equivalent of 130,704 bottles. SML strives to optimise our building operations from development to management stages to create and 2 BSD Green Festival 2019 provide cleaner environment for the lives of residents. We develop and apply principles of sustainability to In line with World Environment Day, SML held the 16th office buildings, in-line with international green building Green Festival together with 600 Junior School students standards. As a result, we brought positive impacts from BSD City in 2019. This activity was also marked with to the surrounding environment through leading edge the installation of 100 biopori holes, hereby showcasing sustainability practices. We are constantly developing SML’s commitment to preserve the environment. new ideas and initiatives to realise more green buildings The event was attended by local government and and properties. sustainability association, Indonesia Global Compact Network (IGCN). We have also embarked on a sustainability program with specific responsibilities assigned to staff across all 3 1,000 Mangrove Trees Planting Events parts of the organisation. As part of this program, we will be able to better calculate and eventually increase Karawang International Industrial City (KIIC) is working the percentage of recycled input materials, reduce the together with the local government to prevent sea water energy required in the construction and operation of our abrasion around the coastal area in Karawang Regency. developments, lower our water consumption and carbon In 2019, KIIC planted 1,000 mangrove trees at Karawang emissions, as well as improve our waste management. Regency to preserve the environment and prevent sea water abrasion. In addition, upon maturity, the mangrove Aside from these initiatives, below are some highlights of ecosystem will support the growth of marine animals our environmental initiatives in 2019: and amphibious, as well as adding the development of sustainability tourism within the area. LOCAL COMMUNITY PROGRAM 4 Telaga Desa Agro Enviro Education Park Designated as a Biological Variety Park spanning over 3 1 Green Habit 2.0 “Less Plastic” Program hectares of land near KIIC, Village Lake (“Telaga Desa”) Agro-Enviro Education Park is a centre for research and In 2019, SML launched the Green Habit 2.0 “Less Plastic” education in agriculture, environment and ecotourism. program that focuses on substituting plastic bottles with paper cups / tumblers in BSD Office Buildings The following are some key performance indicators for and residential areas. SML has partnered with Tzu Chi this program (based on FY2019 data): Foundation in collecting plastic waste from several residential clusters in BSD City and office buildings such • Eco-tour participants: 9,020 participants • Training courses conducted: 86 • Visitors studying biodiversity: 4 Universities • Kg of compost produced: 31,040 Kg (31.04 Tonnes) • Seeds produced: Kale, Spinach, Cauliflower, Chili, Cayenne Pepper, Broccoli, Chye Sim. Green Habit 2.0 Program Telaga Desa Agro Enviro Education Park Sinarmas Land Limited 49 Sustainability Report 2019 Materials to the significant expansion of this year’s reporting scope, our materials used data reported a significant increase. As one of Indonesia’s leading real estate developers, In particular, we saw a significant growth in the usage of we recognised that all our developments, which include steel, as steel is required in the early stages of foundation buildings, supporting amenities and infrastructures have building across our development projects. significant impact on the environment. In 2019, concrete, sand, and steel are three of the most consumed materials We use concrete with recycled content and aim to used by us. gradually build our internal monitoring capacity to include other consumable materials and their respective consumed quantities in our internal watch-list, and have Materials Used in Development Projects them reported in the subsequently reports. We continue (tonnes) to abide by relevant environmental regulations to promote 26,611 transparency and accountability in our supply chain. Energy The built-up environment consumes significant amounts of energy. In the region where BSD City is located, 453,344 energy is predominantly generated from the burning of fossil fuels that contribute significantly to our greenhouse gas emissions. Adhering to internationally recognised green building standards, such as the Singapore BCA Green Mark standard, we can direct our effort towards 12,795 achieving greater energy efficiency and reducing energy 93,615 usage throughout the project lifecycle. 8,497 17,000 18,915 67,224 2,094 404 66,853 As we significantly expanded the scope of our 22,235 sustainability data and report this year, all of our reported 2017 2018 2019 buildings energy consumption has increased. Our buildings energy consumption and intensity by GFA Granite Sand Concrete Steel Marble tiles Occupied are depicted in the following graphs and tables. The graphs are depicted based on buildings with targets (Green and High-rise buildings) and buildings without targets (Rest of Buildings and Trade Centres). Note: No data on granite, sand, and marble tiles is available for periods before FY2018. In line with SML’s Sustainability Vision, the Group is Materials actively encouraging occupancy in our green office Used in buildings as we seek to reduce environmental footprint, Development 2017 2018 2019 mitigate climate change, and improve the well-being of Projects occupants. In 2019, our Green Buildings’ GFA remained (tonnes) at 78,821m2 while GFA Occupied increased by 1% from 55,278 m2 in 2018 to 56,107 m2 in 2019. We are Granite 0 2,094 404 pleased to report that our commitment towards the Sand 0 18,915 66,853 development and use of green buildings have actualised and continued to yield positive results. Green Buildings’ Concrete 22,235 67,224 93,615 energy consumption decreased by 4% from 8,369,770 Steel 17,000 8,497 453,344 kWh in 2018 to 8,069,480 kWh in 2019. Energy intensity by GFA occupied also decreased by 5% from 151.41 Marble tiles 0 12,795 26,611 kWh/m2 in 2018 to 143.82 kWh/m2 in 2019. This is still Total 39,235 109,526 640,828 well below the Energy Consumption Index or ‘Indeks Komsumsi Energi’ (IKE) standard stipulated by the Please note that the above chart represents total annual Governor of the Capital Region of Jakarta for green office amounts of materials used in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Due buildings5. 5 Based on the IKE by the Governor of the Capital Region of Jakarta, the bottom energy consumption intensity limit for green office buildings is 210 kWh/m2/year while the upper limit is 285 kWh/m2/year. Please refer to Indonesian regulation ‘PERGUB DKI NO 38_2012’ for more information. 50 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment In 2019, we have set targets for our high-rise office buildings, namely Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta and Rest of Buildings & Trade Centres Sinarmas MSIG Tower. Using 2019 as the base year, we Energy Consumption began to track and monitor environmental performances (MWh) of our high-rise buildings. High-rise buildings’ energy 179,206 consumption was 27,267,179 kWh. Energy intensity by GFA Occupied was 171.19 kWh/m2. Green Buildings & High-Rise Buildings Energy Consumption and Intensity by GFA Occupied (MWh & kWh/m²) 171.19 27,267 151.41 143.82 40,102 113.94 28,029 8,370 7,356 8,069 19,224 27,424 15,914 5,088 3,717 4,788 7,558 332 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Non-Green Buildings Retail & Hospitality Green Buildings High-Rise Buildings Commercial Residential & Township Green Buildings High-Rise Buildings Trade Centres Rest of the Buildings Intensity by Intensity by Energy Consumption GFA Occupied GFA Occupied Due to the significant scope expansion, energy Rest of Buildings & Trade Centres consumption for the rest of our buildings increased by Energy Intensity by GFA Occupied 43% from 28,028,930 kWh in 2018 to 40,102,383 kWh (kWh/m²) in 2019. The buildings’ energy consumption intensity by GFA occupied also increased by 14.46% from 106.10 199.33 194.13 kWh/m2 in 2018 to 121.43 kWh/m2 in 2019. 164.35 Trade centres experienced the highest increase in 142.43 energy consumption and intensity by GFA occupied 110.25 136.68 due to the significant increase in the scope for trade centres. Trade centres’ GFA increased from 100,788m2 69.93 57.82 in 2018 to 1,553,216 m2 in 2019. As a result, energy 67.05 consumption increased by 1,026% from 15,914,409 kWh 0.00 in 2018 to 179,206,399 kWh in 2019. However, the trade centres’ energy consumption intensity by GFA occupied 2018 2019 decreased by 17% from 164.36 kWh/m2 in 2018 to 136.68 kWh/m2 in 2019. Non-Green Buildings Retail & Hospitality Commercial Residential & Township Trade Centres Sinarmas Land Limited 51 Sustainability Report 2019 Building Energy Consumption 2015 2016 2017 2018 20196 (kWh) Green Buildings 5,045,797 5,389,651 7,355,903 8,369,770 8,069,480 High-Rise Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A 27,267,179 Non-Green Buildings N/A N/A N/A 5,088,360 4,788,210 Retail & Hospitality N/A N/A N/A 19,224,062 27,424,389 Commercial N/A N/A N/A 3,716,509 7,557,662 Residential & Township N/A N/A N/A N/A 332,122 Trade Centres N/A N/A N/A 15,914,409 179,206,399 Building Energy Intensity, by 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 GFA occupied (kWh/m2) Green Buildings 149.5 110.3 113.9 151.41 143.82 High-Rise Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A 171.19 Non-Green Buildings N/A N/A N/A 199.33 194.13 Retail & Hospitality N/A N/A N/A 110.25 142.43 Commercial N/A N/A N/A 57.82 69.93 Residential & Township N/A N/A N/A N/A 67.05 Trade Centres N/A N/A N/A 164.36 136.68 Alongside the development of more internationally Highlight: Energy Efficiency Initiatives recognised green standards buildings, the Group has for SML Office High Rise Building also undertaken other initiatives to reduce consumption of energy across our developments such as implementation (Jakarta Area) of control timing function for our air-conditioning systems and the usage of energy-efficient LED lightbulbs. We have several energy efficiency initiatives for our office high rise buildings: Sinar Mas Land Plaza For our green buildings in BSD City, we target to – Jakarta and Sinarmas MSIG Tower. In 2017, achieve a further total overall energy intensity reduction Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta has replaced its of 5% for the next 8 years with 2017 as the base chiller to optimise the air-conditioning system to year. This reduction will be achieved mainly through that with lower energy consumption. This initiative the implementation of our Green Habit Program was in line with Greenmark’s requirements. which encourages employees to reduce their energy Thereafter, the building was awarded with green consumption in their respective workplaces. We building certification in 2018. In 2019, we plan to have also set target for our high-rise office building in replace Sinarmas MSIG Tower’s chiller plant valve Jakarta (Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta and Sinarmas to optimise water pump for chiller and adjusting MSIG Tower) to achieve a total overall energy intensity the coolling tower fan adjustment to optimise reduction of 3% for the next 8 years with 2019 as the the appropriate fan cycle. These initiatives are base year. Going forward, SML plans to introduce more scheduled to be completed in 2020. initiatives to support the achievement of these targets. 6 There was a massive blackout in August 2019 in Java Region for several hours which caused a majority of affected buildings to use diesel-generators for electricity. Hence, there were significant diesel consumption in some buildings’ Q3 data. 52 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment Water Green Buildings & High-Rise Buildings Water is a precious resource. Thus, there is a need Municipal Water Consumption & for us to monitor our impact carefully in order to avoid Intensity by GFA Occupied and mitigate harmful effects from excessive water consumption, and the discharge of effluents into natural (m³ & m³/m²) water systems. 1.54 190,406 Our buildings’ main water consumption source is the 1.35 municipal water supply. Due to the significant increase 1.28 1.20 in scope, our total municipal water consumption for each category also increased. Our buildings’ water 87,391 84,885 71,687 consumption and consumption intensities by GFA Occupied are depicted in the following graph and tables. The graphs are depicted based on buildings with targets (Green and High-rise buildings) and buildings without targets (Rest of Buildings and Trade Centres). 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, our Green Buildings’ GFA remained at 78,821 Green Buildings High-Rise Buildings m2 while GFA Occupied increased by 1% from 55,278 m2 in 2018 to 56,107 m2 in 2019. We are pleased to Green Buildings High-Rise Buildings report that our commitment towards the development and Intensity by Intensity by use of green buildings have actualised and continued GFA Occupied GFA Occupied to yield positive results. Municipal water consumption for our green buildings decreased by 16% from 84,885 m3 in 2018 to 71,687 m3 in 2019. Water intensity by GFA occupied also decreased by 17% from 1.54 m3/m2 in The following chart and tables provide the performance 2018 to 1.28 m3/m2 in 2019. details on our municipal water consumption and intensities for rest of buildings and trade centres. In 2019, we have set new targets for our high-rise office buildings, namely Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta and Sinarmas MSIG Tower. Using 2019 as the base year, we Rest of Buildings & Trade Centres began to track and monitor environmental performances Municipal Water Consumption of our high-rise buildings. High-rise buildings’ municipal (in thousand m3) 1,453.8 water consumption was 190,406 m3. Municipal water intensity by GFA Occupied was 1.20 m3/m2. Due to the significant scope expansion, municipal water consumption for the rest of our buildings increased by 80% from 389,543 m3 in 2018 to 702,678 m3 in 2019. 702.7 Municipal water intensity by GFA occupied increased by 44% from 1.47 m3/m2 in 2018 to 2.13 m3/m2 in 2019. 389.5 445.8 Trade centres experienced the highest increase in 255.7 municipal water consumption and intensity by GFA 138.7 64.5 69.4 96.8 85.0 occupied due to the significant increase in scope. 33.2 Trade centres’ GFA increased from 100,788 m2 in 2018 2019 2018 to 1,553,216 m2 in 2019. As a result, municipal water consumption increased by 1,401% 96,844 m3/m2 Non-Green Buildings Retail & Hospitality in 2018 to 1,453,837 m3/m2 in 2019. However, trade Commercial Residential & Township centres’ municipal water consumption intensity by GFA occupied increased by 11% from 1.00 m3/m2 in 2018 Trade Centres Rest of the Buildings Municipal Water to 1.11 m3/m2 in 2019. Consumption Sinarmas Land Limited 53 Sustainability Report 2019 Rest of Buildings & Trade Centres Municipal Water Intensity by The Breeze BSD City GFA Occupied (m³/m²) 6.70 3.45 2.52 2.32 1.47 1.28 1.08 1.11 1.00 2018 2019 Non-Green Buildings Retail & Hospitality Commercial Residential & Township Trade Centres Building Municipal Water 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Consumption (m3) Green Buildings 73,586 76,005 87,391 84,885 71,687 High-Rise Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A 190,406 Non-Green Buildings N/A N/A N/A 64,455 84,983 Retail & Hospitality N/A N/A N/A 255,679 445,782 Commercial N/A N/A N/A 69,409 138,726 Residential & Township N/A N/A N/A N/A 33,187 Trade Centres N/A N/A N/A 96,844 1,453,837 Building Municipal Water Intensity, by GFA occupied 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (m3/m2) Green Buildings 2.18 1.56 1.35 1.54 1.28 High-Rise Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A 1.20 Non-Green Buildings N/A N/A N/A 2.52 3.45 Retail & Hospitality N/A N/A N/A 1.47 2.32 Commercial N/A N/A N/A 1.08 1.28 Residential & Township N/A N/A N/A N/A 6.70 Trade Centres N/A N/A N/A 1.00 1.11 One of our green office buildings, MyRepublic Plaza, rainwater is used for gardening activities and flushing of continue to use collected rainwater7. Our two other green toilets. Through the usage of collected rainwater, we aim office buildings, GOP 9 and Sinar Mas Land Plaza – BSD to reduce our municipal water footprint, which is critical in City are still implementing this system. The collected water-stressed Jakarta. 7 Rainwater reported here is not recorded by actual volume captured. These figures are instead based on the GREENSHIP Rating issued by Green Building Council (GBC) Indonesia. The calculation uses average rainfall multiplied by wet days in one year (derived from data provided by the meteorological agency), divided by the total catchment area across all three buildings. 54 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment We also have systems in place to reuse and recycle Key Water Initiatives in 2019 used water which is collected from sinks, ablution taps, showers, and air-conditioning systems. Once again, Water Initiatives Savings the expended scope contributed to a 2,217% increase in consumption of recycled and reused water from Use of recycled water 543,081 m3 equivalent to 23,438 m3 in 2018 to 543,081m3 of reused water in 2019. from sinks, ablution IDR 6,842,820,600 Percentage of recycled and used water from total water taps, showers, and airusage also increased from 4% in 2018 to 22% in 2019. conditioning systems Use of collected rainwater 1,746 m3 equivalent to Water Recycled and IDR 21,999,600 2018 2019 Reused in Buildings For our green buildings in BSD City, we target to achieve Total volume of water recycled 23,438 543,081 a further reduction of 10% in water intensity by GFA by and reused (m3) 2026 for the operation of completed projects, with 2017 % of water recycled and reused 4% 22% as the base year. These reductions will be achieved by (compared against the total water utilising rainwater and water recycling facilities on every consumption from all sources) green building to complement water consumption from public utilities. We have also set a target for our high-rise office building in Jakarta (Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta Meanwhile, our consumption of surface water is and Sinarmas MSIG Tower) to reduce our water intensity subjected to strict environmental impact assessments, by 2% with 2019 as the base year. Going forward, and it has been found there are no adverse effects on SML plans to introduce more initiatives to support the our stakeholders or on local and downstream biodiversity achievement of these targets. arising from our water use. Building Rainwater Collected 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and Stored (m3) Green Buildings 0 0 0 4,961 1,746 High-Rise Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Non-Green Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Retail & Hospitality N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Commercial N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Residential & Township N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Trade Centres N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Building Water Consumption 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 from all water sources (m3) Green Buildings 73,586 76,005 87,391 89,845 73,432 High-Rise Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A 190,406 Non-Green Buildings N/A N/A N/A 64,455 84,983 Retail & Hospitality N/A N/A N/A 255,679 445,782 Commercial N/A N/A N/A 69,409 138,726 Residential & Township N/A N/A N/A N/A 33,817 Trade Centres N/A N/A N/A 96,844 1,508,747 Sinarmas Land Limited 55 Sustainability Report 2019 Highlight: Water Efficiency Initiatives Highlight: Biopori Program Initiative for SML Office High Rise Building Other than development initiatives and plans, we (Jakarta Area) also conducted green initiatives in communities by spreading messages to encourage In 2011, Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta upgraded environmental conservation and creating more its sanitary system (such as valve supply setting green spaces. In 2019, we continued our to janitor & Air Handling Unit, auto-faucet sink and CSR tree planting initiatives and encouraged censored-urinal flushing for toilet), and improved communities to plant trees through biopori its water sewage system such as installing Water holes. We have set a target of planting trees Treatment Plant (WTP) in Sewage Treatment through 17,916 biopori holes in the next 3 years Plant (STP). Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta also from 2019. This initiative is intended to involve installed a system for the separation of closet volunteers from residential and commercial flushing and washer water supply. In 2018 and property management divisions to educate 2019, water from WTP was used for cooling tower tenants and residents on the importance of and closet flushing. These initiatives have reduced creating and maintaining a green environment. 50% of the building’s water consumption from 2011 to 2019. Similar initiatives will be implemented for In 2019, 1,000 volunteers from BSD City and Sinarmas MSIG Tower in 2020 and is expected to KIIC participated in this initiative. A total of 4,392 optimise Sinarmas MSIG tower’s water recycling trees were planted including biopori holes. system. Providing and Maintaining Green Open Space 1,000 4,392 Sinarmas Land consistently includes Green Open Space volunteers trees planted (Ruang Terbuka Hijau, RTH) in every development Master Plan design. At the end of 2019, SML has a total of 4,159,513 m2 of RTH. As part of our residential and commercial 3 years plan, we have set a target to have City Park & Pond Area Vanya Park 1,420,110 m2 of RTH in the next 3 years using 2019 as baseline year. This practice is in line with our sustainable development targets, as well as complementing our green buildings with green spaces. The creation, provision and utilisation of Green Open Space are intended to: • Ensure the availability of sufficient space for conservation areas for hydrological preservation; • Serve as pollutant reduction areas in urban areas; and • Serve as a recreational and sports facilities for surrounding communities to create a healthy living environment. There are several areas included in SML’s Green Open Public Green Area – Green Row 25 Foresta Space category: • City Park and Pond Area; • Public Green Area; • Commercial Lot Green area; • Residential Green Area; • Road Median; and • River Side Green (RSS) 56 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transportation Efficient public transportation infrastructure is a key component of a sustainable city. Sinarmas Land aspires to play a significant role in elevating Jakarta to become a model sustainable city by contributing to the development of the city’s public transportation infrastructure. We recognise that we have a role in encouraging the use of public transport in each of our operational areas. By developing this infrastructure, we BSD Link Bus aim to reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and air pollutions caused by private vehicles to make Jakarta a greener city. Case Study: Public Transportation in BSD Area BSD City is a satellite and modern city with a vision to create comfortable and healthy living spaces for residents. To achieve this vision, SML strives to provide BSD City with better modes of integrated public transport. The objective of this initiative is to encourage the use of public transport and to reduce emissions generated from private vehicles. The development of public transport is also accompanied by development of environmentalfriendly public facilities, such as wide pedestrian walkways, bus stops and shelters, green spaces, and park and ride facilities. BSD Link Bus Route Map BSD Bus Shelter Some of our initiatives in 2019 are as follows: BSD Link bus implementation in the BSD City area. Integrated with BSD Intermoda Modern Market, there are currently 14 BSD Link buses being deployed to operate 6 routes. In the future, BSD Link will expand its operations to cover the entire BSD City. The public transport is also integrated with Modern Market Intermoda Terminal, Cisauk Train Station and with other city (inter-regional) public transport networks (e.g. buses from Bogor and Tangerang, buses to airport & MRT station) to provide wider access for people commuting to and from BSD City, especially SML’s business centre. Revitalisation of the Cisauk Train Station in 2018 to provide easy access to train passengers from the station to various parts of BSD City via BSD Intermoda Modern Market. The newly renovated station can accommodate a larger number of commuters and encourages higher train ridership in and out of BSD City. Train transportation is a lower carbon alternative to other modes of transportation. Sinarmas Land Limited 57 Sustainability Report 2019 New Interconnecting Transport Facility in BSD City Sinarmas Land has partnered with Grab Holdings Inc. Key Challenges & Solutions: (“Grab”), a Southeast-Asia super app, to provide smart and clean mobility solutions that seeks to also support While the number of commuters who uses BSD Link growth of micro and small business. The initiative is continue to increase in 2019, the amount has yet to also intended to drive technology development to meet our expected targets (approximately 37.5% of the strengthen BSD City’s goal as the first integrated smart targeted population uses BSD Link). This is due to higher city in Indonesia. The collaboration with Grab is also to preference of using private vehicles or private ride-hailing encourage employees and visitors in BSD City to use services such as Grab or Gojek. BSD City Township Grab as a form of public transportation: Management has collaborated with our Marketing and Corporate Communication team to actively promote BSD • Grab for Business (GFB): Discount for employees Link through various media platforms such as flyers, who use Grab transportation for business trip; brochure, video Tron, websites and social media outlets • Grab Lane: Dedicated Grab pick-up points in Modern to attract more passengers. Market BSD City; • GrabWheels: Grab and SML launched their first innovative mobility solution, GrabWheels, that uses environmental-friendly e-scooters for short distance GrabWheels travel. Scooters can be rented by employees, tenants or visitors in BSD Green Office Park area to commute within the area. GrabWheels forms part of BSD City’s multimodal transportation system, a key development for a green smart city. Our commitment to develop public transportation infrastructures and services is primarily driven by our goals to create a comfort and healthy living environment for our residents and surrounding communities through the reduction of private vehicles usage and emissions. In addition, these alternative transportation modes will greatly improve the mobility of our residents in BSD City and the surrounding areas. All of these are expected to significantly improve business activities within BSD City as city dwellers have better access to the city’s business centre. 58 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment Passengers Ridership Statistics (in thousand) Total Passengers 608.42 125.31 79.40 2017 2018 2019 Event in ICE (GIIAS) Event in ICE (BBW) 18 Jul 28 Jul 01 Mar 11 Mar Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 4.56 4.48 5.12 5.84 10.35 4.09 5.36 12.89 6.89 6.93 6.74 6.15 2018 6.39 6.45 6.80 7.51 6.65 5.01 6.46 11.02 13.08 15.80 18.63 21.51 2019 21.58 27.43 50.88 36.37 37.52 40.80 55.86 57.90 62.29 70.32 71.53 75.92 2017 2018 2019 Buses on several routes from Jabodetabek Residence • Improve supporting facilities, such as bus stops and Connection (JRC) and Jakarta Airport Connection (JAC) shelters, to provide better service to passengers while are not optimally used due to low demand on designated waiting for buses; routes. Bus routes analysis was performed to address • Integrate BSD Link information in one mobile this challenge to improve JRC and JAC ridership. We application (similar to SML One Smile System) that listened to feedback and recommendations to adjust can provide up to-date information on bus location, departure and journey schedules, and amended routes capacity, routes, etc.; where necessary. • Expand the collaboration with technology companies that provide ride-hailing transport services, such as Opportunity for Improvement Grab or Gojek, to capture the need of commuters; • Implement similar modes of transportation in other We identified several areas for improvement to optimise SML’s areas of operation, integrating them with the the use of BSD City public transport: transport system in BSD City area. Emissions In 2019, our Green Buildings’ GFA remained at 78,821 m2 while GFA Occupied increased by 1% from 55,278 m2 In 2019, GHG emissions from all buildings included in in 2018 to 56,107 m2 in 2019. We are pleased to report this report have increased due to the expanded scope of that our commitment towards the development and reporting. This is in line with our reported information on use of green buildings have actualised and continued energy consumption and intensities. Our buildings’ GHG to yield positive results. GHG emissions for our green emissions and emission intensities by GFA Occupied are buildings decreased by 3% from 5,978 tonnes of CO2e in depicted in the following graph and tables. The graphs 2018 to 5,804 tonnes of CO2e in 2019. Green buildings’ are depicted based on buildings with targets (Green and overall GHG emissions intensity by GFA occupied also High-rise buildings) and buildings without targets (Rest of decreased by 4% from 0.1081 tonnes of CO2e/m2 in 2018 Buildings and Trade Centres). to 0.1034 tonnes of CO2e/m2 in 2019. Sinarmas Land Limited 59 Sustainability Report 2019 In 2019, we have set new targets for our high-rise office buildings, namely Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta and Rest of Building & Trade Centres GHG Sinarmas MSIG Tower. Using 2019 as the base year, we Emissions began to track and monitor environmental performances (tonnes of CO2e) of our high-rise buildings. High-rise buildings’ GHG emissions was 19,702 tonnes of CO2e. Emissions 129,290 intensity by GFA Occupied was 0.1237 tonnes of CO2e/ m2. Green Buildings & High-Rise Buildings GHG Emissions and Intensity by GFA Occupied (tonnes of CO2e & tonnes of CO2e/m²) 28,904 20,244 0.1237 0.1034 19,811 19,702 13,903 11,414 0.1081 3,667 2,673 3,403 5,449 241 0.0821 2018 2019 5,978 5,804 Non-Green Buildings Retail & Hospitality 5,304 Commercial Residential & Township Trade Centres Rest of the Buildings GHG Emissions 2017 2018 2019 Green Buildings High-Rise Buildings Green Buildings High-Rise Buildings Rest of Buildings & Trade Centres GHG Intensity by Intensity by Emission Intensity by GFA Occupied GFA Occupied GFA Occupied (tonnes of CO2e/m²) Due to the significant scope expansion, GHG emissions 0.1380 for the rest of our buildings increased by 43% from 0.1436 20,244 tonnes of CO2e 2018 to 28,904 tonnes of CO2e 0.1029 0.1179 in 2019. GHG emissions intensity by GFA occupied 0.0986 increased by 14% from 0.0766 tonnes of CO2e/m2 in 2018 to 0.0875 tonnes of CO2e/m2 in 2019. 0.0797 0.0504 Trade Centres experienced the highest increase in 0.0486 0.0416 GHG emissions and intensity by GFA occupied due to the significant increase in the scope. Trade Centres’ GFA increased from 100,788 m2 in 2018 to 1,553,216 2018 2019 m2 in 2019. As a result, Trade Centres’ GHG emissions increased from 11,414 tonnes of CO2e in 2018 to 129,290 Non-Green Buildings Retail & Hospitality tonnes of CO2e in 2019. However, overall GHG emissions Commercial Residential & Township intensity by GFA occupied for trade centres decreased by 16% from 0.1179 tonnes of CO2e/m2 in 2018 to 0.0986 Trade Centres tonnes of CO2e/m2 in 2019. 60 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment Building GHG Emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (tonnes of CO2e) Green Buildings 3,645 3,893 5,304 5,978 5,804 High-Rise Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A 19,702 Non-Green Buildings N/A N/A N/A 3,667 3,403 Retail & Hospitality N/A N/A N/A 13,903 19,811 Commercial N/A N/A N/A 2,673 5,449 Residential & Township N/A N/A N/A N/A 241 Trade Centres N/A N/A N/A 11,414 129,290 Building GHG Intensity, by GFA occupied 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (tonnes of CO2e/m2) Green Buildings 0.1080 0.0797 0.0821 0.1081 0.1034 High-Rise Buildings N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.1237 Non-Green Buildings N/A N/A N/A 0.1436 0.1380 Retail & Hospitality N/A N/A N/A 0.0797 0.1029 Commercial N/A N/A N/A 0.0416 0.0504 Residential & Township N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0486 Trade Centres N/A N/A N/A 0.1179 0.0986 For our green buildings in BSD City, we target to issues, as well as collaborated with Tzu Chi Foundation in further achieve a total overall emission reduction of Indonesia to gradually socialise and normalise reduction 5% over the next 8 years, with 2017 as the base year. of plastic usage in all BSD City’s residential areas. We These reductions will be achieved mainly through the also appointed certified hazardous waste vendors to implementation of our Green Habit Program. We have collect and manage hazardous waste from buildings also set targets for our high-rise office building in Jakarta managed by SML. (Sinar Mas Land Plaza – Jakarta and Sinarmas MSIG Tower). Similar to our energy targets, we aim to achieve Effluents and Waste a 3% emission intensity reduction over the course of next 8 years with 2019 as the base year. Going forward, Following the significant scope expansion, we placed all SML plans to introduce more initiatives to support the our property management projects into the same group achievement of these targets. to better manage and monitor the water discharge. Non GHG Emissions Most of BSD City’s water discharge is channelled into our Water Treatment Plant (WTP) where it is treated and The air-conditioning systems installed in all of our new redistributed back to our customers. A very small portion buildings in BSD City use refrigerants that do not produce of our effluents are discharged into the surrounding any Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS). Hence, we are Cisadene River, which was found to not be significantly pleased to report that none of our buildings produce any affected by the discharge. We target to comply with all ODS. relevant government regulations on waste and water discharged. Please find following statistics on water discharge by destination from our buildings in scope. Responsible Waste Management Program While 2019’s scope expanded, we are aware that not As a real estate developer and manager, SML recognises all building has installed on-site meter to measure water that waste management is a critical issue that needs to discharge due to their designs. Only the following be addressed to create a sustainable city. We currently buildings have on-site meters to measure water have several initiatives on waste management. We discharge: coordinated with local government to handle waste Sinarmas Land Limited 61 Sustainability Report 2019 • Asset Management (ITC) – ITC Fatmawati, Graha Water Discharge from Buildings by Cempaka Mas, and Roxy Mas; 2018 2019 Destination • Asset Management (Office) – MyRepublic Plaza, Discharged into surface water bodies 188,294 236,515 Sinar Mas Land Plaza Jakarta (Tower 2 & 3) and rivers, lakes, reservoirs (m3) Wisma BCA; • Retail & Hospitality – QBig Mall. Discharged into external sewage 144,087 1,532,787 systems or treatment facilities For buildings without on-site meters, we assumed that Total water discharged (m3) 332,381 1,769,302 volume of water discharged is based on the assumption that volume of water discharge from a building is While there were no incidences of exceeded biochemical approximately 80% of water consumption for each oxygen demand (BOD) thresholds from 2015 to 2017, we building. This methodology is aligned with international regret to report that the BOD of our effluents exceeded standards and the Indonesian government’s Ministry the limit as stipulated by the Indonesian government of Public Work and Housing. We have applied this on 13 occasions in 2019. Average BOD of effluents methodology to determine the water discharge volume also decreased from 37.4 mg/l in 2018 to 15.4 mg/l in for the following buildings in scope: 2019. The Indonesian national standard for effluents is a maximum of 30mg/l BOD. Our exceedances were minor • Asset Management (ITC) – ITC BSD, BSD Junction, and did not affect any local water bodies and its related Mall Ambassador, Mall Mangga Dua, ITC Cempaka habitat. While these minor exceedances did not result Mas, ITC Depok, ITC Kuningan, ITC Permata Hijau, in any penalisation or fines by the government, we take and ITC Mangga Dua; such matters very seriously. These incidents occurred • Asset Management (Office) – Sinar Mas Land Plaza due to issues relating to grease trap and STP vendor BSD City, GOP 9, Sinar Mas Land Plaza Jakarta performance in two of our buildings, namely QBig Mall (Tower 1), Dimo Space, Sinarmas MSIG Tower, and and Wisma BCA. This matter will be resolved in early BSD City Marketing Office; quarters of 2020 and closely monitored by management. • Retail and Hospitality – The Breeze, and Le Grandeur Mangga Dua Hotel; • Strategic Land Bank – BSD Modern Market. Buildings Water Disacharge by Quality Four of our buildings in scope, namely Customer Care Office, the BSD Permit and Township Office, and our 37.4 residential apartments Club House The Avani and Club House The Icon use septic tanks, hence there are no records of water discharge from them8. Data from our business Loft buildings are also excluded as these buildings are tenanted; SML only maintains control of the 13.0 common area. Figures in the following table are analysed 13.0 15.4 and achieved based on data collected from buildings 10.9 with on-site meters as well as buildings that utilised the 80% assumption: 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Average BOD of effluents (mg/l) Buildings Water Discharge by Quality 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Average BOD of effluents (mg/l) 13.0 10.9 13.0 37.4 15.4 No. of times local regulation limits for 0 0 0 12 13 COD/BOD exceeded during the year 8 Septic tanks are ground tanks collecting waste water from the building without going through the Sewage Treatment Plant (STP). The system cannot segregate between solid waste and effluent and it is not common to install meters on these systems. Septic tanks are emptied periodically by authorised vendors and not channelled to the city sewage system or surface water. 62 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change & The Environment Average BOD of effluents Next, the amount of waste generated increased as the (mg/l) number of tenants in our green buildings increased. Building Type Finally, the scope expansion of this year’s report to 2018 2019 include data from all ITCs, malls and hotels in Jakarta Green Buildings 20.2 15.9 also contributed to the overall increase in hazardous waste. All our offices in green and non-green buildings High-Rise Buildings 7.8 except Sinarmas Land MSIG Tower, our retail malls Non-Green Buildings 23.9 18.9 QBig Mall, and The Breeze, and all of our trade centres Retail & Hospitality 56.4 22.9 that generated hazardous waste contracted a certified waste management vendor to collect and manage the Commercial 10.1 16.3 waste. On the other hand, Sinarmas MSIG Tower and Le Residential & 14.3 Grandeur Mangga Dua hotel stored 515kg and 1,631kg Township of hazardous waste respectively in safe on-site facilities. Both buildings are in the process of appointing certified Trade Centres 76.3 11.8 vendors to collect and manage their hazardous waste. No. of times local regulation Office Retail & Building Type limits for BOD exceeded Waste (Green & ITC Hospitality Materials Non-Green) (kg) 2018 2019 (kg) (kg) Green Buildings 0 0 Light Bulbs 196.15 69.65 1,848.08 High-Rise Buildings 0 Batteries 909.18 395.00 1,780.00 Non-Green Buildings 0 4 Chemical/ 329.00 1,315.00 8,153.60 Retail & Hospitality 10 6 Liquid Commercial 1 0 Power Supply 18.50 0.00 0.00 Residential & 0 Ballast 92.91 68.00 0.00 Township Others 186.56 397.45 698.00 Trade Centres 1 3 Total 1,732.30 2,245.10 12,479.68 We practice waste segregation in our developments and We have created a policy which regulates that every pay special attention in ensuring that no hazardous waste commercial and hotel building shall appoint a certified is sent to landfill. waste management vendor to collect and manage our hazardous waste. This policy has been implemented in Apart from increasing the types and amounts of material 2019. that can be reused and recycled across our operations, we are using our ongoing communications with local government authorities to suggest improvements to the available infrastructure for the processing of nonhazardous waste, which is currently collected, managed, and sent to landfill. The nine tonnes of hazardous waste materials reported in our Sustainability Report for financial year 2017 has been collected and managed by a certified waste management vendor. In 2018, we stored 300kg of hazardous waste which includes old light bulbs and used batteries in a safe on-site facility, while we finalise the engagement of a certified third-party to collect these materials. In 2019, we have improved our data collection measures to improve our hazardous waste management. Our properties generated 16.457 tonnes of hazardous waste. The significant increase in hazardous waste was due to three factors. Firstly, we have improved our data collection mechanism for hazardous waste after appointing a certified vendor that provided more comprehensive data. Sinarmas Land Limited 63 Sustainability Report 2019 Non-Hazardous Waste sent to landfill Highlight: Less Plastic Initiatives by Building Type (tonnes) As part of our SML’s environmental initiatives to 4,608 1,614 mitigate the impact of climate change, BSDE has encouraged its employees to reduce the usage of single-use plastic. According to a study 25,961 by the University of Georgia, Indonesia is the world’s second-largest ocean plastic polluter, 798 after China, with an estimate of 3.2 million metric tonnes of plastic per annum entering water ways and eventually into the ocean9. Based on 2018 1,199 33,015 data, SML has consumed 11,628 cartons of 400 12,407 millilitres (ml) plastic bottled mineral water per 608 year, or an equivalent of 279,072 bottles. As a 881 3,240 2,934 1,259 socially responsible entity that actively protects 1,164 2017 2018 2019 the environment and the local communities where we operate, we introduced the #lessplastic Green Of Buildings High-Rise Buildings initiative in the beginning of 2019. This initiative was intended to reduce the usage of singleTrade Centres Non-Green Buldings use plastic, with the first directive targeting the Retail & Hospitality Commercial reduction of bottled mineral water. SML replaced bottled water with water gallon and encouraged Residential & Township employees to bring their own tumbler. Water dispensers were placed in meeting rooms and pantries to provide easy access within the office Non-Hazardous premises. As part of changing habits, SML shared Waste sent to educational information and encouragement to 2017 2018 2019 reduce water consumption from single-use plastic Landfill by Building Type (tonnes) bottles through its weekly email blast. Green Buildings 881 1,164 1,259 Since the implementation of the initiative, SML High-Rise Buildings 2,934 have succeeded in halving the usage of bottled mineral water to 5,446 cartons of 400 ml mineral Non-Green Buildings 608 798 water, or an equivalent of 130,704 bottles. Retail & Hospitality 12,407 25,961 The 53% decrease in the usage of single-use Commercial 1,199 1,614 plastic bottles over a one-year period spurred SML to increase the amount of water gallon and Residential & 4,608 dispensers. As next steps, SML will expand Township this initiative to include guests, vendors, and/ Trade Centres 3,240 33,015 or customers by placing recycled paper cups in meeting rooms. Total 881 18,618 70,189 9 Jambeck, R. Jenna, Geyer, Roland, Wilcox, Chris, Siegler, R. Theodore, Perryman, Miriam, Andrady, Anthony, Narayan, Ramani, and law, Kara Lavendar. “Plastic waste inputs from land into the ocean”. Science, vol. 347, no.6223, pp. 768-771. DOI: 10.1126/ science.1260352 64 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainable Community Our sustained commercial success depends on the well-being of our local communities in Indonesia and our areas of operation. We work hard to improve the prosperity of our local stakeholders with targeted, strategic investments into infrastructure and community development. In this section greenery and complete amenities, our city-dwellers are conveniently connected to Jakarta via key pieces of The following pages provide an overview of the broad public transport infrastructure. range of initiatives undertaken by Sinarmas Land to create a sustainable community in 2019. SML is As a socially aware and responsible organisation, we committed to integrate our responsibilities with the will continue our contribution to community development surrounding communities as part of our Group’s business based on the identified issues and needs of each strategy. By improving the socio-cultural environment community. within our operations’ communities through various initiatives, we aim to create significant benefits for local Engagement Program for All Stakeholders communities based on common shared value and coherent understanding. Sinarmas Land recognises the importance of Our main initiatives revolved around community stakeholders in driving our business forward. We development where we have built essential infrastructures continuously seek to build and improve relationships such as upgrading public transportation system and with stakeholders by involving them in the right capacity infrastructures. We have also expanded social and when carrying out business planning and activities. For essential services such as healthcare and water provision example, we actively engage our communities to obtain to ensure our communities’ livelihood are protected and their feedback on their new living spaces in BSD City. We sustained. Economically, we implemented initiatives also listen to customers’ opinions to develop products to improve the life skills our communities through and deliver services of the highest quality to benefit our various programs and lessons as well as built new stakeholders. Next, our primary engagement with our infrastructure to improve their economic wellbeing (i.e. employees is at Employee Events held several times Modern Market Intermoda). Environmentally, we actively throughout the year. We invite all employees to rate their involved our communities in programs and initiatives to satisfaction level in our annual Employee Satisfaction protect their surroundings and the environment, instilling Survey. environmental consciousness in the process. Examples of current stakeholder engagement exercises Apart from large-scale infrastructure projects such that are related to our sustainability related topics are: as those outlined above, we have also conducted need-based community programs such as collecting • Annual Customer Tenant Satisfaction Survey; donations, making contributions to the victims of natural • Obtaining feedback from customer and tenant on disasters, promoting healthy living, and supporting the sustainability topics through questionnaire; development of worship facilities. • Focus Group Discussion (FGD) to assess SML’s material topics with selected stakeholders; SML, through BSDE and its BSD City flagship • Green Habit Campaign involving tenants and development, has developed an entire township residents; equipped with complete facilities and amenities such as • Media engagement initiatives residential units, business districts, commercial office buildings, shopping centres, and public facilities – all Managing Our Impact on Communities of which elevate the living standards of the surrounding communities. Through the development of BSD City, SML As we continue to develop and enhance the vibrancy has created jobs and work opportunities for surrounding of BSD City, certain development activities might communities in Tangerang, increasing the liveability and inevitably pose some inconvenience to communities in income per capita for the region. the immediate or surrounding vicinity. Nonetheless, the Group shall respect the rights of local communities and As one of the largest privately developed satellite cities ensure that both our contractors and employees adhere located at the fringe of Central Jakarta, BSD City has to the legal requirements stipulated by the Indonesian become one of the most desirable locations to reside. government. Positioned as an urban oasis surrounded by lush Sinarmas Land Limited 65 Sustainability Report 2019 Every contractor appointed or engaged by Sinarmas • Press release: SML Corporate Communication Land must be rated by the regional regulator and Division uses press release to broadcast information, possess a Construction Service Permit Letter issued official statement, announcement of new products or by the government. This is part of our internal control services, to the members of the public and media. procedures to ensure that there is no compromise on the • Press conference: SML organised a press quality of our developments. conference to announce important events or collaboration with joint venture partners, as well as In addition, we have included the following initiatives to significant ceremonial occasions. During the press avoid negative impacts during construction activities: conference, media reporters from newspapers, TV, radio and online media platforms are invited to cover • Regular communication with the communities the event and attend the post-event Q&A session. surrounding the development project about our • Press tour: SML has a dedicated press tour for construction plans; photographers from various media partners to visit • Respect the needs and well-being of surrounding and take pictures of our developments and product communities (e.g. noise reduction, reasonable offerings. construction hours, keeping the environment clean • Media gathering: On a regular basis, SML Corporate during construction); Communication Division organise media gathering as part of its engagement initiative to maintain a Apart from the examples of our work undertaken for good relationship with our media partners. This the benefit of local communities cited above, we are event serves as a two-way communication between pleased to share that during the reporting period, none our Corporate Communication team and our media of our operations were found to have any significant or partners to share their concerns, public opinion on the potentially negative impacts on local communities. Based Group, as well as areas for improvement. on Government Regulation No. 27 (2012) on Environment Control Permits, before commencement of any property development project in Indonesia, every developer must Improving Community Welfare in perform an environmental impact assessment (AMDAL) Surrounding Development Area and provide plans to avoid/mitigate the possibility of negative impacts, if any. The content of this assessment Sinarmas Land’s sustained commercial success depends is extensive and includes physical, chemical (land, soil, on the well-being of local communities in our areas of space, etc.), as well as biological aspects (habitats operation. We strive to improve the prosperity of local and biodiversity), social factors (economics, safety, stakeholders with targeted and strategic investments into culture, etc.) and community health. These regulatory local infrastructure and community development. stipulated assessments ensure that developers give due consideration to the potential environmental impacts In 2019, we undertook several initiatives that aims before embarking on their development. The developer to provide work opportunities, enhance skills and is only allowed to commence the development once knowledge for potential talent in communities. These they have obtained the approved environmental impact initiatives provided a platform for local talents to connect assessment, amongst many other mandatory required with potential employers and assess opportunities. Some approvals, from the local government. of our main initiatives are as follows: Engagement with Media • Development of modern market in BSD City for local entrepreneurs; Media is an important platform for SML to communicate • Improved Tangsel women community’s welfare with with the society and other public entities. Through our BSD Knowledge House craft centre; Corporate Communication Division, SML is actively • Provided computer programming and coding engaged with the media and communities to provide scholarships for students who live around BSD city the latest information on SML products, services and and linking them to potential employers; businesses. In 2019, SML undertook the following • Conducted a series of training programs partnering engagements with the media: Pasar Rakyat School at BSD City for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (“MSMEs”) to enhance their skills. • Exclusive interview: SML provided exclusive Not only does these training program benefit MSMEs, interview to a few selected media partners. These managers are also able to enhance their management privileged partners will be able to receive first-hand skills in maintaining a clean and healthy marketplace. information of our product or services, as well as having priority rights to get an interview with our In addition, SML has also contributed to various local representatives. community initiatives in 2019 through the following actions: 66 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainable Community LOCAL COMMUNITY PROGRAM 3 Kota Deltamas Culture Festival 1 IT Programming Scholarship Technpolitan Kota Deltamas hosted and organised a Culture Festival in 2019 in Hegamurti Village to support empowermentTechpolitan IT Programming Scholarship is a coding based tourism in Bekasi Regency. This annually held and programming scholarship program for students event aid to support communities by focusing on their who live around BSD City. This scholarship will provide local cultures such as Sundanese and West Java. This students the necessary skillset to meet the growing program was held in collaboration with stakeholders demand of modern jobs, and supply a constant flow of including local leaders, Government Tourism Office highly-trained IT professionals for start-ups and other (Dinas Pariwisata) and other entities of society. technology companies residing in our Digital Hub project. In 2019, SML has admitted a total of 30 students from two separate intakes. All scholarship students have successfully graduated from the program and employed by IT and Fintech companies. Kota Deltamas Culture Festival 4 Modern Market (Pasar Modern) Intermoda IT Programming Scholarship In March 2018, we launched our second modern market in BSD City. Occupying a land area of 2.6 hectares, the double-storey modern market consists of 539 retail kiosks and 220 stalls. The market is an integrated part 2 Pasar Rakyat School of the newly renovated Cisauk train station that is easily accessible by different modes of public transportation. To further improve the livelihood of MSMEs, we constantly The traditional marketplace is the breeding ground inject business acumen into our MSME partners for local entrepreneurs, particularly those belonging and educate them on how to operate their business to MSME group. Currently, SML has developed and successfully and sustainably. As rapid technological managed four of these markets namely, Modern Market advancement disrupts the way traditional businesses BSD, Fresh Market Kota Wisata, Modern Market Grand operate, in 2019, Pasar Rakyat School focus its trainings Wisata, and Modern Market Intermoda BSD City, towards digital financial management, digital payment, benefitting more than 3,000 MSMEs. as well as leveraging on social media platform to engage and market its products to customers. In collaboration 5 Craft Centre (Sentra Kriya) at with Indonesia Ministry of Trade, we have conducted BSD Knowledge House (Rumah Pintar) 4 internal and 12 external trainings throughout 2019, benefitting more than 360,100 sellers and 600 market The Craft Centre provides a conducive space for managers. individuals and groups to improve their creativity through lessons such as eco printing (using natural colour from leaves and flowers) and clothes screen printing (sablon). Pasar Rakyat School Craft Centre at BSD Knowledge House Sinarmas Land Limited 67 Sustainability Report 2019 Educational Patronage Our continuous growth and success rests on the knowledge and skillsets of our current human resources, as well as future talents from local communities. We invest strategically in education infrastructure and initiatives to upskill our talents to safeguard the future of Indonesia and our workforce. In this section • Scholarship collaboration with IULI University for community in BSD City; The following pages provide an overview of Sinarmas • Scholarship program for employee’s children and Land’s investment in education. We place a strong family; and emphasis on education, and take a long-term approach • Scholarship program for community in Tangerang to this. A strong education system not only helps our district and South Tangerang City. local society, but in the longer-term breeds talent that are essential for the long-term success of our business. More Training and development importantly, an educated and self-sufficient population can drive developments in Indonesia and our areas of Internally, we conducted the annual employee training operation. Ultimately, a prosperous and skilled population and professional certification. We also allocated can help to alleviate many social issues, as well as an annual training budget and developed in-house improving local communities’ living standards. programs to support the career growth and aspirations of our employees. We believe that equipping our employees We aim to be a leader in contributing to the education with the skills they require for personal and professional system and infrastructure within our organisation, as well growth would be beneficial to the future growth of our as communities in Indonesia and our areas of operations. Group. Furthermore, developing skills and nurturing Internally, we implemented various initiatives to improve talents allows employees to grow, leading to better knowledge and skillsets of our employees. We have also opportunities, thereby helping the communities where set targets and policies to maintain the quality of our they live and work to flourish. We also provide on-the-job human resources and talents. training opportunities and support sufficiently qualified staff by paying for their relevant professional bodies’ Externally, we strive to provide equal opportunity to membership fees, such as chartered engineers. all members of local communities to gain essential knowledge and skills for them to succeed and be selfsufficient. We conducted education related initiatives Total Number and Average Number and activities to encourage learning and personal of Training Hours per Employee, developments. In addition, we invested in infrastructure by Gender and resources to enhance the learning processes, as well as the renovation of school buildings and extended financial assistance towards the purchase of learning 18,783 11.23 equipment. 12,715 Initiating Program to Support Knowledge 7.24 Enhancement Human resource is one of Indonesia’s most important assets. Sinarmas Land considers education to be one of the most important pre-requisites for the sustainable Male Female development of society and our employees. We believe that by enhancing knowledge of the Group’s employees and communities, we can lay a promising future for No. of training hours SML’s sustainability. Therefore, it is imperative for SML to Average no. of training hours (Denominator: no. of explore ways to upskill our people and to build the best employees in gender category) talent pool in our communities. We developed several programs to support these targets: 68 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Educational Patronage All SML employees are required to undergo at least four hours of training as part of their annual skills Average Hours of training per year per enhancement that is related to their job function. As of employee 31 December 2019, each employee has benefitted from (by employee category) an average of 8.45 hours of training, with a breakdown of 7.24 hours for our male employees, and 11.23 hours for 25.00 22.98 our female employees. 20.02 18.11 17.10 8.22 9.07 5.37 1.95 0.52 Average no. Average no. Average no. Average no. Average no. of training of training of training of training of training hours hours per hours per hours per hours per per Top Senior Manager Staff Non-Staff Mangement Manager (Dept Head (GDH Above) (Div Head) and Section member Head) Male Female Supervisor Development Program (SDP) Employee Performance We also conduct semi-annual performance and career development review. This KPI-based formal review is an important milestone in our employees’ career as their performances, strengths and areas of improvement are evaluated transparently and objectively, which will then form the basis for our employees’ promotion. In addition, Group Division Heads identify and introduce suitable training and development programs to tailor to their division employees’ needs based on employees’ previous year performances, results and career plans. In 2019, all employees of all genders and employee categories (senior management, executives, and non-executives) received regular performance and career development Manager Development Program (MDP) & Advance review. Development Program (ADP) Improving Educational Method and Facility Sinarmas Land is committed to ensure communities have equal opportunities and access to an education system by providing essential educational resources and facilities, and improving on teaching methods. Our initiatives in 2019 to improve education in communities are as follows: • Introduced Gerakan Sekolah Menyenangkan (GSM) – Fun School Movement to change the mindsets of teachers, students and society to equalise and bridge the gaps between different school classifications. • Conducted Berantas Buta Quran (Learn How to Read Al Quran) for Muslim teachers and students to read and understand the Al Quran within 3 hours of the In-house Training Program training course; and • Conducted renovations for schools and libraries in BSD City and other operation areas Sinarmas Land Limited 69 Sustainability Report 2019 SML also allocated areas for educational facilities such as a university, public and private schools in every more than 1,200 participants. Despite the huge turnout, development area. This is intended to facilitate future only 10 talented individuals will receive scholarships and residents and surrounding communities with easy access to trained at Chandra Wijaya International Badminton to educational facilities. Centre. Below are highlights of our key educational initiatives in 3 Berantas Buta Quran (BBQ) 2019: Berantas Buta Quran (Learn How to Read Al-Quran) or BBQ is a program for Muslim teachers and students to LOCAL COMMUNITY PROGRAM read and understand Al Quran within the 3 hours training course. The event garnered many positive reviews, boasting SML’s image as a socially responsible company 1 Gerakan Sekolah Menyenangkan (GSM) that cares about the community around BSD City, especially the Muslim populations. In 2019, BBQ was GSM aims to bridge the gaps and differences between attended by more than 500 participants from 77 mosques deprived schools and all types of schools to share in and surrounding BSD City. teaching knowledge and resources. GSM intends to change the opinions on different types of schools by changing the mind-set of teachers, students, and society. Cooperating with various stakeholders in South Tangerang City and Tangerang District, this program is set to benefit Primary and Junior School students. In 2019, there were five GSM activities held in 200 schools, attended by 140 supervisors and 420 teachers from surrounding schools in BSD City. Berantas Buta Quran (BBQ) 4 School & House Renovation (Kota Deltamas) SML is committed to ensure communities have equal access to education resources and infrastructures by Gerakan Sekolah Menyenangkan (GSM) improving educational methods and facilities. In 2019, Kota Deltamas has renovated 3 schools and 3 houses in Bekasi Regency. These schools were severely damage 2 Sinarmas Land to groom the next Badminton due to natural disasters, while the house renovations Champion were intended to support underprivileged families near Pasir Ranji Village, Bekasi Regency. The event aimed to Sinarmas Land is committed to develop children with provide better education facilities and environment for potential talent in the sport of badminton around BSD students in Bekasi Regency. City, by awarding them with a one-year scholarships. This annual program, which started in 2019, has attracted School Renovation Sinarmas Land Badminton Scholarship Program 70 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Educational Patronage All Centres (excluding Craft Centre) at BSD • Sign language: trainings were conducted to improve Knowledge House (Rumah Pintar) the sign language skills for members of the Deaf and Listen Communities in South Tangerang and • Computer Centre: improves children’s ability to use Tangerang District. Microsoft software applications; • Book Centre: improves children’s interest in reading Below are the number of members and students for BSD by providing them with an extensive range of books; Knowledge House in 2019: • Playing Centre (kindergarten): focuses on developing and educating children in their early • 2017: 7,513 attendants in 620 trainings/activities childhood; • 2018: 11,299 attendants in 630 trainings/activities • Audio Visual Centre: Using audio and visual tools, • 201910: 6,923 attendants in 463 trainings/activities the centre focuses on activities such as traditional and modern dance and martial arts (pencak silat); Book Centre at BSD Knowledge House Playing Centre at BSD Knowledge House Case Study Gerakan Sekolah The GSM movement was founded by a Yogyakarta based Menyenangkan (Fun School Movement) married couple in 2013 and SML subsequently adopted this initiative in 2017. Since then, the program has benefitted more than 1,000 educators from 293 schools in Tangerang District and South Tangerang City. There are three main activities in GSM’s implementation: 1. GSM Workshop: Gerakan Sekolah Menyenangkan (GSM) is a social movement formed together with teachers to create GSM workshop is conducted by GSM’s founder with the a critical, creative, collaborative and fun learning aims to introduce and familiarise educators with GSM’s environment and culture in public schools. This initiative methods to implement the program in their respective aims to help educators (school supervisors, principal, schools. GSM facilitators who are tasked to disseminate and teachers) in Tangerang District and South Tangerang and socialise information about GSM to schools City to improve their soft skills, as well as to transform throughout Indonesia are then identified, assessed and schools into fun places to learn, gaining essential selected by SML. knowledge and life skills to nurture successful leaders and learners of tomorrow. In conclusion, GSM is focused on developing human resource which may foster trust between the society and SML. 10 Number of members and students decreased because BSD Knowledge House supported several community programs for 5 months from April to August 2019. As a result, training activities were suspended for the 5 months. Sinarmas Land Limited 71 Sustainability Report 2019 We are pleased to report that participation in GSM 2. GSM Buddy School: Workshop in both Tangerang District and South Tangerang City have increased significantly from 2017 GSM Buddy School is a benchmark model school on to 2019. This increased participation indicates that more how to properly implement GSM. Educators from other schools and educators have begun to value GSM in their schools are encouraged to visit the model school to teachings. observe and learn about GSM methods and process of implementation. There is a total of 705 GSM Buddy Schools at the end of 2019. GSM Workshop Tangerang District (number of participants) Number of Buddy School 224 543 92 162 50 112 30 15 25 2017 2018 2019 2017-2019 Tangerang District Tangerang District Teacher Supervisor Tangerang District Tangerang District School South Tangerang City GSM Workshop South Tangerang City (number of participants) GSM Buddy School 196 48 72 88 34 17 36 2017 2018 2019 South Tangerang City South Tangerang City Teacher Supervisor South Tangerang City School GSM Workshop 3. GSM Methodology Dissemination: GSM is disseminated to various schools throughout Indonesia through selected GSM Facilitators trained by SML. 72 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Educational Patronage As aforementioned, GSM benefits four main stakeholder and the Group will encourage educators to be more groups: receptive in the implementation of GSM in their respective learning processes. • Society and Sinarmas Land: GSM creates social impact in the society, especially in SML’s operation ii. Cooperate with university students who were on and development areas. This program is one of the internship program in Sinarmas Land. They will join Group’s primary business strategies to foster and the GSM assistance team to assist in the monitoring maintain good relationships with communities and and observation of activities in school or madrasas. other entities such as civil society, government, Direct monitoring and observation are performed academics, and other entrepreneurs. throughout the year (3 visits per year), while active • Public Schools/Madrasa: GSM workshops provide monitoring through Whatsapp communication group positive activities that will benefit deprived public is performed daily. schools and Madrasas by improving their reputation and confidence to compete with more reputable Opportunities for the Future of GSM: schools. Schools located in remote areas, villages and suburbs will now have better environment, GSM initiatives can potentially be implemented in other resources, and learning methods. SML’s project locations since we have garner significant • Educators (School Supervisors, Principal, and amount of positive reviews from educators and students. Teachers): Training and workshops for educators With support and commitment from SML’s leaders, GSM may raise their ability and knowledge to provide or can be expanded into every SML project development. carry out more effective teaching methods. After attending GSM, educators in BSD City area will To achieve the goals set out for this initiative, a formal become more effective and independent. organisational structure to manage GSM will be • Students: Students can experience the change established. This organisation structure will consist of an in the education system generated through GSM Activity Coordinator, Reporting Coordinator, Observer, implementations. Now, children from poor and Transportation Coordinator, and a Communication disadvantaged families, who previously attended Manager. underfunded schools, have the opportunity to receive a better quality of education. Also, teaching methods SML will also engage with local government and GSM’s from this program will make learning more exciting founder to strengthen GSM’s legality through formal hence helping students to better understand and agreements Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) remain committed at their respective schools or or other types of agreement. SML has also encouraged madrasas. local government to create regional government bodies to regulate and monitor GSM’s implementation. Key Challenges and Solutions: Some challenges and issues that arose during the GSM implementation are as follow: GSM Socialisation (Methodology Dissemination) i. Unwillingness/resistance from educators (GSM main target audience) to change. They are accustomed to traditional teaching paradigms whilst GSM’s initial stages require educators to changes their mindsets in order to embrace changes in the education methods; and ii. Limited resources and time to aid schools or madrasas in the implementation of GSM. We have proposed several solutions to address the above challenges: i. Maintain good relationships with Education Authorities GSM Assistance (organiser of public schools) and Ministry of Religion Office (organiser of madrasa education) to socialise GSM, and persuade them that GSM implementation can be the solution for existing educational problems. SML hopes that building trust between the educators Sinarmas Land Limited 73 Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix A: Notes for Sustainability Performance Data Environment 14. Greenhouse Gas Protocol Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools, March 2017 were used for diesel 1. Buildings’ environmental performance data include conversions. The gases included in the conversion of data of the whole building (common area and diesel are CO2, CH4 and N2O. tenants’ data are included in scope), except for the 15. Our water consumption data is based on the Commercial buildings where we maintain control of standards and methodologies defined by the the common area only. Data from tenants is excluded Indonesian National Standard and Indonesian from all Commercial buildings. regulation for water supply. 2. Buildings’ energy consumption, GHG emissions, 16. We have on-site meters to measure water discharge and respective intensities data include our use in only three of our buildings in scope, namely: of electricity from the grid and diesel fuel for • Asset Management (ITC) – ITC Fatmawati, Graha emergency purposes in our back-up generators. Our Cempaka Mas, and Roxy Mas; processes do not use any heating, cooling, or steam • Asset Management (Office) – MyRepublic Plaza, consumption. Sinar Mas Land Plaza Jakarta (Tower 2 & 3), and 3. Due to a massive blackout of several hours in August Wisma BCA; 2019 in Java Regions, a majority of affected buildings • Retail & Hospitality – QBig Mall. used diesel-generators for electricity. Hence, there were significant diesel consumption in some For buildings without on-site meters, we assumed buildings’ Q3 data. that volume of water discharged is based on the 4. We do not sell any electricity, heating, cooling, or assumption that volume of water discharge from a steam energy to other organisations. building is approximately 80% of water consumption 5. Gross Floor Area (GFA) for intensity figures: GFA is for each building. This methodology is aligned identified based on the Built Drawing Data and Tenant with international standards and the Indonesian Relation Data (based on Tenant Agreement). government’s Ministry of Public Work and Housing. 6. All covered floor areas of a building, except otherwise We have applied this methodology to determine the exempted, and uncovered areas for commercial uses, water discharge volume for the following buildings in are deemed to be the gross floor area of the building. scope: 7. We also report our intensity figures on a GFA • Asset Management (ITC) – ITC BSD, BSD occupied basis. GFA occupied is calculated by Junction, Mall Ambassador, Mall Mangga Dua, multiplying occupancy rate (simple average of ITC Cempaka Mas, ITC Depok, ITC Kuningan, ITC monthly occupancy rates) with the GFA. Permata Hijau, and ITC Mangga Dua; 8. Building and development site details including • Asset Management (Office) – Sinar Mas Land property type, approximate net leasable area, project Plaza BSD City, GOP 9, Sinar Mas Land Plaza site area, and expected completion date are available Jakarta (Tower 1), Dimo Space, Sinarmas MSIG in SML’s Annual Report 2019 (Property Portfolio, page Tower, and BSD City Marketing Office; 78-87). • Retail and Hospitality – The Breeze, and Le 9. Green Buildings’ occupancy rate in 2018 was Grandeur Mangga Dua Hotel; revised from 91.50% to 70.13% due to a correction to • Strategic Land Bank – BSD Modern Market. MyRepublic Plaza’s GFA Occupied. As a result, GFA Occupied in 2018 is also revised from 72,121 m2 to Data from our residential apartment and business 55,278.10 m2 in this report. Loft buildings are excluded from the scope of water 10. ITC BSD’s GFA in 2018 was revised from 40,884 m2 to discharge as these buildings are tenanted (SML only 100,788 m2. As a result, GFA Occupied in 2018 was maintains control of the common area). Data from the also revised from 39,277.89 m2 to 96,828.60 m2. buildings housing the Customer Care Office and the 11. Standards and methodologies used for unit BSD Permit and Township Office are also excluded conversion of diesel fuel are based on the Carbon from this report’s scope as these buildings are using Disclosure Project. septic tanks, hence there are no records of water 12. Greenhouse gas conversion is based on the discharge. Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 17. Development projects’ environmental performance 13. Emission factors for electricity consumption are data includes information on materials used. We sourced from the Standard Pedoman Teknis currently do not report on energy consumption, Perhitungan Baseline Gas Rumah Kaca Sektor water consumption, and waste produced in our Berbasis Energi Republik Indonesia, Area Jamali development projects. (Jawa-Madura Bali): 0.725 kg/CO2/kWh. 74 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix A: Notes for Sustainability Performance Data Health and Safety People 1. Buildings’ health and safety performance data 1. Data on our employees include the overall include workplace accidents of employees at building employment statistics for our Indonesian operations. premises. 2. Scheduled workdays are calculated by 5 days x 2. Development projects’ health and safety performance 52 weeks minus public holidays, annual leave and data include workplace accidents of contractors at parental leave. project sites. 3. There are no significant variations in the total 3. Safety performance data for members of public number of our employees. A significant portion of include accidents of guests, visitors, occupants, the development projects are performed by our tenants, customers, etc. at building premises. contractors during construction. 4. Rate of recordable work-related injury (formerly AFR) is defined as the number of workplace accidents for Average training hours per employee every one million man-hours worked. = 5. Injury severity rate (formerly ASR) is defined as the Total training hours for the year number of man-days lost to workplace accidents for Number of employees as at 31 Dec 2019 every one million man-hours worked. Sinarmas Land Limited 75 Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix B: GRI Content Index Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable General Disclosures Organisational Profile GRI 102 : General 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Sinarmas Land, page 8 Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General 102-6 Markets served About Sinarmas Land, page 8 Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General 102-7 Scale of the organisation About Sinarmas Land, page 8 Disclosures 2016 Our Annual Report 2019, page 76-77 GRI 102 : General 102-8 Information on employees and Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Disclosures 2016 other workers Excellent Facilities and Services > Our Employees, page 30 GRI 102: General 102-9 Supply chain About Sinarmas Land, page 11 Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General 102-10 Significant changes to the About Sinarmas Land, page 11 Disclosures 2016 organisation and its supply chain GRI 102 : General 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Our Approach > Governance and Risk Disclosures 2016 approach Management, page 23 GRI 102: General 102-12 External initiatives Our Approach > Sinarmas Land's Disclosures 2016 Sustainability Vision, page 20-22 GRI 102: General 102-13 Membership of associations About Sinarmas Land, page 11 Disclosures 2016 Strategy GRI 102: General 102-14 Statement from senior decisionMessage from the Chairman and CEO, Disclosures 2016 maker page 12-14 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Our Approach > Governance and Risk Disclosures 2016 and norms of behavior Management, page 23 Governance GRI 102: General 102-18 Governance structure Our Approach > Governance and Risk Disclosures 2016 Management, page 23 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our Approach > Materiality and Disclosures 2016 Stakeholder Engagement, page 23-25 GRI 102: General 102-41 Collective bargaining Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Disclosures 2016 agreements Excellent Facilities and Services > Our Employee > Benefits and Welfare > Respecting Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Rights, page 36 GRI 102: General 102-42 Identifying and selecting Our Approach > Materiality and Disclosures 2016 stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement, page 23-25 GRI 102: General 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Our Approach > Materiality and Disclosures 2016 engagement Stakeholder Engagement, page 23-25 GRI 102: General 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our Approach > Materiality and Disclosures 2016 Stakeholder Engagement, page 26-27 Sustainable Community > Engagement Program for All Stakeholders, page 64-65 76 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix B: GRI Content Index Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable Reporting Practice GRI 102: General 102-45 Entities included in the a. Our Annual Report 2019, page 45 Disclosures 2016 consolidated financial provides an overview of all our main statements subsidiaries. b. About The Report, page 15-18 GRI 102: General 102-46 Defining report content and Our Approach > Materiality and Disclosures 2016 topic Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement, page 23-25 GRI 102: General 102-47 List of material topics Our Approach > Materiality and Disclosures 2016 Stakeholder Engagement, page 23-25 GRI 102: General 102-48 Restatements of information a. Climate Change & the Environment > Disclosures 2016 In this section, page 47 b. Appendix A, page 73 GRI 102: General 102-49 Changes in reporting Our Approach > Materiality and Disclosures 2016 Stakeholder Engagement, page 23-25 GRI 102: General 102-50 Reporting period About The Report, page 15 Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General 102-51 Date of most recent report Our second Sustainability Report for Disclosures 2016 FY2018, was published on 28 May 2019. Our previous report can be accessed via this link: http://www.sinarmasland.com/ sustainability-report GRI 102: General 102-52 Reporting cycle About The Report, page 15 Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General 102-53 Contact point for questions About The Report, page 18 Disclosures 2016 regarding the report GRI 102: General 102-54 Claims of reporting in About The Report, page 15 Disclosures 2016 accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 102: General 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, page 75-84 Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General 102-56 External assurance About The Report, page 18 Disclosures 2016 Topic Specific Disclosures Category: Economic Economic Performance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report 2019, page 46-74 Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Annual Report 2019, page 46-74 Approach 2016 and its components GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Annual Report 2019, page 46-74 Approach 2016 approach GRI 201 : Economic 201-1 Direct economic value Annual Report 2019, page 97-104 Performance 2016 generated and distributed GRI 201 : Economic 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations Best In Class Real Estate > Our Performance 2016 and other retirement plans Employee > Benefits and Welfare > Retirement Plans and other Defined Benefits, page 37 Sinarmas Land Limited 77 Sustainability Report 2019 Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable Market Presence GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Excellent Facilities and Services > Benefits and Welfare > Above the minimum wage, page 36-37 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 and its components Excellent Facilities and Services > Benefits and Welfare > Above the minimum wage, page 36-37 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 approach Excellent Facilities and Services > Benefits and Welfare > Above the minimum wage, page 36-37 GRI 202 : Market 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Presence 2016 wage by gender compared to Excellent Facilities and Services local minimum wage > Benefits and Welfare > Above the minimum wage, page 37 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Sustainble Community > In this section, Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary page 64 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Sustainble Community > In this section, Approach 2016 and its components page 64 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Sustainble Community > In this section, Approach 2016 approach page 64 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and Sustainable Community > Improving Economic Impacts 2016 services supported Community Welfare in Surrounding Development Area, page 65-66 GRI 203: Indirect 203-2 Significant indirect economic Sustainable Community > Improving Economic Impacts 2016 impacts Community Welfare in Surrounding Development Area, page 65-66 Anti-Corruption GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary to All Related Regulatory Requirement, page 45-46 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 and its components to All Related Regulatory Requirement, page 45-46 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 approach to All Related Regulatory Requirement, page 45-46 GRI 205 : Anti205-1 Operations assessed for risks Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Corruption 2016 related to corruption to All Related Regulatory Requirement, page 45-46 GRI 205 : Anti205-2 Communication and training Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Corruption 2016 about anti-corruption policies to All Related Regulatory Requirement, and procedures page 45-46 GRI 205 : Anti205-3 Confirmed incidents of Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Corruption 2016 corruption and actions taken to All Related Regulatory Requirement, page 45-46 78 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix B: GRI Content Index Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable Category: Environment Materials GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Climate Change and the Environment > Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Materials, page 49 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Climate Change and the Environment > Approach 2016 and its components Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Materials, page 49 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Climate Change and the Environment > Approach 2016 approach Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Materials, page 49 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or Climate Change and the Environment > volume Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Materials, page 49 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used Climate Change and the Environment > Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Materials, page 49 Energy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Climate Change and the Environment> Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Energy, page 4951 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Climate Change and the Environment> Approach 2016 and its components Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Energy, page 4951 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Climate Change and the Environment> Approach 2016 approach Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Energy, page 4951 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the Climate Change and the Environment> organisation Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Energy, page 4951 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-2 Energy consumption outside of a. Climate Change and the Environment the organisation > Optimising Building Operations to Achieve Clean Environment > Energy, page 49-51 b. Appendix A, page 73 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity Climate Change and the Environment> Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Energy, page 4951 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy Climate Change and the Environment> consumption Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Energy, page 4951 Sinarmas Land Limited 79 Sustainability Report 2019 Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable Water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Climate Change and the Environment> Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Water, page 52-55 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Climate Change and the Environment> Approach 2016 and its components Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Water, page 52-55 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Climate Change and the Environment> Approach 2016 approach Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Water, page 52-55 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Climate Change and the Environment> Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Water, page 52-55 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly Climate Change and the Environment> affected by withdrawal of water Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Water, page 52-55 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-3 Water recycled and reused Climate Change and the Environment> Optimising Building Operation to Achieve Clean Environment > Water, page 54 Emissions GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Climate Change and the Environment > Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transporation > Emissions, page 55-60 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Climate Change and the Environment > Approach 2016 and its components Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transporation > Emissions, page 55-60 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Climate Change and the Environment > Approach 2016 approach Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transporation > Emissions, page 55-60 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Climate Change and the Environment > 2016 emissions Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transporation > Emissions, page 58-60 GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Climate Change and the Environment > 2016 emissions Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transporation > Emissions, page 58-60 GRI 305: Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate Change and the Environment > 2016 Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transporation > Emissions, page 58-60 GRI 305: Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate Change and the Environment > 2016 Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transporation > Emissions, page 58-60 80 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix B: GRI Content Index Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable GRI 305: Emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Climate Change and the Environment > 2016 substances (ODS) Providing and Facilitating Various Type of Public Transporation > Emissions, page 60 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Climate Change and the Environment Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary > Responsible Waste Management Program> Effluents and Waste, page 60-63 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Climate Change and the Environment Approach 2016 and its components > Responsible Waste Management Program> Effluents and Waste, page 60-63 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Climate Change and the Environment Approach 2016 approach > Responsible Waste Management Program> Effluents and Waste, page 60-63 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and Climate Change and the Environment Waste 2016 destination > Responsible Waste Management Program> Effluents and Waste, page 60-63 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Climate Change and the Environment Waste 2016 method > Responsible Waste Management Program> Effluents and Waste, page 60-63 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Climate Change and the Environment Waste 2016 > Responsible Waste Management Program> Effluents and Waste, page 60-63 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-5 Water bodies affected by water Climate Change and the Environment Waste 2016 discharges and/or runoff > Responsible Waste Management Program> Effluents and Waste, page 60-63 Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary to All Related Regulatory Requirement > Environmental Compliance, page 46 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 and its components to All Related Regulatory Requirement > Environmental Compliance, page 46 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 approach to All Related Regulatory Requirement > Environmental Compliance, page 46 GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Compliance 2016 environmental laws and to All Related Regulatory Requirement > regulations Environmental Compliance, page 46 Sinarmas Land Limited 81 Sustainability Report 2019 Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable Category: Social Employment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Excelent Facilities and Services > page 28-29 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 and its components Excelent Facilities and Services > page 28-29 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 approach Excelent Facilities and Services > page 28-29 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and Best In Class Real Estate > Providing 2016 employee turnover Excelent Facilities and Services > New Hires and Employee Retention > page 34 GRI 401: Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to fullBest In Class Real Estate > Providing 2016 time employees that are not Excelent Facilities and Services > Our provided to temporary or partEmployee > page 30-31 time employees GRI 401: Employment 401-3 Parental leave Best In Class Real Estate > Providing 2016 Excellent Facilities and Services > Benefits and Welfare > Family-friendly Employer, page 36 Labour-Management Relations GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Excelent Facilities and Services > page 28-29 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 and its components Excelent Facilities and Services > page 28-29 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 approach Excelent Facilities and Services > page 28-29 GRI 402: Labour402-1 Minimum notice periods The minimum notice period is currently Management Relations regarding operational changes defined by our business needs. We do 2016 not have a formal policy on this matter yet, but are considering establishing one. Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Attention to Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Customer and Occupational Health & Safety > Our disciplined approach to ensuring Occupational Health & Safety, page 38-40 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Attention to Approach 2016 and its components Customer and Occupational Health & Safety > Our disciplined approach to ensuring Occupational Health & Safety, page 38-40 82 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix B: GRI Content Index Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Attention to Approach 2016 approach Customer and Occupational Health & Safety > Our disciplined approach to ensuring Occupational Health & Safety, page 38-40 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Best In Class Real Estate > Attention to Health and Safety 2016 injury, occupational diseases, Customer and Occupational Health & lost days, and absenteeism, Safety > Our disciplined approach to and number of work-related ensuring Occupational Health & Safety, fatalities page 38-40 Training and Education GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Educational Patronage > In This Section, Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary page 67 Educational Patronage > Initiating Program to Support Knowledge Enhancement, page 67-68 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Educational Patronage > Initiating Approach 2016 and its components Program to Support Knowledge Enhancement, page 67-68 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Educational Patronage > Initiating Approach 2016 approach Program to Support Knowledge Enhancement, page 67-68 GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per Educational Patronage > Initiating Education 2016 year per employee Program to Support Knowledge Enhancement > Training and Development, page 67-68 GRI 404: Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading Educational Patronage > Initiating Education 2016 employee skills and transition Program to Support Knowledge assistance programs Enhancement > Training and Development, page 67-68 GRI 404: Training and 404-3 Percentage of employees Educational Patronage > Initiating Education 2016 receiving regular performance Program to Support Knowledge and career development Enhancement > Employee Performance, reviews page 68 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Excelent Facilities and Services > Diversity and Equal Opportunity > page 31-33 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 and its components Excelent Facilities and Services > Diversity and Equal Opportunity > page 31-33 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Approach 2016 approach Excelent Facilities and Services > Diversity and Equal Opportunity > page 31-33 Sinarmas Land Limited 83 Sustainability Report 2019 Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Equal Opportunity 2016 and employees Excelent Facilities and Services > Diversity and Equal Opportunity > page 31-33 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Best In Class Real Estate > Providing Equal Opportunity 2016 remuneration of women to men Excelent Facilities and Services > Diversity and Equal Opportunity > page 33 Local Communities GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Sustainable Community > In This Section, Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary page 64 Sustainable Community > Improving Community Welfare in Surrounding Development Area, page 65-66 Educational Patronage > Improving Educational Method and Facility, page 68-72 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Sustainable Community > Improving Approach 2016 and its components Community Welfare in Surrounding Development Area, page 65-66 Educational Patronage > Improving Educational Method and Facility, page 68-72 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Sustainable Community > Improving Approach 2016 approach Community Welfare in Surrounding Development Area, page 65-66 Educational Patronage > Improving Educational Method and Facility, page 68-72 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local Sustainable Community > Improving Communities 2016 community engagement, Community Welfare in Surrounding impact assessments, and Development Area, page 65-66 development programs Educational Patronage > Improving Educational Method and Facility, page 68-72 GRI 413: Local 413-2 Operations with significant Sustainable Community > Improving Communities 2016 actual and potential negative Community Welfare in Surrounding impacts on local communities Development Area, page 65-66 Educational Patronage > Improving Educational Method and Facility, page 68-72 Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Attention to Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary Customer and Occupational Health & Safety > Ensuring Customers' and the Public's Well-Being, page 37-38 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Attention to Approach 2016 and its components Customer and Occupational Health & Safety > Ensuring Customers' and the Public's Well-Being, page 37-38 84 Sinarmas Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix B: GRI Content Index Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number and Reasons for GRI Standard Number Omissions, if applicable GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Attention to Approach 2016 approach Customer and Occupational Health & Safety > Ensuring Customers' and the Public's Well-Being, page 37-38 GRI 416: Customer 416-1 Assessment of the health and Best In Class Real Estate > Attention to Health and Safety 2016 safety impacts of product and Customer and Occupational Health & service categories Safety > Ensuring Customers' and the Public's Well-Being, page 37-38 GRI 416: Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Health and Safety 2016 concerning the health and to All Related Regulatory Requirements, safety impacts of products and page 45-46 services Marketing and Labelling GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary to All Related Regulatory Requirements, page 45-46 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 and its components to All Related Regulatory Requirements, page 45-46 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 approach to All Related Regulatory Requirements, page 45-46 GRI 417: Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Labeling 2016 concerning product and to All Related Regulatory Requirements, service information and page 45-46 labeling GRI 417: Marketing and 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Labeling 2016 concerning marketing to All Related Regulatory Requirements, communications page 45-46 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary to All Related Regulatory Requirements, page 45-46 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 and its components to All Related Regulatory Requirements, page 45-46 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Approach 2016 approach to All Related Regulatory Requirements, page 45-46 GRI 419 : 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Best In Class Real Estate > Compliance Socioeconomic regulations in the social and to All Related Regulatory Requirements, Compliance 2016 economic area page 45-46 SINARMAS LAND LIMITED Company Registration No. 199400619R 108 Pasir Panjang Road, #06-00 Golden Agri Plaza, Singapore 118535 Tel : (65) 6220 7720 Fax : (65) 6590 0887 www.sinarmasland.com Sinar Mas Land @sinarmas_land
