Communication on Progress Sustainability 2019 Our business in 2019 Project countries Employees Revenues (mNOK) Listed clients 20 10 17 014 21 Ongoing projects Expertise and affiliated experts ABOUT THE REPORT The report is aligned with the professional and commercial services framework established by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). We have incorporated the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) covering human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. The report and data cover the period 1 January to 31 December 2019. UN GLOBAL COMPACT The Governance Group is a member of and has incorporated the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in our operations and reporting. The Principles are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. THE GOVERNANCE GROUP – SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2 Statement of support The Governance Group hereby reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As our first annual Communication on Progress, we are pleased to describe how we integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. The Governance Group AS (TGG) is an advisory firm specializing in risk analysis, governance and sustainability – environmental (E), social (S) and governance (G) issues. Our aim is to make ESG measurable and actionable. TGG has a core team in Oslo and a network of affiliated experts in Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. Our clients are large corporations in the energy, shipping, telecom, real estate and finance sectors, as well as government agencies in several countries. During 2019, we experienced an increased interest from corporates in managing ESG issues in a targeted manner. We welcome the enhanced requirements from the financial sector to measure material risks relating to sustainability and especially climate related issues. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, we are conscious that many sectors experience challenging times, however we believe that the 2030 agenda and the commitment to the Paris Agreement will continue to support a global effort towards sustainability. TGG is an advisory firm with a limited number of employees, and by adhering to our Code of conduct and HSE policy – our emissions footprint and value chain challenges are not significant. However, as our business model is to enable corporates and governmental institutions to identify material ESG issues and make them able to monitor, achieve and report on progress – we may significantly contribute to sustainability. In 2019, we launched our second review of ESG reporting among the 100 largest listed companies on the Oslo Stock Exchange. Compared to the previous year, there was a significant improvement in the report of climate risk – and we believe promoting leading ESG standards puts pressure on decision makers to prioritise sustainable business practices. Our Communication on progress covers the principles of the UN Global Compact. In order to include relevant reporting criteria specific to our business model, we have chosen to disclose data according to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Professional & Commercial Services (updated October 2018). Joachim Nahem Kristian R. Andersen Chairperson CEO The Governance Group AS The Governance Group AS THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Human 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Rights 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Labour 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5: The effective abolition of child labour. 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environment 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption THE GOVERNANCE GROUP – SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 DISCLOSURES SASB SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS Professional & Commercial Services, updated October 2018. UNIT OF TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC DATA CODE MEASURE Description of approach to identifying and n/a Page 6 SV-PS-230a.1 addressing data security risks Description of policies and practices relating to collection, usage, and retention of customer n/a Page 6 SV-PS-230a.2 Data information Security (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage Number, involving customers confidential business Percentage 1) Zero information (CBI) or personally identifiable (%) 2) N/A SV-PS-230a.3 information (PII), (3) number of customers 3) Zero affected1 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 1) 33 % female Percentage representation for (1) executive management 2) 60 % female SV-PS-330a.1 (%) Workforce and (2) all other employees2 (5/7) Diversity & 1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for 1) 10 % Rate SV-PS-330a.2 Engagement employees 2) 0 % Employee engagement as a percentage3 Percentage Not deemed SV-PS-330a.3 (%) relevant Description of approach to ensuring professional n/a Pages 5-6 SV-PS-510a.1 integrity Professional Integrity Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Reporting legal proceedings associated with professional currency None SV-PS-510a.2 integrity4 UNIT OF ACTIVITY METRIC CODE MEASURE Number of employees by: (1) full-time and part-time, (2) temporary, and (3) contract 1) Full time: 10 Number 2) Temporary: 3 SV-PS-000.A 3) Contract: 1 Hours, 19 272, 61% Employee hours worked, percentage billable Percentage SV-PS-000.B (%) THE GOVERNANCE GROUP – SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4 ESG MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT TGG seeks to establish environmental consciousness and to protect the environment in our internal business and in the delivery of our services. Our commitment to reduce our impact on the external environment is further outlined in the Code of Conduct. Office environmental management The Governance Group chooses solutions that are sustainable, and this applies to everything from choice of transport, to offices and suppliers. Although we are a small business, we will keep track of our own impact on our surroundings, and we establish climate accounts and compensate for our own emissions by purchasing quotas. TGG has chosen the EKOenergi eco label, an internationally recognised mark of quality for renewable electricity, gas, heat and cooling. GHG EMISSIONS STATEMENT Scopes Value Metric Metric tons CO2e Company cars1 21 000 Kilometres 1.91 Scope 1 Direct emissions 1.91 Electricity (market based)2 9 154 kWh 4.76 District heating3 16 307 kWh 0.31 Sum Scope 2 5.07 Flights4 49.01 KG CO2 49.01 Sum Scope 3 49.01 Total TGG5 55.99 1) Electric cars. Assumption: 1.75 kWh per 10 km https://www.fjordkraft.no/strom/stromforbruk/elbil/ 2) In 2019, the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) estimated that emissions from electricity is 520 g/kWh CO2, based on the average rate for Norwegian power suppliers that do not purchase Guarantees of Origin 3) In 2019, Fortum (supplier), estimated that emissions from district heating are 19 g/kWh CO2. 4) Reported air traffic emissions from travel operator Berg‐Hansen. 5) In order to calculate our annual emissions, we use an operational approach as defined by the GHG protocol PEOPLE The Governance Group consists of ten full time employees committed to promoting sustainability, and to ensure that our working environment keeps everyone safe, included and motivated. We are dedicated to creating a respectful and dynamic culture, where teamwork and togetherness are highly valued. Non-discrimination Discrimination and harassment based on, but not limited to, gender, race, age, religion, disability, nationality, ethnic origin or sexual orientation is not tolerated and considered unacceptable. At The Governance Group, unwelcome verbal or physical behaviour interfering with work or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment, is considered unacceptable. This includes any form of sexual harassment, exploitation, or abuse. THE GOVERNANCE GROUP – SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 Labour rights The Governance Group follows Norwegian labour law and international labour standards expressed in the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organisation. ILO conventions Conventions 1. Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) covering subjects 2. Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98) considered to be 3. Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29) (and its 2014 Protocol) fundamental 4. Abolition of Forced Labour Convention, 1957 (No. 105) principles and 5. Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) rights at work. The 6. Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182) Governance Group 7. Equal Remuneration Convention, 1951 (No. 100) supports these 8. Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention, 1958 (No. 111) conventions. GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY Code of conduct Our Code of Conduct is signed anyone conducting work on behalf of TGG, and the code applies to all staff, partners, sub-contractors and anyone else acting on behalf of The Governance Group. The code includes both mandatory legal requirements and voluntary standards we seek to uphold. The Code outlines TGGs expectations related to: • Bribery and Corruption • Conflict of Interest • Transparency and Confidentiality • Labour standards and working conditions • Anti-discrimination and harassment • Environmental impact • Personal integrity • Complaints Health, Safety and Environment policy TGG’s Health, Safety and Environment policy is upheld in all our work and business relationships. There were no serious incidents or lost time injuries in 2019. Complaints mechanism TGG seeks to stimulate open discussions about responsible conduct and invite all stakeholders to express their views and concerns. TGG has established a complaints-procedure to manage reports of unethical or illegal conduct by employees or external stakeholders and seeks to respond immediately to any concerns. Our Code of Conduct further outlines TGGs complaints procedure. Responsibility and integrity All TGG employees working on assignments are held to the highest standards of professional integrity. We seek to stimulate open discussions about responsible conduct, and our employees are continually expected to express opinions on the projects and operations we are targeting and carrying out. We encourage all employees to behave and reason ethically, having the right to refrain from working on projects based on personal ethics. Our Code of Conduct further outlines TGGs expectations. Data security and privacy The Governance Group protects any proprietary or confidential information entrusted to us in accordance with Norwegian legal requirements for data protection. TGG uses an external system for integrity protection and has implemented measures to ensure compliance with the GDPR. Our Code of Conduct further outlines TGGs management of data security. THE GOVERNANCE GROUP – SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6 CASE STUDIES ESG 100 Every year, TGG analyses and rates how the 100 largest corporations on Oslo Stock Exchange report on ESG issues. We do not seek to rate how well the corporations perform on ESG, but how well they disclose relevant data. The analysis is a useful tool for corporations and investors alike to better understand the risks and opportunities related to ESG. One of the key findings in 2019, was that many listed companies struggle to comply with § 3-3 c of the Norwegian Accounting Act: Companies are obliged to disclose detailed information on the management, strategy and status of environmental, social and governance issues. However, the is no reference to what data should be reported, and thus the information disclosed is often vague and difficult to assess. TGG proposed that the regulatory authorities should review and update the law. THE GOVERNANCE GROUP – SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 Angola Human Rights Project 2018-2021 The Angola Human Rights Project, aiming at consolidating, strengthening and sustaining a culture of human rights in Angola, has completed its second year of implementation. The Governance Group has monitored developments in Angola closely over 2019 to identify risks and opportunities with regard to the human rights project. We believe Angola’s focus on implementing international human rights norms presents an opportunity for the Angola Human Rights Project to become better integrated with, and reflect the priorities of, Angola’s national human rights strategy. Angola underwent multiple human rights treaty reviews in 2019, including their 3 rd cycle of the Universal Periodic Review, which made recommendations for Angola notably in relation to the ratification of international human rights treaties and effective implementation of international human rights treaties at the domestic level. NOTABLE PROGRESS Three-week intensive course Paper on business, human rights and A representative from the Angolan completed on human rights law and sustainability in Angola co-authored Ministry of Justice and Human practices, Oslo Diploma Couse-ODC, by TGG and MJHR was selected for Rights attended the UN Forum on for 12 participants from Angolan presentation and publication by the Business and Human Rights in government and civil society. University of Oslo Law Faculty. Geneva a first time event. Seminar on regional human rights One-week Training of Trainers One-week Media Training Diploma systems (the African system and the course on human rights for four Course for seven participants from European system in comparative participants held at the University of the Angolan government and media perspective) held at Kangonjo Coimbra. All four conducted a (Oslo), Freedom of Expression Higher Polytechnic Institute in training of trainers’ course for police training (Luanda) to coincide with Luanda with over 200 participants. in Angola after completion. World Press Freedom Day. PROGRAMME IN NUMBERS Numbers trained in Angola Numbers trained outside Angola Nr. of stakeholders trained 490 42 >550 Research and human rights Visits over 2019 Members in alumni network documents available 1407 1821 55 Newspaper Articles: 100 000 + Radio Broadcast: 50 000 + reach TV Broadcasts reach 5 3 Individuals involved in research Completed Master degrees in Research articles produced exchange Human Rights 8 6 7 THE GOVERNANCE GROUP – SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 8 The Governance Group AS thegovgroup.org Grev Wedels plass 2 Tel +47 22 83 43 00 THE GOVERNANCE 0151 GROUP –Oslo, NorwayREPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY Org.nr. 916 909 403 9
