Whizz Education Macmillan House Paddington Station London W2 1FT Telephone: +44 (0)203 328 6564 Email: global@whizzeducation.com www.whizzeducation.com COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Statement from the Chief Executive, Richard Marett Whizz Education Limited, 23rd November 2020 I am pleased to confirm that Whizz Education reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and AntiCorruption. Whizz Education is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of its strategy, culture and daily operations. In our Communication on Progress report, we document the progress within Whizz Education. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communications. Whizz Education’s raison d’etre is to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and to promote lifelong opportunities for all (SDG 4). As an organisation accountable to learning outcomes, we aim to raise educational standards worldwide through our holistic approach to education, inter alia, in projects seeking to achieve gender equality and to empower all women and girls (SDG 5). In this regard, we provide our services both alone and in collaboration with other stakeholders. We explain our mission of enabling communities around the world to reach their full potential through individualised learning at www.whizzeducation.com. Richard Marett Chief Executive Whizz Education Limited Whizz Education Limited Registered in England No. 4494788 Registered office: MacMillan House, Paddington Station, London W2 1FT VAT Registered No. 824 7539 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Whizz Education supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. Policy on Human Rights Whizz Education supports and respects internationally proclaimed human rights. The Company believes in the equality of all its people and an employee “no discrimination” policy is included in Whizz Education’s Code of Conduct, Equalities and Recruitment and Development Policies. Violations connected to discrimination must be reported to the violator’s manager or through Whizz Education’s whistle-blower system and would be dealt with under our disciplinary process. Whizz Education aims to ensure that all workers have safe working environments that are fit for purpose and have sanitary work facilities where necessary. Whizz Education protects workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Whizz Education has a Code of Conduct in place for employees worldwide and there is a whistleblowing process to follow. Any allegations of harassment would be taken seriously and thoroughly investigated. Whizz Education’s published company values are “Spirit of Partnership”, Resourcefulness” , “Ownership” and “fun” which all employees are encouraged to follow and demonstrate. Actions in the last year All stakeholders, including employees, contractors, partners, suppliers and subcontractors continue to be obliged to comply with Whizz Education’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Policies, unless non-company stakeholders have their own Code of Conduct which is at least as extensive as Whizz Education. In May 2020, we participated in Mental Health Awareness Week where there was real emphasis put on looking after our mental health, especially whilst working from home during a global pandemic. We, now more than ever, encourage our employees to take regular breaks throughout the day and look after their mental health. From August 2020, the Whizz Education People Team have delivered Diversity, Equity and Inclusion workshops on a monthly basis, for all employees to attend to discuss important issues which are present in our world today. We have covered a range of topics including exploration of the eponymous diversity, equity, inclusion as well as intersectionality, unconscious bias and more recently microaggressions. We have also implemented an Employee Assistance Programme for all employees in all territories, which offers dedicated telephone counselling 24/7 where employees can speak about a variety of issues such as: stress, legal issues, bereavement support, medical information as well as 8 sessions of face to face Cognitive Behavioural Therapy. Every employee is now entitled to eye tests and eyecare which can be expensed to Whizz Education. Now that we have indefinitely moved to a working from home model due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it is even more important to care for our employee’s eyes. We have promoted internships over the last year with two student interns who worked with us on copywriting and data analysis over the summer. Goals for the future To enhance our efforts in looking after our employee’s mental health at work, we plan to take part in the Time to Change Employer Pledge which aims to break down the stigma of mental health (action plan available on request). We plan to continue delivering Diversity, Equity and Inclusion workshops on a monthly basis to keep key conversations going and inviting a variety of different employees to host the sessions. We have also reviewed and shared a new Diversity, Equity and Inclusion policy with employees (available on request). We plan to continue the promotion of apprenticeships and internships. Reassessing the annual appraisal system to ensure that every employee has the opportunity to access learning & development; as well as to discuss their career path. Measurement of outcomes All new starters have undergone Induction and been made aware of our policies. No case of violation connected to human rights has been reported during the year. Policy on Labour Whizz Education does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. Whizz Education complies with minimum wage standards. Whizz Education ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Whizz Education encourages a diverse and inclusive workforce. Whizz Education’s Code of Conduct and Equalities policy states that Whizz Education works to achieve an equal, healthy and wholesome workplace. Whizz Education’s HR Manager ensures the Company’s compliance with labour and employment laws, including working hour requirements. The right to collective bargaining is recognised at Whizz Education although hitherto all employment contracts have been individually negotiated. We seek to ensure employee health and safety by the application of traditional risk assessment in our workplaces. Actions in the last year We continue to ensure that all other stakeholders, including partners, contractors, suppliers and subcontractors comply with Whizz Education’s Code of Conduct, unless they have their own Code of Conduct which is as least as extensive as Whizz Education’s. We continue to carry out a Quarterly Employee Survey in an effort to monitor employee happiness and wellbeing. With the new reality of working from home, we have had to think innovatively of new ways to improve the wellbeing of our employees whilst they remain at home. We have implemented quarterly social events to keep our employees engaged and as a way of proactively improving their social wellbeing. We have implemented a monthly “Ask us Anything” session with the people team where employees can drop in and ask a question about anything and gain an answer in real time or be given advice on when they can expect an answer. This has encouraged employees to be open and seek answers on subjects that perhaps they would not have approached in the past. Goals for the future In the coming year, we shall be seeking to bring the UN Global Compact and its ten principles to the attention of all employees worldwide. Whizz Education aims to implement a Wellbeing policy and investigate ways that we can encourage and support staff wellbeing. We are taking action to put in place individual employee roadmaps for job progression and job satisfaction. Measurement of Outcomes We continue to measure employee engagement via a quarterly culture survey and address any issues that present themselves from that. We will also measure attendance of “Ask us Anything” sessions and regularly seek feedback during these sessions. No grievances have arisen in the year to date. Our workforce is diverse, counting nine nationalities. There are no gender or ethnic pay gaps in our pay structure. Policy on Anti-corruption It is of the highest importance that Whizz Education adheres to and complies with all given legislations and regulations as well as setting a bar for how to act and behave in society always with the highest ethics. Whizz Education’s Anti-Bribery Policy first adopted in 2010 is available on its Intranet and all employees are regularly made aware of the Policy. Pursuant to the Policy, the Company is committed to promoting and maintaining the highest level of ethical standards in relation to all of its business activities. Its reputation for maintaining lawful business practices is of paramount importance and the Anti-Bribery Policy is designed to preserve these values. The Company therefore has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption and is committed to acting fairly and with integrity in all of its business dealings and relationships and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. Whizz Education continuously works on improving its work against corruption and bribery. Violations connected to corruption must be reported to the violator’s superior or through a whistle-blower procedure and violators would be subject to the Company’s disciplinary process with violations found to be gross misconduct potentially leading to summary dismissal. Actions in the last year We continued to ensure that all stakeholders, including employees, partners, contractors, suppliers and subcontractors are required by contract to comply with Whizz Education’s Anti Bribery Policy. All UK employment contracts now include a direct reference to our Anti Bribery Policy, and we are taking steps to provide that any breach of our Anti-Bribery Policy by a business partner will lead to termination of their contract. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions are now a standard feature of contracts with business partners. Goals for the coming year The goal is to ensure no corruption in any aspect of Whizz Education’s activities. Measurement of outcomes No cases of corruption have been reported during the year Policy on Environment Whizz Education has an Environmental Policy which is shared with all employees. Since our operations are primarily office based and concern intellectual property, our Company’s impact on the environment is minimal, and we are unable to dictate methods of operation to change our impact to any significant degree. Whizz Education does increasingly encourage recycling of consumables used in our business where it is practical, and we intend to examine the degree to which we might be able to conduct our business with less employee travel. Each premise has emergency procedures in place to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. The premises undergo relevant health and safety checks including air pollution control, waste and water treatment. Whizz Education minimises the use and ensures safe handling and storage of chemicals through COSHH (Care of Substances Hazardous to Health) and other dangerous substances. Actions in the last year Due to the impact of Covid-19 there has been a significant drop in the amount of travel we do as a company. Our field representatives are no longer driving to schools, office staff are no longer commuting via train and tube and we have seriously cut back on travelling by flight in terms of our business development ventures. Now that we have learned that our business operates remotely with success, we will certainly cut down on our travel output going forward. Goals for the coming year Communicate and encourage more Environmental awareness among our workforces. Maintain a reduction in car and air travel Measurement of outcomes We are not aware of any worthwhile procedures we could adopt to measure changes in the Company’s environmental impact. 23rd November 2020
