RESULTS DRIVEN // PASSION // TRUST COMMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 20 18 19 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 2 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 3 01 CONTENTS 01 Statement from the 03 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO CEO 02 05 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 03 07 HRA PHARMA AT A GLANCE 08 Pioneers in Women’s Healthcare 09 HRA Pharma Rare Diesases 10 Growing Presence in Consumer Healthcare and OTC Market 04 11 OUR PRINCIPLES IN EVERYDAY CULTURE 12 Our Employees 05 13 BUSINESS ETHICS 14 Compliance Training Program 14 Due Diligence with Partners 14 Code of Ethics 14 Whistleblowing Tools in Place 15 Transparency into Business Ethics 15 Personal Data 06 16 COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY 17 Environment 19 External Audits – Review 19 HRA Pharma Assistance Programs HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 4 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 5 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO 02 “ HRA Pharma is a company of values. United Nations Global Compact HRA Pharma promotes and develops its values for the benefit of patients, consumers and employees and in constant concern for compliance with applicable laws and fundamental principles of ethics, human rights and sustainable development. For several years, HRA Pharma has been committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which it strives to share with its partners. The growth of our company, the diversification of its portfolio and the increasing number of employees and partners worldwide, do not detract from the mission of HRA. The objectives and values we have set have encouraged us to develop new compliance tools and to surpass ourselves time and time again. Thank you to all of those who are involved in the development of this culture. ” Sincerely yours, David Wright CEO of HRA Pharma HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 6 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 7 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact: Businesses should... 02 03 HUMAN RIGHTS 01 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. U N I T E D N AT I O N S 02 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G LO BA L CO M PAC T HRA Pharma at a Glance LABOUR Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principles-based approach to 03 Uphold the freedom of association and the doing business. This means operating in ways that, effective recognition of the right to collective at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities bargaining. in the areas of human rights, labour, environment 04 Advocate the elimination of all forms of forced and anti-corruption. and compulsory labour. The Ten Principles of the United Nations 05 Defend the effective abolition of child labour. Global Compact are derived from: the 06 Support the elimination of discrimination in Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the respect of employment and occupation. International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. ENVIRONMENT In October 2012, HRA Pharma formally joined the 07 Support a precautionary approach to United Nations Global Compact and has since then environmental challenges. systematically asked its trading partners to comply 08 Undertake initiatives to promote greater with it. environmental responsibility. The principles of the Global Compact are rooted in 09 Encourage the development and diffusion of HRA Pharma’s day-to-day culture. environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 8 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 9 OUR PRODUCTS M AT T E R PIONEERS IN WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE Since its inception, HRA Pharma has empowered generations of women across the world through its emergency contraceptive solutions, often despite opposition and controversy. The company has gradually grown its portfolio with HRA PHARMA RARE DISEASES 03 new innovations in reproductive and women’s health by developing and improving access to the next generation Since taking off in 2003 with the rights to sell of emergency contraception with ellaOne. Lysodren®, HRA Pharma Rare Diseases became a separate legal entity in July 2019. This specialised HRA Pharma has also created and consolidated research affiliate business is dedicated to improving the lives H R A P H A R M A AT A partnerships with public and private institutions around of patients with rare and ultra-rare conditions such GLANCE the world to highlight the lack of information available and demonstrate the need for change. as Adrenocortical Carcinoma (ACC) and Cushing’s Syndrome (CS). HRA are constantly expanding into new markets with To date, Lysodren® is the only FDA & EMEA approved HRA Pharma is a fast-growing, innovative global ambitious development programs to switch drugs treatment for the aggressive late-stage of ACC and pharmaceutical company focused on developing from prescription to over-the-counter. By bringing is considered a cornerstone of care for this particular leading CHC brands. Having launched the first more control to more women worldwide, HRA Pharma cancer. To enable the safe and correct administration levonorgestrel-based emergency contraceptive in 1999 continues to empower people throughout the world of this treatment, HRA developed Lysosafe®. This free and pioneered the creation of the OTC emergency to improve their lives by developing accessible, value service enables healthcare professionals to measure contraceptive market, HRA developed and successfully added self-care solutions. patients’ mitotane plasma levels and is a crucial tool for Rx-to-OTC switched a next generation product, patients’ monitoring and safety. ellaOne, in Europe. HRA is the European leader in emergency contraception with ellaOne, a brand After the treatment’s successful introduction, HRA distributed in more than 25 European countries with a Pharma continued its dedication to rare endocrine market share close to 55% in value. patients with the launch of Metopirone® and Ketoconazole HRA™ in 2011 and 2014 respectively. Both are used to treat endogenous CS, a debilitating and potentially life-threatening rare disease, associated with significant morbidities and increased risk of mortality. Registrations of both products came about by the direct request from endocrinologists to HRA Pharma to make these vital products available to their patients. With these two hugely important medicines, HRA Pharma has become the market leader in the HRA Pharma operates worldwide through its European treatment of CS and today continues its commitment subsidiaries and a strong network of distributors. Now to supporting Cushing’s patients all over the world by number one in emergency contraception, scar, and providing educational activities to HCPs and patient blister care in Europe, the company is growing rapidly. organisations. In addition, HRA Pharma Rare Diseases By introducing new products into new markets, HRA continues to cooperate with academic institutions has extended its products’ availability to over 90 to further invest and support different research and countries across Europe, South Africa, North America, development projects. Asia and the Middle East. HRA Pharma Rare Diseases is dedicated to serving the HRA aims to more than double in size by 2022 forgotten rare disease community by making sure that and become the world’s fastest growing consumer patients across the world have improved and continued healthcare company. access to the life-saving treatments that they need. HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 10 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 11 HRA Pharma entered the consumer healthcare sector in 2017 with the acquisition of the Compeed® brand from Cilag GmbH International, Johnson & Johnson Group. Internationally known for foot care and cold sore care products, the acquisition of Compeed® was the first step in the repositioning of HRA as a leading CHC company. Compeed® provides consumers with a comprehensive portfolio of products for the relief and treatment of blisters, corns, calluses and cold sores. In foot care, Compeed® is the #1 brand in blister treatment, with more than 50% market share in Europe, while in lip care, Compeed® is #2 in cold sore treatments in 04 Europe. The acquisition of Compeed®’s global rights further supports HRA’s ambition to grow beyond Europe and into top CHC markets such as the US and GROWING PRESENCE China, where Compeed® was recently introduced. IN CONSUMER The Compeed® project has evolved the nature of our H E A LT H C A R E A N D workforce through hiring those with specialist OTC experience. We are leveraging these skills to develop OTC MARKET our growth in the OTC market, particularly through the research and the acquisition of new products. Our Principles in Everyday Culture Last year brought the acquisition of Mederma, the US market leader in scar care, named #1 Pharmacist ENGAGEMENT WITH CUSTOMERS Recommended brand by Pharmacy Times and U.S. News & World Report for the past 17 years. This represents another step in building our portfolio of leading brands while providing scale to our US infrastructure. Mederma has excellent consumer awareness and strong distribution in retail outlets and online sales. The brand is also currently available in South East Asia, India, Mexico and Italy, with HRA planning to increase this coverage to new markets in the future. A truly global company, HRA is headquartered in Paris, and has a direct presence across 11 European countries (France, UK, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg). This is in addition to the US, where we opened and staffed a subsidiary in Morristown to support the relaunch of Compeed®, the integration of Mederma as well as our pipeline of Rx-to-OTC switch projects. In the rest of the world, HRA distributes its products using a broad network of local partners, now operating in Europe, South Africa, North America, Asia and the Middle East. NB: Acquisition of Mederma effective as of 27th June 2019 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 12 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 13 04 OUR P R IN C IPL E S IN E VERYDAY C U LT U R E OUR EMPLOYEES At HRA Pharma, our employees are at the core of everything we do. With a strong people development 05 philosophy, we encourage staff to contribute ideas, seek out new challenges and achieve their personal goals. Trust, Passion and Results-Driven are the core values that define HRA Pharma, and are integrated throughout the business by our Momentum Ambassadors. Our 2018-2019 FIGURES: Momentum culture is designed to support internal EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN communication and people integration to ensure an engaged and open-minded community at all levels of the business. 2018 2019 Business Ethics Our workforce is constantly growing, and as a result, No. of Employees the human resources department has expanded to constantly and effectively monitor the health, safety, 0 4 professional training and fair treatment of employees. 18 21 2018 ended with the relocation of our company to new, better suited premises, specifically designed to facilitate more synergistic working practices across the business. Located in Châtillon, 200 avenue de Paris, these premises include creative rooms, co-working spaces, brainstorming spaces, open areas, informal spaces and a state-of-the art canteen. Shared with our French No. of Men Vs Women subsidiaries HRA Pharma France and HRA Pharma Rare Diseases, the workspace is perfect to suit HRA’s growing needs. 34 1 54 1 46 60 At HRA, we strive for a working environment based on mutual respect and trust, and care about the wellbeing and work-life balance of our workforce. Employee benefits include access to corporate health insurance, flexible working, weekly telecommuting and childcare assistance. We also continue to develop home-office % of Men Vs Women tools to enable each person to work to the best of their ability, wherever they may be. 25.6% 28.1% Women hold key roles in all departments, including: 4 .4% 1 .9% marketing, regulatory, pharmacovigilance, research, 7 7 manufacture, supply chain, legal and compliance, accounting and finance, and human resources. There is something special about working for HRA Pharma; a fast-growing, innovative consumer healthcare company that remains true to its commitment to women and those affected by rare diseases. HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 14 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 15 DUE DILIGENCE WITH PARTNERS In 2018, HRA Pharma rolled out a due diligence program for new partners, focusing on anti-corruption and ethics policies. Over the course of 2018 and 2019, a total of 17 due diligence checks were conducted on partners. TRANSPARENCY INTO BUSINESS WHISTLEBLOWING TOOLS IN ETHICS PLACE 05 In addition to the principles of ethical business conduct, In accordance with the “Sapin 2” Act, HRA Pharma regular emphasis is placed on transparency obligations established an appropriate procedure for collecting to which HRA Pharma, as a pharmaceutical company, is reports issued by staff members or by external committed both in France and abroad. and occasional partners. In alignment with legal BUSINESS requirements including confidentiality, the following Our company relies on an international network of email address was set up for those concerned by any ETHICS HRA activity: alert@EthicHRA.com. All employees and regulatory consultants who help us to comply with increasingly stringent transparency rules. suppliers are made aware of this policy through training sessions. COMPLIANCE TRAINING PROGRAM For reference: all concerned people can report issues or risks that they have become aware of relating to PERSONAL DATA In 2018, HRA Pharma launched a training program to HRA Pharma’s activity, that they can reasonably or educate its workforce in compliance. objectively consider to constitute a crime or offence, a When GDPR came into effect in 2018, HRA Pharma clear and serious infringement of a law, regulation, or was already familiar with personal data issues due to Training sessions are provided for all employees to international commitment, or a threat or serious public the French regulation framework “Loi Informatique ensure that employees understand HRA Pharma’s damage to the public interest. et Libertés” as well as pharmacovigilance, medical policies. Training is conducted in face-to-face meetings information and clinical research activities in Europe or via digital platforms and are tested frequently to and the United States. ensure alignment with company guidelines. However, further steps had to be taken with the HRA Pharma has since appointed a dedicated team, European regulation on the processing of personal data, including a chief compliance officer, to handle which came into force in May 2018. At that time, HRA compliance issues at all levels. Pharma notified the appointment of its Data Protection Officer to the French Data Protection Authority and adopted internal processes to document and ensure full compliance with GDPR policies, notably: CODE OF ETHICS • A procedure for handling complaints and requests from data subjects exercising their rights 2018 also saw the completion of HRA Pharma’s • A form for processor assessment written policies on ethical business conduct. These • The systematic use of the “PIA” software provided policies cover prohibited behaviours in the field of by the French Personal Data Protection Authority fair competition, anti-corruption and trade with legal to carry out privacy impact assessments or natural persons concerned with international or • The update of the Information and Consent Sheet national sanction programs. dedicated to individuals in clinical trials • The review of HRA’s websites privacy and cookies Available at all times, they are the reference tool for policies according to GDPR requirements employees, are used heavily in training sessions and are referred to in all employee contracts. Our teams have endeavored to both comply with GDPR and provide all those whose personal data are processed, including employees, with clear and relevant information to understand how HRA Pharma proceeds. HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 16 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 17 HRA Pharma does not directly manufacture the products it sells but remains very vigilant in the 06 choice of its contract manufacturing organisations 06 (CMOs) and other service providers. We have set a level of environmental compliance requirements via an environmental questionnaire to which all CMOs, carriers, and other partners must respond to. HRA Pharma also carries regular physical audits of its COMMITMENT TO partners. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Commitment to HRA Pharma is dedicated to ensuring that its internal environmental efforts match the level of requirement it demands from its partners. Our new headquarters Sustainability ENVIRONMENT in Châtillon has already improved our environmental footprint, with a strong focus on energy conservation, recycling, waste and travel limitation. To this effect, we have made several changes to improve our internal environmental approach. Cardboard cups and bamboo-made coffee stirrers have been introduced to replace single-use plastics. Water bottles have been replaced by economic and ecological water cooler fountains, which are a real energy saver. The carbon footprint of these fountains is 200g/L of Co2 (e). Additionally, our coffee capsules are 100% recyclable, with used capsules collected by our provider. The aluminum is melted and used to make new objects, and the coffee grounds are transformed into biogas or agricultural compost. Other green initiatives include energy efficient household appliances, recycled office supplies and easyto-use document recycling processes. Our building is equipped with motion detection lights in the restrooms and corridors, as well as motion detection taps in lavatories. To reduce the overall carbon footprint of our company, we encourage our employees to use tele-conferences to limit business travel and carbon emissions. Despite the increase in the number of employees, the figures are encouraging, although there is still some way to go. HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 18 HRA Pharma 2018-19 | 19 ENVIRONMENTAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: HRA PHARMA ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In 2018, HRA Pharma continued its program of supplying medicines, including contraception treatments and intrauterine devices, to nonPaper A4 & A3 1,351 1,435 1,342 2,475 2,300 1,919 872 605 governmental organisations for further distribution in bought (in kg) less developed countries. Paper recycled 2,022 2,075 2,630 1,950 3,329 3,299 1,752 1,072 In 2018, 150,000 units of NorLevo® were distributed (in kg) in developing countries, and more than 780,000 units in RECYCLING 2019. Co2 equivalent 1,112 1,141 1,447 1,073 1,831 1,814 not not (in kg) reported reported kWh equivalent 8,088 8,300 10,520 7,800 13,316 13,196 not not reported reported Recycled plastic NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA cups (in kg) Recycled batteries NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA (in kg) 2018 2019 150,000 780,000 In addition to these programs, HRA Pharma supports disadvantaged women worldwide through its Corporate EXTERNAL AUDITS – REVIEW Foundation. HRA Pharma have been audited by external auditors Created in 2012, the HRA Pharma Corporate on all subjects of ethical compliance, transparency Foundation runs projects supporting education, and sustainable behaviour, at the request of our health, particularly reproductive health, and women’s shareholders. emancipation. For several years, the Foundation has financially contributed to projects building healthcare Concluded on June 17th 2019, the most recent audit units and schools, as well as educational projects reported positive results with the encouragement of our training midwives and teaching hygiene awareness, continuing ESG efforts. especially in Africa, Asia and Latin America. The audit assessed HRA’s ESG performance on the The Foundation remains aware that the needs are four pillars of sustainability: governance, human capital, universal and not only located abroad. environment and stakeholders. The assessment was In 2019, HRA went through a carbon footprint exercise carried out with the help of HRA’s responses to 125 It has also helped a diversity of French initiatives, performed by CO2Logic, in which HRA’s direct emissions of indicators, an ESG due diligence strategy and the ESG through drama workshops tackling gender differences, buildings and cars were measured. The outcome was that roadmap. helping women in vulnerable situations or victims of HRA’s emissions amounted to 128 T Co2, which equals to violence, and also educating the public on sexual health. 20 times the average Co2 carbon emission per person in Overall, HRA Pharma reported standard or good France. Our focus for the coming years will be to become a performance levels across most criteria, and showed The Foundation actively participates in working groups Co2 neutral company by working on Co2 reductions through good advancement on CSR processes and practices to achieve the United Nations Millennium Development fostering more green initiatives. compared to other Astorg portfolio companies. Goals. 200 avenue de Paris | 92320 Chatillon | France Tel: +33 (0) 1 40 33 11 30 Fax: +33 (0) 1 40 33 12 31 www.hra-pharma.com
