2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About this report The 2020 Sustainability Report has been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option and aligns with the United Nations Global Compact. Indexes for both are included in the Appendix. We also use internationally recognized guidelines and frameworks, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to inform our reporting. As a values-based R&D-driven biopharmaceutical leader, our biggest contribution is toward Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. The Report includes the operations of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited and consolidated subsidiaries of Takeda. The reporting period covers FY2019 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020). Some FY2020 activities are included. Selected performance indicators in the report have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. See page 100 for the independent assurance report. We welcome your comments and questions about our sustainability activities at sustainablevalue@takeda.com. For more information, visit www.takeda.com. Table of Contents 1 16 34 46 62 88 Introduction Patient People Planet Governance & Appendix Fundamentals of Responsible Business At Takeda, we are committed to creating value for society by putting our core strengths and capabilities to work to help solve key societal challenges by addressing unmet medical needs, supporting sustainable health care systems, by mitigating climate change and striving to create a diverse and inclusive organization where people can thrive. With our purpose, vision and values as a foundation — and through the collective efforts of each and every one of our approximately 50,000 employees — we call this approach purpose-led sustainability. 2020 Sustainability Report 1 INTRODUCTION “Better Health for People, Brighter Future for the World” CEO Message Takeda is a values-based company. It has been since Our values guide not only what we do, but how we it was founded in 1781 by Chobei Takeda, an herbalist do it. It’s about creating lasting value for society — who sold traditional Japanese and Chinese medicines we think as much about the next decade as we in Osaka, Japan. Chobei was an Omi Shonin, one of a do the next quarter. And while we strive every day group of merchants who distinguished themselves to address unmet medical needs by delivering through their adherence to Sanpo-Yoshi, a business life-transforming or life-saving medicines and principle that literally translates as “three-way vaccines that translate into sustainable growth satisfaction.” For the Omi, the three guiding principles and provide value for shareholders, our purpose were good for the seller (urite yoshi), good for the is deliberately broader: Better health for people, buyer (kaite yoshi) and good for society (seken yoshi). brighter future for the world. These guiding principles lead to the values of Integrity, We’re proud of our purpose-led and values-based Fairness, Honesty and Perseverance that make up approach. We hear from external stakeholders that what we call “Takeda-ism.” Today, we are a global we’re unique in the way we build this approach into company with approximately 50,000 colleagues our early access programs, including our free “named in about 80 countries. We bring Takeda-ism to life patient programs” to help provide better access to through actions based on Patient-Trust-Reputationmedicines that are not available to people in their Business, in that order, to form a philosophy that’s own countries. We’re told that it comes to life in our ingrained in our ways of working. And as an R&Dcommercial negotiations around reimbursement driven company, these values align perfectly with our and pricing. It’s even guided the way we designed commitment to discover and deliver life-transforming our business — with our Vaccines Business Unit, for treatments for patients. example, we intentionally chose to go after some of the most challenging infectious disease targets Most pharmaceutical companies put patients at the such as dengue, at a time when a safe and effective center of their thinking. It’s what makes our industry vaccine did not exist. Most recently, this approach special. What sets Takeda apart is how we make was behind the significant enhancements we made business decisions. We prioritize Patient needs first, to our Patient Assistance Programs for U.S. patients then ask ourselves if this decision builds Trust with who qualified for and needed extra help as a result society, which in turn strengthens our Reputation. of the COVID-19 pandemic. If the answer is “yes,” then Business performance will follow. 2020 Sustainability Report 2 INTRODUCTION Our aspiration is to create exceptional opportunities and experiences for every member of our diverse global team. Like all global organizations, the COVID-19 pandemic Our promise to put patients first is stronger than ever. has tested our organizational resilience. It’s also Today, Takeda has 14 successful global brands and an reminded us why we come to work every day — to exciting pipeline of innovative medicines. Our R&D make a difference for patients and the communities engine continues to translate science into potentially in which we live and operate. life-changing therapies and vaccines in areas of high unmet need. We’re partnering with policymakers and Strict safety protocols have enabled employees payors to support the sustainability of health care in R&D, manufacturing and distribution to supply systems, while also developing innovative pricing and medicines uninterrupted. And we’ve paused some contract strategies. And we’re staying on top of rapid of our noncritical clinical studies, so that we can changes in technology and the delivery of health care, refocus certain areas of R&D to identify and develop innovating responsibly and ethically in the process. potential coronavirus treatments. COVID-19 has accelerated the role of digital services and adoption of technologies such as Artificial We’ve also pioneered cross-industry partnerships such Intelligence (AI) and machine learning. At Takeda, as the CoVIg-19 Plasma Alliance (see page 24), co-led we’re undergoing a digital transformation that will by the President of our Plasma-Derived Therapies help us embrace and champion these new approaches, Business Unit, Julie Kim. And Andy Plump, President of while limiting our environmental impact. R&D, is taking a leadership role within the R&D Alliance. As you’ll see in this comprehensive report, we made We’ve shown extraordinary resilience and flexibility many achievements in 2019 that demonstrate the as a company, demonstrating great creativity in the commitments articulated in our vision — “Discover way we work and where we work, as well as how we and deliver life-transforming treatments, guided by interact with each other and with our stakeholders. our commitment to Patients, our People and the We’ve set up a cross-functional team that is soliciting Planet.” You’ll also learn how our values drive our employee input to build a holistic and data-driven actions. They help us allocate resources and make approach to design the right future working choices so we can play a meaningful role in meeting environment for Takeda post COVID-19. major global challenges — from public health, to climate change, to social justice. At the same time, we’ve continued to move ahead with measures to help achieve our goal to be carbon neutral What we do today will make a difference for tomorrow across our value chain in FY2020 and help achieve our and beyond. I’m confident that Takeda will continue goal of reaching zero carbon emissions from operations to be a company that innovates for patients and that’s by 2040. To reflect our new organization, we refreshed trusted by society; a company that’s loved — not just our corporate philosophy to make sure our purpose now, but in 200 years’ time. and our commitment to providing sustainable value to society are embedded in the imperatives that will help us realize our vision. Christophe Weber President and Chief Executive Officer 2020 Sustainability Report 3 INTRODUCTION Corporate Philosophy Hirameki: Garden of Inspiration Our corporate philosophy tells the story of Takeda — who we are, what we do, how we do it, and why it matters. It reminds us how together, we can achieve better health for people, brighter future for the world. We connect to our history and Japanese heritage through everything we do today, to bring our purpose, values, vision and imperatives to life. Our unwavering commitment to putting patients first always guides our scientific discovery and excellence and helps us in our pursuit to address unmet medical needs. We’ve embodied our corporate philosophy in the Hirameki: Garden of Inspiration. Inspired by the Takeda Garden for Medicinal Plant Conservation in Kyoto, employees can begin their journey at the Japanese cherry blossom tree, which represents our proud history and heritage and continue through numerous destinations that symbolize elements of our culture. Much like our Corporate Philosophy, the Hirameki Garden reflects Takeda’s growth, diversity, transformation and foundation. Employees chart their own path within the garden to shape their contributions in helping us achieve our vision. PURPOSE VISION Takeda exists to create better health for people, Our vision is to discover and deliver life-transforming brighter future for the world. treatments, guided by our commitment to patients, our people and the planet. This directs us toward where we want to be and outlines our aspirations VALUES: TAKEDA-ISM and priorities as a company. We are guided by our values of Takeda-ism, which incorporate Integrity, Fairness, Honesty and Perseverance, IMPERATIVES with Integrity at the core. They are brought to life through actions based on Patient-Trust-Reputation-Business, in We honor our responsibility to patients, colleagues that order. Together, they represent who we are and how and other stakeholders as well as the communities we act, helping us make decisions we can be proud of where we operate. Our imperatives help us realize today, and in the future. our vision and purpose: Brought to life through actions Patient based on: • Responsibly translate science into highly innovative, life-changing medicines and vaccines. 1. Putting the patient first. • Accelerate access to improve lives worldwide. 2. Building trust with society. People 3. Reinforcing our reputation. • Create an exceptional people experience. 4. Developing a sustainable business. Planet • Protect our planet. Data and Digital • Unleash the power of data and digital. 2020 Sustainability Report 4 INTRODUCTION Our Worldview Understanding and responding to a rapidly changing world Change is the only constant in our industry, and across society globally. Anticipating change, turning it into opportunity and staying ahead of the curve are essential to running a sustainable business. Meeting our responsibilities As one of the world’s top 10 biopharmaceutical companies, Takeda fully understands its responsibilities to patients, employees, shareholders, payors, regulators and governments, as well as the communities where we operate. We can only earn the acceptance, respect and trust of society if we take these responsibilities seriously. Part of this commitment is to be one step ahead of change that’s taking place in an increasingly complex and volatile world. We need to understand and respond to the trends that are shaping our marketplace, including the challenges faced by the people who ultimately rely on our medicines and vaccines. To create long-lasting value for society, we must be agile enough to take advantage of the opportunities these changes present. We must also guard against the threats they pose. At all times, we need to make sure our actions and decisions are based on our values, and that we have a positive impact on Patients, People and the Planet. Here are some of the most important issues affecting our business today, and what we’re doing about them. 2020 Sustainability Report 5 INTRODUCTION Global Population Growth Populations are growing and aging globally. This patient journey. It also includes programs to increase has a direct impact on our business and presents patient access. clear opportunities in terms of expanding markets and increased demand for health care. We believe in We also have many Patient Assistance Programs in Universal Access to Health. And we recognize that emerging markets, while offering access assistance the private sector, particularly the pharmaceutical in developed economies such as Europe and the U.S. industry, can play an essential role in helping achieve We support differential pricing across lower-income this goal by shifting from an ecosystem approach to countries to help access for patients in need of our partnership building. A wide variety of stakeholders therapies, and are committed to considering a country’s should align to find practical solutions to complex economic stage and health system maturity when health care challenges. All our actions must be pricing our medicines. centered on placing patients first and enabling communities to rally for health as a human right. Learn More We recognize that health care systems are often not perfect. That’s why we’re doing our part to help Patient focus ensure our medicines and vaccines reach the people who need them. Our Blueprint for Innovative Health Accelerated health care Care Access pilot program in Kenya, for example, is an initiatives worldwide integrated, sustainable implementation framework Global Corporate Social aimed at strengthening health care systems. It focuses Responsibility (CSR) initiatives on noncommunicable diseases at every stage of the Polarization The COVID-19 pandemic and growth of movements diversity of our suppliers in a number of ways. Our calling for social change worldwide have highlighted Procurement Policy, for example, calls for including inequalities that continue to persist in society. Takeda at least one small or diverse supplier in each request believes that diversity, equity and inclusion are for proposal. It also requires our prime suppliers to nonnegotiable — not only within the company, but provide second-tier reporting. also in the communities where we operate and serve patients. We’re committed to meeting the expectation that we are fair, equitable and nondiscriminatory as an employer. Learn More We create an exceptional All 10 of our colleague-led Takeda Resource Groups people experience came together after recent global events related to racism and injustice to support each other and provide Our accelerated health care educational programs and resources to colleagues. initiatives worldwide These are meaningful platforms that provide an Global CSR initiatives opportunity for open dialogue and change. Business fundamentals initiatives As a global company, we source materials from around the world. And we use our network to expand the 2020 Sustainability Report 6 INTRODUCTION Speed of Innovation Scientific and digital innovation are accelerating rapidly, We’re in an industry where innovation is our lifeline. offering enormous opportunities for companies to add And the source of this innovation is our people. That’s value for patients and society. Health care companies why we strive to create a culture that encourages need to stay on top of this trend, as patients are a mindset of lifelong learning and growth. Society demanding more empowerment in their personalized demands greater transparency when it comes care strategies. to scientific innovation, and we’re committed to responsible innovation, taking into consideration Partnerships are a cornerstone of our strategy. how our work affects patients, society, the planet Whether it’s in R&D or on the digital front, we and our business. believe that bringing the best minds together will deliver treatments even faster. Our focus remains on translating science into highly innovative, life-changing medicines that address unmet needs in four core therapeutic areas — Oncology, Rare Genetic and Learn More Hematology, Neuroscience and Gastroenterology. We responsibly translate Our strategic collaboration with Accenture and science into high innovation Amazon Web Services will fuel Takeda’s cloud-driven We unleash the power of business transformation by modernizing platforms, data and digital accelerating data services, establishing an internal We create an exceptional engine for innovation and equipping Takeda’s people experience employees with new skills and ways of working to realize our vision. Global Warming The effects of climate change on our planet, on to care for our patients and our planet for the long human health and on the future way of life can be term, in collaboration with our business partners seen around the world on a daily basis. As a global and stakeholders. company operating in about 80 countries, we know we must act urgently to combat climate change. We want our work environment to be one that’s part of a zero-carbon economy, with an environmentally Because of the connection between the health of conscious culture that attracts and retains the best the planet and people, we’re making environmental talent. We’re equally committed to reducing our stewardship and resource conservation central to our waste and our water consumption, and will continue business operations and practices. This focus can to improve our materials and resources use in line also improve the way we operate through increased with the principles of a circular economy. innovation and efficiency. In 2020, Takeda announced that we would become carbon neutral and implement a long-term strategy to reduce companywide emissions to zero by 2040. Learn more about how we Our new Carbon Neutrality strategy will help us focus protect our planet on reducing our carbon emissions over the next two decades. This phased approach will allow us 2020 Sustainability Report 7 Responding to COVID-19 Takeda’s response to COVID-19 has been guided by our values: protecting the health and safety of our colleagues; ensuring our medicines are available to patients who rely on them; doing our part to reduce transmission; and supporting the communities where our colleagues live and work. We acted early in the pandemic to stop nonessential international travel and shifted to teleworking for our office-based colleagues. We instituted enhanced infection control protocols across our manufacturing sites, plasma collection facilities and R&D labs, to make sure colleagues who need to be on site could continue to do so safely. And we set up new safety protocols for critical clinical trials to continue. Takeda mobilized to develop medicines for COVID-19. We co-led several cross-industry collaborations, including the COVID R&D Alliance to accelerate therapeutic and vaccine candidates and the CoVIg-19 Plasma Alliance to develop a hyperimmune globulin (read more on page 24). We began testing our existing pharmaceutical products and those in development of Novavax’s COVID-19 vaccine candidate in Japan; for activity against the COVID-19 virus. And we have and one that is a three-way agreement with Japan’s two partnerships to bring COVID-19 vaccines to Japan: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) and one with the Government of Japan and Novavax on Moderna to import and distribute Moderna’s COVID-19 the development, manufacturing and commercialization vaccine candidate in Japan. 2020 Sustainability Report 8 INTRODUCTION In Conversation Rajeev Venkayya President, Global Vaccine Business Unit Takeda began working on treatments for COVID-19 in the pandemic’s early days, while keeping employees safe. President of the Global Vaccine Business Unit and co-lead of Takeda’s coronavirus response, Rajeev Venkayya, tells us more. How did Takeda continue to put patients first in your response to COVID-19? Advancing Public As a biopharmaceutical company, we felt a Confidence and Trust responsibility to use our expertise and capabilities to develop medicines to tackle COVID-19. We’ve in Vaccines used our leadership in plasma-derived therapies to activate research, development and manufacturing Takeda participated in several virtual of an antibody treatment for high-risk individuals external events, including panels, webinars with COVID-19. We later established the CoVIg-19 and podcasts throughout 2020 to further Plasma Alliance, a collaboration between multiple engage and educate the public on a companies to develop a single unbranded treatment range of topics, such as the importance for COVID-19. We are currently testing the treatment of mask wearing, layered interventions, in clinical trials, and if the data is positive, we plan to maintaining safety and efficacy of submit to regulatory authorities. vaccines, considerations for opening schools and the practicalities and politics In tandem, we began studying whether any of of ensuring global equitable access to Takeda’s existing products, as well as those in COVID-19 vaccines through COVAX, the development, may be effective treatments for vaccines pillar of the Access to COVID-19 infected patients. We’re active participants in R&D Tools (ACT) Accelerator. consortia to evaluate these potential treatments, including the NIH Activ Consortium, and the industryled COVID R&D collaboration. And we have two of their COVID-19 vaccine candidate in Japan; and partnerships with the Japanese government to bring one with Moderna to import and supply Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccines to Japan: one with Novavax on the COVID-19 vaccine candidate in Japan. development, manufacturing and commercialization Furthermore, to combat the spread of harmful health misinformation, we are working with industry associations to bring more transparency and We established the CoVIg-19 Plasma education of the science behind vaccine development. Alliance as a collaboration between As part of BIO’s Infectious Disease Prevention Network, we are supporting a new vaccine advocacy multiple companies to develop an campaign launched this past summer by The Public unbranded potential treatment for Good Projects titled “Stronger,” which aims to stop COVID-19. the spread of harmful misinformation about science, medicine and vaccines. 2020 Sustainability Report 9 INTRODUCTION The pandemic has brought a complete shift We’re committed to ensuring the in how we work and collaborate. How has integrity of the clinical trials we Takeda ensured your people’s safety and conduct, while safeguarding everyone minimal disruption at work? who participates in them. The safety of our employees comes first. With approximately 50,000 people across about 80 countries, there has been no one-size-fits-all response to how we support our colleagues and their families, as well as the patients and health care practitioners who are at the core of our purpose How has Takeda continued to carry out at Takeda. We moved quickly to stop international critical clinical trials despite COVID-19 travel in early February and shifted to a global restrictions? remote work policy for office-based staff in early March. For those unable to work remotely, such as We’re committed to ensuring the integrity of the our colleagues in manufacturing, BioLife plasma clinical trials we conduct, while safeguarding the donation facilities and laboratories, we instituted many patients, health care providers, employees a number of protective measures to protect people and other partners who participate in them. We in the workplace. Throughout the pandemic, we appreciate the extraordinary circumstances faced have educated our colleagues on COVID-19 and by those operating clinical studies around the world, gave them guidance on how they could protect while managing the additional burdens caused by themselves and their families. COVID-19. Due to the global impact of COVID-19, we placed a temporary pause on the initiation of As communities gain control of the virus, we have new studies in March 2020, with the exception of implemented a comprehensive, phased, risk-based our plasma-derived antibody treatment for COVID-19. approach to returning to the workplace, recognizing For those studies already ongoing, we have paused that some protective measures will continue to the activation of new study sites and new patient be needed until there is widespread availability of enrollment for now, with a small number of exceptions. a vaccine. 2020 Sustainability Report 10 INTRODUCTION COVID-19: An Integrated Effort Partnered with the World Began two partnerships with Food Programme to support a the Government of Japan, one with treatment and isolation center for Novavax and one with Moderna, to humanitarian workers responding to bring COVID-19 vaccines to Japan COVID-19 and a supply chain control tower in Africa Read more about our efforts Joined and partnerships on vaccine hands with the United development on page 26 Nations Population Fund to support the continued delivery of maternal and newborn health services in Benin, Guinea and Togo during the COVID-19 pandemic 2020 Sustainability Report 11 INTRODUCTION Materiality We conducted a comprehensive materiality and Pharmaceuticals Standard, UN SDG Industry assessment in FY2019 to realign priorities after Matrix, Access to Medicine Index, Task Force on completing our acquisition of Shire. Through this Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and we wanted to better understand which nonfinancial Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI). issues are strategically important to our company • Internal interviews with the Takeda Executive Team. and stakeholders to guide our decision-making. • Interviews and surveys with external stakeholders, including investors and analysts, NGOs, industry Topic identification organizations, international organizations, corporate Our process began with identifying a long list of peers, customers and suppliers and professional topics relevant to our sustainability strategy, with services partners. the assistance of accounting firm EY, which were categorized into four key issue areas: Validation Finally, the results were organized according to their •H  ealth care — Impact and accessibility of Takeda’s importance to stakeholders and our business, with a products for global health. select number of top-tier topics representing potential •E  nvironment — Practices to minimize Takeda’s areas where we could demonstrate leadership. These environmental impact and to conserve were categorized into Patient, People and Planet, as natural resources. well as the Management Fundamental Issues that are •S  ocial — Impact of Takeda’s products and operations critical to making sure Takeda acts in line with our on employees, customers and communities, including values and purpose. The draft prioritization matrix philanthropic programs. was reviewed, adjusted and validated by Takeda’s •G  overnance — Systems, structures and attitudes Sustainability Integration and Global Public Affairs that affect how Takeda oversees and manages teams. The resulting matrix was then used as an input its operations. to develop our corporate philosophy. Prioritization Embedding material topics into our overall business The topics were then prioritized based on the level operations and strategy ensures that we allocate of importance to our stakeholders and our business. resources and make choices in a way that helps us The process, designed to include a balance of both play our part in meeting major global challenges. current and forward-looking perspectives, included: We’ll continue to review our material topics on an ongoing basis instead of conducting new materiality •A  nalysis of Takeda’s existing disclosures, peer assessments annually. This will allow us flexibility disclosures, emerging global megatrends and sectorso that as the marketplace matures and we make relevant frameworks such as GRI, Sustainability strides, we can pivot or stretch as needed. We’re Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) Biotechnologies committed to reporting our progress annually. IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS High Corporate Access to Medicines Governance IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Drug Safety Ethical R&D to Address & Quality Corporate Business Unmet Medical Philanthropy Practices Needs Product Stewardship Best-in-Class Talent Clinical Trial Integrity Employee Health Responsible Patient Bioethics Health Care & Well-being Supply Chain Education Natural Resource Use Fair Working Conditions Waste & Water Climate, Carbon Management Data Privacy & Energy & Security Diversity, Equity Preventing & Inclusion Drug Resistance Speed of Product Tax Development Lifelong Transparency Learning Counterfeit Drug Program Low PATIENT PEOPLE PLANET MANAGEMENT FUNDAMENTAL High 2020 Sustainability Report 12 INTRODUCTION Strategic Stakeholder Engagement Our materiality assessment process is just one example of how stakeholder engagement plays a critical role in shaping our approach to sustainability. Continuous strategic engagement with a wide range of stakeholders helps guide our efforts, ensuring our programs are making a difference and identifying new opportunities. Takeda’s engagement with key stakeholder groups Patients and health care Employees Governments/Payors providers • Focus groups with employees •P  articipate on advisory •P atient and health care • Opportunities through committees provider websites Takeda Resource Groups • Inform public debate based •P atient surveys, including • Employee surveys on evidence patient satisfaction surveys • Volunteer opportunities • Supplier diversity program •W orking with advocacy in community and patient • Public-private partnerships and nongovernmental organizations • Trade association leadership organizations • Code of Conduct • Medical grants • Ethics Helpline Shareholders Communities • Analyst/investor presentations • Employee volunteering • Earnings releases • Board memberships • Socially responsible investment • Financial support surveys Partnerships are a cornerstone of our strategy, both to help our business grow sustainably and to enhance our corporate citizenship. On the business side, we have a wide range of partnerships with biotechnology ventures and academia. In our CSR and sustainability activities we work with several international organizations and other stakeholder groups to make the most positive impact. 2020 Sustainability Report 13 INTRODUCTION ESG Disclosure & Transparency We consider transparent disclosure of our environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts and efforts an important part of how we do business. In the face of global disruption caused by climate change, natural resource scarcity, social volatility and fast-changing technology, what were once considered nonfinancial risks are becoming material and systematic. Companies face increased scrutiny from a host of stakeholders, including customers, investors, employees and policymakers around ESG issues. Takeda is no exception, with growing demand for disclosure from many stakeholders, including investors. We routinely engage with ESG rating organizations and investors to better understand their expectations and reflect their priorities in our business activities and disclosures. Primary organizations we engage with on a regular basis: Name of Company/ Index or Rating Organization Country History of Inclusion Dow Jones Sustainability S&P Global Global 11th consecutive year Asia Pacific Index FTSE4Good Developed Index FTSE Russell U.K. 16th consecutive year MSCI ESG Leaders Index MSCI U.S. 11th consecutive year Ethibel EXCELLENCE Forum Ethibel BEL 3rd consecutive year Investment Register ISS ESG’s Prime Status ISS GER 3rd consecutive year Global 100 Most Corporate Knights Global 5th consecutive year Sustainable Corporations 2020 Sustainability Report 14 INTRODUCTION FY2019 Sustainability Highlights Global Top 100% Set new goal to be carbon Employer for the third neutral in our operations by 2040 consecutive year in 2020 by the Top Employers Institute 200+ R&D partnerships Accelerating our access to medicines and vaccines 38 new R&D collaborations established in FY2019 100% GHG emissions mitigated for FY2019 50% of managers trained in Quality Conversations framework 2020 Sustainability Report 15 Our Commitment to the Patient 2020 Sustainability Report 16 PATIENT Why It Matters Our purpose of Better health for people, brighter future for the world has taken on new significance during the COVID-19 pandemic. With health care systems stressed and attention focused on stemming Striving Toward an Accurate the spread of the virus, community well-being and Diagnosis for Children personal health have become inextricably linked. While pivoting to address COVID-19, Takeda remains The Global Commission to End the Diagnostic steadfast in our commitment to prioritize patients Odyssey for Children with a Rare Disease worldwide — especially those most in need — (the “Global Commission”), co-chaired by through uninterrupted access to medicines and Takeda, Microsoft and EURORDIS-Rare our world-class research and development (R&D) Diseases Europe, is a diverse group of patient efforts, transformative therapies and a values-based advocates, physicians, technologists and other approach to strengthening health care systems. experts in the field working collaboratively to identify and design transformative solutions to We believe access to health care, medicines and solve the diagnostic odyssey for children with vaccines is a priority for people globally. By focusing a rare disease. The partnership is committed our R&D efforts on four therapeutic areas — Oncology, to harnessing the power of technology by Rare Genetic and Hematology, Neuroscience and tapping into the digital health ecosystem and Gastroenterology — along with other targeted empowering patients to significantly shorten investments, we can continue to push the boundaries the often-multiyear diagnostic journey for those of what’s possible in order to bring life-changing living with a rare disease, in order to advance medicines and therapies to patients worldwide. its vision: a clear path to a timely, accurate diagnosis for children around the world. However, challenges in the global health care system persist, including uneven access to care Following the 2019 release of its actionable and treatments, health inequality, lack of disease roadmap to help accelerate time to diagnosis, prevention, epidemics/disease elimination and the Global Commission advanced two pilot pandemic preparedness. The effects of a changing projects that leverage innovative technology, climate on public health are also becoming including multifactorial machine learning increasingly visible, impacting the health and welland telegenetic consultation tools. These being of people around the globe. Takeda aims to efforts, along with a patient empowerment address these challenges through innovative R&D, our and awareness pilot campaign, support global Access to Medicines strategy and our carbon Takeda’s vision to serve the needs of patients neutrality commitment (see page 51). wherever they are, earn the trust of society and customers through Takeda-ism, and be As a patient-first company, we partner with patients, recognized as best-in-class because patient organizations, caregivers and other key of agility and innovation. stakeholders to understand the burden of disease and unmet needs that our core therapeutic areas can help alleviate. These collaborations make sure we are developing medicines and that our work is in partnership with patients, not simply for patients. 2020 Sustainability Report 17 PATIENT FY2019 Highlights At-A-Glance 5,000+ R&D employees worldwide advance new treatment 948 pieces of scientific instrumentation donated to options 67 research departments in 53 institutions — helping to build local research capacity 70,000+ patients from 25 underserved countries and in 24 countries as part of the Instrumental Access Program communities received access to Takeda’s innovative medicines and vaccines, as well as other supportive health care services, through Takeda 200+ R&D employees participated in our Knowledge sponsored and supported clinical trials Sharing program to volunteer and Early Access Programs their skills and experience with 50 programs at 20 nonprofit partners ¥492.4 billion invested in R&D 3,803 health care providers and community health workers trained across NCDs (cancer, 8,216 patients screened for noncommunicable diseases, including diabetes, hypertension) and palliative care/patient support, including 1,417 cumulative trainees cancer, as part of our Access to taught by Seed Educators Medicines efforts 2020 Sustainability Report 18 PATIENT Responsible Innovation: R&D to Address Unmet Medical Needs Research and development (R&D) is fundamental the best possible science, internally or externally, to our culture and an element of our strategic and invest for the long term. Takeda R&D is modality roadmap that drives innovation at Takeda. For almost agnostic, and we innovate through a strong internal 240 years, we’ve focused on delivering Better health laboratory that also draws on expertise from our for people, brighter future for the world, setting robust network of partnerships. Together with our and adhering to a high bar for innovation, sourcing partners, our goal is to discover, develop and deliver innovation through partnerships and managing the medicines with transformative or curative potential. pipeline dynamically through key data readouts, especially to address critical unmet patient needs. Our pipeline is projected to deliver value in two distinct waves. In the near term through FY2024, Within Innovative Biopharma, the largest component we are progressing 12 new molecular entities (NMEs) of our R&D investment, we focus on four therapeutic representing best-in-class or first-in-class therapies. areas: Oncology, Rare Genetic and Hematology, This includes two exciting programs — TAK-007 and Neuroscience and Gastroenterology. In these areas, TAK-994. TAK-007 is a Phase 1/2 CD19-targeted we’re focused on targeted patient populations chimeric antigen receptor-directed natural killer where we’re able to deliver the greatest therapeutic (CAR-NK) cell therapy with potential for off-thebenefit for patients. To fuel our R&D engine, we seek shelf use in hematologic malignancies. TAK-994, 2020 Sustainability Report 19 PATIENT part of our orexin 2 receptor agonist franchise, is a We understand the importance of building first-in-class oral small molecule that addresses the R&D capacity, as well as scientific and technical underlying orexin deficiency of narcolepsy type 1 expertise, in lowand middle-income countries patients aiming to restore normal function. (LMICs) to create sustainable health research and delivery systems. No one is better placed to Looking to FY2025 and beyond, our R&D engine solve local challenges faced by societies than the with internal research capabilities and external medical professionals and researchers who live partnerships is expected to deliver a steady stream there and have a vested interest in solving the of next-generation therapies that will sustain our problems impacting the population. Accordingly, growth. These programs leverage new platform we’re taking an innovative and industry-leading capabilities in cell therapy, gene therapy and approach to strengthen health care capacity in data sciences. LMICs through knowledge-sharing collaborations with nonprofit partners and local health care teams. We innovate along the asset life cycles — from These programs complement the partnerships we target identification through clinical development have in our Access to Medicines programs and and commercialization. Rather than engaging help strengthen health care systems overall in in strict licensing agreements and traditional underserved countries. acquisitions, we enter into mutually beneficial partnerships with biotech and pharmaceutical organizations, academic institutions and nonprofit and government organizations who are like-minded and focused on advancing innovation. We believe that no one is better placed to solve local challenges faced by societies than the medical professionals and researchers who live there and have a vested interest in solving the problems impacting the population — and we work closely with them locally. 2020 Sustainability Report 20 PATIENT In Conversation Andy Plump (left) President, Research & Development Mwana Lugogo (right) Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer How is Takeda’s approach to R&D unique to your company? The Takeda Ethics Advisory Andy: Our team is incredibly agile in their work, which is critical to keeping up with the breakneck Council (TEAC) speed of science. New modalities like cell and gene therapy offer transformative — or even curative — The TEAC was established in recognition of the fast potential, and we’ve made more substantive and pace of innovation in science and medicine and long-term investments in these areas. Through artificial emerging ethical challenges. It is comprised of a intelligence and machine learning, our scientists are diverse group of professionals that include prominent improving and accelerating medicines discovery and external ethics experts and selected Takeda leaders. development to deliver treatments to patients faster. The primary responsibility of the TEAC is to consider This agility is present in our R&D, but also in how we emerging ethics topics and provide advice; informing work. The R&D team works hand-in-hand with our Takeda’s development of robust and principled partners to make quick decisions — either investing positions and guidance on these issues. to accelerate a promising asset or stopping programs when needed. The agility and dedication of our people is what has helped build our pipeline and position Takeda for the future. How are new technologies impacting the way Takeda approaches innovation? Mwana: Takeda is committed to be a leader in scientific innovation and in the discovery and development of Andy: A promising area of our R&D portfolio is within novel therapies that address significant unmet medical our orexin type 2 receptor agonist franchise. Orexin needs. We conduct research that is responsive to the is a molecule in the brain that helps regulate sleep. needs and priorities of a broad range of stakeholders The destruction of neurons that produce orexin is the and strive to maintain the highest standards of ethics underlying cause of narcolepsy type 1, a rare chronic and integrity. While the fast pace of innovation in sleep disorder characterized by excessive daytime science and medicine and use of novel technologies sleepiness (EDS) and cataplexy, a sudden loss of provide significant opportunities to develop new voluntary muscle tone triggered by strong emotions. approaches to the treatment of debilitating illness, We’re leading the industry in orexin biology innovation there are conflicting views in society regarding the with the discovery of the first-ever, selective small use of technologies. As technology advances, so molecule orexin-2 receptor (OX2R) agonists to must our understanding of ethical considerations. enter clinical trials. OX2R agonists have the potential Takeda must consider diverse views and evolving to revolutionize Narcolepsy Type 1 treatment by ethical and social concerns when applying new addressing the underlying disease pathophysiology, advances in R&D, including supplementing internal and based on Takeda’s early clinical results, may reviews with active participation in external forums provide therapeutic benefits for other disorders that encourage science-based policies and serve characterized by excessive daytime sleepiness. As the public interest. these and other orexin programs advance, we have an opportunity to deliver a franchise of new medicines that could benefit patients around the world with a variety of sleep disorders. 2020 Sustainability Report 21 PATIENT How does Takeda make sure you responsibly innovate as a company? Andy: Responsible innovation is at the core of everything we do. As we advance our research to develop and deliver new treatments to patients, we continually consider how our work affects patients, their families, society, the planet and Takeda in a comprehensible manner. We continually evaluate ethical questions related to advances in science and patient confidentiality in our research. Most importantly, we put patients at the center of our research, moving from developing medicines for patients to developing medicines with patients. We partner with patients and patient organizations throughout the medicine development process to continually sense-check our approach and inform our decision-making, which in turn allows us to focus on the needs of the patients we are honored to serve. Mwana: Data obtained during clinical research are Mwana: We work hard to translate Takeda’s ethical fundamental to advancing the field of medicine. aspirations into action. We proactively deliberate on While data from clinical research, mainly randomized ethics issues relevant to Takeda’s global enterprise, controlled trials (RCTs), traditionally form the basis such as those that advance science and medicine, for regulatory approvals of new medicines, new confidentiality and privacy, protection of human and frontiers in data sources, analytics and collaborative animal participants in research, and data sharing research are changing the face of modern clinical and secondary use of data. We develop company development. This is being complemented by principle and ethical frameworks to inform decisions pharmaceutical and life sciences companies with and actions throughout our organization. multiple data points. Data analytics reveal patterns and correlations to generate new insights that can be used to improve treatment and research decisions, productivity and scientific understanding during drug development. As Takeda participates “Takeda recognizes the need in this burgeoning new secondary use of data to use and share data in a ecosystem, we recognize our responsibility to share data that can contribute to scientific understanding way that protects the privacy by the broader scientific community and spur new of individuals by being treatments for patients. Equally, we recognize the transparent about how the need to use and share data in a way that protects data will be shared and used.” the privacy of individuals by being transparent about how the data will be shared and used. We also Mwana Lugogo make sure to honor their confidentiality if we reuse the data, including using specific de-identification techniques that minimize the risk of re-identification. 2020 Sustainability Report 22 PATIENT 2019 Progress Expanding R&D pipeline and investments In 2019, Takeda had more than 5,000 R&D employees worldwide, working together to advance new treatment options. We invested ¥492.4 billion in Featured Spotlight: R&D and established 38 new R&D collaborations COVID R&D Alliance with biotech and academia, adding to the more than 200 active partnerships already in place. Organized in March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Takeda helped co-found the COVID R&D Takeda’s R&D organization has produced exciting Alliance. The Alliance brings together more than new molecular entities (NMEs) that represent 20 of the world’s most experienced leaders in potential best-in-class and/or first-in-class medicines therapeutic drug research and development and the in areas of high unmet need. We’ve also extended resources of their organizations to identify, study, our leadership by growing Takeda’s focus and and accelerate the most promising candidates across dedication to rare diseases in our efforts to build a broad spectrum of therapies and vaccines for trust and reputation in the community as true COVID-19 and its related symptoms. partners and leaders in rare diseases. Members are sharing clinical trial data and real-world Innovative Biopharma evidence, as well as crowd-sourcing early-stage Innovative Biopharma is the largest component candidates to identify mechanisms and treatments of Takeda’s R&D investment and has produced that may be effective against COVID-19. Initial efforts approximately 40 NMEs that are now in our pipeline by the group focus on advancing well-understood across our core therapeutic areas of Oncology, therapies and late-stage investigational medicines for Rare Genetic and Hematology, Neuroscience and hospitalized patients who need treatment options. Gastroenterology. We pursue diseases in therapeutic Activities are testing re-purposed molecules, earlyareas with existing expertise and knowledge and stage candidates and therapeutic drug combinations. collaborations. These are often diseases in targeted Takeda has two approved products that are being and rare patient populations. studied in adaptive platform trials. The adaptive platform trial is designed to increase trial efficiency Takeda has established a dynamic pipeline that by minimizing the number of participants and includes 12 NMEs in Wave 1 that are intended to fuel time required to evaluate experimental and/or our growth trajectory while our next-generation repurposed drugs. platforms mature in Wave 2. All 12 NMEs in Wave 1 have transformative potential for patients, representing By collaborating, the COVID R&D Alliance hopes to the high innovation bar our R&D organization has advance candidates faster than a single company, established, positioning us to deliver several important government or nongovernment organization could medicines in the near future. For example: alone — and in turn, serve the urgent global need. •T  AK-721 is a small molecule in development for the treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). EoE is a rare, chronic, inflammatory disease characterized •M  obocertinib is a small molecule in development by raised eosinophils — or disease-fighting white for the treatment of a subset of non-small cell blood cells — in the esophagus. This results in lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with EGFR exon difficulty and pain when swallowing food, and in 20 insertion mutations for which there are no severe cases, can lead to food becoming stuck in approved treatments. Mobocertinib is designed the esophagus. TAK-721 has the potential to be the to selectively target EGFR and HER2 exon 20 first FDA-approved medicine to treat EoE. insertion mutations and has potential to change • Pevonedistat is a potential first-in-class therapy for the standard of care for this patient population. the treatment of two forms of rare bone marrow•M  aribavir is a potential best-in-class treatment for related cancers, higher-risk myelodysplastic syndrome post-transplant infection caused by cytomegalovirus (HR-MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). (CMV) after undergoing hematopoietic cell transplant HR-MDS and AML are related forms of rare cancer, or solid organ transplant. CMV is a virus that, in sharing similar foundation biology and genetic patients with compromised immunity, causes mutations. Approximately 40% of patients with clinically challenging complications that can be HR-MDS transform to AML, an aggressive form of fatal. Maribavir targets a specific protein known as acute leukemia in adults, with poor outcomes. If CMV UL97 protein kinase, which may stop CMV approved, pevonedistat could become the first novel DNA from replicating and prevent the virus from treatment for HR-MDS patients in more than a decade. spreading to other cells. 2020 Sustainability Report 23 PATIENT Employees across Takeda R&D are advancing these and other near-term catalysts with a sense of urgency while building our next-generation platforms to sustain our long-term growth. Together, we aim fulfill our purpose to deliver Better health for people, brighter future for the world. THE POWER OF Plasma-derived therapies (PDT) DATA AND DIGITAL Even with the major advances of the last 75+ years, we believe there is an incredible untapped opportunity to The PDT R&D team will capitalize on big data to drive innovate in PDT for the benefit of patients worldwide. precision medicine that improves patient outcomes. In 2019, Takeda developed an end-to-end PDT strategy Whereas current treatment strategies apply a one-sizeand created a dedicated team and budget to look fits-all approach — meaning some patients benefit from at how we could reimagine plasma from collection treatments while others see a partial benefit or no benefit through production to delivery. We’re not only at all — Takeda is building specific datasets using cloud extending the therapeutic potential of our existing technologies from patients treated with plasma proteins therapies, but also innovating how we use PDTs to that will enable us to better predict clinical outcomes, at improve the health of the patients we aim to serve. faster speeds, for specific patients and to tailor treatments accordingly. We’re fostering a culture of innovation in PDT R&D through two engines: • Translational Pharmaceutical Sciences. A merged research focus on translational research, pharmaceutical science and devices. This engine aims Featured Spotlight: to create value by generating new investigational The CoVIg-19 Plasma Alliance candidates, challenging mechanisms of action, identifying responder populations, and improving In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we or creating new development pathways. moved swiftly to begin development of potential • Integrated Care Solutions. A research engine treatments to the virus, including a novel plasmaenhancing the value of our therapies beyond the derived therapy and the repurposing of two medicines themselves into complete care solutions. approved products and two assets in development. This engine is focused on improving health outcomes In April 2020, we co-founded the CoVIg-19 by improving diagnostic rates and specificities, Plasma Alliance, which started with six leading assessing new point of care solutions, including plasma companies and now comprises a total medicine delivery, and expanding datasets to of 13 companies, with several contributors and demonstrate the effectiveness of our therapies, supporters from outside the plasma industry. This is illustrating value not only to providers, but to an unprecedented partnership for an unprecedented payors as well. global health care challenge. Rather than pursue individual interests, the Alliance members are Along with the above, the PDT R&D strategy targets putting public health and patients first through three additional areas of focus: collaboration. Our goals are to accelerate the development of a potential medicine and then •R ealizing the full potential of our current portfolio. increase its supply and availability. Building on a legacy of innovation and leadership in PDT, we are actively working to expand The scope of the Alliance’s activities includes indications for our current product lines. We’re collecting antibody-rich plasma from COVID-19 adding new data to define their value, building survivors; developing CoVIg-19 for clinical diagnostic and device applications, expanding trials; distribution of CoVIg-19, if proven safe; and geographically, and researching new formulations regulatory submissions. One of the Alliance’s core and delivery approaches, including collaboration principles, should the medicine be successful, with patient communities to identify value and is equitable access and wide distribution — the outcomes that are meaningful for patients. medicine manufactured under the Alliance will be provided on a not-for-profit basis. The CoVIg-19 Alliance demonstrates the power of collaboration during challenging times and serves as a model for how we can address future pandemics and potentially save more lives more quickly. 2020 Sustainability Report 24 PATIENT •O  ptimizing efficiencies of plasma-derived therapy variety of acute and chronic diseases. For instance, production. We also create dynamic innovation there are more than 3,000 plasma proteins in the by employing pharmaceutical science within our human body, some with health-promoting effects global manufacturing processes. Today’s global and others with disease-associated effects, and immunoglobin and albumin supply challenges only a fraction are therapeutically applied today. are disruptive for patients. As Takeda works to While PDT are typically used to replace protein increase supply, R&D is contributing to this by deficiencies, there may be opportunities in settings designing production efficiencies that can improve where there is an imbalance of health-promoting our throughput and yield. These initiatives include and disease-associated proteins. process development activities to shorten IgG upstream cycle times and total albumin cycle In the age of recombinant proteins, gene therapies times. A useful byproduct of this work is the and other novel modalities, we believe there are purification process waste we capture, from which persistent needs that can only be effectively we can isolate additional proteins for possible new addressed with PDT. We will continue to use our development. From these improvements, we aim integrated capabilities to identify and deliver within to achieve higher yield, increased capacity and those niche areas. significantly reduced cost of goods sold. • Identifying and developing new plasma-derived therapies. We believe there’s tremendous untapped therapeutic potential in plasma proteins for a wide Partnering With the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) There are more than 3,000 plasma proteins in Takeda participates in the WIPO Research Consortium, the human body, some with a joint enterprise hosted by WIPO for promoting health-promoting effects research and development for treatments and vaccines for neglected tropical diseases, malaria and others with diseaseand tuberculosis. As part of the consortium, we’re associated effects, and only taking steps to strengthen our health care platforms a fraction are therapeutically in developing countries predicted to be more badly applied today. affected by global climate change. 2020 Sustainability Report 25 PATIENT Takeda aims to make vaccines available in countries with the highest unmet need, fully develop them, and build capacity to produce millions of doses. •C  OVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect communities around the world. To accelerate Global vaccine development the availability of a COVID-19 vaccine, we are We’re developing new vaccines to address some leveraging our extensive and well-established of the world’s most pressing public health needs. global manufacturing and supply capabilities, Our Vaccine Business Unit (VBU) has developed a building upon Takeda’s existing support of pipeline that focuses on diseases that impact regions influenza pandemic preparedness in Japan. Takeda around the world, including lowand middle-income is partnering with the Government of Japan and countries (LMICs) that might be disproportionally Novavax on the development, manufacturing and affected. The VBU’s aim is to make vaccines available commercialization of NVX CoV2373, Novavax’s in countries with the highest unmet need, fully develop COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in Japan. Takeda also and register them and build capacity within our facilities entered into a three-way agreement with Japan’s to produce the millions of doses that are required to Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) and improve global health. Currently, vaccine efforts are Moderna to import and supply Moderna’s COVID-19 focused on: vaccine candidate, mRNA-1273, in Japan. • Zika. Around the world, 87 countries and territories •D engue. Approximately half of the world’s population have had evidence of Zika virus. Takeda is partnered is at risk for dengue, the fastest-spreading mosquitowith the U.S. government (Biomedical Advanced borne viral disease in the world, and one of the World Research and Development Authority) to develop a Health Organization’s (WHO) top 10 threats to global Zika vaccine candidate that’s in Phase 1 development health in 2019. We’re currently conducting an ongoing, and was granted Fast Track designation by the U.S. pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for a dengue vaccine Food and Drug Administration in 2018. candidate, with plans to begin regulatory filings • Norovirus. Norovirus causes more than 685 million in many countries that are endemic for dengue infections and an estimated 200,000 deaths each infection, as well as the U.S. and Europe, in 2021. year. Our vaccine candidate has completed a Phase 2b Subject to regulatory approval, we will work with field efficacy trial, and we’re encouraged by the governments, multilateral development banks and results, which we consider a proof of concept for other partners to maximize the availability of and the vaccine. This data was published in Vaccine in access to the vaccine in the places of greatest need. September 2020. 2020 Sustainability Report 26 PATIENT Broadening Access Access to health care, medicines and vaccines is a • Innovative programs that increase sustainable priority for people globally. As part of our Access to access to our medicines. Medicines strategy, we’re committed to addressing • Building sustainable health care capacity at every the unmet needs of patients wherever they may stage of the patient journey from diagnosis to be, and sustainably strengthening local health ongoing patient support. systems at every stage of the patient experience. • Strategic engagement and collaboration with We complement this approach with a commitment policymakers and experts from NGOs, patient toward developing an end-to-end access approach organizations and governments. to make our highly innovative medicines available as soon as practically possible. Early patient access to treatments Providing patients with early and uninterrupted access to lifesaving treatments is an important component of our Access to Medicines strategy. We have a number of mechanisms to help to achieve this: Learn More About Our Access to Medicines • Post-Trial Access (PTA) allows continued treatment Strategy: for eligible clinical trial participants who require access to the investigational medicine after a •A  ccess to Medicines clinical trial has completed. Takeda provides PTA Progress Report through a variety of mechanisms. Recent examples • Position on Access to are rollover protocols for vedolizumab (Entyvio), Medicines which treats Crohn’s disease, and ixazomib (Ninlaro), • Position on Intellectual Property which treats multiple myeloma, that were designed for Access to Medicines specifically to allow continued access to patients • Position on Pricing deriving benefits from study treatment until approval is received for reimbursement in the patient’s country for the patient’s indication and clinical scenario. A strategic framework for access to medicines • Named Patient Programs (NPP) and Individual We have created a practical framework to increase Patient Requests (IPR) give patients in need of sustainable access to our medicines that includes novel treatments access to safe, tested treatments innovative affordability programs and initiatives before they are approved and available in their that help to build sustainable capacity across the country. We provided pre-approval access via entire patient journey through: NPP and IPR to more than 7,300 patients to date across multiple disease areas, including patients in •E nd-to-end patient access throughout the life cycle Brazil, China, Egypt, Kenya, Pakistan and Ukraine, of Takeda’s assets, starting from development to postamong others. approval access for our highly innovative medicines • We’ve partnered with cancer nonprofit The Max and, potentially, our dengue vaccine candidate. Foundation to provide early patient access to Iclusig. The Max Access Solution Iclusig, is a kinase inhibitor targeting an abnormal tyrosine kinase that is expressed in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL). The Iclusig access pathway is specifically designed to help patients who live in regions where the medicine is not available commercially, significant access hurdles exist or local market initiatives cannot enable access to the therapy. The Max Access Solution Iclusig program had 125 active patients in 16 lowand middle-income countries as of March 31, 2020, and is open to patients in a wide range of lowand middle-income countries. 2020 Sustainability Report 27 PATIENT In Conversation Ricardo Marek (left) President, Growth and Emerging Markets Business Unit Giles Platford (right) President, Europe & Canada Business Unit How does Takeda think about and address Leveraging these learnings, the Blueprint project builds access for patients in countries with evolving on what’s already in place, working to strengthen the health care systems, as well as in more existing health care system — rather than developing a developed countries? parallel program — and working with local government and expert delivery partners. The outcome is selfRicardo: As part of our Access to Medicines strategy, sustainability and continuity of the program in the we’re committed to addressing the unmet needs of long term, well beyond Takeda’s involvement. patients wherever they may be and strengthening local health systems at every stage of the patient The funding of innovative medicines is another journey in a sustainable way. I believe a great example challenge in LMICs, where the impact on patients with of this is our flagship Access to Medicines program — rare and complex diseases and on their families can the Blueprint for Innovative Healthcare Access. be financially catastrophic. We have a multipronged pricing approach which ensures access, including In delivering the Blueprint, we believe it’s essential tiered pricing, value-based agreements and Takeda’s to integrate, not replicate: Through studies into the Patient Assistance Programs (PAPs), which ensure global burden of noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) patients get their entire course of treatment even if and multistakeholder forums, we observed the they cannot pay for it in full. existence of multiple, parallel activities by international organizations in lowand middle-income countries Giles: Equitable patient access to innovative (LMICs); however, retention rates of patients engaged treatments is a challenge in developed countries as in these programs were alarmingly low. We also well. EFPIA published a report in July that showed noticed low levels of connection and communication that patients in neighboring European countries between the provision of medicines to patients and can wait as much as six times longer for access the support available to them, resulting in a less than to new medicines. There are multiple root causes optimal impact on the management of NCDs. for these delays, including administrative delays in health technology assessments, duplicative evidence requirements, complex pricing and reimbursement processes and budget constraints. “We have a multipronged Often a major factor, in particular for medicines for pricing approach which rare diseases, is that clinical trials do not produce the ensures access, including quality and amount of evidence that pricing authorities tiered pricing, value-based are used to. This is normal, since by definition there are fewer patients. This, however, can make pricing agreements and Takeda’s and reimbursement authorities uncertain about the Patient Assistance Programs, evidence and delay the reimbursement process. Our which ensure patients get philosophy at Takeda is to work collaboratively with their entire course of payors to find constructive and pragmatic solutions. treatment even if they We understand their constraints, and we appreciate that it is only by working collaboratively that we can cannot pay for it in full.” ensure sustainable long-term access to innovation Ricardo Marek for patients. 2020 Sustainability Report 28 PATIENT Tell us how Takeda’s approach to access to medicines impacts profit and societal value in emerging markets? Ricardo: We have created a practical framework to increase access to our medicines through our innovative pricing approaches and initiatives that build capacity across the patient journey — this achieves both societal value and financial sustainability. Our programs to build capacity and infrastructure — such as the Blueprint project — are run in parallel to our initiatives that address challenges around access and standard of care. When it comes to solving the problem of providing patients in emerging markets with sustainable access to our highly innovative medicines, we take a personalized and collaborative approach through our PAPs. These programs are designed around individual patients and employ a shared value financing model. The patient shares in the cost of treatment according to what they can afford. Takeda and other partners, including local governments, medical associations and NGOs, contribute the rest, thereby ensuring the patient receives their Tell us how patient support programs treatment in full. If everyone pays according to their work, and how do they impact profit and ability to do so, funds can be committed to patients societal value? at lower levels of income, and more patients can be reached, resulting in increased access to medicines Giles: We spend considerable time and effort within for patients and financial sustainability. Takeda thinking about how we can support the patient experience with personalized patient support In addition, we’ve made a significant strategic programs. These programs need to be centered decision to transition a number of Takeda countries around solutions that are relevant, engaging, impactful in our Growth & Emerging Markets business unit to a and empowering for patients to improve patient model whereby locally generated revenues from our outcomes by enabling a connected community and innovative medicines for complex and rare diseases ensuring visibility, transparency and partnership will be reinvested in programs that strengthen the between patients, caregivers and health care providers. local health care system. The transition will take place Our experience shows that patient support services over the next few years and include countries that have can offer real value to patients when their voice is considerable unmet patient need, and that are fraught heard early enough in the process and their treating with high out-of-pocket spend, such as the Philippines, physician is engaged in identifying unmet needs in Vietnam, Egypt, South Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa. order to create meaningful services. Aligned with the framework I mentioned earlier, we’ll collaborate with policymakers and experts from NGOs, We recognize the patient journey is not stagnant. patient advocacy groups and governments to enable That’s why maintaining consistent engagement with an environment that improves patient access and gives patients and patient organizations remains critical Takeda the ability to drive our medicines’ affordability as the health care landscape evolves to deliver a programs at scale. better patient experience. This is an area where we as an industry can continue to do more, particularly with the increasing importance of remote care and telemedicine for patients. 2020 Sustainability Report 29 PATIENT Pricing for Access Takeda prices medicines to fulfill our purpose: •T  iered pricing. In pricing our innovative medicines, Better health for people, brighter future for the we acknowledge that the ability to pay for them world, aiming to make our highly innovative and varies globally. Tiered pricing gives us a mechanism life-transformative medicines available as soon as to reflect the socioeconomic status and health practically possible. system maturity of LMICs, which enables improved access for patients while maintaining our longThe Takeda Pricing Principle is centered around the term business sustainability. We use a four-tiered goal of “optimal patient access,” which encompasses country system to set prices. The tiers are based speed of access and breadth of coverage at a price that on country wealth, including measures such as leads to long-term business sustainability. Together GDP per capita and out-of-pocket expenditure, and with our Access to Medicines strategy, this philosophy health care system maturity, which considers the ensures we’re enabling sustainable access to our existence of policies covering vaccinations and rare medicines to as many patients as possible. diseases and the available health care resources per inhabitant. Our main approaches are: • Patient Assistance Programs. As the cornerstone of our Access to Medicines strategy, our PAPs •B  roader definition of value. “Value” is characterized increase access to innovative specialty and rare by the specific outcomes achieved in the eyes of treatments while addressing affordability hurdles. all stakeholders, and above all, patients. We price These collaborative financing models are tailored to our medicines in line with value-based pricing the individual patient and to the socioeconomic principles that show the value of our innovative context and health frameworks of the country in medicines to society. which the patient lives. The approach builds on • Value-based contracting. This is about aligning collaborative models between patients, Takeda treatment prices with the way the treatment and, at times, local authorities and other parties, to performs outside of clinical trials. It responds to the share treatment costs. payors’ and/or providers’ need to manage uncertainty around real-world outcomes and the potential economic impact of our innovative medicines. 2020 Sustainability Report 30 PATIENT 2019 Progress Value-based pricing In 2019, we expanded our value assessments to consider the broad set of benefits that our treatments provide. In addition, we adapted and expanded our cost-effective approaches to capture this full value. We also expanded our value-based pricing model to Europe, specifically for Alofisel, our treatment for Crohn’s disease, becoming the first Japanese pharmaceutical company to only charge patients whose conditions have improved. Price changes Ensuring patients have access to the medicines they need is a top priority for Takeda and, when setting prices, we aim to make our medicines accessible to as many patients as possible, while recognizing the value they bring to patients, providers and the health care system. In 2020, a small number of medicines received single-digit price increases, including a few plasmaderived specialty products that require significant resources to produce and make available for patients. We recognize some patients face real challenges in affording their medicines, and that for some, this has been heightened during the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to offer PAPs to assist eligible patients to access our medicines. Featured Spotlight: Patient Assistance Programs Takeda PAPs increase access to treatment, while maximizing medical benefits and standards of care by enabling patients to complete their prescribed course of treatment even if they can’t afford to pay for it in full. Our PAPs are designed to make sure there’s no disruption in treatment, which is critical, especially for cancer, to minimize the chance of the condition recurring. These programs are designed around individual patients and use collaborative financing models in which patients share the cost of treatment according to what they can afford. And, together with our partners, we step in to cover the rest. In 2019, 23 PAPs for Adcetris, Entyvio, Ninlaro, Feiba and Immunine were running across 14 countries in Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. These programs have benefitted close to 1,600 patients with rare and complex diseases since program inception in 2016. We constantly look for opportunities to expand our PAPs with new programs launched every year in new disease areas. 2020 Sustainability Report 31 PATIENT Strengthening Health Systems Over 2 billion people across the world lack access to the health care they need when facing complex and 2019 Progress rare diseases — especially for serious health threats Building scientific and research capacity in LMICs such as many forms of cancer. These diseases require We partner with nonprofit organization Seeding specialized clinical skills to screen, diagnose and treat Labs to strengthen basic research capacity in LMICs by patients, presenting significant challenges in the levels providing local universities and researchers with the of capacity and resources needed for prevention, as equipment, training and mentoring they need well as education and raising awareness about them. to address local health research and delivery Often resource-constrained countries that need to challenges, participate in the fight against emerging strengthen their health care systems are most severely global diseases and teach the next generation of impacted by these diseases. local scientists. Through the Instrumental Access Program (IAP), Takeda’s R&D organization has Because patient access barriers go far beyond provided 948 pieces of scientific equipment to affordability, our PAPs and pricing mechanisms run in 67 research departments in 53 institutions, along parallel to initiatives to build capacity and infrastructure with building local research capacity in 24 countries, across the entire patient experience, from disease as part of the Instrumental Access Program. awareness, diagnosis and management to ongoing patient care and support. To make this happen, we’re also working with partners in government, NGOs and the private sector to strengthen health care systems across the entire patient journey. External Assessments Helping to achieve universal health coverage is a Takeda’s Access to Medicines strategy and priority for Takeda, and we’re committed to the programs are assessed externally through the long-term, continuous efforts needed to make Access to Medicine Index, a biannual research that happen. This includes participating in relevant program by the Access to Medicine Foundation, public-private partnerships, aligning policies and working closely with Boston University’s Access regulations, supporting implementation of crucial Observatory to leverage their data and insights. health programs and promoting multisector These assessments help us monitor the progress partnerships such as UHC 2030. of our projects and ensure we deliver the right medicine, training and support. Takeda ranked fifth on the 2018 Index. 2020 Sustainability Report 32 PATIENT In addition, we provide opportunities for our R&D employees to strengthen local R&D scientific, clinical and technical capabilities needed for sustainable mental health and cancer research, Featured Spotlight: and care delivery in LMICs. Currently active in Blueprint for Innovative Health Haiti, Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania, partnerships Care Access Runs Pilot in Kenya last between two and five years and are tailored to address significant local unmet needs and gaps. In 2019, Takeda began a three-year pilot in Meru Each initiative has project-specific goals, objectives, County, Kenya, of Blueprint for Innovative governance structures and deliverables. More than Healthcare Access — a fully integrated and 200 employees from our R&D organization are sustainable implementation framework for health sharing their knowledge and skills to support care system strengthening for noncommunicable 50 programs through 20 nonprofit partnerships. diseases (NCDs) at every stage of the patient journey. Meru County has one of the highest Access to Health Impact measurement framework rates of NCDs in Kenya. In the first year, Takeda Measuring impact in a consistent, transparent and partners trained over 800 health care workers. independent way is critical to meeting our goals These efforts led to over 8,000 people being in improving health care for patients everywhere. screened for diabetes, hypertension and cancers, As part of our Access to Medicines strategy, we and, of these, over 600 people were diagnosed commissioned Duke University Innovations in and are receiving treatment. Healthcare and Broadreach to design an Access to Health Impact framework with an associated Blueprint employs a practical framework to indicator library that has been validated by leaders sustainably strengthen health care systems for in the pharmaceutical industry, implementing NCDs at a local level across the patient journey, from partners, academics and clinicians. earlier awareness, prevention and screening; to faster diagnosis; to local access to consistent high-quality Our ambition is to implement this framework across treatment and innovative medicines, and ongoing health care sectors and champion the effort to lead patient support with faster integrated referrals. It also sustainable Access to Medicines programs that have includes financial support and guidance, as well as a positive impact on patient lives. With the Health innovative affordability programs to increase patient Impact framework now created, we have expanded access to medicines. Duke University Innovations in Healthcare’s purview to train and support our Access to Medicines At the core of the Blueprint framework is a partners with the capabilities required for accurate consortium of partners who share resources, and appropriate data collection and analysis for their expertise and responsibility, and through respective activities. Furthermore, we’re working to collaboration and coordination work (locally, create a multistakeholder Global Coalition for Access regionally and internationally), including with to Health that uses the framework as an industrythe private sector, governments, NGOs, health standard resource. care professionals and communities. The Blueprint will expand into Rwanda with a view to ultimately replicate it across all LMICs. 2020 Sustainability Report 33 Our Commitment to People 2020 Sustainability Report 34 PEOPLE Why It Matters People join Takeda because they share our purpose of bringing Better health for people, brighter future for the world. To continuously bring our purpose to life, we must attract, develop and retain diverse People-First Principles people who are the best at what they do. Our for COVID-19 Responses colleagues, in about 80 countries around the world, expect and deserve exceptional experiences and 1. D o what is right to safeguard our colleagues opportunities to pursue their own ambitions. An and their families and adapt our response as inclusive, safe and empowering work environment, the situation evolves. rooted in our commitment to health and well-being, 2. Enhance and adapt workplace policies is critical for our colleagues to thrive, grow and share and benefits to support all categories in realizing Takeda’s vision. of colleagues. 3. Offer flexibility to colleagues who need to Our colleagues bring a rich mix of experiences, provide family care related to COVID-19, in backgrounds and perspectives. This diversity is a ways that support business continuity. core strength of ours. It also presents an opportunity 4. Draw on the strength of existing platforms as we aim to balance globally consistent opportunities and frameworks to adapt this situation to and programs with flexibility that allows for local accelerate our ability to respond. context and customization. We strive for people 5. Communicate to colleagues in a timely and programs that encourage a mindset of lifelong learning, transparent manner on COVID-19-related and personal and professional growth. Our current impacts while continuing to respect health reality and COVID-19 working environments have privacy laws. presented challenges and new paradigms, but we 6. Live our Code of Conduct by enabling a have not wavered in our commitment to developing healthy and respectful work environment for our people. Through our people programs and all colleagues. development experiences, we continue to build a 7. Provide resources to help colleagues highly engaged workforce and a strong Takeda stay productive and actively engaged culture, firmly rooted in our values of Integrity, professionally and/or in the community, Fairness, Honesty and Perseverance, which are for as long as possible. deeply ingrained in our culture and ways of working. These values are brought to life through actions based on Patient-Trust-Reputation-Business, always in that order. For further details on how we make ethical decisions please see page 80. 2020 Sustainability Report 35 PEOPLE In Conversation Padma Thiruvengadam (left) Chief Human Resources Officer Masato Iwasaki (right) President, Japan Pharma Business Unit With the integration of Shire complete, what by thoughtful responses to make sure we maintain are your priorities to strengthen the one momentum, continue what matters most and help Takeda culture? our teams build resilience and digital capabilities. In fact, we were swift to design a Resiliency in Leadership Padma: Keeping our colleagues safe and healthy and learning program which was offered to over 8,000 delivering medicine to our patients is top of mind for people managers. During ambiguous times, we look all leaders at Takeda right now. We continue to work for stability, so we focused on “maintaining rhythm” collaboratively and productively during these unique by continuing some of our annual development times, which is a testament to our commitment to programs like President’s Forum and switching to strengthening our culture where people and patients virtual onboarding for new members. Staying the come first. course and delivering the programs and resources that matter to our colleagues is important in today’s Masato: Our uniqueness is reflected in Takeda’s values reality and to make sure we come out of this period that guide our decision-making, placing the patient even stronger. first since Takeda was established in 1781. Takeda’s values are now attracting and engaging people around the globe. We are a leading Japan-based company How do you create “exceptional experiences” that is global in the way we operate, which allows for colleagues in a mostly virtual environment? us to provide our colleagues with a unique, diverse environment and a wide range of opportunities. Padma: We create exceptional people experiences by understanding what is important to our colleagues and providing tools and programs that will help each How has the COVID-19 pandemic impacted individual be successful. In a virtual environment people your approach to HR? have new needs and priorities — and some remain unchanged. We are adapting some of our practices Masato: The capabilities we will need for the future to accommodate largely virtual ways of working, growth of Takeda became more evident. The influence developing programs that help our colleagues build of COVID-19 accelerated the digitalization of society capabilities that the current reality requires, like and shifted its outlook. However, we were able to adapt digital skills, while also maintaining rhythm. to this “new normal,” as Takeda has always been quick to anticipate changes and take on new challenges. Masato: Padma mentioned continuing what matters Our goal is to provide opportunities that support our most to our people. We are deeply committed to employees and tools that contribute value to patients Takeda’s values and are always driven to contribute and leverage the benefits of digital technologies. for patients. What is crucial for us is to continue delivering products and necessary information under Padma: I think about this in two stages: react and any circumstances. For this, we have leveraged the use respond. Reacting quickly to changes and staying of digital technology and are enabling our colleagues adaptable to protect the well-being of our colleagues, to find new ways to maximize value for patients, as patients and the medical community. This is followed well as realizing their best work-life balance. 2020 Sustainability Report 36 PEOPLE FY2019 Highlights At-A-Glance Approximately employees 50,000 13,448 jobs filled globally in FY2019 50% of managers trained in Quality Conversations, a communications framework used to improve dialogue between managers and teams Total Recordable Incident Rate = 0.92 per 200,000 hours worked 2020 Sustainability Report 37 PEOPLE Employee Well-Being & Organizational Health Engagement & Lifelong Learning We strive to create a work experience that keeps Consistent and regular communications have been our people engaged and a culture that encourages vital to keep our colleagues informed and engaged a mindset of lifelong learning and growth. As a during these unprecedented times. We’ve held regular biopharmaceutical leader, innovation is our path virtual global town halls with the Takeda Executive forward, and our people are the drivers of that Team (TET), enabling colleagues to ask direct questions innovation. Our industry, providers and patients are and voice concerns. This commitment to constant counting on our dedication to constant innovation dialogue is one of the reasons we’ve been able to and technological advancements. COVID-19 has deliver on our promises, to patients and to each other. only accelerated the speed of change and urgency for constant improvement and innovation. Our Surveys are another important tool we use to commitment to lifelong learning is critical to understand people’s perspectives on what’s going supporting colleagues in making that a reality. well and how we can continue to improve as one As a truly global organization, it’s critical that Takeda. We want to better understand how colleagues we pay attention to what colleagues need in feel at all points during their time at Takeda — from each of the regions where we operate. That’s when they join to when they depart. A more consistent why we provide learning opportunities in about framework for how we capture this feedback globally 80 countries and are working to build an expanded is being built. We also send frequent companywide global learning platform. pulse surveys to collect feedback, identify areas for improvement and empower individual teams and managers to take action. 2020 Sustainability Report 38 PEOPLE Health, Safety & Well-being Looking after the health, safety and well-being of our colleagues and the communities where we work, 2019 Progress live and serve is important to us. From breast cancer Serious Injury and Fatality program awareness workshops and biometric screenings in Looking after our people’s safety begins with Austria and Switzerland to mindfulness education prevention. We carefully develop the manufacturing and regular lunch-and-learns on nutrition, exercise, processes and safety assessments for each of our mental health and cancer risks in the U.S., we make products to try to prevent any adverse events. Many sure our people have the resources they need to lead manufacturing sites have also implemented a Serious healthy lives. In Asia, we prioritize four key issues Injury and Fatality (SIF) program, focusing on highwith our employees: preventing lifestyle diseases risk activities that have the greatest potential to cause and promoting smoking cessation, supporting early major environmental impact, serious injury or even detection and treatment of cancer, responding to death. The goal of our SIF program is to make our health issues specific to women and supporting people more aware of potential SIF (p-SIF) events, mental health. understand why they happen and learn how to prevent them. In FY2019, we expanded the p-SIF reporting Our health and safety efforts are guided by the requirement to include all Takeda sites and locations following principles: and widened the scope of SIF assessments to make sure all Takeda manufacturing sites were included. •W  e work to be a global leader in health and safety through innovative management practices, working to prevent incidents, and proactively recognizing potential hazards and related risks while working Takeda Safety Performance1 to eliminate them. • We provide the tools, resources and programs FY16 to support our employees in making healthy FY17 lifestyle choices. • We include Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) FY18 principles in Takeda’s culture through leadership FY19 0.23 0.92 involvement and accountability, as well as by 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 encouraging our employees to consider EHS in Total Recordable Incident Rate all aspects of their work and reduce those risks Incidents with Days Lost Frequency Rate wherever they can. 1 Incident frequency rates per 200,000 hours worked. Data collection • We make sure to include the viewpoints of our sites: All R&D, manufacturing, U.S. BioLife and office sites covering employee works councils and partners, where approximately 95% of all employees appropriate, when developing and improving our processes. 2020 Sustainability Report 39 PEOPLE Talent Management We’re focused on providing meaningful To make this possible, we need to make it easy for opportunities for colleagues to evolve and grow, our people to understand our goals, live our values both professionally and personally. We want and actively contribute to their own success, as well each colleague to be inspired to contribute, as Takeda’s. We look for exceptional talent and then empowered to be productive, supported to engage them in open and ongoing discussions to pursue lifelong learning and provided with the enhance performance and development. We use opportunity to realize their greater purpose. our “Quality Conversations” framework to empower managers and teams to communicate clearly and frequently to build trust, deliver impact and move our business forward. We also prepare high-potential individuals for new opportunities so that we’re Takeda Leadership Behaviors constantly improving our bench strength of leaders and experts. These responsibilities and intentional We focus on developing, role modeling and programs are shared in an ongoing partnership reinforcing the following: among the TET, human resources, managers and Takeda colleagues. •D  emonstrate strategic enterprise thinking to find innovative ways to serve patients and build trust, reputation and business. • Create an environment that inspires and enables people to move the organization forward. • Focus on the few priorities that matter most and deliver superior results. • Elevate the capabilities of the organization for now and the future. 2020 Sustainability Report 40 PEOPLE 2019 Progress Global programs developing exceptional leaders for an exceptional future •We host an annual President’s Forum to bring together a group of 50 global leaders with our Leadership Development During CEO and TET for a three-day workshop focused COVID-19 on business challenges and opportunities. This Forum is one of the many ways we prepare the These unprecedented times haven’t slowed our next generation of Takeda senior leaders. commitment to developing our colleagues. Instead, • The Accelerator Program is a cross-functional we have adapted. In 2020, both our President’s program to reach high-potential colleagues early Forum and Global Induction Forum were held in their careers. It provides opportunity for crossvirtually. And rather than bring everyone to Japan, regional assignments, mentoring and learning participants joined from their home offices and events. Currently, we have 28 participants in the kitchen tables. program, who are guided by TET sponsors. • Our Global Induction Forum targets senior leaders who have joined Takeda from other organizations. Our CEO and TET oversee this program, which covers Learning resilient leadership the company’s history, culture and values, while The annual Takeda Leadership Conference (TLC) preparing these new leaders for their responsibilities brings together 300 top leaders from across the in building on that legacy and enhancing trust with organization. The 2020 event was held virtually with society. In 2020, we continued our commitment to a focus on building resilient leadership capabilities, or accelerating the success of new leaders, taking a how leaders can best learn, adapt and thrive during creative, virtual approach to the Global Induction times of change. That focus continued through five Forum to make sure new leaders have the same virtual learning workshops from July through October, opportunity to connect and learn. where TLC members engaged with thought leaders and • We also offer a variety of local/regional leadership each other to build their capabilities. The TLC members development programs. are committed to coming out of this current reality stronger as individuals, teams and an organization. After senior leaders completed the resiliency learning program, we expanded with a digital version for all managers at Takeda. Through virtual trainings, social learning groups and a mobile app, the Resiliency in Leadership program covers five key topic areas: personal resilience, interpersonal resilience, leading virtual teams effectively, role of leaders in building resiliency and connecting to purpose. 2020 Sustainability Report 41 PEOPLE Adapting recruiting for a virtual workplace To keep our business solid and ensure that we have the right talent, during the constantly changing COVID-19 realities we switched to virtual interviewing and onboarding toward the end of FY2019. We were able to use new technologies to ensure we didn’t comprise on engagement. Conducting video or telephone interviews instead of face-to-face interviews has helped us keep our colleagues and candidates — Top Employer Award as well as their families and communities — safe. We’ve heard from colleagues that conducting interviews Takeda was awarded global Top Employer virtually actually allows for greater flexibility with for the third consecutive year in 2020 by the schedules and locations, with the added benefit of Top Employers Institute, a global authority on reduced travel expenses. excellence in people practices, in recognition of our efforts to build an outstanding workplace. Takeda Long-Term Incentive Plan We’re proud to offer a Long-term Incentive Plan in 2020 that provides stock, in the form of American Depositary Shares, to eligible colleagues outside of Japan. Prior to 2020, Takeda colleagues outside Japan were not eligible for stock as part of their compensation. We believe that stock ownership provides colleagues the opportunity to invest in their own future as well as Takeda’s and align their interests with external stakeholders. New Takeda Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) Historically, Takeda has offered an employee stock ownership program for participating colleagues in Japan. In 2020, Takeda launched a new ESPP that offers colleagues outside of Japan the opportunity to purchase stock, in the form of American Depositary Shares at a discount and become a Takeda shareholder. Initially, we introduced our ESPP in Singapore, Switzerland and the United States, and we will expand to more countries over time. We believe that stock ownership provides colleagues the opportunity to invest in their own future as well as Takeda’s and align their interests with external stakeholders. 2020 Sustainability Report 42 PEOPLE Diversity, Equity & Inclusion We strive to have a workforce as diverse as the patients we serve. We are committed to embracing differences, exploring possibilities and developing our colleagues. Our success depends on an inclusive environment where all colleagues are welcomed, empowered and inspired to use their unique voices and talents. This is how we’ll find innovative TAKEDA COLLEAGUES: 50% 50% approaches to serve our patients, customers and communities. Our goal is for every colleague at Takeda to enjoy the female male opportunity to thrive, develop and grow based on merit, potential and ambition, regardless of gender, MANAGERS: age, nationality, race, religion, belief, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or lifestyle. We focus on the basics of diversity in the workplace like gender, age and race, and we also work to build “thought 40% female diversity.” We believe that our culture thrives because of our differences. This makes Takeda a unique and stimulating workplace and allows us to deliver on SEE MORE ON THE behalf of patients everywhere. DIVERSITY OF OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE TEAM ON PAGE 64. 2020 Sustainability Report 43 PEOPLE Our commitment continues As a values-based company, Takeda has always worked to be a place where people feel safe and valued for their unique contributions. And through Takeda Resource Groups our Access to Medicines, Global CSR efforts and free medicines programs, we’re demonstrating our TRGs are voluntary, colleague-led groups commitment to help underserved patients get the and consist of individuals with shared health care they need and deserve. We have more characteristics and life experiences, as well work to do, and we’re committed to bringing positive as allies and advocates who support the core change internally and in our external ecosystem. values of the groups. TRGs offer colleagues community, camaraderie and connections Along with our partners, we’re focused on building to the organization, generating a sense of access to medicines. This commitment is throughout belonging. These groups work to enhance the entire life cycle of our medicines, from how to personal development and positively impact design and deliver clinical trials to how we make business outcomes and priorities. Takeda has sure our medicines make it to patients who need 10 TRGs, which are led by colleagues around them. We’re hiring a Global Head of Diversity, the world. Equity & Inclusion and putting a team in place to create a community of practice to grow and • Black Leadership Council support the important anti-bias efforts underway • Building Asian Leaders across the organization. • EnAbles (colleagues with disabilities and allies) Our colleague-led Takeda Resource Groups (TRGs) • Faith@Work are expanding. Leadership and strategic support for • Gender Parity Takeda their efforts is a priority for the next year. Across Resource Group the company, we continue to focus on an inclusive • IGNITE (young professionals) culture and enhance our foundation by connecting it • IMPACTO (LatinX community) to everything we do, including our talent development • PACT (working parents and succession planning. In each country and site and caregivers) where we operate, there are teams and individuals • STRIVE (military service-connected focused on the important work of growing colleague colleagues) diversity, ensuring equity and establishing inclusive • Take Pride (LGBTQ+ colleagues programs, processes and platforms. This work has and allies) never been more important and is critical to ensuring we are an organization free of bias and as diverse as the patients we serve. 2020 Sustainability Report 44 PEOPLE In Conversation Julie Kim (left) President, Plasma-Derived Therapies Business Unit Marcello Agosti (right) Global Business Development Officer How is diversity, equity and inclusion How does the recent focus on addressing evolving at Takeda? social justice and equality issues affect Takeda’s approach? Julie: It’s a priority to make a positive impact in this area — both inside and outside of our organization. Marcello: It’s helped to accelerate our progress as Our ambition is to drive positive change by promoting we recognize that we have a lot of room for growth and improving diversity, equity and inclusion with a in many areas and locations. We’re operating at focus on proactively eliminating bias. This is inclusive multiple levels — globally we’re establishing a Diversity, of underrepresented groups at the country level and Equity & Inclusion team to support companywide globally. What we’re aiming to do at the global level initiatives. Regionally, locally and at the functional is develop principles, frameworks and programs that level, we will continue with the efforts in place, will truly add value, and establish metrics to hold working closely with our TRGs. ourselves accountable. We’re committed to facilitating both companywide efforts and grassroots initiatives Julie: We will not tolerate any type of discrimination that address regional nuances and leverage local at Takeda. We’ll continue to foster an environment at advocates as sponsors. our company where people of diverse backgrounds, cultures and perspectives work together to inspire and enable health innovation for our patients. In addition, we need to make small but important changes in behavior to be inclusive, not just with our colleagues but also patients, partners and other stakeholders. As a values-based organization, we need to offer help and support where we see an opportunity to make a positive impact. “Our ambition is to drive positive change by promoting and improving diversity, equity and inclusion with a focus on proactively eliminating bias.” Julie Kim 2020 Sustainability Report 45 Our Commitment to the Planet 2020 Sustainability Report 46 PLANET Why It Matters Today, pressure on environmental health, as evidenced by degrading air quality, increasing scarcity of clean water and other natural resources, Carbon-Reduction Goals waning biodiversity and impacts of climate change, increasingly poses threats to human health. As a • B  y FY2020, we will be carbon neutral by responsible corporate citizen, we have to do our part offsetting our carbon emissions. to continually reduce our environmental footprint • By 2025, we commit to reducing 40% from FY2016 and fulfill our purpose of Better health for people, of GHG emissions in companywide operations and brighter future for the world. Moreover, internal and 15% from FY2018 of Scope 3 emissions. external stakeholders expect us to set a high standard • By 2040 we will be carbon zero in our operations in this respect — to care for the environment and without using offsets for our Scope 1 and 2 emistake actions that reduce our environmental impact sions and will be carbon neutral across our value throughout the entire life cycle of our products. chain by reducing Scope 3 emissions by 50% from FY2018 and offsetting remaining emissions. Our obligation to environmental stewardship and • Help 67% of our suppliers, by emissions, establish sustainable business directly aligns with our values their own science-based targets by 2024. of Takeda-ism and Patient-Trust-Reputation-Business. In this way, environmental stewardship becomes one more way that we work to fulfill our vision. 2020 Sustainability Report 47 PLANET In Conversation Thomas Wozniewski (left) Global Manufacturing & Supply Officer Teresa Bitetti (right) President, Global Oncology Business Unit What has Takeda learned from 50 years of Why did Takeda decide to become carbon engagement in environmental stewardship? neutral, and what will be the biggest challenge in achieving these goals? Thomas: Takeda’s engagement in environmental stewardship follows a holistic approach: Minimizing Thomas: Becoming carbon neutral is an important the environmental impact of our business by reducing milestone in our fight against climate change, and our carbon footprint, lowering water consumption this perfectly aligns with Takeda’s purpose of Better and producing less waste. This goes hand-in-hand health for people, brighter future for the world. with how we run our business. Takeda can build on 50 years of experience in this area and is wellOur biggest challenge, and at the same time the prepared to respond to changing expectations biggest lever, to achieve this is the fact that almost from the external world. 87% of our emissions come from our external value chain. Therefore, strong partnerships with our suppliers Teresa: It takes leadership and a commitment are the key to our success. First, we figure out where to innovation to find solutions that reduce our the emissions come from, then we evaluate where environmental footprint, improve efficiency, lower the largest opportunities are to reduce them, and costs and that can be put into practice across our then we work with our suppliers to develop clear business. Becoming a steward for the environment commitments to do this. requires action now and thinking for the long-term — taking steps that will make a positive difference Teresa: We believe the use of renewable energy is one for years to come, balancing social, environmental area where we see great potential to reduce Scope 3 and patient impact, and a willingness to share emissions. We’re also working actively in collaboration successful practices with others in our industry. with industry environment groups on issues such as setting standards or pharmaceutical suppliers to work better together. Climate change calls for us to all work together and move in the same direction. How does Takeda engage employees in its efforts to promote environmental stewardship? Thomas: We’ve introduced several initiatives, like the Carbon Abatement Program (CAP) that aims to help manufacturing sites reduce emissions and exchange best practices. At the same time, we encourage our employees to come forward with innovative ideas and to always think out of the box. Teresa: I believe that the culture at Takeda is the best foundation to give every employee the opportunity to make a difference. We also use awareness programs to educate colleagues on how Takeda is protecting the environment and how every individual has an impact. 2020 Sustainability Report 48 PLANET FY2019 Highlights At-A-Glance Introduced new climate, 60+ energy conservation water and waste environmental measures resulting in 5,600+ sustainability goals MTCO2e avoided GHG emissions55% reduction targets manufacturing sites certified to ISO 14001 approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative as meeting their most ambitious 1.5°C criteria Launched new EHS information management system to improve 855,000+ MWh 1 reporting, monitoring and managing of EHS performance metrics of renewable electricity purchased, a nearly 380% increase in renewable energy consumed from 2018 100% Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions mitigated 51% through the purchase of verified Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reductions totaling emissions reduction from 2016 4.3 million MTCO2e (includes purchased renewable energy certificates 80% for Scope 2 electricity emissions and excludes purchased verified emissions reductions) waste diverted from landfill 1 Includes 210,000 MWh of renewable electricity procured through guarantee of origin contracts and over 645,000 MWh of purchased Renewable Energy Certificates. 2020 Sustainability Report 49 PLANET Climate Change Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation Takeda’s largest sources of direct greenhouse gas •E ngaging our suppliers, which are outside of (GHG) emissions are from burning fossil fuels, such as our direct control, to set their own emissions natural gas or oil, in our manufacturing, research and reductions targets. commercial office sites (Scope 1 emissions), and the purchase of electricity and steam for our facilities In spite of these challenges, given the critical impact of (Scope 2 emissions). Emissions outside of our direct climate change on public health, we’re committed to operational control (Scope 3), but which result from setting a strong industry example. We demonstrated our business, however, contribute to the highest that commitment in 2019 by setting a long-term goal percentage of our GHG emissions footprint. of becoming 100% carbon neutral by 2040 across our value chain. Beginning with FY2019 emissions, we’ll We recognize that we’ll have to overcome many be carbon neutral across our value chain through challenges to achieve meaningful reductions in GHG investments in renewable energy and verified carbon emissions, some of which include: offsets for GHGs we are unable to eliminate. • Increased energy usage and associated GHG In support of our 2040 goal, we’ll work in stages to emissions as a result of continued business growth. eliminate all GHG emissions from Takeda operations • Reducing site energy usage in ways that do not (Scope 1 and Scope 2) through a variety of initiatives, impact Good Manufacturing Practices necessary including investments in energy conservation and for quality purposes. renewable energy. In addition, we’ll cut emissions • The lack of renewable electricity supply or market from our value chain (Scope 3) in half and mitigate mechanisms to procure it in certain countries. any remaining emissions through the purchase of • Reliance on incineration of certain waste streams verified carbon offsets. containing high potent Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients and other toxic substances as a proven and effective treatment technology. 2020 Sustainability Report 50 PLANET 2019 Progress Carbon Neutrality commitment investing in renewable energy and verified carbon Our new Carbon Neutrality strategy will help us offset projects across the world. In choosing projects focus on reducing our carbon emissions over the to invest in, we follow our Carbon Offset Procurement next two decades. This approach will allow us to Guidelines, which require that the following conditions care for patients and our planet for the long term, be considered as selection criteria: in collaboration with our business partners and stakeholders. We want our work environment to be • Includes reduction activities that would not one that’s part of a zero-carbon economy, with an have otherwise occurred without the assistance environmentally conscious culture that attracts and of our investments. retains the best talent. We’ve set aggressive goals • Demonstrates that no leakage or displacement of for the next two decades, endorsed by the Science emissions occurs as a result of the project activity. Based Targets initiative, and are putting a range of • Provides permanent reductions in GHGs or initiatives in place to reach our ambition. provides a mechanism to reduce this risk. • Relates to both the geography and the timeframe Carbon offsets and renewable energy of the generated emissions to be offset. In 2020, we reached our first milestone under the new strategy — to become carbon neutral across In addition, Takeda gives preference to projects our value chain. We achieved this goal through a that demonstrate co-benefits in addition to carbon combination of efforts, including implementing reductions; for example, carbon reduction projects projects to reduce site energy consumption, sourcing that also result in improvements to public health. Read additional renewable energy for our operations, and more in our Carbon Offset Procurement Guidelines. 2020 Sustainability Report 51 PLANET While we ultimately seek to be carbon neutral across our value chain without the use of offsets, we realize that some Scope 3 emissions will likely be unavoidable. We’ll mitigate these emissions using verified carbon offsets. We’re also working to set up a council of external environmental sustainability experts to advise us on this commitment in the 2020 fiscal year. FY2019 GHG Emissions Summary 7% Scope 1 direct emissions Scope 3 Emissions detail (resulting from fossil fuel burned at Takeda facilities and operation 83% Category 1: Purchased goods of commercial fleet vehicles) and services 333,000 MTCO2e 2% Category 3: Fuel and energyrelated activities not included 6% Scope 2 Indirect emissions1 in Scope 1 and 2 (resulting from the consumption of 7% Category 4: Upstream supplied electricity and heating and transportation & distribution cooling) 248,000 MTCO2e 2% Category 6: Business travel 87% Scope 3 indirect emissions 3% Category 7: Employee (not including Scope 2 that commuting  cope 1 S  cope 2 S  cope 3 S occur in Takeda’s value chain) 3% All other applicable categories Direct Indirect Indirect 3,943,000 MTCO2e emissions emissions emissions 1 S  cope 2 GHG emissions based on market-based methodology and do not include purchased renewable energy certificates (RECs). Inclusion of purchased RECs reduces Scope 2 GHG emissions to 113 terajoules or approximately 7,400 MTCO2e. The Carbon Neutrality program We have instituted a new governance structure with built-in accountability for progress toward our Improving Public Health Through goals, including overseeing efforts to reduce energy Carbon Offsets use and increasing renewable energy investments across our value chain. This Carbon Neutrality •T  he Nature Conservancy Working Woodlands Governance Team will also be responsible for: program: Helped preserve over 8,600 acres in the northeastern corner of Tennessee, U.S., as •G  uiding sites in reducing their energy consumption a privately held park, encouraging recreationand emissions. based tourism in a lower-income region by • Increasing the percentage of renewable energy offsetting 15,400 MTCO2e. generated on site or sourced from energy suppliers. • High-quality solar energy systems in India: • Leading internal and external engagement and Helped reduce electricity bills for residential and climate policy advocacy. commercial customers by more than 50% when • Measuring and disclosing GHG emissions. solar energy is used for water heating; providing • Identifying and managing climate-related risks reliable light after sunset that allows more time and opportunities. for work and school; and creating over 300 skilled • Engaging employees and other stakeholders in jobs by offsetting 3,400 MTCO2e. reducing energy consumption and emissions. • Solar cookstoves in rural China: Helped improve • Engaging suppliers in reducing their emissions. indoor air quality by investing in the installation of solar cookers for rural farmers in remote areas This new governance framework will also help of China to replace coal for cooking and hot develop internal guidelines and establish reporting water needs by offsetting 1,347 MTCO2e. lines to the Business Review Committee and to the Board of Directors. At our manufacturing and R&D locations, including our BioLife centers, around the world, Takeda leaders review local climate-related risks and opportunities. Any new and significant risks identified through audits and other activities are reported to the Risk, Ethics 2020 Sustainability Report 52 PLANET FY2019 GHG Emissions by Scope SCOPE SCOPE SCOPE 1 2 3 333,000 248,000 3,943,000 tonnes tonnes tonnes No change 31% reduction 2% increase from 2016 from 2016 from 2018 Direct emissions from Indirect emissions from the All indirect emissions not owned or controlled generation of purchased included in Scope 2 that sources energy such as electricity occur in the value chain and third-party supplied energy for heating and cooling All remaining FY2019 GHG emissions were mitigated with renewable energy certificates and verified emission reductions. and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors, which manages risk company-wide. We plan to expand our public reporting to include disclosures in line with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures in FY2021. We will continue to manage relevant climate-related risks through our Enterprise Risk Management program. Carbon emissions We measure our GHG emissions across the value chain in alignment with GHG Protocol Corporate OUR GOAL: Accounting and Reporting Standard, a well-known Help and recognized standard. The accuracy of our reported GHG emissions is independently verified every year. 67% of our suppliers, by emissions, Working with suppliers The majority of our GHG emissions are Scope 3, which establish their own scienceare emissions outside of our direct operational control. based targets by 2024 Our Carbon Neutrality commitment, however, extends across our entire value chain, and we’ve committed to working with partners and suppliers to reduce indirect emissions wherever possible. Working together Introducing Carbon Abatement in the coming years, we’ll encourage suppliers to set science-based targets, measure progress regularly Program for Sites (CAPS) and create incentives for action to significantly reduce Scope 3 emissions. We’ll also report Scope 3 emissions CAPS is being introduced at all Takeda each year and include suppliers in renewable energy manufacturing sites, BioLife, R&D and Hub projects. We’re developing a dedicated site that offices as a way to help reduce their GHG includes trackers and key performance indicators emissions in line with our corporate targets. (KPIs) for GHG emissions reduction projects. This Every site is building local CAPS teams to will be a useful tool to understand how and where consider how local investments might impact to lower or eliminate emissions. (Read more about climate change and developing long-range our supplier engagement efforts on Page 73.) plans to reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions at their facility. 2020 Sustainability Report 53 PLANET Environmental Management For nearly 50 years, Takeda has actively engaged Many of our operations are focused on improving in environmental stewardship initiatives, since efficiency in manufacturing and transportation of establishing an Environmental Protection Committee products to help reduce environmental impact. Some in 1970. All of our manufacturing, BioLife and R&D of these processes can be carbon intensive, like the sites are required to establish and operate an EHS cold-chain transportation and storage that some of management system based on our global EHS our products require. Operations like these give us an management system. Each Takeda site assesses its opportunity to improve efficiency, as well as reducing risks and opportunities, then prioritizes actions to costs and our environmental footprint. address them. This process involves establishing goals, developing and executing action plans to attain Product stewardship them, monitoring performance and reviewing the Product stewardship means that we take responsibility outcomes for continuous improvement opportunities. for the impact of our products on the environment and The corporate EHS team continues to enhance EHS on people’s health and safety, through all stages of its standards and the technical guidance to further life cycle — from research of a product to its design, reduce risk and improve EHS performance under the production, use and disposal. In particular, our product framework of the global EHS management system. stewardship efforts focus on the following areas: Today, 20 manufacturing sites are certified to the International Standards Organization (ISO) 14001 •C  onsidering green chemistry in our R&D processes. Environmental Management Systems standard and • Minimizing product packaging, while maximizing 12 manufacturing sites are certified to the ISO 45001 recycled content and recyclability. Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems • Reducing GHG emissions in product transport. standard. The standards are considered to be the • Considering a product’s environmental life cycle global best practice for EHS management. Our intent to identify opportunities for improvement. is to have all manufacturing sites certified to ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 within three years. For example, our Flexbumin 5% and 25% products are both certified by the Carbon Trust, an organization that helps companies become more sustainable. 2020 Sustainability Report 54 PLANET Flexbumin is used for multiple purposes, including cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. The sustainability benefits of the plastic containers relative to glass containers include: Celebrating World Environment Day •U  sing just four containers of Flexbumin 25% Each year, Takeda employees around the world (100 mL) per day for a week instead of glass celebrate World Environment Day to raise awareness bottles provides the same CO2 reduction as of the environment while highlighting the connection using 11 fewer liters of gasoline. between a healthy planet and global health. In 2019, •U  sing just five containers of Flexbumin 5% per day we hosted an online pledge campaign to promote provides the same CO2 reduction as using personal action against climate change and supported 3.75 liters less of gasoline. the Arbor Day Foundation to plant an additional • It takes about 8.9 discarded 50 mL Flexbumin 40,000 trees to promote better air and water quality 25% containers to equal the weight of just one in areas of need. discarded glass bottle of equal volume. • The container film is composed of materials that allow it to be processed without creating harmful residues such as dioxins when incinerated according to established industry standards. Manufacturing EHS Certifications ISO 45001 ISO 14001 ISO 50001 Occupational Environmental Energy Country City Health & Safety Management Management Management Systems Systems Systems 1 Austria Linz X 2 Austria Orth an der Donau X X 3 Austria Vienna X X 4 Belgium Lessines X X 5 Brazil Jaguariúna X 6 China Tianjin X 7 Germany Oranienburg X X 8 Germany Singen X 9 India Vashi, Navi Mumbai X X 10 Ireland Grange Castle X 11 Italy Pisa X X 12 Italy Rieti X X 13 Japan Fukuchiyama X 14 Japan Hikari X 15 Japan Osaka X 16 Singapore Singapore X X 17 Switzerland Neuchâtel X X 18 United States Los Angeles, CA X X 19 United States Round Lake, IL X 20 United States Social Circle, GA X X 21 United States Thousand Oaks, CA X X 2020 Sustainability Report 55 PLANET Environmental Projects: A Snapshot LA Solar Installation Our Los Angeles, California, U.S., manufacturing facility is working to install a 564 kW rooftop solar panel system along with a 2 MWh Tesla Powerpack energy storage station. Once installation is completed in 2021, this investment in renewable energy will help lower electricity purchases by approximately 833 MWh annually and reduce associated GHG emissions by approximately 280 metric tonnes per year. Transitioning From Air Freight to Sea Freight Our Distribution & Logistics team now transports human albumin, the serum found in human blood, by sea versus air. In 2019, Takeda received temperature validations from the first sea shipments, reporting the successful transportation of the albumin within the required temperature range. This opens the possibility for further transitions to sea freight, which could reduce GHG emissions by 8,000 tonnes per year. THE POWER OF DATA AND DIGITAL BioLife Cloud Migration In our industry-leading BioLife plasma donation centers, we have introduced a new digital strategy in part to speed up Takeda’s cloud data migration. We began our journey to the cloud in 2019, which reduced the number of servers in our data centers and at BioLife facilities. As part of the strategy, we also plan to replace hardware throughout the business with more efficient devices, aiming to complete the entire project in 2022. Once complete, the project will contribute to the reduction of Takeda’s overall data center power consumption by 80% and carbon emissions by 85% (more than 1,400 tonnes) through cloud migration and hardware upgrades. 2020 Sustainability Report 56 PLANET Manufacturing Facilities: Asker, Norway Linz, Austria Installing new, energy-efficient, waterImplemented a number of initiatives that cooled air compressors resulting in will help reduce energy consumption 156,000 kWh savings annually. The new and GHG emissions including installing air compressors will also recycle heat new roof insulation, triple glazed that will be used to warm the site’s windows and several charging stations warehouse, providing an additional to encourage electric vehicle use. energy savings of 235,000 kWh per year. Once fully operational the new system will reduce GHG emissions by over 90 MTCO2e per year. Los Angeles, U.S. GHG emissions have been reduced Bray, Ireland by nearly 7,600 metric tonnes since FY2016 through improved operational efficiency from replacing aging Switched its electricity supply to operations and the site’s continual 100% renewable wind energy, resulting pursuit of energy-reduction projects. in a 56% reduction in the site’s GHG footprint. The site is working on achieving additional GHG reductions through equipment upgrades and Oranienburg, Germany energy efficiency projects. Powered by 100% renewable electricity, the site has installed new, energyGrange Castle, Ireland efficient cold water circulation pumps for an annual savings of 90,000 kW. Switched its electricity supply to 100% renewable wind energy. The site also upgraded steam traps to reduce steam Tianjin Plant, China wastage and replaced old, inefficient lighting with new LED lighting Reduced the need for conventional throughout the site, resulting in electricity and lowered GHG emissions 750 MTCO2e saved annually. by installing onsite solar panels that generate 936 MWh of energy annually. Hikari Plant, Japan Yaroslavl, Russia Reduced GHG emissions by more than 600 metric tons per year by upgrading Installed natural gas-based HVAC the site’s cooling system to a more (heating, ventilation, air conditioning) energy-efficient centrifugal water system, reducing GHG emissions chilling unit. by approximately 20% over the previous system. 2020 Sustainability Report 57 PLANET Natural Resource Conservation As part of our commitment to environmental We have a long history of reducing water consumption stewardship, we have established new goals related in our manufacturing facilities by investing in waterto water and waste management practices. The new efficient equipment and processes, as well as by goals will help focus our efforts on these important maximizing water reuse where possible. These environmental challenges. initiatives will continue as we pursue our environmental sustainability goals. Since the processing of water Water requires significant amounts of energy, many of Water scarcity and quality issues are global concerns; these initiatives have the benefit of not just saving however, the challenges regarding water must be water, but also reducing energy and associated GHG managed at the local level. At Takeda, we’re working to emissions. We’re proud that, as a result of these understand our water impacts across our company, site efforts, we achieved our 2020 water stewardship by site, so that we can focus our efforts at the locations goal ahead of schedule, allowing us to establish a where we can make the most meaningful difference. new context-based water stewardship strategy, Understanding our water impact goes beyond which includes the following long-term goals: measuring water consumption and includes assessing local water risk — looking at factors such as access •B  y FY2021, Takeda will establish mitigation plans, to water challenges, regulations, biodiversity, future risk-reduction goals and water conservation goals demand and seasonal fluctuations in water availability. for 100% of sites with high water-related risks. • By FY2025, Takeda will reduce water consumption Currently, we assess local water risks using by 5% from a FY2019 baseline. the World Resources Institute Aqueduct and WWF Water Risk Filter Tools, which indicate In 2019, we withdrew 11,114 thousand cubic meters that approximately 22% of our manufacturing of fresh water and discharged 8,175 thousand cubic sites are located in areas considered to have meters. Water consumption was due to inclusion in “high” or “extremely high” water risk. Remaining finished product, site cooling and irrigation purposes. manufacturing sites are in areas considered to have “low” to “medium” water risk. This mapping process will help us target and prioritize our efforts. 2020 Sustainability Report 58 PLANET Wastewater and chemical substances with national, state and local discharge regulatory Takeda manages the quality of effluent wastewater obligations. We partner with and communicate our in line with the following principles: EHS requirements to our contract management organizations (CMOs) to prevent the release of •P revent negative effects on people and hazardous substances and byproducts into the the ecosystem. environment. We comply with regulatory requirements •C omply with applicable laws and regulations. to perform environmental risk assessments and •M anage wastewater proactively, based on toxicological and safety assessments to evaluate scientific evidence, substance concentrations and build in environmental and patient safety as and environmental toxicity. part of our marketing authorization applications in the U.S. and internationally. We continually review We handle a wide variety of chemical substances, regulatory requirements for products we manufacture including our pharmaceutical products, and we internally and through CMOs, to minimize the impact manage these substances in ways that minimize on the environment. emissions in line with our policies. This includes better understanding and limiting the potential impact of In addition to proactive waste management and APIs and the larger issue of Pharmaceuticals in wastewater treatment processes, Takeda also the Environment (PiE) from our manufacturing collaborates to address PiE and antimicrobial and R&D operations. resistance (AMR). For example, Takeda is part of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical We manage requirements for PiE in our manufacturing Industries and Associations (EFPIA) consortium facilities through robust waste management and that is involved in developing a position and wastewater treatment processes, while complying roadmap for addressing PiE at the industry level. 2020 Sustainability Report 59 PLANET Additionally, due to the increasing number of bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics, Takeda is one of more than 20 leading biopharmaceutical companies that have launched the AMR Action Fund, a groundbreaking partnership that aims to bring two to four new antibiotics to patients by 2030. The Fund is working on two primary areas of focus: • Bolster and accelerate the research and development of antibiotics through investment and sharing of industry resources and knowledge with biotechnology companies. •C  reate a unique, collaborative platform with support from multilateral development banks, philanthropic funders, other impact funds and strategic partners to facilitate policy reforms to Brazil Plant Achieves 100% create an environment that encourages long-term investment into antibiotic R&D. Zero-Waste-to-Landfill Designation Waste Takeda’s manufacturing facility in Jaguariúna, Brazil, We work to reduce the amount of waste sent to has achieved 100% zero waste to landfill, including landfill, first by limiting the amount of waste we construction, demolition, organic and hazardous generate and then by reusing what we can and waste, but excluding general waste. The facility recycling the rest. We’ve set a goal to achieve reached the milestone after working for over a zero waste-to-landfill status for all major locations2 year toward the goal. by 2030. In 2019, Takeda generated 74,108 tonnes of Trends in Waste Generation and waste, of which 71% was recycled. An additional 9% was diverted from landfill via incineration Waste Management1 without energy recovery or via other treatment 100 80,000 technologies. Total Waste Generated (Metric Tons) 90 70,000 Many of our sites have begun finding innovative 80 solutions that not only reduce waste, but also help 60,000 reduce energy and associated GHG emissions. For 70 50,000 example, Takeda’s Thousand Oaks, California, U.S., 60 Percent site introduced the AeroSafe® 18L and 39L ISC 40,000 50 shipping solutions, which are reusable while offering a simple pack-out and maintain 40 30,000 temperatures between 2-8°C. With vacuum30 insulated panels and phase-change material, they 20,000 20 can be refrigerated to extend their life, making 10,000 them a “green solution” that will help reduce our 10 carbon footprint. 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Recycled 59% 65% 62% 32% Incinerated with 8% 9% 10% 39% Energy Recovery Other Disposal/ 13% 10% 7% 1% Treatment Incinerated 4% 2% 4% 8% Landfilled 16% 14% 17% 20% Total Waste 61,608 59,619 70,758 74,108 Generated 1  hanges in FY2019 waste management percentages compared to past performance C are attributed to the harmonization of waste tracking reporting practices after the integration of the Shire acquisition. 2 Major locations include manufacturing, R&D sites, BioLife plasma donation centers and major commercial office locations. 2020 Sustainability Report 60 PLANET Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Performance Data — FY2019 Category/Metric FY2019 Data1 KPMG Assured Energy (Terajoules) Purchased Electricity (Non-Renewable) 2,217 Purchased Electricity (Renewable)2 758 Onsite Generated Renewable Electricity 4 Percent Electricity Sourced as Renewable3 26% Percent Electricity as Renewable Including Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) 100% Supplied Heating and Cooling 113 Fuel Consumption4 4,891 Total Energy Consumption 7,983 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Thousand MTCO2e)5 Scope 1 Emissions 333 Scope 2 Emissions — location-based methodology 319 Scope 2 Emissions — market-based methodology 248 Scope 3, all applicable categories 3,943 Total GHG Emissions6 4,524 Carbon Neutrality Purchased Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) — Thousand MTCO2e7 4,308 Purchased RECs — Terajoules 2,324 Percent Reported GHG Emissions Mitigated by Purchased VERs and RECs 100% Air Emissions (Metric Tons) Sulphur Oxides (SOx) and Nitrous Oxides (NOx) Emissions8 110 VOCs 130 Water (Thousand Cubic Meters) Water Withdrawal 11,114 Water Withdrawal in Areas with High or Extremely High Water Risk9 1,223 Water Withdrawal in Areas with Medium-High Water Risk9 1,237 Water Withdrawal in Areas with Low or Low-Medium Water Risk9 8,369 Wastewater Discharged 8,175 Water Consumed10 2,939 Quantity of Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Discharged Metric Tons11 46 Waste (Metric Tons) Total Regulated Waste Generated 34,184 Total Non-Hazardous Waste Generated 39,924 Total Waste Generated 74,108 Percent Waste Recycled12 71% Percent Waste Sent to Landfill 20% Health & Safety Incident Rates (per 200,000 hours worked) Total Recordable Incident Rate 0.92 Incidents with Days Lost Rate 0.23 Significant Spills and Releases Number of Notices of Violation or Citations Received 7 Total Number and Volume of Significant Spills 0 1 The scope of Takeda operations is as follows: For total energy consumption, Scope 1 and Scope 2 market, and location-based GHG emissions, the scope of Takeda operations includes all manufacturing and R&D sites, United States and Austria plasma collection centers, Takeda headquarters and commercial office locations. For all other environmental performance indicators, the scope of Takeda operations includes all manufacturing and R&D sites, United States and Austria plasma collection centers, and larger commercial offices where such data was available. Contributions from smaller commercial office locations are not included. For Health & Safety performance indicators, the scope of Takeda operations includes all manufacturing and R&D sites, United States and Austria plasma collection centers, and commercial office locations, covering approximately 95% of all employees. 2 Includes renewable electricity purchased through bundled guarantees of origin contracts. Excludes unbundled renewable energy purchased through renewable energy certificates. 3 Excludes electricity produced onsite through combined heat and power or fuel cell systems, as well as purchased renewable energy certificates. 4 Excludes the energy content of fuel used for commercial fleet vehicles. GHG emissions from commercial fleet vehicles are included in Scope 1 emissions. Calculated using the default heat content of the consumed fuels from the “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Guidance, Direct Emissions from Stationary Combustion Sources” (U.S. EPA, January 2016). 5 Scope 1 emissions are calculated using the GHG emission factors from the GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools (2017). Scope 2 location-based emissions from purchased electricity are calculated using the country-specific emission factors published by the IEA and U.S. EPA. Scope 2 market-based emissions from purchased electricity are calculated using the supplier-specific emission factors when available, and country-specific emission factors published by the IEA and U.S. EPA when not available. See page 99 for Scope 3 emissions calculation methodology per category. 6 Total GHG emissions calculated using the Scope 2 market-based total. 7 Purchased Verified Emission Reductions sufficient to cover Scope 1 and Scope 3 GHG emissions in addition to Scope 2 GHG emissions from supplied heating and cooling. Total GHG emissions mitigated is 4,283,098 MTCO2e. 8 NOx and SOx emissions calculated based on fuel consumption data and emission factors from the U.S. EPA Publication “Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors, AP-42, Fifth Edition, Volume 1: Stationary Point and Area Sources.” 9 Overall water risk rating based on the World Resource Institute Aqueduct 3.0 tool. Overall water risk measures all water-related risks by aggregating all selected indicators from the Physical Risk Quantity, Physical Risk Quality, and Regulatory and Reputational Risk categories. Higher values indicate higher water risk. 10 Water consumed represents the difference between water withdrawals and wastewater discharges. 11 COD Emission data reflects COD loading associated with the direct discharge of Takeda-treated wastewater to a receiving waterway. 12 Recycled includes materials sent offsite for processing prior to reuse, as well as materials sent offsite for incineration with energy recovery. 2020 Sustainability Report 61 Governance & Fundamentals of Responsible Business 2020 Sustainability Report 62 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance of the Takeda Group who report directly to the Role of the Board of Directors President and CEO, based on Takeda Group’s Management Policy (T-MAP). Takeda aims for agile The Takeda Board of Directors focuses on discussing and efficient decision-making across the group. and resolving strategic or particularly important matters such as the establishment of and amendments Compositions of the Board of Directors and TET to the company’s corporate philosophy, as well as The Board of Directors has 16 directors, including important management policies and plans such as 11 who are independent, external directors. The Board midto long-term strategies and corporate plans. of Directors is chaired by an Independent External The Board of Directors Bylaws specify the matters Director. The Board of Director meetings are chaired for resolution by the Board of Directors. In addition by an Independent External Director in order to to deliberation and resolution of the matters, the be able to make the best decisions. The Board Board of Directors is responsible for the supervision of Directors consists of directors from inside and of business executed by directors. outside the company, irrespective of nationality or gender, who can contribute to the balance of • The Board of Directors delegates responsibilities for knowledge, experience and capability needed for decision-making regarding some of the important governance of the company’s global operations. business decisions to management under Takeda’s TET members are diverse in nationality and gender Articles of Incorporation. Specifically, these decisions (12 men and six women) and consider the perspective are delegated to the Business Review Committee of many other stakeholders in their discussions and (general management matters), the Portfolio Review decision-making. Committee (R&D and product-related matters) and the Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee (risk Audit and Supervisory Committee management, business ethics and compliance The Audit and Supervisory Committee ensures matters). The Board of Directors supervises its independency and effectiveness, in line with management’s execution of these matters through “Rules of Audit and Supervisory Committee’s Audit, the committees’ reports. etc.” This Committee conducts audits of directors’ • Matters not requiring the approval of the performance of duties and performs any other duties aforementioned committees are delegated to stipulated in applicable laws and regulations and in the Takeda Executive Team (TET), which consists Takeda’s Articles of Incorporation. of the President and CEO and the function heads Shareholders’ Meeting Advisory Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Supervisory Committee Board of Directors Chair: Independent Director Compensation Committee Takeda Executive Team (TET) Business Review Portfolio Review Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee (BRC) Committee (PRC) Committee (RECC) Business Units • Business Functions • Business Partners 2020 Sustainability Report 63 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Board of Directors Internal Directors Independent directors1 CB NC CC CHRISTOPHE WEBER2 MASAHIRO SAKANE OLIVIER BOHUON Representative Director, Independent Director Independent Director President & CEO Chair of the Board meeting Chair of Nomination Committee NC CC MASATO IWASAKI JEAN-LUC BUTEL IAN CLARK Director, President, Independent Director Independent Director Japan Pharma Business Unit CC NC ANDREW PLUMP YOSHIAKI FUJIMORI STEVEN GILLIS Director, President, Independent Director Independent Director Research & Development NC COSTA SAROUKOS SHIRO KUNIYA TOSHIYUKI SHIGA Director, Independent Director Independent Director Chief Financial Officer CC Audit & Supervisory KOJI HATSUKAWA Independent Director, EMIKO HIGASHI Independent Director Committee (A&SC) Chair of A&SC3 A&SC3 member Chair of Compensation Committee CB CHAIR OF THE BOARD MEETING INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS1 NC NOMINATION COMMITTEE2 NC NC COMPENSATION COMMITTEE YASUHIKO YAMANAKA MICHEL ORSINGER 1 As defined by Tokyo Stock Exchange listing rules Director, Independent Director 2 Christophe Weber participates in the Nomination A&SC3 member A&SC3 Member Committee as an observer 3 Audit & Supervisory Committee 2020 Sustainability Report 64 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Takeda Executive Team JAPAN CHRISTOPHE WEBER COSTA SAROUKOS MASATO IWASAKI TAKAKO OHYABU President & CEO Chief Financial Officer President, Japan Pharma Chief Global Corporate Business Unit Affairs Officer YOSHIHIRO NAKAGAWA PADMA THIRUVENGADAM MILANO FURUTA Global General Counsel Chief Human Resources Corporate Strategy Officer Officer & Chief of Staff US ANDY PLUMP RAMONA SEQUEIRA TERESA BITETTI President, Research President, U.S. Business Unit & President, Global Oncology & Development Global Portfolio Commercialization Business Unit SINGAPORE RAJEEV VENKAYYA GERARD (JERRY) GRECO MARCELLO AGOSTI RICARDO MAREK President, Global Global Quality Officer Global Business President, Growth & Emerging Vaccine Business Unit Development Officer Markets Business Unit SWITZERLAND GILES PLATFORD JULIE KIM THOMAS WOZNIEWSKI MWANA LUGOGO President, Europe & President, Plasma-Derived Global Manufacturing Chief Ethics & Compliance Canada Business Unit Therapies Business Unit & Supply Officer Officer 2020 Sustainability Report 65 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Total rewards and compensation We strive to provide competitive total compensation to the TET and our colleagues around the world. We aim to reward purposeful performance and deliver on our commitments to patients, colleagues and shareholders. We structured our KPIs for both the shortand long-term incentive plans for FY2019, aligning rewards for the CEO, the TET and our colleagues to the most critical business priorities for the company. Our total rewards philosophy pushes us to achieve: •C  ompetitive Differentiation. Differentiate through a focus on purposeful performance (based on our values), delivering target total compensation at the Nomination and Compensation Committees median to upper quartile of a competitive market. The Nomination Committee and the Compensation • Global Mindset, Local Application. Leverage global Committee serve as advisory bodies to the Board scale and align total rewards to relevant local of Directors. These committees serve to ensure market conditions and factors. transparency and objectivity in decision-making • Performance Impact. Differentiate individual processes and results relating to personnel matters employee performance for those most significantly for directors. The majority of each committee’s impacting success of the organization. members must be external members (in FY2020, • Employer of Choice. Enhance reputation as a both the Nomination Committee and Compensation values-driven global employer of choice; strengthen Committee are composed entirely of external ability to attract and retain top talent through living members). Additionally, at least one director who our values and through differentiated Total Rewards. is an Audit and Supervisory Committee member must be assigned to each committee. Directors We aim to achieve these objectives through a are appointed and reappointed based on proper combination of three primary components of our qualifications and procedures, and succession plans executive compensation structure: A base salary, are in place. The Compensation Committee reviews short-term incentive (STI) and long-term equity the goals and results of performance-linked incentives (LTI). The mix of compensation for our compensation, the company’s incentive-based TET makes sure we link executive compensation KPIs and targets, the amount of compensation for with individual, executive group and company directors and the public disclosure of compensation, performance. A substantial portion of the target etc., and the committee further provides guidance to pay for executives is performance-based. The annual the Board of Directors. The Nomination Committee STI and LTI payouts are contingent upon company reviews directors’ candidates and the succession performance, with the STI factoring in performance plan of directors’ candidates, and the committee over a one-year period and LTI performance share further provides guidance to the Board of Directors. unit (PSU) compensation factoring in performance over a three-year period. Internal Audit and Corporate EHS The Group Internal Audit, Quality Audit, and the Corporate EHS (environment, health and safety) Shareholder engagement groups in the Global Manufacturing & Supply division conduct regular internal audits of their areas of focus Takeda is committed to regular, ongoing engagement for the Takeda organization using their respective with shareholders to make sure that we continue guiding documents, the Group Internal Audit Charter to understand shareholder feedback about our and Global Policy on EHS. compensation program and incorporate that feedback into the compensation decision-making process. In FY2019 Takeda had more than 750 meetings and conference calls with shareholders, investors and Learn More analysts, with their feedback helping inform the Compensation Committee’s continuous assessment On the company’s FY2019 KPIs of the program design and ongoing discussions with shareholders. Visit our corporate governance website 2020 Sustainability Report 66 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Director compensation compensation, which is paid in a fixed amount, and stock compensation. Equity pay is designed To be best-in-class, we must attract diverse and to strengthen the links between compensation, highly skilled business leaders to serve on our Board company performance and share price, and to of Directors. Compensation for our directors must reinforce the commitment to increasing corporate be competitive on a global basis. The Compensation value in the midand long-term. Committee, comprised of external directors, advises the Board of Directors on pay practices for the Board of Directors, including internal directors and defines Learn More the President and CEO compensation. Compensation for external directors and those who serve on the See Executive Compensation Audit and Supervisory Committee consists of base structure and philosophy Governing our sustainability efforts Just as we do with our business activities, we aim to create as many positive impacts as possible in our sustainability efforts. This requires a disciplined approach in choosing which initiatives to take on and making sure they are carried out effectively. There are four steps in our sustainability governance process: 1 DECISION-MAKING Important sustainability-related matters receive consideration from Takeda’s top leadership. Typically, these matters are elevated to Takeda’s Business Review Committee (BRC), the Takeda Executive Team (TET) or the Board of Directors. 2 DUE DILIGENCE Sustainability is an important factor in our business decisions. For example, we identify any impacts, or potential impacts, that our business activities might have on society and the environment. Relevant divisions lead efforts to take appropriate measures to manage these impacts and to sustain corporate value. 3 IMPLEMENTATION Material issues are shared with the Takeda Sustainability Network, consisting of a cross-functional team of leaders throughout the company who work to make progress toward our goals. DISCLOSURE 4 A dedicated team within Takeda’s Corporate Affairs function helps communicate sustainabilityrelated information, referencing the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Advanced Level criteria, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) guidelines and others. 2020 Sustainability Report 67 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Crisis Management Crisis management is a critical part of our corporate As with risk management (see “Risk Management” governance, enabling us to keep operating in times section), our businesses and functions are responsible of crisis. Our Group Global Crisis Management Policy for establishing their own crisis management lays out basic policies, rules and standards for crisis systems, introducing preventive measures and taking management. The Policy supports the systems and appropriate action if a crisis occurs. In the event of operations we have in place to respond to a crisis a crisis calling for companywide action, a Global swiftly and effectively, and minimize any potential Crisis Management Committee (GCMC), chaired by harm to our people, Takeda’s finances or the world our President and CEO, will coordinate the response. around us. For example, in January 2020, we activated a GCMC to help govern our response and efforts to the COVID-19 pandemic. Taxation Takeda’s operations incur a significant amount To comply with applicable disclosure regulations and of business tax in a number of forms, including to support our transparent approach to taxation, corporate income taxes, customer duties, excise we’ve published “Takeda’s Position on Taxation” on taxes, property taxes, stamp duties and employment our corporate website. This document explains our taxes, such as those for public benefit and retirement approach to the following: plans. We also collect and pay employee taxes and indirect taxes such value-added tax. The taxes we •  overnance, risk management and compliance G collect and pay are part of our contribution to local • Transfer pricing policies economies and their well-being. • Tax strategy • Interactions with tax authorities We’re committed to compliance with prevailing tax • Current framework of international taxation laws where we do business and building transparent, • Level of tax risk we are prepared to accept professional and constructive relationships with tax authorities. We support increasing public trust and transparency in national and international tax regimes. Learn More Our position on taxation 2020 Sustainability Report 68 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Quality Management Quality, in the decisions we make and the medicines regulatory reporting or market actions are taken. In we produce, is the foundation for executing our vision, keeping with our “as local as possible, as global as purpose and values. needed” approach, we’ve established local Quality Councils, which provide oversight, monitor quality and At Takeda, the Global Quality organization covers all compliance, and communicate with senior management. end-to-end aspects of the Takeda business, from R&D through Manufacturing, Distribution and Commercial. Quality Councils help information flow between It also includes oversight of BioLife for plasma collection regional/operating unit councils and Global Quality and our Vaccines business. Takeda’s Global Quality Councils, so issues get resolved at the lowest organization continually reinforces and supports the possible level and trends are more easily noticed need for all quality decisions to align with our values. and addressed. Takeda’s focus on quality also helps keep innovation, continuous improvement, knowledge and best practice sharing as key components in the Takeda culture. Quality strategy Quality decisions at Takeda are always taken in Quality governance alignment with our company values, with a focus on the priorities of putting the Patient first, building Global Quality at Takeda is built on three pillars: Trust with society, reinforcing our Reputation and Science, System and People, and is fully aligned supporting our Business. Quality decisions are taken with Takeda’s functions and business partners. The transparently and in alignment with our approach Quality organization is led by the Global Quality to partner with all global health authorities as we Officer, who reports to the president and CEO. The maintain our favorable regulatory profile. Global Quality Council provides oversight on global performance, trends and opportunities. Takeda Global Quality has made significant progress on its has created a standard structure for the Quality Quality Roadmap in support of Takeda’s vision. The organizations in our manufacturing sites. That way, roadmap is reviewed annually and updated as needed functions, roles and responsibilities stay consistent to make sure it reflects advancements in the regulatory throughout the organization. and pharmaceutical environment and the company strategy. In the past year, we’ve made significant Any Quality or Good Management Practice (GMP) progress in laboratory transformation, supplier quality compliance incident that might affect distributed management, quality incident management and products is sent to Takeda Senior Management by the defining and clarifying global versus local strategies, all global Quality Incident Management team. Quality while working to maintain a positive regulatory profile incidents are quickly evaluated, and any necessary and delivering innovative products to our patients. Quality Roadmap Foundational & continued Competitive global transformation Proactive advantage Science Established Enabled Forefront & understood Systems Data collected Date reliable Data driven, & understood & integrated predictive People Development Flexibility Talent chooses & behaviors & culture Quality 2020 Sustainability Report 69 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Our clinical studies are designed to protect the safety and well-being of our patients and the integrity of our clinical trial data. Integration progress Product quality and safety We completed the significant task of combining Global Quality continually emphasizes consistency our well-performing Quality Management Systems and excellence in our quality decisions throughout (QMS) into one harmonized system. At the same the company. We use best practices for research, time, we designed our Global Quality organization development and safety evaluation throughout the with the combined new business in mind. Now, all entire product life cycle. This focus enables Takeda our global standards and procedures are covered to develop innovative, safe and effective medicines. in a single Quality Policy that provides clarity and compliance and meets current industry expectations. Global Quality partners with R&D to ensure compliance with governing laws and regulations, as During integration, we used AGILE, a Global well as with our own internal rules and standards. Manufacturing and Supply and Global Quality In research and nonclinical studies, we require (GMSGQ) program specifically driving Lab high data integrity standards. Our clinical studies, & Operational Excellence, to standardize our regardless of the phase or market where they are processes and programs. We are continuing the conducted, are designed to protect the safety and program within the entire GMSGQ network of well-being of our patients and the integrity of our Takeda sites as a part of Agile 4.0. By applying Lean clinical trial data. We make sure that our studies are tools, our labs have become more efficient, and our conducted in accordance with scientifically sound lab analysts are more engaged and empowered protocols and that data are collected, analyzed and to make decisions. We also harmonized a system reported in a transparent and responsible manner. of key metrics and planned the beginning of key Quality IT systems. As our products reach the production and distribution stage, standards are just as high. All investigational Electronic (IT) Quality systems remain a top priority. medicinal products and pharmaceutical products are We focus on standardization, simplification and produced and controlled in accordance with current alignment with industry best practices in order to GMP. The integrity and security of our products are speed up systems integration, manage costs and protected by our compliance with Good Distribution complexity, and lay a foundation for advanced Practice. Once products are released, we continue to analytics. Planning is underway for our three key ensure quality by collecting important information systems platforms. from clinical investigators and the market. In this way, 2020 Sustainability Report 70 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS we work to detect potential quality issues at an early groups in addressing pathogen safety and active stage and build continuous improvement into our approaches to addressing emerging viral agents. quality processes. We monitor the safety of all Takeda products, Product anticounterfeiting measures continuously collecting safety information in the development phase of new medicines and throughout Counterfeit, falsified and other illegally traded the time they are marketed. We use this information medicines present significant threats to consumers to detect any signs of safety problems. If we find and patients around the globe. With the growing a potential problem, we promptly notify health trend of illegal operations targeting medicines used authorities, health care providers and companies to treat and prevent complex diseases, the industry marketing our products. We also provide information faces increasing challenges to safeguard patient on appropriate product use. health and its products. Takeda is taking a holistic, risk-based approach to identify and lessen the risks of falsified, illegal and other types of suspect Regulatory engagement products to keep our patients safe. A dedicated Global Product Protection team uses a strategic We work to maintain and strengthen relationships approach by collaborating with internal functions with regulatory bodies. For example, we’re active and external agencies to carry out this mission. participants in a number of industry trade groups such as International Society for Pharmaceutical We partner actively with international and local law Engineering (ISPE), Parenteral Drug Association enforcement, regulatory agencies, other pharmaceutical (PDA), Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing companies and industry organizations to combat Leadership Forum (GPMLF) and Pharmaceutical counterfeiting and illegal trading, while also educating Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). patients, supply chain partners and customers on This involvement includes active contributions to the dangers associated with these activities. Through working teams and proposals for improving overall partnerships such as IFPMA “Fight the Fakes” Campaign current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs). and Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies (ASOP), we contribute to grassroots education for patients. In addition, we participate in external conferences where global regulators, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Brazilian Health Regulatory Learn More Agency (ANVISA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA), routinely present, and engage as applicable. Our Position on Counterfeit, Additionally, Takeda is recognized as a global leader Falsified and Illegal Trading of in virology; our Global Quality Pathogen Safety team Health Care Products routinely works with global regulatory and medical 2020 Sustainability Report 71 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain Takeda works with approximately 60,000 suppliers around the world for the materials and services Takeda works we need to produce and distribute our products. with approximately 60,000 Managing these supplier relationships and the flow of goods and services through our value chain is critical to the sustainability, quality and safety of our medicines — and the well-being of our patients — suppliers around by ensuring continuity of supply. the world. Procurement Center of Excellence (PCoE) for the evaluation of suppliers and other third parties. After the acquisition of Shire, we had to evaluate Takeda’s Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk almost 50% of our supply chain to get every supplier Management efforts are based on our values of in accordance with the same set of standards and Takeda-ism and Patient-Trust-Reputation-Business. expectations. In addition, almost 50% of Takeda’s This work is led by Takeda’s PCoE, which has three employees are still learning about the process and primary areas: how the integrated, holistic approach was born out of Takeda’s strong values. 1. Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk Management 2. S upplier Diversity To make sure these values continued to be part of 3. Supplier Performance and Innovation (SP&I) our end-to-end operations, we established similar KPIs for FY2019, although adjusted to accommodate In addition to these focus areas, the PCoE has created for the number of integration-related activities that two teams, Data Analytics and Program Management, were taking place throughout the supply chain. which facilitate continuous improvement and increase Each cluster agreed to, and is held accountable for, procurement capabilities and knowledge in these sustainable procurement goals that include: critical areas. •A  cknowledgement of Supplier Code of Conduct by key and strategic suppliers. Ethical Sourcing and Supplier • Completion of standard due diligence for key and Risk Management strategic suppliers. • Onsite sustainable procurement audits of suppliers. In FY2019, the Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk • Engagement with suppliers via the EcoVadis platform. Management program dedicated itself to educating • Spend targets with small and diverse suppliers. all Takeda colleagues about the program established 2020 Sustainability Report 72 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Takeda Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) and industry collaboration Takeda’s SCoC covers areas that include the Scope 3 Carbon Emission environment, human rights, labor practices, safe Reduction Efforts work, data privacy, anti-corruption, business practices, animal welfare and management systems. The SCoC In FY2019, we committed to becoming completely has been translated into 26 languages and integrated carbon neutral by 2040, including a 50% reduction into sourcing projects. Our supplier code is consistent in Scope 3 emissions. (See more on page 52). with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) This commitment will require comprehensive and Principles, a set of industry supplier standards and long-term partnerships with our suppliers. Scope 3 expectations established and used by more than emissions represent nearly 90% of our total 40 member companies of the PSCI. carbon emissions across our value chain. That’s why engaging with our suppliers to reduce supply The PSCI is committed to promoting responsible chain carbon emissions is so critical. As we begin supply chain practices through both supplier audits to work toward our new goal, we plan to conduct and supplier capability-building conferences and annual Scope 3 reporting projects to measure webinar training sessions. In FY2019, Takeda, along progress and engage suppliers to commit to GHG with other member companies, organized PSCI reduction activities. For FY2020, we focused on Supplier Conferences in China and India. In addition, engaging the top 35 suppliers responsible for PSCI organized multiple webinars for supplier Takeda’s highest Scope 3 GHG emissions by development, including a Modern Slavery webinar launching pilots, and by hosting sessions on that Takeda played a key role in developing. sustainability and our 2020 Partner Value Summit. In addition to PSCI, Takeda joined the Pharmaceutical Environmental Group (PEG) and became involved in the Engagement Group and Climate Group to establish standards in greenhouse gas reduction efforts. TAKEDA’S 2020 PARTNER Supplier due diligence and partnerships VALUE SUMMIT As a crucial initiative for delivering high-quality pharmaceuticals to patients, Takeda added six steps to the sourcing process to assess supplier risks from a holistic perspective, including sustainability and 544 representatives from business continuity risks. The standard diligence process evaluates whether there are potential risks in the areas 163 suppliers participated. of animal welfare, EHS, labor and human rights, financial health, corruption and bribery, data privacy and information security. While this is not a comprehensive list of the risks Takeda screens for, it provides an overview of the type of information business stake3 supply chain sustainability workshops holders can expect to receive to make well-informed held on topics such as renewable decisions when it comes to supplier selection. energy and challenges associated If specific risks are identified during standard with Scope 3. diligence, Takeda conducts enhanced diligence, with experts from across the company as well as external resources, as required. In FY2019, Takeda conducted Finalized agreement to work on pilot due diligence across 2,183 suppliers. We also partnered projects to further sustainability with Takeda Business Services to design a more efficient goals for both suppliers and Takeda. and effective process for supplier registration and qualification, better ensuring the completion of due diligence and flagging of potential risks known as Integrated Due Diligence. 2020 Sustainability Report 73 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS We have also furthered the use of EcoVadis, a digital begin a program of onsite labor, ethical, EHS and supplier-sustainability assessment and scorecard management system assessments based on PSCI system, to help monitor the sustainability performance protocols using third-party audit companies. In of strategic, high-risk or other types of suppliers. The FY2019, Takeda conducted onsite assessments platform enables us to monitor KPIs for suppliers as at 19 suppliers in six countries. These assessments a basis for supplier engagement and improvement. result in corrective action plans (CAPs) to improve In 2019, Takeda improved our use of the platform a supplier’s sustainability performance that are and gained access to an additional 123 EcoVadis periodically reviewed by Takeda and the supplier. scorecards. We see an opportunity to further advance Since starting the supplier PSCI sustainability audit supplier performance by increasing their ability to program in 2016, we have achieved a 33% CAP manage their own supply chain impacts. closure rate of all initial supplier audits, excluding any follow-up assessments. When we identify supplier sustainability risks related to Takeda’s Supplier Code of Conduct principles, or if a supplier receives a low score from EcoVadis, we Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk Management Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk Management help make sure that Takeda’s suppliers conduct business in line with our expectations, avoid exposing the business to any unnecessary risk and support the delivery of value beyond cost. 1 2 3 4 Value Supplier Risk Post Contract Continuous & Expectations & Qualification Monitoring Improvement & Development Takeda Supplier Supplier Code of Conduct Risks •A dherence to • Financial applicable laws •R egulations & • Operational Supplier Code • Continuity •B usiness practices • Strategic •A nimal welfare • Data privacy •D ata privacy Measuring Supplier • Social, ethical Sustainability Capacity & environmental Performance & Risk Building •H uman rights •L abor & employment practices •H ealth & safety Supplier Spend Sector Location •E nvironment 2020 Sustainability Report 74 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS In 2019, Takeda gained access to an additional 123 EcoVadis scorecards for better monitoring KPIs for suppliers and engaging them meaningfully. Human rights In addition, suppliers with certain spend thresholds go through standard due diligence and enhanced Much of our supply chain resides in emerging markets due diligence during onboarding, which includes where worker protections are often not very robust. human rights and labor assessments. In FY2019, we Respecting human rights, including the rights of led a working group within PSCI and developed a workers, is one of our greatest responsibilities, given webinar to bring more awareness around modern our scale and potential influence. Our Supplier Code of slavery and share industry best practices. We’re Conduct outlines our commitment and expectations also focusing on management team development for suppliers on modern slavery practices, including with several members participating in Social child labor, forced and bonded labor, and human Accountability Auditor training. trafficking. We also strengthened our Supply Chain Human Rights and Labor initiatives through various Recognizing our role as a good corporate citizen, we policies and position statements: constantly seek to make contributions that benefit society and use our shared knowledge to find better •C  onflict Mineral Statement solutions for patients. Part of this commitment is • California Transparency in the Supply Chain Act to support and uphold internationally recognized • An annual statement in accordance with the United human rights throughout our operations, supply Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act of 2015 chains and within the communities where we operate. A team is currently working on enhancing our approach to human rights, including understanding and responding to emerging human rights and issues, and protecting vulnerable groups. 2020 Sustainability Report 75 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supplier diversity •H  osting a Supplier Diversity Day in collaboration with Diversity Alliance for Science at our facility As a global company, we source materials from around in Bannockburn, Illinois, U.S. the world. We use the power of our spend to expand • Mentoring four small or diverse businesses the diversity and inclusion of our suppliers in a number as part of a supplier diversity mentorship of ways. For example, our Procurement Policy calls program with Procurement and internal for including at least one small or diverse supplier in Takeda stakeholder participation. each request for proposal and requires our prime •P  roviding one-on-one training or other resources suppliers to provide second-tier reporting. In 2019, for our small or diverse businesses, to assist them we updated our internal training courses to explain in navigating our supplier requirements and finding what supplier diversity means to Takeda and provided additional opportunities within Takeda. internal updates and stories about our supplier • Organizing one-on-one meetings for small or diverse diversity program that highlight these suppliers to business with our procurement leads and business our employees. stakeholders to showcase their products or services. In the U.S., we continue to work toward a goal to increase our spend with small and diverse businesses. Supplier performance and innovation In FY2019, with the combined spend of legacy Shire, we achieved $354 million in spend with small businesses The SP&I team facilitates supplier segmentation for and $574 million with all diverse businesses (small areas of the business through a framework that, among and large). other factors, includes risk and a sustainability rating as of FY2019. SP&I uses a supplier scorecard with To identify small and diverse suppliers that meet our objective data to measure and leverage supplier needs, representatives from our Supplier Diversity capabilities. This scorecard includes a KPI that tracks Program and Procurement leaders participate in a social and environmental risk and performance. The variety of advocacy events. We also joined WEConnect SP&I team also works with suppliers to identify external International to continue growing our supplier diversity sources of innovation, remediate performance issues program internationally. One barrier to increasing and provide continuous improvement opportunities. business with small and diverse suppliers is suppliers’ As we enhance our supply chain sustainability efforts, lack of knowledge about our needs and the task of we expect to further develop our supplier relationship supplying a large, global company. We introduced management efforts as well. several initiatives in FY2019 to address this by: 2020 Sustainability Report 76 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Ethical sourcing and supplier risk management KPIs 2017 2018 2019 Program KPI Target Achievement Target Achievement Target Achievement Number of supplier codes of conduct Acknowledgement Add 50 92 Add 50 89 Add 70 78 obtained from top spend, strategic and preferred suppliers 47 (including 2 Number of PSCI EHS supplier sustainability audits 40 40 40 40 191 onsite conducted assessments) Number of EcoVadis CSR & sustainability Add 100 131 Add 125 233 120 123 scorecards obtained 1 Over half of the supplier audits scheduled for FY2019 were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 2017 2018 2019 Supplier Target Achievement Target Achievement Target Achievement diversity spend Supplier diversity spend (small business) $131 million $234 million $161 million $179 million $275 million $354 million Supplier diversity spend (all diverse categories, including No official $190 million $187 million $190 million $231 million $486 million small and large target business) 2020 Sustainability Report 77 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Medical Ethics A range of medical ethics issues can arise during Policy. Our activities are conducted in compliance the course of research and development into new with relevant laws of each country, the International medicines, from the use of human tissue in research Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & to providing protections for vulnerable populations. Associations (IFPMA) Code of Practice and codes of We’ve developed policies and procedures that practice established by local industry associations. reflect our commitment to protect patients in our studies and to adhere to the highest ethical standards We strive to provide medical information in an in our research and development activities. accurate, fair and balanced way through appropriate channels, and we review our promotional materials Medical research depends on the availability of based on internal and external guidelines. These human-derived specimens, such as blood, tissue, reviews may involve independent organizations, cells and other substances to predict the safety and and regular monitoring also takes place. Separate efficacy of new medicines. In line with our values Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) govern and ethical standards, we’re particularly careful with reviews and monitoring. regard to how these specimens are collected and used. Our Research Ethics Review Committee in Training and education is an important part of our Japan handles issues associated with human-derived ethics and compliance program. New employees specimens and confirms specimens are used in line receive ethics and compliance training, which with the Declaration of Helsinki, a statement of ethical includes our Global Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption principles for medical research involving human policy, and other policies and SOPs relevant to an subjects developed by the World Medical Association. employee’s position. Ethical sales and marketing Anticounterfeiting measures: partnerships for remediation Putting the interests of the patient first extends and education to commercial activities. We don’t exert influence over, or provide rewards for, the prescription, use, The sale of counterfeit drugs is a growing problem, administration, purchase or recommendation of and one that poses a significant threat to consumers Takeda products. We don’t promise, offer or provide and patients around the globe. Our Global Product any money, gifts, services, hospitality or other items Protection (GPP) team is committed to protecting of value as an inducement for using our products. patients by securing the supply chain and taking measures to combat illegal activity. To underscore this position, we’ve established various global policies, including the Global Policy We partner with international and local on Interactions with Health Care Professionals and law enforcement, regulatory agencies, other Health Care Entities, the Global Policy on Interactions pharmaceutical companies and industry with Patients and Patient Organizations, the Global organizations to combat counterfeiting and illegal Policy on Interactions with Government Officials and trading, while also educating patients, supply chain Government Entities, and the Global Anti-Corruption partners and customers on the dangers associated with these activities. Through partnerships with such groups as the IFPMA “Fight the Fakes” Campaign and Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies We partner with several groups (ASOP Global), we contribute to efforts that such as the IFPMA “Fight the educate patients on this growing concern. Fakes” Campaign and Alliance for We set high security standards and requirements Safe Online Pharmacies (ASOP for supply chain partners worldwide and perform Global) to educate patients on due diligence and audit against these requirements. counterfeiting. We’ve also developed innovative anticounterfeiting solutions for products and packaging to deter and detect counterfeiting, theft, diversion and tampering. 2020 Sustainability Report 78 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Bioethics As the frontiers of research extend into new areas, Animal research such as research on the human genome, gene analysis and stem cell research, additional ethical concerns In many cases, animal studies are essential to determine may arise. We continually review our ethical guidelines the therapeutic relevance of novel treatments for a to keep pace. Our Takeda Shonan (TSHO) Research multitude of human diseases. Every proposal for the ethics review committee makes sure we conduct use of animals in research is thoroughly evaluated and our R&D activities with the highest standards of approved by the site Institutional Animal Care and Use ethics and integrity. Committee. We are committed to the “3R’s” of animal research and actively pursue their promotion: We work to stay ahead of emerging trends related to ethics and compliance in R&D by actively participating •R  efining research procedures to avoid or minimize in pharmaceutical industry associations such as PhRMA pain or distress. and the International Federation of Pharmaceutical • Reducing the number of animals used in any study Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) programs. conducted to the minimum necessary for valid results. • Replacing the need for animal research through non-animal research methods. Biotechnology position Animal testing activities are approved by a company In 2019, we expanded the scope of our Stem Cell committee comprising internal and external experts Research Position into a Biotechnology Position that and overseen by the Institutional Animal Care and encompasses the research use of novel technologies, Use Committee (IACUC). Additionally, all Takeda R&D including pluripotent stem cells, genetically modified facilities that conduct animal research are accredited organisms (GMOs) and gene therapies. by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), a private, nonprofit organization that promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through voluntary programs, and the adoption of recognized best practices by accredited organizations. 2020 Sustainability Report 79 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Clinical research We take care to protect the rights of all participants in our clinical studies, paying particular attention We also apply our values and ethical standards to to vulnerable populations, such as participants in the design and conduct of clinical trials, informed developing and emerging countries, trial participants consent processes and stewardship of participant who are socially underprivileged and other cases data. Clinical trials are designed to contribute to the requiring special attention. We provide participants well-being of research participants and patients, with a thorough explanation of expected benefits and to help build knowledge. We conduct trials in and potential side effects and follow an informedcompliance with legal and regulatory requirements, consent process that supports participants’ ability consistent with the Declaration of Helsinki 2013; to choose to participate in the trial. Processes are the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Standard of designed to help ensure the well-being of research the International Conference on Harmonization participants and to respect patient privacy and (ICH); European Federation of Pharmaceutical confidential information. Industries and Associations (EFPIA)/Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) In accordance with Takeda’s global standards, a Principles, developed by the European Federation clinical study will not be initiated or substantially of Pharmaceutical Industries, and Associations and amended until an approval/positive opinion is Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of obtained from a GCP-compliant Independent Ethics America, as well as other applicable international Committee (IEC) / Institutional Review Board (IRB) principles and standards. and from the appropriate authorities as required by regulations. Ethics and Compliance We believe our obligation to meet ethical standards goes beyond compliance with laws and regulations. Our values of Takeda-ism, brought to life through actions based on Patient-Trust-Reputation-Business, represent who we are and how we act, helping us make ethical decisions today, and in the future. To promote ethical behavior and provide guidance to our employees, the Takeda Global Code of Conduct is available in multiple languages and lays out a core set of principles for conducting business at Takeda. Promoting ethics and compliance across Takeda’s operations is the responsibility of the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and the Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee. They help ensure a coordinated, companywide approach on ethics and compliance matters. Takeda group companies execute and reinforce their ethics and compliance months of FY2020, we received 119 calls and web programs in line with the Takeda Global Code of entries through the Takeda Ethics Line. Takeda has a Conduct and applicable global policies. These policy of nonretaliation for any employee who raises policies are approved by the Business Review a concern in good faith. Committee (BRC). Takeda aims to maintain the highest level of corporate ethics. The Takeda Ethics Line, where employees can ask a question or voice a concern, Learn More On Ethics is available online and by phone to all employees and Compliance around the world, 24 hours a day. In the first six •C  ode of Conduct • Takeda Ethics Line 2020 Sustainability Report 80 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Takeda views risk management as the responsibility of our Board of Directors, the Takeda Executive Team, business units, business functions, local operating companies, and employees and business partners. Risk Management Risk management is an important pillar of our with our Mid-Range Planning. Principal enterprise corporate governance and culture. It helps protect risks are presented to the Risk, Ethics and Compliance the company’s reputation and operating environment Committee, and Board of Directors on an annual basis. while supporting Takeda’s long-term strategy for growth and success. We view risk management as Risk management is embedded in the business, the responsibility of the Board of Directors, TET, and each relevant area is responsible for managing business units, business functions, local operating their key risks. Typical risk mitigation strategies may companies, and employees and business partners. include, but are not limited to, business continuity planning, crisis planning, process redesign, Our Global Risk Management Policy uses a common management and technology implementation, set of principles to manage risk. The Policy covers monitoring, communications, training and thirdthe following areas, each supported by a relevant party engagement. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP): Risks in our industry may include R&D exposure, legal • Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and regulatory compliance, intellectual property rights, • Business Continuity Management (BCM) patent expirations and adverse events. They may also • IT Disaster Recovery (ITDR) include industry reforms, impacts associated with changing government policies, mergers and acquisitions Our ERM program uses a consistent set of risk-related (M&A) and integration-related issues, supply continuity, methods, tools and approaches to support the business. environmental compliance, competition litigation, We look at the likelihood and impact of possible geopolitical events, cybersecurity, and natural or risks, along with the effectiveness of our mitigating man-made disasters. actions to reduce those risks over a period in line 2020 Sustainability Report 81 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Centralized EHS auditing Audits are an important way to make sure our EHS management systems are effective. A central EHS audit function leads the program, which includes management systems and compliance audits. The program utilizes independent external local auditors who are experts in national and regional regulations for the EHS regulatory compliance audits when needed. Through Corporate EHS Management System Assurance Programs including audits, Takeda assures compliance to our obligations including Takeda management’s expectations, our standards and operating procedures, as well as regulatory requirements. Based on audit results, site leadership develops Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) plans, which are approved by Corporate EHS audit and EHS Regional Heads. These CAPAs are tracked based on operational KPI expectations until closed. We also look at audit trends to see what we need to work on for the coming year and where we need to provide support. Audit results are reported to the Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors. Audits are conducted based on the level of EHS risk and ISO certification requirements. Corporate EHS audits typically occur on a three-year cycle. EHS risk often depends on the type of operations, the complexity and size of the operation, past EHS performance and other factors. In 2019, we performed 24 EHS audits. Anti-corruption Takeda is committed to operating with integrity. Our Global Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits Takeda from conducting, through third-party intermediaries, activities that Takeda is prohibited from conducting itself. Takeda must assess every third-party intermediary to identify and address issues that pose any potential risks for Takeda. We conduct regular audits to assess instances of THE POWER OF DATA bribery and corruption and have implemented an AND DIGITAL ongoing monitoring program that samples and evaluates high-risk transactions against governing In 2019, Takeda introduced a new EHS information policy and procedure control documents. Takeda management system, “beacon.” It allows us to executes root cause analysis against monitoring consistently manage EHS events and provide data nonadherence and develops remediation plans to used to shape EHS programs focused on creating drive continuous improvement. a safer, healthier and more environmentally conscious workplace. beacon also helps employees report EHS hazards and events, address risks, manage corrective actions and share information in a consistent way. This helps improve our EHS performance and prevent future incidents. beacon Learn More is currently available at many sites and will be Our approach to available across all of Takeda by the end of FY2021. anti-corruption 2020 Sustainability Report 82 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Philanthropy (Global CSR) Takeda’s Global CSR strengthens the ability of health systems to address today’s and tomorrow’s challenges by training health workers, strengthening supply chains, improving maternal, newborn and Impact on the Ground child health, and improving access to quality diagnosis and treatment for patients worldwide. Our goal: to In early 2020, several Takeda colleagues build a better world with accessible health care for trekked through Myanmar as part of Takeda’s all, where prevention measures are exponentially Employee Participation Program, which brings advanced, health systems are strong and prepared select employees to Global CSR Program for unexpected events, and people are freed from the sites in the developing world to help them burden of disease. Our signature Global CSR Program, understand global health challenges and the now in its fifth year, is executed based on employee transformational impact of the programs they voting, with colleagues around the world choosing selected for Takeda to support. Employees which innovative, high-impact activities receive our saw firsthand how Takeda’s partnership with support. In 2019, the Global CSR Program introduced Save the Children is increasing maternal and a public request for proposals system to expand our infant patient access to quality health care by reach and offer greater opportunities for organizations supporting health workers and exponentially across the world to engage. enhancing community engagement across 110 villages. The Program partners with world-class organizations and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) with proven track records of addressing global health problems in innovative, sustainable ways to prevent disease, train health workers, strengthen supply chains and improve access to quality diagnosis and Our global CSR partners not only implement treatment for patients worldwide. Our threeto innovative, high-impact programs, but also 10-year funding commitments recognize that there collaborate with other organizations, people and are no quick fixes to entrenched health system and government entities in developing and emerging access challenges, and that lasting, sustainable countries. This extends to our network of partners impact takes time. and makes sure that those best positioned and with the most appropriate knowledge and relationships within individual communities are leading programs on the ground. Achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) for all (SDG 3, Target 3.8) is also an important priority, “Because of Takeda, communities complementing the Japanese government’s pioneering in Angola, Guinea and Togo are leadership on UHC. Additionally, our work adheres benefitting from stronger health to internationally recognized guidelines, such as the systems — and children in Benin, United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles. In Madagascar and Rwanda are getting addition, we actively engage in important annual the health care and nutrition they gatherings, such as the World Economic Forum in need in their critical early years.” Davos, Switzerland, and the United Nations General Assembly in New York City, where we connect Henrietta Fore with stakeholders across sectors to deepen our Executive Director, UNICEF understanding of evolving civil society needs and entrenched challenges. 2020 Sustainability Report 83 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Global CSR FY2019 Highlights At-A-Glance 16 programs in 60+ countries 16 multiyear partnerships with world-class partners 17 million beneficiaries anticipated between 2016 and 2025 Approximately 6,000 health workers trained, including qualified nurses, midwives and ¥12.3 billion invested in 16 long-term commitments physician trainees, as well as community health workers and nutrition volunteers Nearly ~700,000 pregnant women and mothers, Millions of children immunized against measles newborns, children and adolescents reached with quality health care, services and health education 2020 Sustainability Report 84 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS © John Rae/Access to Health Fund Global CSR Partnerships In addition to our employee-driven selection process, we implement long-term, philanthropic publicInaugural Takeda Chair in Global private partnerships with renowned multilateral and Child Health Appointed academic institutions worldwide. The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine Second phase of the Takeda Initiative announced the appointment of Professor Debra In 2020, we launched the second phase of the Jackson, formerly of UNICEF, as the inaugural Takeda Initiative, our 15-year partnership with The Takeda Chair in Global Child Health. The Chair, Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. which is advancing the evidence base for child The partnership focuses on improving maternal health and enables research innovations to inform and child health by integrating quality HIV, TB and better policies and health care practices, is the malaria services in antenatal and postnatal care in school’s first to be fully endowed by a company. priority countries in Africa. With this recommitment, we became the first private sector company to support the Global Fund’s Sixth Replenishment. This builds on our commitment in 2019, as the first private sector organization, to invest ¥1 billion over five years. “What Takeda has done through their Ten years of the Reconstruction and CSR and employees is send a signal Revitalization Program that health for everybody in the world Takeda’s Reconstruction and Revitalization Program, is a priority…. to come in at the levels which supports critical activities in the areas affected that Takeda has, has really made it a by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011, in global leader.” collaboration with the Japan Non Profit Organization (NPO) Center, will observe its 10-year anniversary Vanessa  Kerry in 2021. The program bolsters the capacity of local Co-Founder & CEO, Seed Global Health NPOs to tackle the social issues associated with the recovery of disaster victims and the reestablishment of heavily impacted communities. 2020 Sustainability Report 85 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2020 Global CSR Program Recipients Partner Focus Area Budget Timeline Access to To help build and improve community health Myanmar ¥1.1 billion 5 years Health Fund centers and empower health staff from ethnic health organizations and ethnic communitybased health organizations (EHOs/ECBHOs) in Myanmar’s Shan State to deliver quality health services, particularly for mothers and children. Bridges to To help eliminate or control five neglected Papua ¥681 3 years Development tropical diseases in Papua New Guinea New million and Vanuatu, including lymphatic filariasis, Guinea & yaws, leprosy, trachoma, scabies and soilVanuatu transmitted helminthiases. The program will also improve health worker capacity, access to care and treatment. Learn More Global CSR Program Our Global CSR Program Employees worldwide voted to select two new organizations as 2020 Global CSR Program partners. With these new partners, Takeda’s employee-driven Global CSR Program portfolio consists of 16 partnerships in more than 60 countries. 2020 Sustainability Report 86 GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Global COVID-19 Response Efforts In 2019, we launched several new partnerships with three global initiatives that align with the United Nations (UN) Secretary-General’s appeal to support the UN COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan. These UN-led initiatives coordinate and collaborate across the pandemic life cycle to support efforts at the front lines of the novel coronavirus, as well as the critical work that prepares health systems to respond effectively to the coronavirus and other endemic health emergencies. Partner Focus Area Budget Timeline United Nations To make health systems more resilient and Africa ¥1.5 5 years World Food enhance their ability to absorb and respond billion Programme to health shocks by improving existing supply chains. First phase supports a 92-bed treatment and isolation center for humanitarian workers responding to COVID-19 and a supply chain control tower to allow WFP to monitor endto-end humanitarian cargo movements in support of the World Health Organization and other humanitarian partners. Second phase will focus on collaborating with public health stakeholders in four African countries to boost capacity, promote best practices in managing health supply chains, and introduce new tools and processes. United Nations To support the continued delivery of life-saving Benin, ¥500 Pandemic Population maternal and newborn health services to at Guinea million Emergency Fund (UNFPA) least 350,000 women and newborns, including and Togo 19,700 women facing life-threatening pregnancy complications during the COVID-19 pandemic. The project will prioritize regions and maternity units with the highest vulnerability to help make sure that frontline health care workers, most of whom are women, have access to essential medical supplies, including PPE, and that maternity units are providing quality maternal and newborn health services in a safe environment. International Provision of emergency assistance to nationalGlobal ¥500 Pandemic Atomic Energy designated laboratories for COVID-19 in IAEA million Emergency Agency (IAEA) member states in the form of diagnostic kits, equipment and technical training to help rapidly and accurately detect and identify the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. 2020 Sustainability Report 87 Appendix 2020 Sustainability Report 88 APPENDIX United Nations Global Compact Advanced Level CoP Reference Table Criteria Reference Taking Action in Support of Broader UN Goals and Issues Criterion 1: The COP describes mainstreaming into corporate functions and INTRODUCTION business units CEO Message, Our Worldview, Corporate Philosophy GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance — Governing Our Sustainability Efforts Criterion 2: The COP describes value chain implementation PLANET Climate Change, Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation — Working with Suppliers GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Quality Management, Supply Chain, Medical Ethics Robust Human Rights Management Policies & Procedures Criterion 3: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF in the area of human rights RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain Criterion 4: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF the human rights principles RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain Criterion 5: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF mechanisms of human rights integration RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain Robust Labour Management Policies & Procedures Criterion 6: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies PEOPLE in the area of labour Employee Well-Being & Organizational Health — Health, Safety & Well-Being, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain Criterion 7: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate PEOPLE the labour principles Employee Well-Being & Organizational Health — Health, Safety & Well-Being GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain, Compliance Criterion 8: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation PEOPLE mechanisms of labour principles integration Employee Well-Being & Organizational Health — Health, Safety & Well-Being GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain 2020 Sustainability Report 89 APPENDIX United Nations Global Compact (continued) Criteria Reference Robust Environmental Management Policies & Procedures Criterion 9: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies PLANET in the area of environmental stewardship Our Commitment to the Planet: Why It Matters, Climate Change GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain Criterion 10: The COP describes effective management systems to PLANET integrate the environmental principles Climate Change GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain Criterion 11: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation PLANET mechanisms for environmental stewardship 2019 Highlights At-A-Glance, Climate Change GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain — Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk Management KPIs Robust Anti-Corruption Management Policies & Procedures Criterion 12: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF in the area of anti-corruption RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain, Medical Ethics, Compliance Criterion 13: The COP describes effective management systems to GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF integrate the anti-corruption principle RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain, Medical Ethics, Compliance Criterion 14: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF mechanisms for the integration of anti-corruption RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain, Medical Ethics, Compliance 2020 Sustainability Report 90 APPENDIX United Nations Global Compact (continued) Criteria Reference Taking Action in Support of Broader UN Goals and Issues Criterion 15: The COP describes core business contributions to UN goals INTRODUCTION and issues Corporate Philosophy PATIENTS Responsible Innovation: R&D to Address Unmet Medical Needs, Broadening Access, Affordability & Pricing, Strengthening Health Systems PEOPLE Health, Safety & Well-Being, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion PLANET Our Commitment to the Planet: Why It Matters, Climate Change — Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation, Environmental Management, Natural Resource Conservation GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain, Compliance, Philanthropy (Global CSR) Criterion 16: The COP describes strategic social investments and PATIENTS philanthropy Broadening Access GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Philanthropy (Global CSR) Criterion 17: The COP describes advocacy and public policy engagement PATIENTS Broadening Access GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Philanthropy (Global CSR) Criterion 18: The COP describes partnerships and collective action INTRODUCTION Strategic Stakeholder Engagement Corporate Sustainability Governance and Leadership Criterion 19: The COP describes CEO commitment and leadership INTRODUCTION CEO Message Criterion 20: The COP describes Board adoption and oversight GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance — Governing Our Sustainability Efforts Criterion 21: The COP describes stakeholder engagement INTRODUCTION Materiality, Strategic Stakeholder Engagement GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance — Shareholder Engagement 2020 Sustainability Report 91 APPENDIX GRI Standards Reference Table Disclosure Number Description 2019 Reference/Response GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 2020 Annual Securities Report, pages 6-17 services 102-3 Location of headquarters Tokyo, Japan 102-4 Location of operations 2020 Annual Securities Report, pages 8-10 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2020 Annual Securities Report, page 6 102-6 Markets served We have a presence in about 80 countries, with leading positions in Japan and the U.S. 102-7 Scale of the organization 2020 Annual Securities Report, pages 2-11 102-8 Information on employees and PEOPLE other workers 2019 Highlights, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 102-9 Supply chain GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply Chain 102-10 Significant changes to the 2020 Annual Securities Report, pages 12-17 organization and its supply chain INTRODUCTION COVID-19 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Takeda does not follow the precautionary approach, but has a comprehensive risk management plan in place. 102-12 External initiatives INTRODUCTION ESG Disclosure & Transparency GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Philanthropy (Global CSR) 102-13 Membership of associations We work with biopharmaceutical industry groups in many countries in which we operate, including, but not limited to, Campaign and Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies (ASOP), European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Leadership Forum (GPMLF), International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associates (IFPMA), International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering (ISPE), Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations (JPMA), Parenteral Drug Association (PDA), Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), and the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI). Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior INTRODUCTION decision-maker CEO Message Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and INTRODUCTION norms of behavior Purpose, Values, Vision and Imperatives GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Compliance — Ethics and Compliance Global Code of Conduct 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS about ethics Compliance — Ethics and Compliance Global Code of Conduct 2020 Sustainability Report 92 APPENDIX GRI Standards Reference Table (continued) Disclosure Number Description 2019 Reference/Response Governance 102-18 Governance structure GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance 102-19 Delegating authority GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on INTRODUCTION economic, environmental, and social Materiality topics GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance — Shareholder Engagement 102-22 Composition of the highest GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS governance body and its committees Corporate Governance Executive Leadership: https://www.takeda.com/who-we-are/ company-information/executive-leadership/ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance Board of Directors: https://www.takeda.com/who-we-are/ company-information/executive-leadership/ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS governance body Corporate Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance 102-26 Role of highest governance body in GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS body’s performance Corporate Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS environmental, and social impacts Corporate Governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS processes Corporate Governance 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS and social topics Corporate Governance — Governing our Sustainability Efforts 102-35 Remuneration policies GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance — Total Rewards and Compensation, External Compensation 102-36 Process for determining GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS remuneration Corporate Governance — Total Rewards and Compensation, External Compensation 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS in remuneration Corporate Governance Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups INTRODUCTION Materiality, Strategic Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2020 Annual Securities Report, page 11 102-42 Identifying and selecting INTRODUCTION stakeholders Materiality, Strategic Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder INTRODUCTION engagement Materiality, Strategic Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised INTRODUCTION Materiality 2020 Sustainability Report 93 APPENDIX GRI Standards Reference Table (continued) Disclosure Number Description 2019 Reference/Response Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 2020 Annual Securities Report, pages 8-10 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and INTRODUCTION topic Boundaries Materiality 102-47 List of material topics INTRODUCTION Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting INTRODUCTION Materiality 102-50 Reporting period The reporting period covers Fiscal 2019 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020). Some Fiscal 2020 activities are included. 102-51 Date of most recent report December 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions sustainablevalue@takeda.com regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared according to GRI Standards: Core Option. with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Appendix, pages 92-98 102-56 External assurance Appendix, page 100 GRI 200: Economic GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and PATIENTS its Boundary Broadening Access, Affordability & Pricing, Strengthening Health Systems 103-2 The management approach and its PATIENTS components Broadening Access, Affordability & Pricing, Strengthening Health Systems Takeda's Position on Access to Medicines 103-3 Evaluation of the management PATIENTS approach 2019 Highlights At-A-Glance, Broadening Access, Affordability & Pricing, Strengthening Health Systems 203-1 Infrastructure investments and PATIENTS services supported Broadening Access, Affordability & Pricing, Strengthening Health Systems 203-2 Significant indirect economic PATIENTS impacts Broadening Access, Affordability & Pricing, Strengthening Health Systems GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Medical Ethics, Bioethics, Compliance, Risk Management Global Code of Conduct 103-2 The management approach and its GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS components Medical Ethics, Bioethics, Compliance, Risk Management Global Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Medical Ethics, Bioethics, Compliance, Risk Management Global Code of Conduct 205-2 Communication and training Training and education is an important part of our ethics and compliance about anti-corruption policies and program. Our standard ethics training covers the Global Code of Conduct procedures and the Anti-Corruption policy. 2020 Sustainability Report 94 APPENDIX GRI Standards Reference Table (continued) Disclosure Number Description 2019 Reference/Response GRI 300: Environmental GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and PLANET its Boundary Climate Change, Environmental Management 103-2 The management approach and PLANET its components Climate Change, Environmental Management 103-3 Evaluation of the PLANET management approach 2019 Highlights-At-A-Glance, Climate Change, Environmental Management 302-1 Energy consumption within CDP Climate Change 2020, Section 8.2a the organization PLANET Environmental, Health and Safety GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and PLANET its Boundary Climate Change CDP Climate Change 2020 103-2 The management approach and PLANET its components Climate Change — Takeda's Carbon-Reduction Goals Takeda's Position on Climate Change CDP Climate Change 2020 103-3 Evaluation of the PLANET management approach Climate Change — 2019 Highlights At-A-Glance, Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation CDP Climate Change 2020 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions PLANET Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation — Carbon Emissions by Scope 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) PLANET GHG emissions Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation — Carbon Emissions by Scope 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) PLANET GHG emissions Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation — Carbon Emissions by Scope 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions PLANET Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation — Carbon Emissions by Scope GRI 306: Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and PLANET its Boundary Natural Resource Conservation — Waste 103-2 The management approach and PLANET its components Natural Resource Conservation — Waste 103-3 Evaluation of the PLANET management approach Natural Resource Conservation — Waste 306-1 Waste generation and significant PLANET waste-related impacts Natural Resource Conservation — Waste 306-2 Management of significant PLANET waste-related impacts Natural Resource Conservation — Waste 306-3 Waste generated PLANET Natural Resource Conservation — Waste 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal PLANET Natural Resource Conservation — Waste GRI 400: Social GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and PEOPLE its Boundary Our Commitment to People: Why it Matters 103-2 The management approach and PEOPLE its components Engagement & Lifelong Learning, Talent Management 103-3 Evaluation of the PEOPLE management approach 2019 Highlights 401-1 New employee hires and PEOPLE employee turnover 2019 Highlights 2020 Sustainability Report 95 APPENDIX GRI Standards Reference Table (continued) Disclosure Number Description 2019 Reference/Response GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and PEOPLE its Boundary Our Commitment to People: Why it Matters, Health, Safety & Well-Being 103-2 The management approach and PEOPLE its components Our Commitment to People: Why it Matters, Health, Safety & Well-Being 103-3 Evaluation of the management PEOPLE approach Our Commitment to People: Why it Matters, Health, Safety & Well-Being 403-1 Occupational health and safety GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS management system Risk Management — Centralized EHS Auditing 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, PEOPLE and incident investigation Health, Safety & Well-Being 403-3 Occupational health services We ensure the participation and consultation of our employees, employee representatives, and partners, where appropriate, when developing and improving our processes. 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, PEOPLE and communication on occupational Health, Safety & Well-Being health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational PEOPLE health and safety Health, Safety & Well-Being 403-6 Promotion of worker health PEOPLE Health, Safety & Well-Being 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS occupational health and safety Risk Management — Centralized EHS Auditing impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries PEOPLE Health, Safety & Well-Being — 2019 Progress GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and PEOPLE its Boundary Talent Management 103-2 The management approach and PEOPLE its components Talent Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management PEOPLE approach Talent Management 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee PEOPLE skills and transition assistance Talent Management — 2019 Progress programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and PEOPLE its Boundary Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 103-2 The management approach and PEOPLE its components Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 103-3 Evaluation of the management PEOPLE approach Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Colleagues: People — Diversity, Equity & Inclusion and employees Takeda Executive Team (TET): Governance and Fundamentals of Responsible Business — Corporate Governance — Composition of the Board of Directors and TET Board of Directors diversity: Takeda Annual Securities Report 2020, page 89 GRI 408: Child Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Supply Chain 103-2 The management approach and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its components Supply Chain — Human Rights Supplier Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Supply Chain 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant In markets where we have identified the potential for supply chain risks related risk for incidents of child labor to human rights, we use a number of enhanced assessment approaches. In FY2019, these assessments did not identify modern slavery risk in the form of forced or child labor, human trafficking, slavery or servitude. 2020 Sustainability Report 96 APPENDIX GRI Standards Reference Table (continued) Disclosure Number Description 2019 Reference/Response GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Supply Chain 103-2 The management approach and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its components Supply Chain — Human Rights Supplier Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Supply Chain 409-1 Operations and suppliers at In markets where we have identified the potential for supply chain risks related significant risk for incidents of forced to human rights, we use a number of enhanced assessment approaches. In or compulsory labor FY2019, these assessments did not identify modern slavery risk in the form of forced or child labor, human trafficking, slavery or servitude. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Supply Chain 103-2 The management approach and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its components Supply Chain — Human Rights Supplier Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Supply Chain 412-1 Operations that have been subject In markets where we have identified the potential for supply chain risks related to human rights reviews or impact to human rights, we use a number of enhanced assessment approaches. In assessments FY2019, these assessments did not identify modern slavery risk in the form of forced or child labor, human trafficking, slavery or servitude. 412-2 Employee training on human rights GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS policies or procedures Supply Chain — Human Rights 412-3 Significant investment agreements GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS and contracts that include human Supply Chain — Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk Management KPIs rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Philanthropy (Global CSR) 103-2 The management approach and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its components Philanthropy (Global CSR) 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Philanthropy (Global CSR) — CSR Highlights — 2019, Key CSR Programs, Global COVID-19 Response Efforts 413-1 Operations with local community GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS engagement, impact assessments, Philanthropy (Global CSR) and development programs GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Supply Chain 103-2 The management approach and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its components Supply Chain 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Supply Chain — Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk Management KPIs 414-1 New suppliers that were screened GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS using social criteria Supply Chain — Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Risk Management KPIs GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Quality Management 103-2 The management approach and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its components Quality Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Quality Management 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS impacts of product and service Quality Management categories 2020 Sustainability Report 97 APPENDIX GRI Standards Reference Table (continued) Disclosure Number Description 2019 Reference/Response GRI 418: Customer Privacy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Supply Chain, Bioethics — Clinical Research 103-2 The management approach and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its components Supply Chain, Bioethics — Clinical Research Global Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Supply Chain, Bioethics — Clinical Research 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning There are no breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data to breaches of customer privacy and report. losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its Boundary Compliance, Risk Management 103-2 The management approach and GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its components Compliance, Risk Management Global Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management GOVERNANCE AND FUNDAMENTALS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS approach Compliance, Risk Management 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and There are no fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance to report. regulations in the social and economic area 2020 Sustainability Report 98 Takeda Pharmaceutical Scope 3 Emissions Calculation Methodology per Category Source of Scope 3 Emissions Evaluation Status Emissions Calculation Methodology 1) Purchased goods and Relevant, calculated Takeda’s business sectors and spend are multiplied by an emission factor services for each sector/supplier derived from the Trucost economic input output (EEI-O) model to calculate the supply chain GHG emissions of suppliers 2) Capital goods Relevant, calculated through all tiers up to and including raw material extraction. 3) Fueland energy-related Relevant, calculated Emissions are calculated by multiplying fuel and electricity usage by activities emission factors from Defra (2019) — UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. Only emissions related to fuel extraction and distribution/transmission loss are included. 4) Upstream transportation Relevant, calculated Takeda’s business sectors and spend are multiplied by an emission factor and distribution for each sector/supplier derived from the Trucost economic input output (EEI-O) model to calculate the supply chain GHG emissions of suppliers through all tiers up to and including raw material extraction. 5) Waste generated Relevant, calculated Emissions are calculated by using Takeda’s waste data and emission factors in operations from Defra (2019). 6) Business travel Relevant, calculated Takeda’s spend data by mode of transport, which are captured by a business travel reservation system, are multiplied by an emission factor for each mode of transport derived from Trucost EEI-O model. 7) Employee commuting Relevant, calculated Takeda’s global employee head count by country is used, combined with OECD’s published country averages for commuting time and other publicly available data on transportation mode and distance, to calculate GHG emissions from employee commuting. 8) Upstream leased assets Relevant, calculated Emissions associated with upstream leased assets are included in Takeda’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 9) Downstream Relevant, calculated Takeda’s weight of products sold data by countries are used, and calculated transportation and emissions based on assumed average distance traveled using emission distribution factors from Defra (2019) 10) Processing of Relevant, calculated Emissions are calculated by multiplying electricity and steam used for sold products processing products sold, which are estimated based on energy required to process a unit of each product sold, by IEA grid electricity factors (countryspecific) and a steam emissions factor from Defra (2019). 11) Use of sold products Not relevant, not N/A calculated 12) End-of-life treatment of Relevant calculated Using packaging materials spend data, weight of those materials are estimated sold products based on average price of material (e.g. plastic, metal, paper) gathered from metals exchange and B2B platforms. World waste treatment and disposal percentages published by World Bank and emission factors from Defra (2019). 13) Downstream leased Not relevant, not N/A assets calculated 14) Franchises Not relevant, not N/A calculated 15) Investment Relevant calculated Sum of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions1 of the equity investment multiplied by the share of equity (%) held by Takeda when Takeda holds >5% equity stake. 1 The adjusted emissions in Fiscal 2016 disclosed under the act on promotion of global warming countermeasures are used. 2020 Sustainability Report 99 APPENDIX Independent Assurance 2020 Sustainability Report 100 APPENDIX Legal Disclaimers For the purposes of this notice, “report” means this “expects,” “aims,” “intends,” “ensures,” “will,” “may,” document, any oral presentation, any question and “should,” “would,” “could,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” answer session and any written or oral material “projects” or similar expressions or the negative discussed or distributed by Takeda Pharmaceutical thereof. These forward-looking statements are based Company Limited (“Takeda”) regarding this report. on assumptions about many important factors, This report (including any oral briefing and any including the following, which could cause actual question-and-answer in connection with it) is not results to differ materially from those expressed intended to, and does not constitute, represent or or implied by the forward-looking statements: the form part of any offer, invitation or solicitation of any economic circumstances surrounding Takeda’s global offer to purchase, otherwise acquire, subscribe for, business, including general economic conditions in exchange, sell or otherwise dispose of, any securities Japan and the United States; competitive pressures or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any and developments; changes to applicable laws and jurisdiction. No shares or other securities are being regulations; the success of or failure of product offered to the public by means of this report. No development programs; decisions of regulatory offering of securities shall be made in the United authorities and the timing thereof; fluctuations in States except pursuant to registration under the U.S. interest and currency exchange rates; claims or Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or an exemption concerns regarding the safety or efficacy of marketed therefrom. This report is being given (together with products or product candidates; the impact of health any further information which may be provided to crises, like the novel coronavirus pandemic, on Takeda the recipient) on the condition that it is for use by and its customers and suppliers, including foreign the recipient for information purposes only (and not governments in countries in which Takeda operates, for the evaluation of any investment, acquisition, or on other facets of its business; the timing and disposal or any other transaction). Any failure to impact of post-merger integration efforts with acquired comply with these restrictions may constitute a companies; the ability to divest assets that are not violation of applicable securities laws. core to Takeda’s operations and the timing of any such divestment(s); and other factors identified in The companies in which Takeda directly and indirectly Takeda’s most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F owns investments are separate entities. In this report, and Takeda’s other reports filed with the U.S. Securities “Takeda” is sometimes used for convenience where and Exchange Commission, available on Takeda’s references are made to Takeda and its subsidiaries in website at: https://www.takeda.com/investors/ general. Likewise, the words “we,” “us” and “our” are reports/sec-filings/ or at www.sec.gov. Takeda does also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those not undertake to update any of the forward-looking who work for them. These expressions are also used statements contained in this report or any other where no useful purpose is served by identifying the forward-looking statements it may make, except particular company or companies. as required by law or stock exchange rule. Past performance is not an indicator of future results and Takeda product names used herein are trademarks the results or statements of Takeda in this report may or registered trademarks of Takeda Pharmaceutical not be indicative of, and are not an estimate, forecast, Company Limited or its affiliates. guarantee or projection of Takeda’s future results. Forward-Looking Statements Medical Information This report and any materials distributed in This report contains information about products that connection with this report may contain forwardmay not be available in all countries, or may be looking statements, beliefs or opinions regarding available under different trademarks, for different Takeda’s future business, future position and results indications, in different dosages, or in different of operations, including estimates, forecasts, targets strengths. Nothing contained herein should be and plans for Takeda. Without limitation, forwardconsidered a solicitation, promotion or advertisement looking statements often include words such as for any prescription drugs, including the ones “targets,” “plans,” “believes,” “hopes,” “continues,” under development. 2020 Sustainability Report 101 Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited Takeda Global Headquarters 1-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8668, Japan Tel:+81-3-3278-2111 Fax:+81-3-3278-2000 © Copyright 2020 Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. All rights reserved.
