CSR REPORT SITEL GROUP Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 sitel.com Table of Contents Scope of this report 03 Letter from the CEO 04 About Sitel Group. 05 CSR at Sitel Group. 18 Our values. 06 Sustainable Development Goals. 20 Our people. 06 Sitel MAX. 07 Give Back. 21 Our global presence. 07 Language Improvement Programs 21 Our expertise. 08 Sitel Footprints 21 A diversified portfolio. 08 CSR Around the World 21 GOS. 09 Charitable Giving Fund 23 Live Well. 24 2019 Global Highlights. 10 SitelFit 24 Communicating Wellness 25 EmpowerCX. 10 Launch of Sitel MAX. 11 Go Green. 26 Expanded global footprint. 11 Sitel Footprints on the ground 26 Top 10 from 2019. 11 Carbon Footprint 26 Sitel awards 2019. 12 Carbon Emissions 27 Sitel at Home 27 Supply Chain 27 Empowering the Associate Experience. 13 Be Ethical. 28 Diversity and Inclusion. 13 Responsible Business 28 Talent Acquisition 14 Awareness and Prevention 28 Empowered voices. 15 Privacy and Protection 28 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 Training and Development. 16 Grievance and Transparency 29 MyAcademy 17 Empower Center 17 Sitel Scholarship 17 02 Scope of this report This annual Corporate Social Responsibility report serves as Sitel Group’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. Sitel was acquired by Groupe Acticall in 2016 and the two groups reported together for the first time in 2017. Sitel Group has reported annually since. The topics covered in this report represent our most significant environmental, social and economic impacts, highlighting the strength of our people, our products and our position as a responsible corporate citizen. 03 Letter from the CEO Dear Stakeholders, As we enter this new decade, I’m proud to reflect We make use of our vast global footprint and on the last several years and being a part of the ­solid capabilities to have a positive ­impact on our UN Global Compact since 2011. In the next pages, ­employees, our clients and our ­local communities. you’ll read about what we have achieved this Being involved with the ­local communities in which past year in Sitel Group’s 2019 Corporate Social we ­operate has always been a part of Sitel Group’s ­Responsibility report. culture and many of our community ­engagement projects depend on our employees’ ­passion, time In this annual report, we describe our ­actions to and energy. continually improve the ­integration of the Global Compact into our business operations and our CSR continues to be at the heart of Sitel Group. commitment to support the 10 principles of the We’re mindful of how our ­operations impact the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and of course, we focus on develoenvironment and anti-corruption. ping and training our people to ensure they are prepared for the future of work with more skills With our global footprint in 28 countries around the and improved ­efficiencies. world, we are committed to our responsibility to contribute to the development of the ­communities We are continually proud of our people around the in which we are located. With an emphasis on resglobe who take an active role in giving back to the ponsible business practices, the Global ­Compact communities in which we live and work. initiative reflects our beliefs. In the past year, we have continued to bring the 10 principles to life, as demonstrated in the f­ ollowing pages. Sincerely, Laurent Uberti President, CEO & Co-Founder, Sitel Group 04 About Sitel Group. Sitel Group’s 80,000 people across the globe Tribes, Sitel, Sitel Insights and TSC – go beyond connect many of the world’s best-known brands ­business process outsourcing (BPO) to support with their customers – 3.5 million times every day. every stage of the customer journey. We are redeAs a global customer experience (CX) management fining the contact center and improving business leader, we apply our 30+ years of industry-leading results by pairing innovative solutions – such as experience and the entrepreneurial spirit of our self-care and automation with the human touch, group’s founders to deliver omnichannel expeemotion and empathy of our people. riences through voice, chat, social media and more to customers of our 400+ clients across all verticals As a CX platform, we are powered by experts to – from Fortune 500 companies to local startups. deliver tailored CX solutions to fit our clients’ needs through our consultative, customer-centric Our group’s breadth of capabilities – powered by approach adding value at every touchpoint – our ecosystem of experts including innso, Learning ­regardless of location, channel or time of day. Learn more at www.sitel.com and connect with us on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. 05 ABOUT SITEL GROUP Our values. Our core values drive the way we work with our clients, their customers and with each other. Be Bold Build Trust Work Together Wow Customers Seek innovation. Be authentic. Have fun. Listen intently. Stay open-minded. Lead by example. Build relationships. Show empathy. Do more with less. Communicate fearlessly. Leverage collective genius. Create unique experiences. Be passionate. Actively engage. Inspire others. Add value. Dare to be different. Take ownership. Give back. Always over-deliver. Our people. Our people understand the best experiences are Because we ­believe delivered when they make real, emotional connecthe associate experience is tions and deliver rapid solutions to leave lasting impressions on behalf of our clients’ brands. We the customer e ­ xperience. are redefining and transforming the contact center and the employee experience. 06 ABOUT SITEL GROUP Sitel MAX. In 2019, Sitel Group launched MAX My Associate Experience ­leveraging the collective genius of our people to improve and shape the future of our group and our industry. Leveraging our User-centric Focused on collective genius methodology our frontline Built around Aligned to Owned by small tents people KPIs our people Our global presence. With our global presence and local expertise, we are close to our clients and their customers wherever (and whenever) they need us. Americas Brazil Nicaragua Canada Panama Colombia United States Mexico Europe Bulgaria Ireland Portugal Denmark Italy Serbia France Netherlands Spain Germany Poland United Kingdom Africa APAC Ivory Coast Australia New Zealand Morocco China Philippines Senegal India 07 ABOUT SITEL GROUP Our expertise. Delivering tailored solutions Omnichannel and adding value at every Contact Center Insight & touchpoint. And with our holisAnalytics tic approach, we are the only customer experience platform for the end-to-end customer Social & journey. Communities CX Consulting & Technology & Transformation Software Self-Care & Automation Learning & Talent Services CX Innovation Lab A diversified portfolio. Serving 400+ clients across every major vertical. Financial services Communications Retail Tech & manufacturing Travel & hospitality Media & entertainment Healthcare Energy & utilities Logistics Other Government 08 ABOUT SITEL GROUP GOS. Our Global Operating Standards – or GOS, as we call In 2019, we rebranded GOS to simplify the messait – sets us apart in the market. No matter where ging and freshen up the look and feel. Below are they are on the globe, our clients can rely on us to our 10 principles: deliver the same consistent level of expertise and knowledge across every stage of their ­customers’ journey. 10 Partner Engage Perform Hire Walking Management Onboard Global Operating Standards Retain Review Train Coach principles With our brand values at the core, GOS helps us back, collaborate and have fun together every day. speak a common language and empowers us to Our GOS principles are driven by a collective dynawork together on best practices. These guidelines mic where everyone has a defined role, and by the allow our employees and managers to share feeddesire to be as simple and clear as possible. To discover our GOS video, please click on the play icon. 09 ABOUT SITEL GROUP 2019 Global Highlights. EmpowerCX. Sitel Group hosted EmpowerCX, our thought-­leadership customer ­experience event in both the Americas and Europe. Centered around the theme of Innovation Powered by Emotion, EmpowerCX brought together nearly 500 clients, prospects, ­industry leaders and analysts from around the world. Read our articles dedicated to: EmpowerCX Americas #1 EmpowerCX Americas #2 EmpowerCX Europe 10 2019 GLOBAL HIGHLIGHTS Launch of Sitel MAX. Read our article dedicated to: In 2019, Sitel Group launched MAX My Associate Launch of MAX & MAX Experience. Based on our core belief that the assoDay celebration. ciate experience is the customer experience, MAX is a business-wide mindset for transforming the ­associate experience, together. Leveraging a global community of more than 2,600 MAX Insiders and local ambassadors, MAX taps into the collective genius of our people to develop initiatives focused on making their journey at Sitel more enjoyable and productive. From providing better tools and technology, to fostering inclusion and diversity, MAX initiatives are focused on providing our employees with an environment they can thrive in. Expanded global footprint. In 2019, Sitel Group expanded our presence in China and announced the opening of operations in our 28th country, Greece. Click here to read the article. Top 10 from 2019. Sitel Group releases hundreds of articles on our blog on sitel.com. Click here for the Top 10 Blog Articles of 2019. 11 2019 GLOBAL HIGHLIGHTS Sitel awards 2019. Industry Leader Industry Leader Leader in the Everest Group IAOP – Global Outsourcing 100 Contact Center Outsourcing for 13th consecutive year (CCO) Peak Matrix for 7th consecutive year Best Culture Industry Leader Frost & Sullivan Customer Contact ISG Provider Lens™ Archetype West CC “Work Hard, Play Hard” Report – Leader in Customer award for 2nd consecutive year Service Buyers, Peak Season Buyers and Digital Experts Learning Experts Cloud Expert Stevie Awards Gold Award for NICE inContact Interactions 2019 Customer Service or Call Center Best in Cloud Award (for the Sitel Training Practice of the Year Omniplatform+ Product and Aon (Learning Tribes) implementation) And more... • Sitel Group’s culture was recognized for the second consecutive year by Frost & Sullivan • Sitel Group takes home Gold and three Bronze Stevie Awards in 2019 • Sitel Group selected as Finalist for BPO of the year • Sitel Group recognized as Global Contact Center Outsourcing Leader by Everest Group for seventh consecutive year • Sitel Group recognized on IAOP Best of the Global Outsourcing 100 for 13th consecutive year 12 2019 GLOBAL HIGHLIGHTS Empowering the Associate Experience. Diversity and Inclusion. Our diverse workforce sets the pace for creativity MyAcademy to support continued professional and innovation in our organization. Driven by our development and grow our talent. Employees are core values, we encourage diversity and inclusivity required to participate in annual training for secuacross our sites and teams from the application rity awareness. Since 2017, our employees have process to new employee onboarding. Investing participated in over 2 million hours of training. We in our employees is a top priority for continued continue to invest in our online learning ­platform employee satisfaction, and vital in preparing our to support new skills and development in the employees for the future of work. We introduced ­industry. 46% 47% 47% 47% Employees 29,662 31,353 35,097 34,807 Male by Gender (worldwide) Female 54% 53% 53% 53% 35,209 35,320 40,096 39,401 2017 2018 2019 2020 13 EMPOWERING THE ASSOCIATE EXPERIENCE Our zero-tolerance policy for discrimination foshiring, we eliminate unconscious bias and w ­ elcome ters a thriving environment where our associates diversity. Any concern brought to the attention are excited to come to work and feel free to be of management or EthicsHotline will be taken themselves in a fun, respectful environment free ­seriously and addressed as needed. of ­harassment. Through an inclusive approach to Talent Acquisition. In September 2019, we hosted our fourth annual Department in partnership with global leadership. National Hiring Event, hiring 1,500 full-time assoThe use of Walking Management throughout our ciates throughout North America and internally sites encourages leaders to maintain engagement promoting 1,196 associates. We currently employ with associates and to ensure support is available 80,000 associates worldwide and encourage feed­ should it be needed. When we put our people first, back through our annual global employee survey, we encourage the sense of leadership as a guiding Sit & Tell. Responses are collected to understand principle to foster trust and to promote the best the current pulse of our operations and to support associate experience and ultimately provide the targeted action plans led by our Human Resource best customer experience. 14 EMPOWERING THE ASSOCIATE EXPERIENCE Empowered voices. In 2018, we launched our Empowered voices. overcoming adversity and thriving in an inclusive campaign and platform during Customer Service workplace. Week as an opportunity for our associates to share their personal #SitelLife story. Empowered voices. From its initial success, we have continued to ­features real stories from real people and the posiuse this platform throughout 2019, celebrating tive impact our associates experience as part of the ­Empowered voices. and engaging our associates ­Sitel family. This online community fosters a sense during Pride Month, Customer Service Week, of belonging amongst peers with inspirational tes­International Women’s Day and more. timonials recognizing individual accomplishments, Empowered voices. These are the voices of our people. 449 Number of Stories Evolution on Empowered 51 voices. 2017 2018 15 EMPOWERING THE ASSOCIATE EXPERIENCE Training and Development. 426 78,042 102,244 2:40:58 Courses Learners Certificates Average time spent delivered per active learner A knowledgeable and passionate workforce is hire orientation, we target interactive training key to our success. We encourage and provide and roll out a red carpet welcome at each of our continuous training to support our associates site locations. Associates are provided on-the-job through every stage of development. By fostering ­training to support strategic alignment while famia safe workplace, in turn, we create a safe and liarizing our team members with our brand values. ­empowering learning environment. By identifying skill gaps, we encourage specific ­training through job shadowing and support with Communication is our expertise. So, whether individual improvement plans. ­training is specific to one of our clients or for new 16 EMPOWERING THE ASSOCIATE EXPERIENCE MyAcademy. Since 2017, Sitel Group’s e-learning platform, targeted information for specific learning objec­MyAcademy, has been used for internal training in tives. Our micro-learning training includes exasupport of onboarding and on-the-job training to mples, problems and challenges that our associates enhance growth and readiness for future promoface daily. Successful completion of this training tions and internal transfers. MyAcademy contains closes skill gaps and provides the knowledge and micro-learning training, which provides users with training to better support a successful associate. Empower Center. Launched in May 2019, our Empower Center is a courses and earn certifications. We are contiplatform that supports diversification, skills ­training nuously adding new content and subjects as per and knowledge for our associates. This platform the request of our associates for more ­engaging allows associates to concentrate on ­personal and and applicable content. From cognitive coaching professional development and ­offers external to maximizing time efficiency, Empower Center ­resources in support of personal and professional offers motivating and inspiring content to supdevelopment through videos, articles and courses. port leadership, accountability and team building Through self-paced modules, users can complete ­development. Sitel Scholarship. Our Sitel Scholarship allows our U.S.-based staff third-place winners each received a $5,000 scho(and their families) to continue and further their larship. The perks of our partnership with DeVry education through DeVry University. In 2019, we University are available to Sitel full-time associates awarded three associates with a scholarship to and their immediate family members (located in attend DeVry University. Our first-place winner the U.S.). ­received a $10,000 scholarship and our second and 17 EMPOWERING THE ASSOCIATE EXPERIENCE CSR at Sitel Group. Our Corporate Social Responsibility commitment is support our corporate social responsibility strateto conduct business in a socially responsible and gy. We encourage community involvement and are ethical manner. In 2019, we had an opportunity proud to see the high levels of commitment and to strengthen our policies and training for ethical passion from our associates each year. Sitel Group standards. We live our Sitel values and practice is committed to supporting the 10 Principles of the them daily, holding ourselves to a higher standard. United Nations Global Compact and looks to collaWe have embedded our sustainability practices borate with our associates and vendors for positive and expectations throughout global operations to impact and improvement. Give Back. Go Green. Supporting local Reducing our carbon communities for a footprint to protect positive local impact. the planet. Live Well. Be Ethical. Promoting health and Living our values to wellness initiatives to foster a fair, safe and encourage a healthy respectful workplace. lifestyle. 18 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Our global sustainability efforts are driven by of 10 principles that we use to guide our four ­making a difference. We remain a proud ­participant ­corporate social responsibility pillars. of the United Nations Global Compact ­comprised Give Back. Be Ethical. Principle 8 Principle 1 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environBusinesses should support and respect the protecmental responsibility tion of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 7 Principle 2 Businesses should support a precautionary Make sure that they are not complicit in human ­approach to environmental challenges rights abuses Principle 3 Live Well. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collecPrinciple 6 tive bargaining The elimination of discrimination in respect of ­employment and occupation Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Go Green. Principle 5 Principle 7 The effective abolition of child labour Businesses should support a precautionary ­approach to environmental challenges Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of emPrinciple 8 ployment and occupation Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all Principle 9 its forms including extortion and bribery United Encourage the development and diffusion of envi­Nations Global Compact ronmentally friendly technologies 19 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Sustainable Development Goals. Sitel Group continues to invest in our associates and preparing our workforce and creating success the communities where we work. Our continued pathways for further education and employment support of the UN Global Compact’s ­Sustainable opportunities. As our business grows, we continue Development Goals allows us to collaborate with investing in our operations practices to reduce our nonprofits and community partners. We strive environmental footprint further. to empower our associates and improve lives by 20 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Give Back. Language Improvement Programs. Around the world, we have various programs which language promotes ­community and shares in our offer candidates English as a second language (ESL) value of creating an inclusive environment. upskilling with the ability to learn or improve their English skills supporting a possible opportunity to Throughout the 480 hours, we provide a weekly be employed in a contact center. stipend, a free meal and transportation. Students accepted into the program learn fluency, vocabuFor example, in 2011, we introduced our Free lary, grammar structure and support to ­strengthen ­Language Improvement Program (FLIP) in ­Managua, soft skills in active listening, comprehension and Nicaragua. This training program supports the comproblem-solving. The FLIP program has a 97% munity by investing in locals who are interested in graduation rate and 30% of graduates have been enhancing and improving their English skills. As we hired as Sitel employees. In 2019, we had 442 attract new talent, we have developed an upskilling ­students enroll in the program and 296 students program to boost morale, ­encourage job growth who ­successfully completed the training. and support the needs of our customers. Shared Sitel Footprints. Every year, we engage with our local communities to host clothing, food and school supply drives. At the heart of our mission are our associates, who volunteer and give back to those in need. Sitel Footprints is centered around our ability to leave a positive, lasting impact and every year, our teams 2,084 365 strive to increase community engagement. Total Volunteer Hours Total Volunteer Days CSR Around the World. Africa (Morocco, Bulgaria Senegal and Ivory Collected more than Coast) 1,000 leva for children with disabilities. Donated 100+ backpacks to support underprivileged children and help them prepare for the upcoming school year. Canada Colombia Hosted a food drive and Collected donations and collected over 600 units of delivered them to an anifood. mal shelter. 21 CSR AT SITEL GROUP France India Raised breast cancer Hosted a stationery donaawareness. tion drive for students and provided 450 backpacks filled with school supplies for underprivileged children in Uttiramerur and surrounding villages. Mexico Nicaragua Visited children with disaFocused on youth health bilities. and wellness to support three levels of development: education, sports and personal growth. Panama Philippines Raised awareness for enOur team in the Philippines dometriosis by wearing adopted a school of 75 yellow during Worldwide ­students and gifted them Endometriosis March. with educational toys for the holidays. Portugal Spain Collected 160kg of nonDonated pet food to a peri­shable food items and ­local shelter. hygiene products to aid in the fight against ­poverty and ­social ­exclusion. United Kingdom United States Raised €1,125 for a local Volunteered at a food bank charity. and fed over 3,500 people, donating seven pallets of food. 22 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Charitable Giving Fund. In North America, our charitable giving fund Since its inception in 2016, we’ve donated around ­donated nearly $60,000 to 77 non-profit orga$215,000 to more than 200 organizations. nizations throughout the United States in 2019. • Sitel Footprints donated $1,500 to the Boys and Girls Club of Marion County • Supporting United Way in Mississippi with a donation of $500 • Sitel donated $850 in San Angelo for the Pink Ribbon Run • New Brunswick raised $500 for Motionball • $500 contribution to Joshua Group • $1,000 to sponsor the Fire-K Five-K in Augusta • Albuquerque donated $1,740 to UNM Children’s Hospital • $500 donation to The Kristen French Child Advocacy Centre • Ocala raised $1,053 for March of Dimes • Starkville donated $1,000 to the Pushmataha Council Boy Scouts Annual 5k Glow Run • Donated $1,000 to Project Impact • And more! 23 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Live Well. SitelFit. We value our associates’ well-being and undersagainst our three regions: EMEA, the Americas tand the importance of establishing healthy habits. and APAC. For eight weeks, our associates worked Empowering our associates to be their best is at tirelessly, tracking their walking, running, biking, the core of SitelFit, our wellness program, and reintraining and other activity in the United Heroes forces our people-centric culture. app. During this eight-week global challenge, we launched a simultaneous individual challenge. SitelFit is designed to educate and motivate ­Associates who earned 400 points through the our ­associates, encouraging healthy eating and app would automatically be entered to win a ­exercise in their daily life. We leverage sports a grand prize trip to our Sitel Headquarters in Miami, universal language that all of our associates around ­Florida. During the eight-week challenge, we held the globe understand to promote global associate weekly drawings for a lucky winner. engagement through the United Heroes platform, allowing associates to take an active role in their own wellness goals. Launched in 2018, United Heroes continues to enhance our associate experience through its ­global challenges. In 2019, SitelFit launched a global challenge to collect the most number of ­badges 24 CSR AT SITEL GROUP The global SitelFit challenge resulted in 12,013 expeditions and a focus group. For the future, our ­badges and a total of 1,023,440Km traveled. At goal is to grow participation and make SitelFit even the end of the challenge, twelve grand prize SitelFit more inclusive and exciting for our associates. winners joined us in Florida to participate in local Challenges Key Figures 7,626 73% 12,013 1,023,440 Number of participants Active participants Total number of badges Total distance traveled (Km) Communicating Wellness. In 2019, we introduced the SitelFit Show, a to eat simple, natural foods. Sites participated by nine-episode Workplace series promoting SitelFit offering snacks like fruit, nuts and balanced meals. challenges. Each week, our hosts addressed diffeEach SitelFit Show episode also presented a weekly rent health and wellness topics, like healthy eating, challenge, where participants were encouraged to fitness tips and activity tracking. For example, the track and follow along on social media using the Back to Basics initiative encouraged our associates hashtag #SitelFit. show Click on the Click on the play icon play icon to discover to discover our SitelFit a SitelFit challenge. Show episode. show 25 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Go Green. Sitel Footprints on the ground. We partner with our associates across the world site ­locations engaging in environmental initiatives who help us protect our planet, with many of our throughout the year. Bulgaria Panama ”Pista y’ Ang Philippines ­Cagueban” (Pista Cleaning the Vitosha Participating in the Inter40 employees volunteered Mountain as part of Let’s national Coastal Clean Up. ng Kagubatan) to plant trees. Clean Bulgaria Together. Supporting the Grand Tree Planting Activity. Sitel ­National Reforestation. joined in the 29th year. Carbon Footprint. Our Environmental Policy addresses water, waste, • Energy-efficient commuting carbon footprint and our suppliers. We strive to be • Teleconferencing good stewards and protect our natural environ• Go paperless ment, supporting a circular economy. Operating in • Responsible disposal of e-waste 28 countries, we work together to make a ­positive • In-kind donations impact on our environment to reduce, reuse and recycle in our daily operations. We encourage the following in each site to help lower our carbon footprint: 26 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Carbon Emissions. In 2019, we performed a greenhouse gas emistons and we are committed to reducing energy sions assessment, which included data from 2018. consumption, paper use, unnecessary business Our total measured carbon emissions were 37,920 travel and water use. Emissions SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 TOTAL (tCO2e) in 2018 1,348 17,441 19,131 37,920 Sitel at Home. Our work from home operation, Sitel at Home, who work virtually supporting a work-life balance ­eliminates the daily commute of traveling to and making for a happier associate with less stress and from work and has less impact on the environa more productive day. ment. We have approximately 2,000 associates Supply Chain. Our Procurement professionals add value through due ­diligence and our commitment to doing resexcellence from our suppliers to all of our ponsible ­business, procurement decisions are ­locations. As an extension of our operations, our based on ethics and labor standards with all applisupply chain is a reflection of our company, giving cable laws and ­regulations and our Supplier Code due consideration to our ethical, environmental of Conduct. Our procurement decisions are based and social obligations. Through our measures of on the highest ethical standards. 27 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Be Ethical. Responsible Business. As a corporate citizen, we understand our responsis­ tandards. Serving in 28 countries, our global bility to foster a safe workplace for all stakeholders. ­policies and procedures, set forth by our global Our high level of compliance standards serves executive team, promote a culture of compliance as the foundation of ethical leadership in our and ethics to maintain trust through exceptional ­organization, reflecting our substantial commitcustomer experiences upheld by our values: Be ment to upholding laws, regulations and ­industry Bold. Build Trust. Work Together. Wow Customers. Awareness and Prevention. With 80,000 associates around the world, we tency in training supports our ethical culture and prioritize ethical awareness in the workplace. Our encourages trust with peers and management. strategy supports an understanding of ethical ­Associates are required to participate in annual implications and encourages moral actions. StanGlobal Security and Awareness training through dards of behavior, values and principles are found MyAcademy, promoting ethical competence and in our Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. Consisclarity of our industry standards. Privacy and Protection. We work closely with our associates and clients, • European Union General Data Protection building trust by protecting the privacy and the ­Regulation (GDPR) ­security of data. Privacy and protection of informa• Health Insurance Portability and tion has been globally embedded into our business ­Accountability Act (HIPAA) operations as we train our associates annually on • ISO 27001:2013 requirements to protect confidential, sensitive • Client Specific Privacy Requirements and personally identifiable information. We have • Country and EU Member State Country maintained a strong framework of protection and ­Privacy Laws ­security through our internal policies, including our • Payment Card Industry Data Security Security and Ethics Incident Management, Risk ­Standard (PCI DSS) Management, Global Privacy Policy and Fraud Management and adhere to global compliance ­requirements including: 28 CSR AT SITEL GROUP Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption. We are committed to maintaining comprehensive of countries where we operate. Our Compliance policies, procedures and training. These systems Program ensures a proactive approach through the are reviewed annually to ensure they are up-tofollowing areas of prevention and management: date with applicable laws, regulations, industry standards and best practices. Our organization’s • Fostering a culture of compliance Compliance Program provides guidelines on the • Continuous monitoring through assessments prevention and management of bribery and corand audits ruption-related risks. Our Global Anti-Bribery • Risk management and Corruption Policy requires adherence to all • Due diligence ­relevant anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, in• Whistleblowing hotline and procedure cluding the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the • Compliance training United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010 including all laws Grievance and Transparency. We have zero-tolerance for unethical behavior and may affect the moral or physical integrity of its corruption in any form. Any possible conduct vioemployees, can be reported using EthicsPoint for lations viewed as unethical, illegal, in violation of further investigation. This third-party, 24-hour professional standards or otherwise inconsistent ­hotline is available to report ethical violations with Sitel Group’s policies and procedures, which ­anonymously. 29 CSR AT SITEL GROUP sitel.com
