CREATING A BETTER WORLD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS WHO WE ARE 3 OUR SOCIAL About this Report 3 RESPONSIBILITY 21 Letter from Our Co-CEO 4 CSR and Our Business Strategy 21 About Medidata 6 STEM Education 22 Our Products 7 Access for All 24 Our Suppliers 7 Commitments and Awards 27 Highlights from 2019 28 CSR Progress 29 OUR APPROACH 8 Stakeholders 8 Materiality 10 OUR PLANET 30 Governance 11 Environmental Responsibility 30 Ethics 12 Reducing Our Environmental Impact 31 Emissions 32 OUR PEOPLE 14 Medidatians 14 INDEXES 34 Benefits 14 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 34 Employee Development 15 UN Global Compact 37 Employee Engagement 16 Volunteerism 16 Diversity & Belonging 17 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX WHO WE ARE ABOUT THIS REPORT 2019 was a year of significant progress for Medidata. Medidata is headquartered in New York City and has In October, we were acquired by Dassault Systèmes, offices in seven countries around the world: China, a large software company headquartered in France. Germany, Japan, Republic of Korea, Singapore, United This sustainability report represents our stakeholders’ Kingdom and United States. Our products and services highest priorities and the business activities of are available globally. Medidata serves the healthcare Medidata as an independent brand. We highlight sector, as defined by the Global Industry Classification opportunities moving forward as we merge our Standard. Medidata helps pharmaceutical, biotech, initiatives and programs with Dassault Systèmes, medical device companies, and academic researchers whose 3DEXPERIENCE platform is positioned to lead accelerate value, minimize risk, and optimize outcomes. the digital transformation of life sciences in the age of personalized medicine. This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards: Core Option for -: 350 Hudson Street, 9th floor the year ending Dec. 31, 2019. Our previous report was New York, NY 10014 published on Sept. 23, 2019, and is available on our ': 212.918.1800 website, www.medidata.com. :: www.medidata.com 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX LETTER FROM OUR CO-CEO 2019 was a milestone year for Medidata. As we celebrated our 20th anniversary as a company, we joined Dassault Systèmes. Now we are able to provide the life science industry with an integrated business experience platform for an end-to-end approach to research and discovery, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and commercialization of new therapies and health technologies. This acquisition marks a significant transition for Medidata, and an important opportunity to advance our mission and promote our values on a global scale. Simply put, it allows us to bring smarter treatments to more patients, more quickly. While we continue to integrate with Dassault Systèmes, we look forward to increasing our impact. This report illustrates the progress we are making at Medidata to realize our vision in every aspect of our business. Our commitment to better healthcare for patients extends to weaving sustainability into the fabric of our business strategy as a whole. Medidata has identified three areas where we are well positioned to have the greatest impact: improving diversity in clinical trials, empowering patient advocacy, and finding treatments for rare diseases. These initiatives — combined with our attention to diversity and belonging, and to mitigating our environmental impact — reflect our deep commitment to integrity, partnership, tenacity, nimbleness, humility, inclusiveness, and care. Additionally, we are pleased to report progress on our strategic priorities of improving patient access to care; giving students access to education in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM); and enhancing diversity and equality in our workplace. In our second year of activating these strategic priorities, we worked with our philanthropic partners to provide more than 4,000 patients access to care. Our goal is to provide 15,000 students with access to STEM education, and by the end of 2019 Medidata had already reached nearly 1,750 students. In addition, we formalized the strategic charters and operating governance 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX “MEDIDATA HAS IDENTIFIED of our seven Business Resource Groups (BRGs) and reached overall employee participation of 30 percent. The 2019 BRG THREE AREAS WHERE WE partnership results have shown a five percent increase in overall employee engagement for employees who are involved ARE WELL POSITIONED in our BRGs. TO HAVE THE GREATEST The COVID-19 pandemic has made our mission more critical than ever. As the world continues to deal with this novel coronavirus and its consequences, we will continue to innovate and use our technology to break down the barriers IMPACT: IMPROVING that hamper patients from participating in clinical trials and prevent underrepresented groups from accessing care. New DIVERSITY IN CLINICAL platforms like myMedidata are emblematic of our patientcentric approach. Medidata technology is helping life science TRIALS, EMPOWERING companies introduce virtualization technologies into their crucial research and clinical trials for new vaccines, PATIENT ADVOCACY, AND therapeutics, medical devices, and diagnostics. FINDING TREATMENTS These are extraordinarily complex and uncertain times, which require creativity and collaboration. We know we cannot solve FOR RARE DISEASES. ” challenges alone. This report reaffirms our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles, which align closely with our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. Together — Medidatians, customers, partners, and peers — we can create positive change in our community and in our world. Sincerely, Tarek Sherif Co-CEO, Medidata and Chairman of Life Sciences, Dassault Systèmes 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX ABOUT MEDIDATA OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR CORE BUSINESS As a mission-driven technology company, we firmly Medidata is leading the digital transformation of believe in using what we build to change the world for life sciences, creating hope for millions of patients. the better. In 2018, Medidata committed to integrate Medidata helps generate the evidence and insights sustainability into our overall business strategy, to help pharmaceutical, biotech, medical device and marking a fundamental shift in our corporate social diagnostics companies, and academic researchers and environmental responsibility initiatives. Our CSR accelerate value, minimize risk, and optimize program is dedicated to engaging our value chain, outcomes. More than one million registered users giving back to our community, and positively impacting across 1,500 customers and partners access the Medidata and the larger world. world’s most-used platform for clinical development, commercial, and real-world data. Medidata, a Dassault Systèmes company, is headquartered in New York City and has offices around the world to meet the needs of its customers. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX OUR PRODUCTS OUR SUPPLIERS The Medidata platform supports biopharmaceutical Our supply chain delivers on our business goals and medical device companies as well as Contract and impacts many facets of our company globally. Research Organizations (CROs) and academic research It ensures our offices are great places to work and centers in bringing drugs and devices through the enables our technology and services, demonstrating clinical development process using its Rave SaaS our influence in the communities where we operate subscription and supporting professional services. and the markets that we serve. Given our significant In addition to Rave, Medidata’s Acorn AI division uses procurement budget, we understand how important data, data science, advanced analytics (incorporating our supply chain partners are, not only in terms AI and ML), and consulting services to accelerate of quantifying our overall impact but in managing clinical development and commercialization of sustainability across the company. In 2019, we pharmaceuticals and medical devices. These renewed our efforts to track supplier diversity businesses are powered by the Medidata Rave Clinical and sustainability, and more closely evaluate our Cloud™ — a cutting-edge platform that standardizes procurement processes. As a result of our acquisition and unifies data that paves the way for reinventing by Dassault Systèmes, we are updating our policies research. Together with our customers and partners, to align with the broader goals and capabilities of our we achieve better outcomes for patients, significantly expanded organization, including our commitment to reduce drug development costs, and accelerate cycle responsible procurement and contracting with diverse times to deliver targeted treatments to patients more suppliers — such as women-, minority-, LGBTQ-, and quickly — all while maximizing revenue opportunities. veteran-owned — and small or local businesses. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX OUR APPROACH STAKEHOLDERS Until Medidata became a wholly owned subsidiary of meetings. Since our acquisition, the company’s Dassault Systèmes on Oct. 28, 2019, we engaged with shareholders are our new stakeholder. As we began stakeholders who directly impacted our operations — to integrate our business with Dassault Systèmes, including our employees, customers, and shareholders we have worked closely with our parent company’s — throughout the year. leadership teams on a strategic, financial, and operational basis to ensure we obtain information on We connect with our employees biannually by way of our what is material to shareholders and communicate engagement survey and our pulse surveys. These help successfully our mutual aims. us understand what is important to them and ensures we are creating programs that make them successful. In 2019, we recognized and elevated another crucial Additionally, we also hold quarterly town halls where stakeholder: patients. We at Medidata believe employees can ask questions directly of our Co-CEOs. understanding patient needs is central to everything we do. It’s critical for designing customer solutions Our interaction with customers is ongoing and and evolving our offerings — and significantly represents an essential component of our shared differentiates us in our industry. For example, our progress. We gain insight during regular meetings and Product team emphasized patient-centric design provide required disclosures through the RFP process. to create a process for using novel Design Studio Frequent interaction ensures we anticipate needs, sessions to understand the patient experience before, assess customer requests, and deliver optimal value. during, and after clinical trials. These sessions were held with patients quarterly to infuse our development Prior to being acquired, we engaged with our investors process with their direct insights. quarterly during earnings calls and annual governance 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX OUR COMMUNITY Employees Shareholders (post acquisition) • Our annual MediMic survey and as• We have conducted strategic planning needed Pulse surveys let employees share meetings and operational integration to feedback and concerns anonymously. align with global organizational priorities Our Leadership and People teams use the and communicate them to shareholders. results and insights to customize employee programming. • We hold Quarterly Town Halls to give employees the opportunity to interact directly with our Co-CEOs. Customers • Medidata Express, our corporate intranet, is • We hold customer meetings to assess needs an open forum for employees to communicate and requests related to sustainability, and and share interests. regularly report progress. • We offer employees numerous volunteer • We develop CSR Reports as needed, which opportunities to demonstrate our values offer valuable insight into how we can and connect with our broader community. support and align on strategic priorities. Patients Investors (prior to acquisition) • We conduct quarterly Design Studios to • Our Investor Relations team met regularly incorporate patient priorities, concerns, with our shareholders to ensure we and feedback into product development. understood their concerns. • We held quarterly earnings calls and annual governance meetings to discuss progress and strategy. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX MATERIALITY At Medidata, we have traditionally completed our We’ve defined the reporting boundary for all topics as materiality assessment by engaging representatives factors within our operational control. The following from all stakeholder groups to identify and understand chart displays how each topic relates to Medidata, its high-priority topics. We applied the same methodology stakeholders and business activities, and how it aligns for this report and found that the themes most with the GRI’s Reporting Principles. The high priority relevant to stakeholders and material to our business topics, each of which is described in depth throughout were consistent with past years. In this year’s report, this report, are most material to our business as a global we expanded our focus on patient advocacy and technology company operating in the life sciences and product development initiatives, elevating patients as healthcare industries. We have also assessed each of the a stakeholder category. mediumand low-priority topics, and discuss those that impact some aspects of our business. TOPIC ASSESSMENT HIGH PRIORITY MEDIUM PRIORITY LOW PRIORITY MATERIAL TOPICS MATERIAL TOPICS MATERIAL TOPICS Anti-Corruption Economic performance Market Presence Procurement practices Indirect economic impact Our Anti-competitive behavior Business Tax Employment Supplier social assessment Freedom of association and collective bargaining Training and education Security practices Our Labor/Management relations Customer privacy Human rights assessment People Occupational health and safety Child labor Local communities Rights of indigenous peoples Forced or compulsory labor Public policy Customer health and safety Diversity and equal opportunity Socioeconomic compliance Marketing and labeling Non-discrimination Emissions Energy Materials Water and effluents Biodiversity Our Effluents and waste Environmental compliance Planet Supplier environmental assessment 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX GOVERNANCE When Medidata was acquired by Dassault Systèmes in 2019, it became the organization’s third largest brand. Consequently, our governance structure has changed significantly; we no longer have our own Board of Directors. Our Leadership Team remains fully responsible for strategy and decision-making on economic, environmental, and social impact issues related to Medidata. This team reports into Dassault Systèmes’ Executive stakeholders, who are accountable to the Dassault Systèmes Board of Directors. As we become more integrated into our new parent company, we are working hard to align decision-making processes, streamline our approach to governance, and ensure progress on our strategic priorities. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX ETHICS Medidata adheres to the highest standards of Medidata conducts business ethically, honestly, and ethical business conduct. Our Code of Business in full compliance with all applicable laws, rules, and Conduct & Ethics describes our company values and regulations — including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt requirements, and is the foundation for all company Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and other laws policies, procedures, and guidelines. We expect all designed to prevent corruption. Our Code of Business employees of Medidata to follow these tenets; we also Conduct & Ethics ensures we hold ourselves and expect Medidata’s contractors and consultants to our business practices to the highest standard. The abide by its principles in connection with their work Code sets requirements for business conduct and is a for Medidata. foundation for our company policies, procedures, and guidelines, all of which provide additional guidance on expected behaviors. CORE VALUES These are the values and principles most important to Medidata: Strive to do the right thing always; be honest, equitable, and trustworthy Integrity Co-create value with our customers Partnership Boldly challenge the status quo Tenacity Embrace change, fail fast and move forward Nimbleness Be confident, not arrogant Humility Treat each other with respect and empower diverse thought and talent Inclusiveness Transform the well-being of patients, communities and each other Care 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX ANTI-CORRUPTION Medidata manages anti-corruption by going beyond These policies and procedures enable consistent regulatory compliance. We do not tolerate bribery assessment of corruption risks in all our offices and or corruption, which could do lasting damage to operations around the globe, and to date have proven Medidata’s brand and reputation, and severely to be effective. We did not identify any corruption diminish customer and shareholder confidence. As activities involving our company in 2019. such, Medidata does not accept corruption in any of its business dealings due to the potential risk it poses CUSTOMER PRIVACY to our business and our societal license to operate. Customer privacy also is a top priority at Medidata. As a tech company, we recognize the trust our customers To discourage corruption, Medidata prepares its place in us to ensure data privacy, security, and employees to recognize and respond to relevant protection. In 2019 we did not experience any data situations that may arise while conducting business. breaches, thefts, or losses of customer data, and we Every Medidata employee is required to take an anticontinue to reinforce our internal policies, procedures, corruption training course within 30 days of hire. Every and systems against these threats. We are proud to employee may report concerns about compliance with report that we did not receive any complaints regarding Medidata’s anti-corruption policy to their supervisor, customer privacy, and our partners remain satisfied the Legal Department, or through anonymous channels. with our performance in these critical areas. Further, Medidata is compliant with applicable regulations as We also offer annual ethics training and require all well as numerous third-party standards. Additional employees, including our leadership team, to read and details about our management approach for customer acknowledge our code of conduct. In addition, we offer privacy, including policies and processes relative to numerous anti-corruption and ethics trainings to our protecting customer data, can be found in our SOC2+ employees, including, but not limited to: Report at http://www.medidata.com/trust. • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics* LABOR POLICIES • Overview of Medidata Regulated Content Management All Medidata employees, including interns, are • Global Privacy Policy and eLearning required to be at least 16 years old and possess • Global Data Privacy Policy certain skills for each position, in accordance with • Reporting Privacy Incidents federal regulation. We do not participate in child labor • Clinical Regs and ERES Overview nor expose employees to hazardous work. We do not • Anti-Phishing Training Course participate in forced or compulsory labor in any of our • Salary History and Recruitment Laws operations. We do not have a management approach • Preventing Workplace Harassment (4 courses) for Child Labor or Forced or Compulsory Labor as • Anti-Corruption Compliance ** neither of these practices is accepted at Medidata. • Unconscious Bias * Training available in English and Japanese ** Training available in English, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX OUR PEOPLE MEDIDATIANS BENEFITS Our employees are undoubtedly our greatest asset. Medidata provides our employees with best-in-class When we consider the social and environmental benefits while ensuring we’re fiscally responsible. We impact of our business, we recognize that our people offer our full-time regular employees across the globe make the difference — throughout our entire company health insurance, life and disability income benefits, and into our community. Medidatians bring the retirement, and other tax-advantaged accounts when innovation, tenacity, and passion necessary to advance culturally appropriate. We also stress work-life balance our mission. Each and every day, our employees by offering generous paid-time-off policies, including work together to disrupt the status quo, support unlimited time off when possible, as well as enhanced our customers and find solutions to bring better paid leaves for employees to care for themselves or treatments to patients around the globe. their families (all regular employees are eligible for leave benefits, prorated based on hours worked). We at Medidata support, nurture, and develop our Medidata also offers a Wellness Program, and a suite people. We listen to our employees and engage on of services to support employees’ mental, physical, the issues that matter most to them, from patient emotional, spiritual, and financial well-being. advocacy and diversity in clinical trials to giving back to our communities and reducing our carbon footprint. We believe that empowering our employees through meaningful work ensures our collective impact for the good. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Medidata employees not only “LEAD Smart,” but are Our management approach for employment, training “TEAM Smart” and “MEDIDATA Smart.” We invest and education ensures our programs are meeting over $1million per year in employee learning and or exceeding employee development goals while development that aligns with the 16 Skill Builders remaining cost effective. To guide our programming, we believe make employees, teams, and the larger we regularly consult employee survey responses and organization successful. We use a variety of metrics talent review outputs to identify relevant topics. We to drive our program creation, including engagement offer all our employees regular performance reviews, surveys, talent review outputs, and insights from which we track and measure through check-ins in our performance check-ins. Human Resources Information System, “Workday”. In addition to evaluating improvements in employee We offer a comprehensive selection of courses and performance, we look to feedback from both employees workshops (delivered both internally, externally, and and managers to monitor our approach’s effectiveness. on-demand by subject-matter experts) covering management fundamentals, leadership principles EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING and professional development competencies. We One of our most innovative leadership development focus on themes and topics that will drive good initiatives is our Social Innovation Lab (SIL). A thinkbusiness decisions and meet people where they are. tank style program, the SIL matches our high-potential Since the onset of COVID-19, for example, we have talent with social entrepreneurs to solve challenging developed resources specific to working from home, systemic problems in the life science industry, such as presenting virtually, managing a remote team, change creating a new financial model for drug repurposing management, and overall wellness. We also offer our clinical trials or increasing diversity in clinical trials. managers instruction in Compassionate Leadership, We also have integrated the learning components while individual employees can enroll in classes on the mentioned above into this program. At the start of the Journey Forward. program, employees meet their managers to discuss goals specific to the SIL. They also identify Skill Builders In addition to the learning sessions offered over the on which to focus, and we provide additional training course of the year, all employees are required to and support. We track their progress over time, with a complete an individual development plan outlining manager check-in halfway through and at the end of their career interests, skill strengths, and development the program. needs. Managers discuss this plan over the course of the year during three check-ins with each employee. This allows for more frequent conversation and opportunity to revisit and/or pivot goals and development areas. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM ENGAGEMENT Medidata celebrates volunteers and incorporates volunteering into our culture. We are extremely fortunate at Medidata, and believe we have an obligation to give We invest heavily in programs that support and drive back to the communities where we operate. the employee experience, providing our people with many opportunities to engage and connect to our Taking a community-based approach to volunteerism, mission. We use a data-driven approach, collecting we work with our Engagement Councils to identify feedback from every employee to create a program local philanthropic partners. Then we focus on building built upon their recommendations and feedback. partnerships that are long lasting, which is the best way to increase our impact. We also understand that Each year, we launch a search and application process one of the best ways we can give back is by providing throughout our offices for employees interested in our employees with opportunities to use their expertise sitting on our Employee Engagement Councils. The to drive change. councils consist of 2-4 team members in each office who serve as experience ambassadors and help drive SKILLS-BASED VOLUNTEERING their office’s programming. Our councils also act as In the Social Innovation Lab (more info on page 26), we focus groups, ensuring we are aware of local customs pair employees with nonprofit organizations to work on and cultures and able to regionalize and localize our projects that make a difference. Together, they come approach. We do this because we believe global must up with innovative solutions to help patients. All our go local. While we have a global strategy, we want our projects are designed to find solutions for patients offices to be able to create programs tailored to inspire with rare diseases for whom there are no clinical trials, employees in their own communities. or for those who cannot access potentially life-saving treatments only available through trials. The Social We take data from various reports, surveys, and Innovation Lab offers employees opportunities to employee feedback sessions and create a global learn something new, use their skills outside of their strategy that is then adapted for the local culture. daily scope-of-work, drive real change, and learn more Every office organizes its own parties, cultural about the life science industry. celebrations, volunteer opportunities, and wellness activities while always connecting to our mission. Employees help us decide which local organizations MISSION-ALIGNED VOLUNTEERING to affiliate with and how to best impact the local In addition to patient-focused volunteer programs, community as we focus on our STEM Education and we also offer a number of opportunities to engage Access for All programs. with our community through our Business Resource Groups (more info on page 20). Each BRG partners with a nonprofit related to its mission, sharing ideas, promoting its work, and partnering on key initiatives. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX DIVERSITY & BELONGING At Medidata, we are deeply committed to becoming a more diverse and inclusive company and creating a sense of belonging for all employees. Diversity & Belonging (D&B) is a high priority for our business and our employees. Our program, which began in Q4 2017, focuses on three demographics: Women, Black and/ or African American, and Latinx/Hispanic. In 2018, we built the foundation by creating Business Resource Groups, committing to the CEO Action on Diversity pledge and identifying partnerships with external nonprofit organizations that align with our STEM Education and Access for All initiatives. IN 2019, WE FOCUSED ON FIVE STRATEGIC AREAS: 01 02 03 04 05 Impacting Our Expanding Talent Managing Investing in Diversity Communities Partnerships & Bias Diversity Executive & Diversifying Igniting Inclusion Talent Summaries & Pipelines Development Data Driven Assessments 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX 1. Impacting Our Communities the movement of candidates through the interview process to help us identify progress or lack thereof In collaboration with our Business Resource Groups during the recruitment cycle. In this way, we can more and our Corporate Social Responsibility program, easily identify recruitment or hiring problems and find we continue to invest in students and patients from solutions to increase the number of diverse hires. underrepresented groups, working to give them access to the education and care that they need. We partner with the following organizations: 3. Managing Bias & Igniting Inclusion • All Star Code Given that everyone has preconceptions, we train • Black Girls Code our staff to combat unconscious bias within our organization. All our existing and new employees in • NY Urban League Europe, the United Kingdom, and the United States • NPower completed unconscious bias training in 2019. We also • NY Academy of Science require manager training upon hire or promotion into a • Founders’ Scholarship managerial role. This year, we will also require a Race • Watsi in the Workplace training for managers and will roll out • Kicked It In Heels an allyship program for all employees. 2. Expanding Talent Partnerships & 4. Investing in Diversity Talent Development Diversifying Pipelines The so-called broken rung is a commonplace In 2019, we committed to hiring more diverse talent and experience for underrepresented talent, who often find began working with several partners with expertise in they get “stuck” as they climb the career ladder and increasing Women, Black and/or African American, and are not promoted further. As we examined all facets Latinx/Hispanic representation in technology companies. of our organization, we identified a broken rung at the We partnered with the following organizations: early manager level. We believe it’s our responsibility to repair this rung and are intensely focused on • National Society for Black Engineers (NSBE) increasing hiring and promotion at this level. • Lesbians Who Tech • Grace Hopper We also sponsor employees at various conferences, • NPower including the Executive Leadership Council (ELC) Mid • All Star Code Manager Symposium, which caters to Black/African • AWS American and/or Latinx/Hispanic talent. From 2018• Jopwell 2019, we increased our attendance by 67%. Employees • FairyGodBoss attended the Women of Power Summit, which increases talent pipelines for women of color. Additionally, We also established a new diversity talent slate report we send employees to the annual Grace Hopper for our Talent Acquisition team that is aligned with Conference, which focuses on career development and our Affirmative Action Plan (AAP). The report shows talent opportunities for women in tech. In 2019, we our initial pipeline and recruiting sources, then tracks increased our number of attendees by 30%. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX Lastly, we developed a Sponsorship program to rates, to help senior leadership work on D&B goals within increase visibility and exposure to our VP+ level their organizations. We started with our Technology and and increase promotion opportunities for highAcorn AI teams, which are focused on growth. potential diverse talent. Our Business Resource Groups complete a Talent Review process and make Each summary helps our Senior Leadership teams nominations to help us identify candidates for track and analyze diversity trends in hiring, promotions, advancement. Twenty-five sponsees are currently engagement, and retention within each function. enrolled in the program. We also participated in the McKinsey & Company and Leanin.Org Women in the Workplace Survey, 5. Diversity Executive Summaries & which helped us identify problems and opportunities, Data Driven Assessments including our organization’s broken rungs. The survey We created executive summaries of quarterly provides recommendations on ways to further develop demographic data, including retention and promotion talent and break down barriers. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS (BRGS) In 2019, we continued to build on our Business BRG LOGO & OUR COMMITMENTS Resource Groups’ (BRGs) foundation: to ensure all employees have a sense of belonging at Medidata. Our seven BRGs include: Women of Color (WOC), Black Employees at Medidata (BEAM), Latins Organized and Leading to Achieve (LOLA), Medidata OUT, Veterans at Medidata, Women in Tech, and Remotians. We defined a BRG strategy and framework to help each group accelerate its impact. Our operating principles include talent branding, talent selection, talent development, diversity process enablement, and leadership and modeling. BRGs focus on one or more of these principles with a charter, operating model, and key metrics to guide and measure initiatives. Additionally, each BRG is aligned with one nonprofit to extend our efforts beyond Medidata. These partnerships drive social change in our community and help us develop a pipeline of future Medidatians. Our D&B program wouldn’t be successful without our BRGs; they are a catalyst for change and will continue to be at the forefront of social impact as we move through 2020. MOVING FORWARD IN 2020 We are focusing on diversity even more intently in 2020. We are hiring a new VP of Diversity & Belonging, who will embed systemic processes and practices designed to increase D&B at Medidata. The new VP will also build a robust allyship program to ensure everyone at Medidata progresses together. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR AND OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY We believe Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is opportunities for our employees to volunteer, fueling mandatory — a lens through which companies come their sense of purpose and driving our mission forward. to understand their impact on their industry, the world And we work with organizations such as the Lazarex around them, and their stakeholders. At Medidata, we Cancer Foundation, the Emerson Community Clinic & take seriously our responsibility to carefully examine Telemundo, and the Castleman Disease Collaborative our business and create a circular, sustainable Network to create awareness and access. economy. And we recognize that we can create systemic change by incorporating into our CSR initiatives our We look at everything we do critically — from pursuing customers and industry partners, both corporate LEED gold certification for our offices, to joining and philanthropic. This means integrating social patient advocacy groups, to furthering treatments for responsibility into every thread of our business strategy. patients. We continue to evolve our Corporate Social Responsibility and Social Impact programs so as to Our goal is to create a better world by helping remain a leader in global citizenship by driving lasting thousands of patients faced with life-threatening change in our industry and our world. diseases. Impact is integral to our business strategy: we seek to better patients’ lives, better our employees’ We focus particularly on two critical programs: STEM lives, and better the communities where we live. We Education, which will give 15,000 students in five years partner with researchers to accelerate cures and information about and incentives to consider STEM foster a corporate culture that projects our external careers; and Access for All, which supports Diversity in mission. We work with philanthropic partners to create Clinical Trials, Patient Advocacy, and Rare Disease. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX STEM EDUCATION Our entire STEM Education program aims to foster opportunities to volunteer, give back, learn, and build innovation and develop the thought leaders we need to a better future. Our goal is that our current employees ensure that all patients have access to treatment. We are and the students that we invest in will help lead us to investing in the next generation of innovators, disruptors, innovative treatments and help combat our industry’s change-makers and visionaries, and we utilize our biggest challenges such as diversity in clinical trials, resources to ensure they have access to the tools they patient advocacy, and finding treatment solutions for need to be successful. Our goal is that someday these rare disease. students may become Medidatians, joining our company and furthering our vision for smarter treatments for more In 2018, Medidata set a goal to impact 15,000 students patients. We recognize that these students expect to in five years with access to STEM education incentives work for a company where they can create meaningful to consider careers in STEM. In order to accomplish our impact, that provides top-notch benefits, and which goal, we are removing barriers to STEM for high school offers an exceptional employee experience — including students through entry level talent. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX HARDWARE DONATIONS In 2020, we provided 110 teachers with access to the As the future of work continues to transform into a course for free. We plan to continue to support this more digital one, schools struggle to keep up with the course and offer teachers in communities where we technology demands. In order to help students and be have offices the opportunity to take it. We estimate more sustainable, we donate our end-of-life hardware that helping one teacher can impact up to 30 students. to local schools to give them the resources they need to keep pace and be successful. FOUNDERS’ SCHOLARSHIP We launched the Founders’ Scholarship in 2019 in honor CODING AND MENTORING of our 20th anniversary. The scholarship aims to provide Teaching students how to code gives them better work one student interested in technology and a social impact opportunities. So Medidata supports All Star Code, a career who otherwise would be unable to attend college summer coding intensive for young men of color that with a $20,000 grant and an internship at Medidata. We aims to bridge the diversity gap in technology. In 2019, plan to expand the scholarship to the U.K. in 2020. students spent the summer at Medidata learning code via the All Star Code curriculum and receiving MEDIED mentorship from Medidata employees. This program We work with three universities in North Carolina helps advance students and provide them with including Campbell University, University of North valuable hard and soft skills. Carolina Wilmington, and Durham Technical Community College to provide students with free access to our realAdditionally, our BRGs actively work with their world technology for their classrooms. nonprofit partners to ensure students have access to the coding and mentoring resources that they need Allowing students to learn about our technology to be successful, especially students who identify as gives them greater access to the skills they’ll need in underrepresented groups. the workplace. In 2020, we are expanding the program to ensure students also have access to STEM EDUCATORS PROGRAM career opportunities. We understand how imperative it is that teachers have the resources they need to help students be FROM CODE TO CODERS successful, which means keeping them abreast of We believe one of the greatest impacts we can have is the changes happening in STEM fields. In 2019, we providing students with access to careers. We treat all of partnered with The New York Academy of Sciences to our STEM initiatives as talent pipelines to attract the most fund their first STEM Educators program, which offers promising students we work with to consider becoming a free development course on careers in technology. Medidatians. Once Medidata works with a student, we keep engaging with them to ensure their success. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX ACCESS FOR ALL Access to treatment and innovative care, such as clinical trials, is not available to all patients; this is one of the most critical issues facing our industry. Within our Access for All initiative, we have incorporated three areas of focus, building a holistic strategy to ensure all patients get the treatment they need. These are: Diversity in Clinical Trials, Patient Advocacy, and Rare Disease. We bring all of our resources to bear to help break down barriers to access: our employees’ expertise within our committees, our Social Innovation Lab, and our in-kind donations. We also integrate social impact into our business strategy and develop philanthropic partnerships with like-minded organizations. In 2019 our efforts focused primarily on Diversity in Clinical Trials and Patient Advocacy, with the creation of dedicated crossfunctional committees demonstrating rapid progress in these areas. For Rare Disease, our impact came primarily through the Social Innovation Lab as well as other parts of our business that invest in exploring solutions. We aim to further expand this component of our programming in 2020. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX The steering committee also used Medidata’s Synthetic Naima Gibson Control Database to spearhead and lead development Chair of Diversity in Clinical Trials of research focused on the paucity of Black women with triple-negative breast cancer in trials. The research was DIVERSITY IN CLINICAL TRIALS published online for the American Society of Clinical The Diversity in Clinical Trials Steering Committee Oncology Annual Meeting in 2020 and accepted as an initially started in 2017 to raise awareness of abstract for the European Society of Medical Oncology underrepresentation of minorities in clinical trials. It Virtual Congress 2020, in partnership with Dr. Kevin has since evolved into a formal committee. Its mission Holcombe and Dr. Janna Andrew. is to broaden patient representation in clinical trials regardless of ethnicity, gender, geographic location or Finally, the committee is especially proud of its socioeconomic status. Focus areas include patientpartnership with the Emerson Clinic and Dr. Fabian facing initiatives, thought leadership and insights into Sandoval, whose television show “Tu Salud Tu Familia” the clinical trial diversity gap, and product-and-service on Telemundo Washington D.C. addresses disparities solutions. The committee has three objectives: in the Hispanic community and was recognized by the 62nd Capital Emmy® Awards. 1. Expanding patient footprint by incorporating diversity into our patient-centric approach to clinical trials Alicia Staley Head of Patient Engagement 2. Creating thought leadership content highlighting the clinical trial diversity gap in the market PATIENT CENTRICITY BY DESIGN By focusing on external relationships and internal 3. Leveraging Medidata’s products and solutions to education, Medidata has established itself as a leader help bridge the diversity gap in clinical trials in patient-centric trial development. Led by our Patient Insights team, we have established a more patientIn 2019, we developed a proof-of-concept visualization centric mindset in everything we do. The Insights team tool in partnership with two customers to include works with leading patient advocates across a number more diverse patients in clinical trials. The tool helps of disease states to better understand the patient study teams monitor progress on trial diversity by experience during clinical trials. Our Patient Design comparing clinical trial participant data against Studios, which host patient sessions, uncover pressing real world benchmarks. In addition, the team has issues facing patients, caregivers and care teams conducted educational sessions to raise awareness throughout their trials. Together these efforts reflect about diversity challenges at conferences such as the our evolution towards Patient Centricity by Design as Summit of Clinical Operations Executives, Society for our default approach to value creation. Clinical Research Sites, and Medidata’s Global NEXT. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX Earlier this year, Medidata also launched its first Patient In 2019, we simultaneously launched three projects Advocacy Steering Committee, bringing the patient voice focused on rare disease and diversity in clinical trials. into all aspects of our work within the organization. They: The steering committee is a volunteer initiative that elevates the patient story by building relationships • helped accelerate the work of the Castleman with nonprofit organizations committed to improving Disease Collaborative Network (CDCN), a nonprofit the patient experience in clinical trials. In addition, the working to find the underlying cause of Castleman steering committee builds outpatient support resources disease, a rare disease of the lymph; the project to address gaps in the clinical trial experience. ensured that CDCN and the Orphan Disease Center, Further, the steering committee created empathy and a part of the University of Pennsylvania’s School of understanding by educating other employees about the Medicine, had a structure for success. patient experience in clinical trials. We develop white papers, journey maps and short• created a more user-friendly experience on the form storytelling to disseminate insights gleaned from Cures Within Reach platform, which connects groups our Patient Design Studios and steering committee across the industry working to grow users in the sessions. And we’ve deployed our Patient Centricity developing world so as to increase drug repurposing by Design framework, comprised of our engineering to cure rare diseases; the results ensured the and development teams, to transform insights into platform could fund more rare disease clinical trials. development, enhancement, and evolution of our software products. • worked with the Lazarex Cancer Foundation to create a data-driven analysis of cancer centers across the United States to support the Foundation’s IMPACT Program, increasing patient diversity in clinical trials; this project helped the Lazarex Cancer Foundation expand its work in the Houston area. In 2020, we have expanded the Social Innovation Lab The Social Innovation Lab launched in 2018 and our first even further and will continue to innovate, working on project was with Cures Within Reach. The project four projects that will benefit patients. We also have consisted of two different cohorts that used a socialrecently transformed the SIL into a product incubator impact-bond-model to finance rare disease clinical to ensure we are capitalizing on our employees’ trials in the U.K., thereby encouraging finding cures for expertise to find technical solutions for our customers. the almost 7,500 rare diseases that do not currently have treatment options. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX COMMITMENTS AND AWARDS OUR COMMITMENTS & AWARDS Commitments Awards Medidata was awarded Medidata became a a Gold Stevie Award for signatory of the UN CSR Program of the Year Global Compact in in the 2019 American July 2018 Business Awards. Medidata has been Medidata won the submitting a private Healthy Streets Award CDP report since 2015 in 2019 Medidata became a signatory of the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2019 HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2019 June 2019: 20th Anniversary Celebration Launched three projects through the Social Innovation Lab with nonprofit partners Partnership with The New York Academy of October 2019: Acquired by Sciences to fund first STEM Dassault Systèmes Educators program Castleman Disease Collaborative Network (CDCN) Launched strategic Submitted 4th annual initiative for Diversity & CDP Climate Change Belonging Report Cures Within Reach Lazarex Cancer Renewed efforts to track Foundation Created a sustainable supplier diversity governance and impact model for our seven BRGs First Founders’ Scholarship recipient selected First Patient Centricity Decreased Scope 1 Design Studio greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 50% 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX CSR PROGRESS CSR PROGRESS Access for All 1,146 PATIENTS IMPACTED THROUGH OUR PHILANTHROPIC PARTNERS (2,946 LAST YEAR) Our goal is to ensure patients have access to treatment, regardless of socioeconomic background or geographic location. STEM Education Employee Participation 926 STUDENTS SUPPORTED 600 IN YEAR 2 (815 IN YEAR 1) INDIVIDUAL VOLUNTEERS 1,800+ Our goal is to provide access to science, technology, engineering, and math for 15,000 students in five years. HOURS DONATED Diversity & Inclusion 30% OF OUR EMPLOYEES ARE INVOLVED IN A BRG 5% INCREASE IN OVERALL EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT FOR BRG MEMBERS Our goal is to create a diverse, inclusive workplace for all employees to reach their full potential. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX OUR PLANET ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Climate change, the result of human-caused In 2019, Medidata continued to reduce our carbon greenhouse gas emissions, is the greatest threat to footprint and take responsibility for our environmental humanity we have ever faced. We are already seeing impact throughout our value chain. In particular, we the effects of warming temperatures, more extreme began working closely with Dassault Systèmes to weather, and rising sea levels in our communities. As integrate and update our management processes a technology company, we primarily operate in the and identify opportunities to increase efficiency and cloud; therefore, we focus on sustainability through decrease operational energy use and emissions. We social impact. That said, we recognize these challenges submitted our fourth annual CDP Climate Change are highly intersectional, and we must also consider report, which has been an ongoing mechanism to the well-being of our communities through an quantify our impact, clarify our processes, and track environmental lens. our progress. Knowing we cannot fix these issues alone, we foster collaboration among diverse stakeholders and work to galvanize widespread change that reduces rising atmospheric carbon. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The majority of our emissions come from our offices Furthermore, we are actively engaging our supply chain and data centers. We are working toward our target and our employees in reducing our environmental of having 90% of our long-term office leases in U.S. impact. We are revamping our supplier requirements Green Building Council LEED Gold buildings. We moved to ensure we adhere to the highest standards of into our first office built to LEED Gold V4 standards responsible procurement. Throughout 2019, we also in 2018 in Hammersmith, U.K. Over the course of a fostered waste reduction and energy-saving behaviors year, this location has proven its cost effectiveness in our offices by eliminating single-use plastics, and with significant reductions in energy and water use. we established a sustainability committee to organize We’ve achieved a 32% reduction in water use and 14% continued green initiatives. improvement in our energy use rating (compared to baseline measurements), with all floors and spaces metered for down-to-the-hour usage monitoring. Medidata uses two data centers, one in the United States and one in Europe. Due to their energy requirements, our data centers are one of the biggest opportunities for continued environmental improvements. Yet they are also one of our biggest material risks in terms of physical damage due to climate-related impacts. Our Workplace Solutions team is dedicated to mitigating these risks, and Medidata is committed to minimizing our overall contribution to climate change. In 2019, our Scope 1 emissions fell nearly 50% due to improved energy efficiency in our offices and overall energy reduction. While our Scope 2 location-based emissions increased slightly, our overall direct and indirect emissions fell nearly 3%, reflecting our efforts to curtail our environmental impact across our leased offices and data centers. Additionally, we enhanced our data collection methodology to calculate two new material categories of Scope 3 emissions: purchased goods and services, and employee commuting. With a measurement strategy in place, we are now better equipped to assess and reduce emissions from a greater portion of our value chain. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX EMISSIONS GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2018 EMISSIONS 2019 EMISSIONS REPORTING ON (IN METRIC TONS OF CO2 (IN METRIC TONS OF CO2 CHANGE EQUIVALENT) EQUIVALENT) Scope 1 462.42 242.16 ↓ 47.63% Direct Scope 2 1,672 1,834.44 ↑ 9.65% Indirect (location-based) Scope 3 Business travel 12,997 15,014 ↑ 15.51% Purchased goods & services Not calculated 14,576 – Employee commuting Not calculated 9,747 – Margin of error ±6% Emissions were calculated by applying The Greenhouse our leased facilities. We did not identify any district Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting steam, heating or cooling during the evaluation period. Standard (Revised Edition) methodology. This approach Our other emissions sources (Scope 3) include accounts for CO2, CH4, and N2O gasses. We do not the following categories (note: other categories were have any biogenic carbon emissions. Medidata reviews evaluated and deemed immaterial or not relevant to emissions sources at least annually. our business): Our emissions calculations use 2018 as the base • Purchased goods and services: includes over 33% year, which reflects our acquisition of SHYFT and of our annual spend (over 80% was evaluated); is consistent with our reporting boundary that emissions calculated based on purchase type and incorporates all offices with more than 20 employees. emissions factors from the UK Department for For the most accurate calculations, we use actual Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (Defra) Supply usage data whenever available; if necessary, we use Chain guidance. cost data to estimate emissions. Our direct emissions (Scope 1) include only natural • Business travel: includes all business travel by gas at leased facilities. We do not have any company air, 93% of which was calculated by our travel vehicles, and we did not identify any significant partner and the remainder based on flight origin sources of refrigerants or fugitive emissions during the and destination using International Civil Aviation 2019 reporting period. Our indirect emissions (Scope Organization (ICAO) methodology. 2) include electricity purchased from the grid to power 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX • Employee commuting: estimated based on total To date, Medidata has followed a defined process for headcount and assumptions about commuting collecting and analyzing emissions data on an annual method, average travel distance, and frequency basis. This includes a description of the approach for of travel. We applied emissions factors provided adjusting base-year emissions (e.g., related to mergers, by the EPA. We would like to develop a more acquisitions, divestitures, and outsourcing), along robust methodology via employee survey in the with an indication of the threshold used to determine coming years. significance and the need for adjustments. Our data management system includes an assessment Our emissions intensity decreased in 2019 when of the major sources of uncertainty and quality benchmarking against both revenue and headcount. assurance measures for the data process flow. It This figure includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions and also includes processes designed to minimize errors allows us to measure our carbon impact against key within the data collection and management system. growth metrics. The figure shows we are successfully Moving forward, we may be subject to new regulations managing our environmental impact, even as our and policies as a result of our acquisition by Dassault business operations expand, by leveraging existing Systèmes; we look forward to updating our processes leased office space for new hires and seeking energy to ensure we meet the highest standards of data efficient or green-building certified office space when management and reporting. growing our physical footprint. • Emissions intensity compared to annual revenue: ↓ 15.25% • Emissions intensity compared to headcount (total FTEs): ↓ 9.22% 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX INDEXES GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES 102-1 Name of the organization Introduction, P.3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our Products, P.7 102-3 Location of headquarters About this Report, P.3 102-4 Location of operations About this Report, P.3 102-5 Ownership and legal form Medidata is a wholly owned subsidiary of Dassault Systèmes. 102-6 Markets served About this Report, P.3 102-7 Scale of the organization • 2,145 total employees • 1 operation • 2 products/services We have omitted figures for our net sales, total capitalization broken down in terms of debt, and total capitalization broken down in terms of equity. Since our acquisition, we no longer publicly report financial information. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers • Full time: 1300 male, 845 female, 0 undisclosed • Part time: 5 male, 2 female, 0 undisclosed • Contract: 822 total, 142 in US & Canada, 106 in EMEA, 574 in APAC GENDER DIVERSITY 2018 2019 Female 36.1% 39% Male 63.3% 60.1% Undisclosed 0.6% 0.9% We captured gender demographic data on fulland part-time employees in Workday, our Human Resource Information System (HRIS). The Global Headcount Report represents all Medidata offices around the globe as of 12/31/2019. We do not collect demographic data on contract workers. 102-9 Supply chain Our Suppliers, P.7 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Governance, P.11 supply chain 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Medidata applies the precautionary principle. 102-12 External initiatives Our Commitments, P.27 102-13 Membership of associations Our Commitments, P.27 102-14 Statement from Senior Decision Maker A Letter from Our Co-CEO, P.4-5 102-16 Values, Principles, Standards, and Our Ethics, P.12 Norms of Behavior 102-18 Governance structure Governance, P.11 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our Stakeholders, P.8 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Medidata does not have any employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our Stakeholders, P.8 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our Stakeholders, P.8 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our Stakeholders, P.8 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Information about our business entities is located in our public statements financial reports for the first half of 2019. Since our acquisition, we no longer report this information publicly. 102-46 Defining reporting content and topic Boundaries Materiality, P.10 102-47 List of material topics Materiality, P.10 102-48 Restatements of information About this Report, P.3 102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report, P.3 102-50 Reporting period About this Report, P.3 102-51 Date of most recent report About this Report, P.3 102-52 Reporting cycle At this time, we are uncertain whether we will continue to publish reports annually or as a standalone entity. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report We welcome feedback on this report. Please email CSR@mdsol. com to share your thoughts or connect with our Corporate Social Responsibility team. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI About this Report, P.3 standards 102-55 GRI content index P.35 102-56 External assurance The contents of this report have not been assured externally. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX ECONOMIC TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES 205-1 Operations assessed for risk related to corruption Our Ethics, P.12 205-2 Communication and training about antiOur Ethics, P.12 corruption policies and procedures ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emissions, P.32 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions, P.32 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Emissions, P.32 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions, P.32 SOCIAL TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Medidata hired 405 new employees in 2019 across employee categories (full-time, part-time, and contract). 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Benefits, P.14 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave PARENTAL LEAVE On parental leave Returned from in 2019 parental leave in 2019 Female 41 22 Male 35 27 Total 76 49 (62 began parental leave in 2019) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Employee Development, P.15 transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Employee Development, P.15 performance and career development reviews 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Our Ethics, P.12 incidents of child labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Our Ethics, P.12 incidents of forced or compulsory labor 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches Our Ethics, P.12 of customer privacy and losses of customer data 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 OUR SOCIAL WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PLANET GRI INDEX UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES COP Statement by the Chief Executive A Letter from Our Co-CEO, P.4-5 Human Rights 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally Our Ethics, P.12 proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure that we are not complicit in human Our Ethics, P.12 rights abuses. Labor 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective Our Ethics, P.12 recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Our Ethics, P.12 compulsory labor 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labor Our Ethics, P.12 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect Diversity & Belonging, P.17 of employment and occupation Environment 7 Support a precautionary approach to See GRI 102-11, P.35 environmental challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Reducing our Environmental Impact, P.31 environmental responsibility 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Reducing our Environmental Impact, P.31 environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including Our Ethics, P.12 extortion and bribery Medidata Solutions 350 Hudson Street, 9th Floor New York, NY 10014 USA medidata.com +1 212.918.1800 +1 212.918.1818 (Fax) +1 877.511.4200 (Toll Free) Copyright 2020 Medidata Solutions, Inc., a Dassault Systèmes company All Rights Reserved. 2019 MEDIDATA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37
