Corporate Social Responsibility Our CSR efforts in 2019 Contents Preface 03 We assume responsibility 03 How we work responsibly 04 People 06 Bech-Bruun in figures 07 Focused efforts towards equality 08 A rewarding training course 10 Equipped for the task 12 Focus on law students’ well-being 13 We send people out in the world 14 Society 16 BB Impact: We work together for a sustainable future 17 A week with focus on climate and the 17 UN global goals 20 Pro bono work 22 Bech-Bruun Academy 24 Here we also make a difference… 25 Sponsorships 27 Environment 28 More sustainable construction 30 We work for renewable energy 31 Ethics & Compliance 32 Compliance in Bech-Bruun 33 CSR 2019 · Preface We assume responsibility We are delighted for the 11th year running to confirm our support for the UN Global Compact and the 10 principles within the focus areas: People, Society, Environment, Ethics & Compliance. Our we have intensified our efforts and set support expresses our continued wish up a diversity committee with the aim of to contribute to the promotion of intertriggering this development to include nationally recognised conventions on short-term goals as well. human rights, labour standards, environability that rules our conduct – towards ment and anti-corruption. In addition to increasingly prioritising each other as well as towards the world. pro bono work as a natural part of our Based on the Code of Conduct for the This report sets out our CSR initiatives activities, 2019 stood out with the Danish Bar and Law Society and our own in 2019, demonstrating how we have launch of our CSR programme, Code of Conduct, we have built a robust worked closely across all our activities BB Impact, under which we provide corporate governance system, including over the year to turn these principles legal advice for sustainable start-ups specific policies and rules to ensure the into specific actions. As in everything to help them get off to a good start. Our highest ethical standards, with ourselves else that we do – and as deeply rooted efforts have improved the legal foundaand with our clients. in our approach to operating a modern tion for these start-ups to succeed and law firm – collaboration has been the live up to their goals. It has been a great For most Danish enterprises and orgapivotal point; in our conviction, the best pleasure and very inspiring to work with nisations, compliance has become even basis for creating value. skilled and energetic enthusiasts in the more important as we have seen the first companies we have advised. major consequences of the new data Our adoption of advokatKODEKS, the protection legislation. As a result, we code of conduct of the Association of Renewable energy is a strategic busihave increased our efforts to share our Danish Law Firms (Danske Advokater), ness area for Bech-Bruun. Not only have vast knowledge in the area and keep means that we work actively with the we built a unique expertise in the area, clients and business partners updated elements: Openness, social responsibiit is also one of the areas in which we in through our advisory services, courses lity, handling of ethical dilemmas, focus 2019 helped – and will continue to help and events as well as through the new on clients and employees, and diversity. – make a solid green impact on our plainnovative digital compliance services net through the many and very large we have launched. Being able to offer our clients valuable offshore wind energy projects that we advisory services requires skilled emplohave been involved in. Construction is All because we assume responsibility. yees. And skilled employees require job another area where we contributed to satisfaction and professional joy, a top creating green development in 2019, Enjoy the read. priority at Bech-Bruun and something increasing the focus on sustainability in we strive to ensure through developthe construction industry in our advisory Simon Evers Hjelmborg ment programmes, supporting career services and in other connections. Chief executive partner programmes and a good work environment. In 2019 we continued our ambitiHowever, our intention is not merely to ous management and training programhelp others work sustainably, we also me, STRETCH, equipping our 1st-6th want to examine our own performanyear associates for the role of legal advice and what we can do to protect the ser, developing and strengthening their environment. Consequently, in 2019 we advisory, management and business have worked further to reduce our reskills. source consumption and optimise sustainable business processes. The desire for a more balanced male/ female ratio – particularly at partner and Our pronounced ethical responsibility as board levels – has been a focus area for a law firm is fundamental and a common many years, but we have also acknowfactor in everything we do. We are highledged that changes in this area are not ly aware of this responsibility, and that is introduced overnight. Consequently, reflected in the decency and account3 CSR 2019 · How we work responsibly How we work responsibly People • We strive to give our employees the best basis for development, professionally as well as personally. Accordingly, Society we make an effort to ensure our employees the best possible skills and career paths. • We strengthen our employees’ well-being and skills through policies, knowledge sharing, strong collaboration and a good work environment. • We assume corporate responsibility through training programmes and knowledge sharing. • We focus on diversity and equality. • We apply our legal core skills to making a difference. • With our CSR-programme, BB Impact, we work towards a sustainable future. • We provide pro bono services for selected organisations that work for a better world. 4 CSR 2109 · How we work responsibly Ethics & Compliance • We focus strongly on ensuring the highest ethical standard and openness within the framework of the confidentiality that is the foundation of our client relationships. Environment • We demand in-house compliance at the highest level. • We continuously update and develop our systems and IT tools so that we may service our clients efficiently and safely at all times. • We make an effort to minimise our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We have a strategic focus on collaboration with Danish and foreign renewable energy players. • We use green suppliers. 5 CSR 2019 · People People Collaboration is the cornerstone of our Consequently, it is important to us to Moreover, our diversity policy partibusiness and the core of our advisory promote and support a culture that encularly emphasises equal opportunities services. Our approach to work, to each sures a work-life balance, and we focus for both genders – not least at partner other, to our clients and business parton an informal atmosphere that not only level and on our board of directors – and ners is based on creating the best sopromotes a good and open dialogue in we work actively for diversity in our staff. lutions for the future together, through our daily life but also makes it easier to Equality has been a focus point for many mutual respect, inclusion, inspiration talk about difficult issues such as work years, but it is also an area where chanand trust. We always strive to offer load and stress, should they arise. For ges do not take effect overnight. In this our clients the best advisory services. that reason as well, stress is also on the light we formed a diversity committee in To that end, we must have the best agenda when we discuss psychological 2019, attempting to push this developemployees. And that requires job satiswork environment in connection with ment along, including in the short term. faction and professional joy among our appraisal interviews, workplace assessemployees, a top priority at Bech-Bruun ments, etc. and something we strive to ensure through development programmes, We also have a number of policies, such supportive career focus and a good as anti-bullying, anti-harassment and work environment. anti-stress, that are to contribute to maintaining a healthy and stimulating As a workplace, we want to be characwork environment. terised by commitment and employee satisfaction, high professional quality, respect and responsibility as well as good results, which in turn often results Our objectives Our 2020 targets in busy and hectic workdays. Meanwhile, we live in a changing world with • We want to provide our staff with the • To improve the framework for gender increasing demands on the individual best foundation for development, equality through our diversity comemployee’s adaptability, skills and perprofessionally as well as personally, mittee. formance, and we are very aware that and to ensure our employees the best the many demands may constitute a risk possible skills and career paths. • To continue our focus on developin relation to stress and the psychologiment processes for our law students, cal work environment. • We want to increase our focus on our associates and our partners. diversity and equality. • To launch a development programme • We want to strengthen our employfor our junior associates to fortify ees’ well-being and skills through their skills as future lawyers. policies, knowledge sharing, training and a strong working relationship. 6 CSR 2019 · People Bech-Bruun in figures 240 42% 15 7.7 in-house qualifyof the courses employees were years is ing training days concerned seconded the average were offered personal at some time seniority at in 2019 skills during 2019 Bech-Bruun 543 employees 281 262 women men Partners Associates Junior associates Managing associates 7/63 53/68 44/48 3/5 women/men women/men women/men women/men All figures as at 31 December 2019 Workplace responsibility At Bech-Bruun we have a number of documents and policies In addition, we have various in-house policies and guidelines that focus on our employees’ job satisfaction and on our busifor data protection. ness partners, for instance: • Code of Conduct • Ethical guidelines • Diversity policy • Anti-bullying and anti-harassment policy • Stress policy • Whistleblower policy • Alcohol and substance abuse policy • Crisis policy 7 CSR 2019 · People Focused efforts towards equality Bech-Bruun’s diversity policy emphasises equal opportunities for men and women, and generally we work actively towards ensuring diversity in our staff. In 2019 we formed a diversity committee in order to increase this focus and not least to accelerate the process towards our goal of more women as partners and on our board of directors. An important part of Bech-Bruun’s thorough in-house investigation into diversity efforts is to ensure equal terms what Bech-Bruun can do to get more and opportunities for men and women. female partners and to retain senior asDiversity has been on our agenda for sociates (M/F) who do not want to or are many years, not least in order to boost not in a position to become partners. the number of women in management, in the partner group and on the board of On this basis and in accordance with the directors. Bech-Bruun model, we have clarified the skills profiles for the different levels of To achieve this goal, we have introduced seniority and, based on these, we have a number of initiatives. We have impleestablished a new procedure for appraismented changes in structures and proal interviews. This has improved the oncesses concerning career development going alignment of expectations and and paths, and we have conducted a expanded the ongoing feed-back. Our ambitious management and training programme, STRETCH, underpins and allows the required professional and personal development, and as an Male/female ratio alternative to the partner track we have at Bech-Bruun introduced a new career path for senior associates in the form of a new position as managing associate. Today we have On 31 December 2019, the proportion of women eight managing associates, three of with Bech-Bruun came to almost 52%. Among junior whom are women. associates there were around 48% women; among associates, women constituted around 44%. Among New diversity committee associate partners around 16% were women, while In recognition of the fact that it will take women owners came to around 8%. From 2014 up years for the changes to fully impact and to and including 2019, six female employees became that the male/female ratio will not be associate partners (one of whom has later become balanced overnight, we established a dian owner), while 17 male employees became assoversity committee in 2019 to accelerate ciate partners (of whom two have become owners). this development, also in the short term. At the turn of the year 2019, five out of our seven adThe committee has examined the effect ministrative managers were women. of our initiatives in the area, and it will make suggestions as to how to further promote equality at Bech-Bruun. 8 CSR 2019 · People More women on the board of directors Our goal for women on our board of directors is that at least one woman is elected for the board of directors sitting in the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2022. The current board of directors is comprised by seven male owners. The reason why the We have collected and analysed a wide goal was not reached in the financial year is that the data basis from internal and external board was not elected until March 2020. At partner sources. Also, Bech-Bruun’s employmeetings, the annual status meetings, etc., Bechees have been given the opportunity to Bruun’s board of directors and executive managemake suggestions for how to promote ment actively urge female owners to be candidates diversity, says Lise Lauridsen, partner for the board of directors. In addition, we continue and member of Bech-Bruun’s diversity our ongoing and more long-term efforts to get more committee. female owners and thus increase the likelihood of more women on the board of directors. On the basis of these initiatives, the committee will present a report with conclusions and suggestions to BechBruun’s board of directors and executive management before the 2020 summer holidays. Promoting diversity in an organisation requires persistent focus. Based on the conclusions we reach in the committee, we must decide whether our efforts to increase diversity should still rest on committee work or whether they should be anchored differently in our organisation, says Lise Lauridsen. 9 CSR 2019 · People A rewarding training course Adding value for clients is key when Bech-Bruun’s 1st-year to 6th-year associates are trained under Bech-Bruun’s ambitious management and training programme, STRETCH, which focuses on business understanding, knowledge of society and industries, human insight and not least the ability to collaborate. The training runs over six years and is designed to equip Bech-Bruun’s associates to meet the changes that impact the law industry as well as the markets on which Bech-Bruun’s clients are present. Attendants are trained in and evaluated on four parameters of conduct, the so-called Bech-Bruun parameters, which are: Diligence and work style, Clients, Management & Cooperation and Reputation. ” It was a really good and rewarding course that I’m sure I can use going forward in my job. Lots of praise for the instructors, who were seriously committed to us all and gave us a lot of individual and very useful feedback. 4th-year associate 10 CSR 2019 · People STRETCH IN 2019: 73% of all our 1st-year to 6th-year associates completed the programme 87.7% evaluated the programme and gave us their feedback 4.44* 4.41* 4.81* was the average was the score for was the average score given the relevance of score awarded to the courses the training in our instructors relation to professional and personal development * On a scale from 1 to 5, 5 being the highest 11 CSR 2019 · People Equipped for the task In 2019 Bech-Bruun’s new partners and managing associates were equipped with new insight and new skills when they enrolled in their bespoke training programmes focusing on business understanding, strategic insight, management and collaboration. Because today, these are the qualities our clients expect us to have – alongside the qualified and highly specialised legal advice. Executive Programme for Certificate in Leadership Bech-Bruun partners for Bech-Bruun managing Our Executive Programme is a development programme associates based on the Bech-Bruun model, providing our partners The object of the Certificate in Leadership is to prepare with extensive knowledge on how to work determinedly our managing associates for the new areas of responsiand strategically with our clients’ activities and how to bility and management that come with the role of a add value as a sounding board on business and legal managing associate and to support them in relation to issues. the increased demands made by today’s clients on lawyers and consultants. Our clients demand more than just legal expertise and a high professional level. They expect us to work holistically This position is an alternative career path in Bech-Bruun’s and to have an in-depth understanding of their business organisation for experienced lawyers with substantial or organisation and the market where they are present. expertise. Our managing associates are part of the dayWith our ambitious Executive Programme our partners to-day strategic management with the partners of their become equipped to meet our clients’ expectations of respective divisions and they assume an increased manaskills that supplement our legal expertise, says Christian gerial responsibility in our firm, for instance in connection Ejvin Andersen, CEO. with the ongoing implementation of the Bech-Bruun model. The Programme is planned in collaboration with AVT Business School and is composed partly of bespoke Using specialised and recognised instructors, the modules designed exclusively for Bech-Bruun, partly of programme is based on insight into the client’s business modules following MBA courses. The training programme and the tools required to achieve the skills necessary to runs until 2021 and is supplemented by a concurrent managing and advisory skills. In addition, the programme online Harvard ManageMentor programme. has a contemporary and practical approach to relevant business issues. The Programme provides our managing associates with specific and efficient tools, immediately applicable in their everyday advisory and management duties, says Christian Ejvin Andersen, CEO. The programme, which runs until March 2020, is supplemented by a concurrent online Harvard Manage-Mentor programme. 12 CSR 2019 · People Focus on law students’ wellbeing INITIATE is conducted by, among others, Thomas Pape, stress consultant and mental coach with the SPINE stress clinic, and is comprised by various workshops, focusing on work relaSince 2017 our law students have been tions, self-awareness, stress manageIn addition to group sessions, our law enrolled in a mandatory development ment, well-being, future work life, etc. students have the opportunity to go a programme, INITIATE, the purpose of Elements that are usually not in focus step further and work in depth with their which is to curb the increasing expectaduring student life but which we feel are mental performance through a personal tion pressure among law students and important for future employees and not profile analysis and a number of one-onto improve their well-being. least for lawyers. one sessions with Thomas Pape. 65 14 131 law students were enrolled in our developtraining days were spent hours were spent on one-on-one ment programme on workshops sessions INITIATE in 2019 Attendants’ comments on INITIATE in 2019: ”I think you learn an awful lot about ”I think it’s super cool that Thomas yourself and get to ask yourself some commits to us as individuals. He makes pretty deep questions, which you an effort to get an idea of who each of wouldn’t do otherwise.” us is as a person and to be able to give us individual advice or focus points to take with us.” ”I am very happy with the outcome of the workshop with Thomas Pape on how to get mental strength from ”Thomas is an incredibly good commuwithin. I got some very useful tools, nicator and he really understands the and everything we covered gave rise to challenges that law student are facing.” reflection. I’m looking forward to the next workshop.” 13 CSR 2019 · People We send people out in the world ” Bech-Bruun law students can apply for grants to study or work as trainees abroad. Last autumn I was able to work as a trainee with the Danish UN mission in New York, where I attended the UN General Assembly and the UN human rights resolutions negotiations. My stay has given me insight into the work as a lawyer with an organisation such as the UN, and my network has grown significantly. It has been exciting and very educational to work with the 17 global goals in practice and experience top diplomats from the whole world negotiate in the UN setting. Caroline Spliid, law student with Bech-Bruun 14 CSR 2019 · People 15 CSR 2019 · Society Society A fundamental idea at Bech-Bruun is For instance, we launched our CSR proIn this context as well we are highly that the best way for us to contribute gramme BB Impact, under which our aware of who we work with, provide to sustainable societal development is legal advice helps get sustainable startpro bono work for and sponsor, so that by applying our core skills to making a ups off to a good start. For many years we ensure transparency and do not risk difference. Consequently, the sharing we have also concluded numerous pro violating our own ethical guidelines. of knowledge is a natural part of our bono and cooperation agreements with business model and work method, not companies that make a difference in just in-house but in relation to the sursociety. This work continued in 2019. rounding world. Every year we share from our knowledge through numerous free-of-charge courses, events and seminars. Our objectives Our 2020 targets • We will take corporate responsibility • To help more sustainable start-ups through training and knowledge through our CSR programme, sharing. BB Impact. • We will apply our legal core skills to • To develop our programmes and making a difference in society. courses so that they continue to accommodate the requirements of • We will work towards a sustainable our employees, clients and business future with our CSR programme, partners. BB Impact. • To continue our ongoing pro bono work. 16 CSR 2019 · Society BB IMPACT: We work together for a sustainable future Bech-Bruun wants to work towards a sustainIn 2018 we launched the very first pilot projects in our CSR programme, able future. The best way for us to do so is with where we work determinedly with some our knowledge and in close cooperation with of Denmark’s many talented start-ups to accommodate the 17 UN Global Goals companies that can develop the required new for sustainable development through and effective solutions. innovation and creative thinking. The programme has later been named BB Impact, and cooperation under these projects really took off in 2019. It has been our great pleasure to work with a company such as Circular Food Technology, which up-cycles food waste, and entrée, a catering and event business, which is also a job academy for non-ethnic Danes. From good idea to fully fledged enterprise The legal advice and assistance that Bech-Bruun is able to offer through BB Impact are in many cases crucial for the start-ups to be able to realise their projects. Even though the legal issues in themselves do not ensure success for the individual enterprise, failure to deal with legal matters may make it difficult or impossible for the enterprise to be a success. With BB Impact we hope to ensure that the enterprise in a legal context gets off to a good start and through the first years, making it easier for them to succeed with their sustainable goals, says Ditte Lassen-Kahlke, senior associate and CSR officer. 17 CSR 2019 · Society However, many start-ups find it difficult tised. And that is a shame, as it may have The first 50 hours of advisory services to handle legal issues: consequences for the success of the projare free of charge, and any subsequent ects, says Ditte Lassen-Kahlke. advisory services are offered at a marBesides the fact that many have limited kedly reduced rate and deferred invoiresources for legal assistance at the setPartnership with free advisory cing. off stage, it may easily seem overwhelmservices and commercial ing to have to navigate the law and sparring The presumption for a BB Impact partunderstand everything from labour law, Against this backdrop it is much apprenership is that the start-up must reach tax and contracts to company law and ciated when Bech-Bruun, as part of BB its goals and thus contribute to a sustainintellectual property rights. It is timeImpact, is able to help sustainable startable development by establishing an consuming, challenging and difficult ups on the way with what we do best, enterprise that directly underpins one or when you are not used to working with which is our highly specialised legal admore of the 17 UN Global Goals for susthese issues, and typically it is not priorivice and business understanding. tainable development. Our selected start-ups At end-2019 Bech-Bruun selected Foodture four interesting and very different – future start-ups, which each in their way foods underpin sustainable development. The working relationships comFoodture manufactures a plant-based protein called tempeh, consisting of mence in 2020. Nordic leguminous fruits. Using specific fermentation methods on the beans from cajan peas and lupins, Foodture creates a nutritious, sustainable and tasty food. Foodture’s vision is to offer a simple, plant-based basic protein. Foodture’s tempeh comes from beans only. According to Foodture, the particular aspect of their approach is that they create a product that is fundamentally better than the base product as regards both taste, nutrition and function. Foodture in particular underpins UN Global Goal no. 12 concerning responsible consumption and production. 18 CSR 2019 · Society Jamii – access to Climate Solutions financial services for – permanent storage the world’s poorest of CO2 in a solid Many people in developing countries Vital Beats form do not have access to banks. Instead they join more primitive, local savings – ground-breaking With its ”Carbon Capture and Storage” invention, Climate Solutions will congroups, through which members can get access to limited loans. Jamii works telemedicine for vert CO2 collected from the air or towards digitalising these savings heart patients directly from a combustion gas into a solid form, applying less energy than groups, providing credit assessment of the members so they can get access seen before. The end product, which In order to provide the best treatment to the financial sector. By establishing binds the CO2, is a type of calcium that for chronic heart patients, it is crucial access to financial services, Jamii’s vision is used industrially in agriculture and in that doctors are able to detect and is to allow people to leave poverty. Jamii construction materials. By converting predict signs of deterioration at the started up in Ethiopia and already has CO2 into a solid form, Climate Soluearliest possible stage. Vital Beats has plans to expand to other countries in tions’s vision is to reduce current and developed a telemedicine software platAfrica and later in Asia. future CO2 emission and reduce past form, facilitating the remote monitoring CO2 imprints, nationally as well as of chronic heart patients while predictJamii in particular underpins UN Global internationally. ing treatment-demanding deterioration Goal no. 1 of no poverty. at an early stage. Moreover, patients will Climate Solutions in particular underexperience a less invading treatment pins UN Global Goal no. 13 on climate course. Vital Beats’s vision is to revoluaction. tionise telemedicinal treatment of heart patients and create the basis for a future health service that is more preventive and personalised. Vital Beats in particular underpins UN Global Goal no. 3 on good health and well-being. 19 CSR 2019 · Society A week with focus on climate and the 17 UN global goals ” Last September saw the UN Climate Action Summit and the UN General Assembly as well as the NYC Climate Week. Being involved in the launch of the BB Impact product, I was given the opportunity to attend these events to draw knowledge and inspiration for Bech-Bruun’s further work with start-ups and the 17 sustainable development goals. The programme featured events and network meetings focusing on innovation and sustainability, exactly what BB Impact is about. I met many interesting organisations and businesses such as ART2030, an organisation striving to bring the 17 Global Goals into focus through art and with which we have now concluded an agreement on pro bono advisory services. Ditte Lassen-Kahlke, senior associate and CSR officer of Bech-Bruun 20 CSR 2019 · Society The UN Global Goals The UN global goals for sustainable development were adopted in 2015. Their aim is to set course for a more sustainable development for people as well as for the planet in the years up to 2030. There are 17 sustainable development goals and they apply to all 193 UN member states, committing them to end poverty and hunger in all their forms everywhere; to reduce inequalities; to ensure quality education and good health and well-being for everyone; to create decent jobs for all and to promote increasingly sustainable economic growth. The goals also focus on promoting peace and providing access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels and strengthening global partnerships. Source: www.verdensmaalene.dk and www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment 21 CSR 2019 · Society Pro bono work Copenhagen Legal Aid Many of our associates regularly volunteer at the Copenhagen Legal Aid, Denmark’s largest and oldest legal aid organisation. The advice rendered Pro bono work is a natural part of Bech-Bruun’s covers anything from leases, employbusiness. We believe that by doing what we do ment relationships and custodial care to compensation and insurance issues. best, we can help more. Consequently, every year we offer our legal expertise free of charge Djøf (Danish Association of Lawyers to selected organisations that work for a better and Economists) world – locally as well as globally. These are some Djøf’s legal aid for entrepreneurs is a help for members of Djøf who are either of the organisations that received our free advientrepreneurs or thinking about besory services in 2019. coming entrepreneurs. In 2019 BechBruun worked pro bono in the form of free-of-charge legal aid for members of Djøf, who sought advice on legal ssues concerning entrepreneurship, for The Hub Reach for Change instance which corporate form to choose, The Hub is a free online portal for startReach for Change is a non-profit orgaconsiderations as to ownership structure, ups. Using this platform, enterprises can nisation, working to improve the lives of review of simple contracts and questions get assistance for recruiting, connecting children and young people by assisting relating to VAT and taxes. with investors, and access to tools that social entrepreneurs with innovations can help them get started. In 2019 Bechthat solve urgent issues for children and Bruun assisted the users of The Hub pro youngsters. The entrepreneurs are assiThe Mary Foundation bono in the form of free legal advice on, sted in scaling their innovations through Bech-Bruun provides legal support and for instance, incentive schemes for key access to seed funding, business experadvisory services for the Mary Foundaemployees, shareholders’ agreements, tise and opportunities in order to create tion, established in 2007 by HRH Crown the Marketing Practices Act and comand join domestic and international netPrincess Mary. The Foundation’s mission pany formation. works. Bech-Bruun supports Reach for is to combat social isolation – based on Change by giving entrepreneurs under the belief that everyone has a right to the programme access to a pro bono belong. Bech-Bruun is standing counsel legal hotline for sparring on legal issues, to the Mary Foundation, and all our work Dansk Søredningsselskab such as ownership structure and profor the Foundation is pro bono. Dansk Søredningsselskab (DSRS) is a tection of intellectual property rights at non-profit association helping yachters an early stage. and boat owners in non-life threateSMILfonden ning situations at sea and assisting ofSMILfonden is a charitable association ficial emergency groups. Bech-Bruun Red Cross giving seriously and/or chronically ill supports the association’s activities by The Red Cross helps the world’s needchildren and their families a break from providing legal assistance free of charge, iest, and Bech-Bruun has been in a close illness by arranging positive and fun and in 2019 assistance included insuranworking relationship with the Red Cross events, both in and out of the hospitals. ce and tax issues, donation policies, for many years, regularly providing pro These children battle with many hospital GDPR, employment contracts, leases bono legal advice. In 2019, we assisted stays, severe pain, anxiety in connection and various purchases of life boats and the Red Cross on cases concerning with operations, and the want of school life-saving equipment. A partner with abuse of the organisation’s name and and friends. Some families may be torn Bech-Bruun has been a member of the logo, working relationship agreements, between hospital and home, siblings board of directors of the association for and transportation of second-hand may feel overlooked, and parents are many years. clothes, etc. fighting fear. The foundation helps establish new networks between the sick children as well as between their parents. A Bech-Bruun partner is on the board of directors of SMILfonden. 22 CSR 2019 · Society Modern Slavery Act The Modern Slavery Act is a measure introduced by Great Britain towards enterprises with business and activities in Great Britain. Key in the Modern Slavery Act is the requirement for all enterprises to make an annual statement of their efforts against slavery, forced labour and human trafficking. The initiative focuses on preventing serious violations that may occur in global supply chains. As an international law firm working across country borders, including in Great Britain, naturally we focus on supporting the Modern Slavery Act. 23 CSR 2019 · Society Bech-Bruun Academy the past years new technology and disruptive enterprises have resulted in substantial changes for markets and industries. With Academy Client we offer our clients the opportunity to be particularly equipped to accommodate the Bech-Bruun Academy combines law changed legislation, business sector many new requirements and opportuand business understanding with perdevelopments and trends of relevance nities of the future. sonal development. Consequently, an to society. We have a long tradition important part of Bech-Bruun Academy for sharing our knowledge, and we are In 2019 we focused on training in digital is to follow current trends in the skills proud that Bech-Bruun Academy is development and new business models, required for primarily lawyers and proknown for its high professionalism and conduct design, data protection as well fessional advisers. some of the best instructors in the trade. as the UN Global Goals and how to implement them into procurement. On this basis we offer clients, business For our clients in particular we also offer partners, students and other interested value-adding training in the same topics parties to attend free training programwe ourselves delve into. The business mes covering, for instance, new or world is constantly changing, and over 79 4.6 free courses, afternoon seminars and full-day was the average score given the courses * events were offered through Bech-Bruun Academy in 2019 * On a scale from 1 to 5, 5 being the highest 24 CSR 2019 · Society Here we also make a difference … Represented by our experts, Bech-Bruun was also involved in various other committees and councils in 2019, just as we committed ourselves to relevant Danish and international trade associations and interest groups through memberships. In these forums we contribute our knowledge to the development of the framework within which we and our clients work. Examples of trade associations, organisations and networks in which we are involved: Danish Bar and Law Society Association of Danish Law Firms Danish Association for Responsible Construction ATV Foundation for Soil Association of Danish IT Attorneys and Groundwater International Association of Young Danish Environmental Lawyers Lawyers (AIJA) Danish Waste Management Association (DAKOFA) Danish Mediation Lawyers International Bar Association Danish Tax Lawyers’ Association Danish Association for Maritime The JASCHA Foundation Law (CMI) Danish Labour Law Association The Danish Mediation Institute DenmarkBridge Danish Association Danish Ministry of the Environment’s for Competition Law Danish Society for Construction Expert Panel for the simplification of and Consulting Law environment and nature legislation Danish Association for Company law Danish Association of Insurance TerraLex Danish Association for Public Law (AIDA) Procurement Law Danish Institute of Arbitration Association of Danish Insolvency Confederation of Danish Industry Lawyers World Law Group Examples of committees and councils where Bech-Bruun is represented: Procedural Law Committee of the Compulsory Acquisition Committee General Council of the Danish Bar and Law Society Danish Company Appeals Board National Association for Building, The Danish Competition Appeals sustainability committee Tribunal The company law study programme Danish Press Council committee with the Association of Danish Law Firms 25 CSR 2019 · Society Sponsorships In 2019 Bech-Bruun supported more than 20 enterprises, organisations and associations financially. These sponsorships included: AFFK ICC Danmark International Chamber The Copenhagen association of junior lawyers, where young Joins and represents the interests of enterprises all over the lawyers and junior lawyers meet for social and professional world and has a central role within international trade and events. commerce. AROS Justitia One of Northern Europe’s largest art museums with 20,700 Denmark’s first independent legal think tank, intended to sqm spread over ten floors. strengthen the focus on and respect for basic constitutional state principles and freedom rights among the public, authorities, experts and decision-makers in Denmark and internationally. Dansk Energi Leverandørforum Forum for suppliers and advisers of energy companies requiring closer insight into the energy sector. University of Copenhagen, University of Southern Denmark, Aalborg University and Aarhus University Support for law students. ELSA Denmark One of a total of 44 national groups in The European Law Students’ Association (ELSA), the world’s largest organisation for law students and law graduates. With local groups The Danish Mediation Institute in the four university cities, Aalborg, Aarhus, Odense and Represents the country’s best and most experienced mediaCopenhagen, ELSA Denmark comprises the Danish ELSA tors, whose skills cover a wide range of legal specialist areas. network. UN Global Compact Network Denmark Erhverv Aarhus Part of the world’s largest voluntary initiative for corporate Independent business organisation, which together with its social responsibility, established in 2000 by then General member businesses works for an attractive business climate Secretary of the UN, Kofi Annan, to mobilise enterprises all in Aarhus and Eastern Jutland. over the world towards a more sustainable future. FOCOFIMA Yngre Jurister Forum for Company Law and Financial Market Law, which Association of junior lawyers, young lawyers and lawyers has dealt with company and capital market law and acts as a employed in the private or the public sector, the object of forum for research and training in these areas since 2003. which is to maintain the members’ professional interests and establish useful networks, for instance through courses, lectures, visits to enterprises and social events. Hold Danmark Rent A non-profit organisation working to reduce the amounts of garbage left in nature. 26 CSR 2019 · Society A basic element of Bech-Bruun’s social responsibility is the commitment to the human rights principles. We support the UN declaration on human rights and have signed the UN Global Compact charter. Once a year we report our progress on human rights in relation to principles 1 and 2: That we support and respect the protection of internationally declared human rights and ensure that we do not contribute to any violation of human rights. Our ambition for our contribution to society is to assume social responsibility through education and knowledge-sharing and use our core skills to make a difference. Consequently, our specific actions and results are concentrated within this field. With our geographical location and business model we assess that there are no particular risks regarding human rights. 27 CSR 2019 · Environment Environment In addition to wanting to help others Renewable energy is a strategic busiConstruction is another area where we who work towards increased sustainness area for Bech-Bruun. Not only contributed to creating green developability, we also try to think green when it have we built a unique expertise in the ment in 2019, increasing the focus on comes to our own work processes. area in 2019, it is also one of the areas in sustainability in the construction induWe continuously strive to optimise rewhich we helped – and will continue to stry in our advisory services and in vasource efficiency by reducing and rehelp – make a solid green impact on our rious other connections. thinking our consumption. As regards planet through the many and very large an adverse impact on the environment offshore wind energy projects on which and the climate, we are not facing any we have negotiated contracts. significant direct risks as we are not a manufacturing enterprise, but we are aware of the lesser risks connected with, for instance, resource consumption and make an effort to handle that. We greatly emphasise sustainable procurement and continuously work to Our objectives Our 2020 targets implement environmentally sound consumption alternatives into our opera• We will minimise our resource con• To continue our commitment to a tion, such as ongoing replacement by sumption and optimise sustainable sustainable development in the conLED and energy-saving IT equipment, business procedures. struction sector. just as we focus on reducing food waste and using more organic food produce. • We will keep focus on collaboration • To increase the extent of our advisory with Danish and foreign renewable services on large renewable energy energy players. projects. • We will use green suppliers. • To continue our replacement of electronic equipment, light-bulbs, etc., with energy-saving alternatives. • To increase the proportion of organic food produce in our kitchen and keep focusing on minimising food waste. • To continue our collaboration with green suppliers. 28 CSR 2019 · Environment 19.7% 22,864 is how much our consumption of kilometres were covered by copying paper has decreased from bike in 2019 when we joined 2018 to 2019 – corresponding to the annual Danish campaign 1,175,000 sheets of copying paper ”We cycle to work” 49% 5% of the food prepared by our kitchen is the decline in our is made from organic produce consumption of meat Green suppliers We do not only focus on our consumpThe group’s primary environmental Staples office supplies tion and on optimising sustainable work target is to have switched completely Works for an environmentally adapted processes but also on using the right to renewable energy by 2025 as regards development of its transportation of resources. This is mainly achieved by vehicles and real estate. people and goods, informs customers collaborating with green suppliers, for about eco-labelled and environmentally instance: Fred Butler dry cleaners adapted products and services, and colCleans clothes without the use of chemilaborates with suppliers to develop enAnders Andersens cleaners cals but with recycled carbon dioxide, vironmentally adapted logistics services, Provides eco-labelled cleaning services. making a difference to environment, the products and packaging. clothes and people’s skin. Fred Butler Bring logistics services has been awarded various eco labels, for Strives to be leading on environment instance the Danish Svanemærket. in the transportation and logistics sector. Consumption overview 2016 2017 2018 2019* Electricity (kWh) 985,454 951,300 980,085 1,036,000 Heating (mWh) 1,193 1,052 1,114.02 1,009.38 Water (m3) 4,169 3,853 4,051 4,283 Combustible waste (t) 69.62 38.78 49.5 51.5 Recyclable material (t) 22.72 15.08 38.9 39.15 *The increase in electricity is primarily attributable to failing regulation of a new energy-saving cooling installation, which caused an added consumption of around 130,000 kWh. The defect was detected and corrected in January 2020. Moreover, the activity level rose significantly in 2019, particularly in our Academy, which in 2019 hosted 71 more training days than in 2018 – an increase of 36.8%. As for the increase in combustible waste, we continued our clearing of documents from 2018 into 2019. 29 CSR 2019 · Environment More sustainable construction to avoiding ”being caught” in a crossWith the 17 UN Global Goals, the development fire of permit requirements; on how to towards more sustainability has really made the include soil in the planning of urban development with a view to recycling world agenda. This includes construction, for during the project instead of transporting the soil by road, which would not which the climate footprint is very high, in partionly lead to CO2 emission but also very cular owing to large consumption of resources often result in the soil ending up in an abandoned closed gravel pit or a waste and raw materials. At Bech-Bruun we included deposit, says Jacob Brandt, who is also this in our advisory services of our clients in 2019, on the board of directors at the ATV Foundation for Soil and Groundwater. increasing our focus on sustainable construction. Assistance for recycling of construction materials The CO2 footprint from construction lation should be applied to promote susAs for tender procedures for public conmaterials has turned out to be much tainability in construction. struction projects, we have advised parlarger than previously assumed, and in ticularly on how to underpin the recy2019 the construction sector seriously As chairman of the sustainability comcling of construction materials without embraced sustainability and the global mittee of the National Association for violating applicable procurement tender goals. Building, Jacob Brandt was involved rules, e.g. by including recycled materials in placing focus on global goals and susas part of the prequalification, as a comGreen and sustainable buildings should tainability in the construction and proppetitive parameter as well as a contract be a matter of course since the recycling erty sector: term. of construction materials will achieve a very significant reduction in the total The DGNB sustainability certification Increased focus on the recycling of CO2 emission. In this connection, the is a given for many developers, and many construction materials in the construcconstruction industry is a decisive factor investors view it as an obvious condition tion phase has proven particularly inin realising the circular society, says for long-term investments in particular. teresting due to increased recognition of Jacob Brandt, Bech-Bruun partner and But in the sustainability committee, we the very significant CO2 footprint in the a specialist in environment, nature proalso focus on the fact that the certificaconsumption of materials in this phase tection, planning and supply. tion may be abused, says Jacob Brandt. relative to the operating phase, says Claus Berg, Bech-Bruun partner speciaSustainable application Greener soil handling lised in contract and procurement law. of rules Bech-Bruun has also advised on how to However, with sustainable construction avoid that materials from, for instance, In 2019 Claus Berg spoke at a number comes various potential procurement demolished buildings be subjected to of conferences, etc., about the contract and construction law challenges as well waste legislation and are recycled directand procurement law aspects of the reas opportunities on the use of recyclable ly into new construction. Also how largecycling of construction materials, for and up-cycled construction materials. In scale soil handling can be arranged instance at the large ”Building Green” 2019, against this backdrop, Bech-Bruun without the soil becoming waste: conference on sustainable construction increasingly assisted clients with the best in the autumn of 2019. He will continue possible integration of, for instance, reAt several popular events we have this work in 2020. cycled materials on construction tenders, focused on sustainable soil handling and and we advised on how the current reguhow projects may be planned with a view 30 CSR 2019 · Environment We work for renewable energy At Bech-Bruun we work determinedly with large Danish and foreign energy players in the area of renewable energy. Energy for 3.6m households Since 2018 we have built up our Renewable Energy division, which focuses 3600 MW or 3.6 GW green energy, corresponding to the annual consumpexclusively on the area of renewable tion of 3 million Danish households*, i.e. 900,000 more households than energy and today counts 25 dedicated exist in Denmark. That is the amount of green energy that can be supplied specialists. In 2018 we opened an office by the offshore wind energy projects on which Bech-Bruun has been the in New York to be able to follow intermain contract negotiator in 2019, once the underlying offshore wind turbine national clients in the wind energy area farms are built**. into the global market, and we advise on numerous offshore wind energy proj*) According to the Danish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities, 1 GW supplies ects in Australia and Asia, including in energy for around 1 million Danish households. Taiwan, Korea and Japan. **) This does not include all contracts in which Bech-Bruun has been involved in this area in 2019, but only contracts on which Bech-Bruun was the principal lawyer and with long negotiation procedures. ” It is really interesting to partake in promoting the green agenda on a global scale for all of us working with renewable energy at Bech-Bruun. In addition to the important elements of our daily work, such as interesting areas of law and good working relationships, the green element is essential and a great satisfaction in the work – not least for the young lawyers joining our division. It is highly motivating to be playing a role in relation to a sustainable development of society and be part of promoting a green industry. Peter Østergaard Nielsen, specialist in offshore wind energy, partner and part of Bech-Bruun’s Renewable Energy division and Bech-Bruun’s office in New York 31 CSR 2019 · Ethics & Compliance Ethics & Compliance As a law firm, we carry a vast ethical Our clients and business partners must Danish enterprises and organisations, responsibility. Our work and business always be assured that we act fairly and compliance became even more impormethods are based on good conduct ethically correct. Ethical conduct is detant in 2019 as we saw the first major and respect for our clients, our employcisive for our clients and ourselves and, consequences of the new data protecees and our surroundings. Based on consequently, we are highly focused on tion legislation. In this area as well we the Code of Conduct for the Danish the risk of unethical conduct, including want to play an active role and share our Bar and Law Society and Bech-Bruun’s corruption, money laundering, etc. knowledge with our clients and busiCode of Conduct, we have built a solid ness partners, whom we try to keep upcorporate governance system, including Compliance is also essential in our daily dated in the area through our advisory specific policies and rules on bribery, lives, and as a result of our continuous services as well as our training programgifts, confidential information, conefforts in the area we have managed to mes and events, and through the new flicts of interest, fair competition, maintain a high level in 2019. For most innovative digital compliance services money laundering, supplier relations, we have launched. human rights, discrimination and environment. Our ethical rules express our expectations to our employees and our own Our objectives Our 2020 targets ethical conduct and sets the framework for our dialogue with business relations • We will ensure the highest ethical • To continue setting the highest and other interested parties. The goal standard and openness within the ethical standards. is to ensure the highest possible level framework of confidentiality that is of integrity. We pursue a zero-tolerance the foundation of our client relation• To continuously optimise our IT tools policy against bribery and corruption, ships. and safety. and we run our business in an honest and ethical manner. • We will ensure in-house compliance at the highest level. • We will ensure continuous updating of our systems and development of our IT tools so that we may always serve our clients efficiently and safely. 32 CSR 2019 · Ethics & Compliance Compliance in Bech-Bruun Stricter financial regAlso ensures clients’ compliance ulation and new digital In addition to ensuring our in-house technologies are just compliance, Bech-Bruun’s specialists have also advised many clients on how some of the trends that to ensure that they comply with the EU have increased the General Data Protection Regulation, including assistance with the conclusion focus on enterprises’ large sums, it is important to take strict of data processing agreements, ensuring compliance and risks. precautions: that clients have the required technical assistance for correct processing of In a few years, rules and We can’t ignore the fundamental risk personal data held by the enterprise or that some may attempt to use us for organisation. regulations have been money laundering or the financing of tightened in many terrorism. As a result, since 2010 we As regulations become stricter, our have developed one of the law induclients increasingly demand assistance areas and converted stry’s most fine-meshed systems for the in the area of compliance, not least in into actual legal rescreening of clients and their beneficial recognition of the fact that violation of owners when we assume a task for them, the rules is punished increasingly harder quirements. As a result, and we monitor client relationships in and more consistently and may lead not corporate compliance accordance with our duties under the only to large fines and, in some areas, priMoney Laundering Act, says Lars son sentences, but it may also seriously is an area that is high Lindencrone Petersen, knowledge damage the reputation of an enterprise, on the agenda of most management partner. says Lars Lindencrone Petersen. Danish enterprises. At Denmark’s largest It is also a highly complex area, and data protection division Bech-Bruun as well it This work is anchored in our division for many enterprises find it increasingly complicated to comply with the rules. So is more important than Corporate Compliance & Investigations they really need the external assistance – or CCI – and in our team of compliance that can ensure them that they comply ever – in-house in our controllers. These are highly specialised with legislation. daily operation as well employees, whose main task is to ensure that our in-house business procedures Through the outsourcing functionality, as in our advising of in this area are followed, and to ensure DPO Service, Bech-Bruun functions clients. documentation for this through a conas an external data protection officer trol programme. (DPO) for numerous enterprises and organisations, and through our DPA As a law firm, Bech-Bruun is subject Due to our expertise and experience Service (Data Protection Audit Service) to the rules on prevention of money in this area, we can perform customer we help clients ensure that their data laundering and financing of terrorism due diligence for clients who themprocessors comply with the legislation and the protection of personal data. selves are subject to the Money concerning the handling of personal Rules that are of no consequence to Laundering Act but prefer to have data. Similarly, many clients use Bechthe services we provide, but which obliBech-Bruun perform the required Bruun’s compliance tool, PACTIUS gate us because we assist in transactions investigations and controls, says Lars Privacy, to ensure that they themselves between people and enterprises, and in Lindencrone Petersen. comply with the increased requirements that connection we receive confidential of data protection legislation. information about our clients and their Performing our duties under the Money owners. Laundering Act inevitably means that Through annual compliance tests we enwe process personal data about our clisure that our employees have the necesWhen, for instance, we assist Danish ents and their beneficial owners. With sary and updated qualifications. and foreign clients in the acquisition CCI, Bech-Bruun has the largest division and divestment of companies and in the country for this task, working with property portfolios, which often involve data protection law issues, etc. 33 CSR 2019 · Ethics & Compliance ” At Bech-Bruun we take the market’s increasing requirements for adaptation and improvement of data processing and the derived continuous work very seriously: Both when it comes to our own and our clients’ compliance and data processing. It is pivotal that our clients can rely on our complying with current and future statutory requirements and continuously optimising our efforts, so that we are always able to document our safe handling of data. Our latest certification, an ISAE 3000 Audit Report performed by Deloitte auditors, provides documentation evidencing that our controls comply with the provisions of the legislation covering data protection, accounting, and the processing of personal data as well as with the standard requirements to information security. Stefan Winquist, head of IT at Bech-Bruun 34 CSR 2019 · Ethics & Compliance 19% of all our courses in 2019 involved, to a higher or lesser degree, compliance issues Ethical guidelines Bech-Bruun’s ethical guidelines were drafted to contribute to the practical compliance with our values. Part of our core values is to demonstrate honest and ethical conduct, which, Conflict and ethics as a minimum, complies with applicable legislation and committee guidelines. All employees are expected to comply with the 10 UN Global Compact principles, and all associates are subject to the code of conduct for lawyers. It is pivotal for us Bech-Bruun’s conflict and ethics committee processes that we perform our activities with a high level of integrity and settles issues relating to conflicts of interest, including and ethics. Consequently, we treat all employees, clients and questions as to whether Bech-Bruun can assume or conbusiness partners equally without regard for race, colour of tinue the processing of cases in accordance with legal skin, gender, age, nationality, religion, ethnic origin or other ethics and the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and characteristics. We do not allow any form of discrimination or Law Society. harassment. If we learn that an employee or a client is involved in unlawful or unethical conduct, which is contrary to our core values or which may in other ways reflect unfavourably on Bech-Bruun, such employee or client will be subject to sanctions. Our employees hold a particular responsibility for being aware of unlawful or unethical conduct. Offering bribes or in any other way offering or receiving undue payments or other undue services with a view to obtaining or maintaining any kind of advantage is prohibited. It is also prohibited to contribute to any illegal activity in relation to public authorities, customers, banks, competitors and others. Bech-Bruun expects its employees always to ensure that the activities carried out by Bech-Bruun are consistent with our ethical guidelines. Bech-Bruun may consider Member of any violation of the guidelines a breach of the employment contract. advokatKODEKS In 2015, as one of the first law firms in Denmark, Bech-Bruun decided to adopt the code of conduct of the Association of Danish Law Firms, advokatKODEKS. By Openness adopting the code of conduct, we take an active approach to the five principles: Openness, social responsibility, handBech-Bruun strives for openness and transparency within ling of ethical dilemmas, focus on clients and employees, the framework of the duty of confidentiality that is the and diversity. foundation of our client relationships. Another core value is to live up to the requirements of the Code of Conduct advokatKODEKS is the law industry’s signal to the regarding the duty to inform and ensure that the client world that it is taking social responsibility seriously. always has the best possible foundation for choosing legal advokatKODEKS ensures that as a law firm, we explicitly advisers. Consequently, we make sure to grant the public state to the surrounding world what we stand for. The value easy access to relevant information about values and ethics, we create, how we run our business, and what makes us spemanagement structure, services, Bech-Bruun’s principles for cial as independent advisers. The values of the code conpricing, and contact information – for instance through ancern customers, employees and the public. They concern nual management reports, CSR reports and at our website. employee-aimed values relating to good management and Another goal for our work with openness and transparency diversity but also general values such as ethics and social reis always to be available to the media, continuously to inform sponsibility as well as openness and transparency. about new knowledge, to share strategic considerations and efforts with the public, etc. 35 Copenhagen Denmark • Aarhus Denmark • Shanghai China • New York USA +45 72 27 00 00 • info@bechbruun.com • Law Firm P/S • www.bechbruun.com
