2019 Daewoo E&C Sustainability Report Build Together 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 002 Our Business and New Vision 003 about this report contents Since 2012, Daewoo E&C has published a yearly Intro sustainability report to disclose the financial, Forward to Global Top 20 social and environmental progress we made over We introduce the present and future of Daewoo E&C. the year. As our eighth sustainability report, we 006 CEO Message use it as a channel to communicate our major 008 Company Overview sustainability policies, activities and performance 010 NEW VISION BUILD TOGETHER with our stakeholders. This report is available to 012 2018 Highlight download from our website at www.daewooenc.com. Our Business and NEW VISION We report major businesses and efforts to achieve the new Reporting Standard vision of Daewoo E&C. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards, 016 Civil Project Business 024 Housing & Building Business Guidelines and Construction & Real-Estate Sector 032 Plant Business Supplement. “In Accordance – Core” option is met in accordance Our Sustainability Foundation with the GRI Standards Guidelines. We introduce information for the sustainability management and basis for Daewoo E&C. Reporting Period 042 Sustainability Management System 044 Corporate Governance This Report covers key sustainability activities and 046 Risk Management achievements from January to December 2018 048 Stakeholder Engagement (Some important qualitative performance data 050 Materiality Assessment covers up to March 2019). In terms of quantitative performance, data for the past three years is Our Sustainable Management presented for time series analysis. We report the core sustainability management issues and activities of Daewoo E&C. 054 Financially Stable Management Reporting Boundaries Enhancement of Brand Value and Corporate Image The information provided in this report covers all Achievement of Stable Management Performance and Reinforcing R&D Competency sites and buildings undergoing actual business 072 Future Management operation (quantitative performance data for the Implementation of Social Contribution Activities and Reinforcement of environmental aspects are limited to, consolidated Eco-Friendly System D  evelopment of Employees’ Capabilities and Labor-Management and disclosed on 143 work sites and 4 buildings in Relationship Based on Trust Korea). The financial performance is based on the 088 Righteous Management K-IFRS Consolidation Standards.  peration of Win-Win Growth and Health & Safety Management O System and Reinforcement of Compliance APPENDIX 106 Management Performance 107 Key Sustainability Management Performance Data 118 GRI Index 120 UNGC 121 SDGs 122 ISO 26000 123 Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 124 Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement 126 Social Contribution Performance · Awards 127 Membership Questions about the report Address 170, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Team Compliance Team E-mail. dwenc_sr@daewooenc.com Tel. 02) 2288-3739 Fax. 02) 2288-4284 page 006 Ceo MessaGe Forward To page 008 GloBal Top 20 CoMpaNY oVerVieW page 010 Daewoo e&C has made every effort NeW VisioN based on challenge, passion, buiLD toGether autonomy and accountability for the past 45 years. We are now catching our breath at the starting point of a new launch. before taking a powerful step forward, a phrase is engraved deep in our heart: “build together”. it is a new vision for our future as a guide. in the vision, we put our willingness to make partnerships with customers and all other page 012 stakeholders for the future. 2018 hiGhLiGht 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 006 Forward to Global top 20 007 ceo MessaGe Dear respected stakeholders, I sincerely appreciate your continued encouragement and support for Daewoo E&C. dear respected stakeholders, Despite internal and external environmental changes, Daewoo E&C has constantly been growing as Korea’s best construction company. In the midst of continuously low oil price since 2016 and increased uncertainty in the construction market the company exceeded annual sales of KRW 10 trillion for the first time since establishment. As we have fulfilled our roles as a top-tier construction company in the I sincerely appreciate stagnant economic growth and unfavorable management conditions such as reduction of investment and increased production costs, and we successfully exceeded the planned management indexes in 2018. your continued However, Daewoo E&C did not settle for creating ﬁnancial performance, but aimed at realizing the best value for customers. To mark our encouragement 45th anniversary, we proclaimed a new vision which all employees are engaged in and will strive to establish the basis for sustainable growth and support for to become one of the global top 20 companies as follows: daewoo e&c. First, we will enhance trust among stakeholders with stable growth. In 2018, Daewoo E&C won bids on large-scale projects at home and abroad despite shrinking contract business and rapidly emerging follower countries such as China. In Korea, we won contracts such as a new construction project for joint housing in Incheon Handeul Area and the GTX-A project. In overseas countries, the company was selected as a preferred bidder for nuclear power plants in the Czech Republic and Poland and participated in the LNG FEED Project in Nigeria as a main contractor. With these projects, we have laid a bridge for sustainable growth. However, Daewoo E&C will not settle for these achievements, but endeavor to develop our strength to grow continuously, not being affected by external environmental changes, through four core strategies—Maximize performance capacity, Amplify marketing strength, Secure new growth engine and Innovate Management infrastructure. Second, we will contemplate, strive and act for the future. In the 4th Industrial Revolution, construction business is facing a golden time with the need to change proactively. For this goal, Daewoo E&C not only creates a new opportunity through systematic risk management, but also develops a new business platform such as equity investment, operational engagement and pioneering into a new market to expand the entire value chain. We also proactively prepare for the digitization of the construction industry with the implementation of smart construction such as measurement using drones. To brace for the uncertainty of the future, the company will focus on securing a future engine by sharing developmental collective intelligence through communicating with all employees based on their experience and knowledge and intensively cultivating ﬂexible and creative human resources. Third, we will become a global leading transparent company by advanced righteous management. In October 2018, Daewoo E&C received the certification for ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management System (ABMS) from the British Standards Institution (BSI) for the ﬁrst time in the domestic construction industry. This stands for the international recognition for Daewoo E&C's anti-bribery activities and is attributable to the efforts of all employees, including Daewoo New-way proclamation in 2013 and Compliance System adoption in 2015. However, it is just another beginning. Daewoo E&C will conduct business by principle, cooperate with local communities by leveraging the characteristics of a construction company, and build win-win relationships with its partners, therefore proceeding toward a global company with remarkable transparency. Dear respected stakeholders. All employees of Daewoo E&C are moving forward in harmony with one mind: to serve a role as a company that fulfills its social responsibility. Thank you. June 2019 Daewoo E&C Co., Ltd. CEO Hyung Kim 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 008 Forward to Global Top 20 009 Company Since its establishment with 12 employees in 1973, Daewoo E&C has built new roads and railways to the world and comfortable homes and houses for people. Our challenges have set Organizational Structure Overview 8 DIVISIONS, 1 INSTITUTE, 38 GROUPS, 106 TEAMS a new record, while crises at times served as a foothold to leap forward into the future. Now, CEO we are dreaming of a further growing future by 2025. Our challenges to realize the best value with customers will continue. INTERNAL AUDIT & Q-HSE SERVICES CONSULTING DIVISION DIVISION Acquired overseas construction business permit, Established R&D Center Awarded the prize of CFO Daewoo E&C First Korean company Daewoo Co., Ltd for the first time in the USD 4 billion for overseas founded to do business in Ecuador established industry construction 1973 1976 1982 1983 1984 CORPORATE HR & STRATEGIC HOUSING & INSTITUTE OF FINANCE PROCUREMENT VALUE CIVIL PROJECT PLANT MANAGEMENT PLANNING BUILDING CONSTRUCTION DIVISION DIVISION ENHANCEMENT DIVISION DIVISION SERVICE DIVISION DIVISION TECHNOLOGY 1st in the construction First construction DIVISION DIVISION capability evaluation New brand Daewoo E&C company to Published the first for three consecutive “PRUGIO” established as an acquire the ISO 9001 Sustainability Report years launched independent entity certification Civil project Housing and building project Roads, Bridges, Harbors, Reclamation, Territorial Development, Commercial Complexes, Office Buildings, Factory Buildings, 2012 2006~2008 2003 2000 1993 High-speed Railways, etc. Construction and Sale of Apartments, etc. Achieved USD 50 billion for overseas products in the Achieved the 1st Won the 21st Proclaimed the shortest period in Korea Acquired the industry’s place in housing supply Presidential Award for new vision of Acquired the industry’s first first ISO 22301 performance for the Best Apartment “Build Together” to mark ISO/IEC 20000 certification certification seven years in a row (Grand Prize) the 45th anniversary 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Major project Company Company Name DAEWOO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. Branches 2 domestic branches, 4 overseas branches, and Affiliates 6 overseas subsidiaries, and 6 domestic subsidiaries Profile Date of Major Establishment November 1, 1973 Shareholder Korea Development Bank (KDB Value 6 Ltd.) As of March 2019 Location of 170, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Number of Headquarters Employees 5,357 people Republic of Korea CEO Hyung Kim Website www.daewooenc.com(Korean), www.daewooenc.com/eng(English) * Excluding special purpose company (SPC) subsidiaries established for the purpose of liquidating account receivable, but over which Daewoo E&C has de facto control Plant project Other projects Oil & Gas, Refineries, LNG, Thermal Power Plants, Patrolchemical, Real-estate Rental and Product Sales, Pocheon, Nuclear Power Plants, IPP, and Other Plant-related Construction Steel Structure Construction, Hotel Business, etc. Gyeonggi-do Daewoo Power Co., Ltd. Incheon Daewoo Songdo Hotel Co., Ltd. Seoul 9 10 Pruwell Co., Ltd. PRUGIO Service Co., Ltd. Hanoi, Vietnam THT Development New York, U.S.A. Daewoo E&C Jincheon-gun, DW America Devel‘t Inc. VIETNAM CO.,LTD Chungcheongbuk-do Daewoo ST Co., Ltd. KRW trillion KRW trillion 682.6 605.5 Tripoli, Libya Daewoo Tripoli Busan Investment & Korea Infra Development Co. Saipan, U.S.A. Saipan Laulau Management Co., Ltd. Order Sales Portharcourt, Development, Inc. and billion Major and billion Nigeria Daewoo E&C financial Nigeria Ltd performance Ain 2018 628.7 Operating Credit Overseas branches ㅣ North Africa, Middle East, Southeast Asia, Nigeria profit rating Overseas subsidiaries ㅣ New York (U.S), Tripoli (Libya), Port Harcourt (Nigeria), Saipan, Hanoi (2 subsidiaries) KRW billion * Korea Ratings and NICE Investors Service Domestic subsidiaries ㅣ Daewoo Songdo Hotel, Pruwell (Incheon), Daewoo Power (Pocheon, Gyeonggi-do), PRUGIO Service (Seoul), Daewoo ST (Jincheon-gun, Chungcheongbuk-do), Korea Infra Management (Busan) 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 010 Forward to Global top 20 011 new VIsIon the vision of Daewoo e&C is to become a company achieving the best value with customers. With the driving forces of “challenge and passion” and “autonomy and accountability”, all Vision statement BuIld ToGeTHer of our employees implement four implementation strategies and eight strategic tasks in harmony with one mind. We firmly believe that Daewoo E&C will become one of the global Build Together top 20 companies in the near future by solidifying partnerships with stakeholders and realizing best Value together with the Customer establishing the basis for sustainable growth by enhancing corporate value. Build + Together Vision system proclamation of Daewoo e&C’s new vision for a new leap (2018.10.31) Vision proclamation·» Build Together providing the best corporate value for customers establishing partnerships with all stakeholders realizing best Value together with the Customer •Build a value chain covering the entire construction industry •Maximizing the trust of all stakeholders including shareholders, •Maintain the highest business performance level in the customers, suppliers, etc. domestic construction industry •Match each individual’s goals with the company’s goal and increase their sense of belonging Meeting the expectations of customers with the •promote responsible leaders and encourage self-fulfillment for Challenge autonomy highest competitiveness employees by establishing an effective performance comcore value·» and and pensation system passion accountability •providing the highest level of technology and quality in the industry •serving a role as a total solution provider event for attaching name On november 5, 2018, Daewoo E&C employees attached their own name cards to a large-scale cards to Mark the board upon which the phrase “BUiLD TOgETHEr” was written to mark the proclamation of our strategic goal·» Global Top 20 proclamation of new Vision new vision and remind ourselves that we are the people who lead the new vision. Daewoo E&C will grow into the best company with customers. BUILD TOGETHER ! sales of Krw 17 trillion and operating profit of Krw 1.5 trillion by 2025 Maximize amplify secure core strategy·» performance Marketing New Growth Capacity strength engine Innovation of management infrastructure optimize risk Management Diversify first-class products seek innovative business models strategic task·» reinforce procurement capacity broaden market portfolio extend value-chain pursue opportunities in enhance project management North Korean market 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 012 Forward to Global Top 20 013 2018 Highlight “Inje-Yangyang Tunnel” Receives Awards Grand Prize of Hankyung Residential Culture from Domestic and Overseas Major Brand in the First Half of 2018 Institutions (Winning Three Prizes) The Cheongju Hills Park PRUGIO built by Daewoo E&C received On November 7, 2018, the “Inje-Yangyang Tunnel”, which the grand prize in “2018 Well-Being Apartment Awards” by was completed in June 2017, awarded the grand prize in Hankyung Business to develop residential service and reinforce environmental management section at the IRF GRAA (Global Road competitiveness in the construction industry. Achievement Awards) 2018 by International Road Federation (IRF). The apartment was acclaimed as leading the domestic residential The Inje-Yangyang Tunnel on the Seoul-Yangyang Expressway is culture with a sincere housing service focusing on quality and Korea’s longest road tunnel of approximately 11km in length and practicality and having a security system to save maintenance has the highest-quality technologies to minimize environmental costs and consider the safety of residents by providing the damage in the Baekdudaegan Mountain Range and secure the Green Premium Service. The Cheongju Hills Park PRUGIO has safety of drivers. In addition, the inje-Yangyang Tunnel received also upgraded the brand residential culture by creating the the grand prize for this year’s civil structure on Civil Engineers Day environment to enhance satisfaction and strengthening customer in 2018 by the Korean Society of Civil Engineers and Tunneling convenience facilities. Daewoo E&C will constantly strive to boost Awards by Korean Tunneling and Underground Space Association; customer satisfaction. only in 2018, we were honored to receive three major prizes from domestic and overseas major institutions. Proclamation New Vision “Build Together” In October 2018, Daewoo E&C proclaimed its new vision “Build Together” as a company to realize best value together with the customer to 종합등급 환경 사회 지배구조 mark its 45th anniversary. Based on the core values of “challenge and passion” and “autonomy and accountability”, we selected four core strategies and eight strategic tasks: Maximize Performance Capacity, Amplify Marketing Strength, Secure New Growth Engine, and Innovate Management Infrastructure. Under these strategies, the company aims to achieve the sales of KRW 17 trillion and operating profit of KRW 1.5 trillion by 2025. We will also solidify the status of a global company based on the management policies of financially stable, future, and righteous management. Expansion of Overseas Market by Pioneering Excellence in the ESG Evaluation Results by the LNG FEED Business Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS) Certification of ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management System In 2018, Daewoo E&C entered the LNG FEED business by With the implementation of advanced sustainability management performing the NLNG Train 7 FEED Project. system as a global leader representing the domestic construction On October 29, 2018, Daewoo E&C received the certification of ISO 37001 Antiindustry, Daewoo E&C has been recognized for its outstanding Bribery Management System (ABMS) from the British Standards Institution (BSI) for We are making efforts to perform the FEED project via JVperformance with evaluation by various institutions accessing the the first time in the domestic construction industry. cooperation with Saipem and Chiyoda, and connect it to EPC level of corporate sustainability management. contracts. With these efforts, we expect the company to establish As an international standard for anti-bribery management system, ISO 37001 signifies its position as a LNG EPC player, and endeavor to enter LNG In the ESG evaluation by the Korea Corporate Governance Service that corporate anti-bribery activities are effectively planned and executed. This EPC project. Through the Atimonan Power Generation Project, (KCGS) under the Korea Exchange for domestic listed companies, certification indicates that leadership for anti-corruption, risk assessment and plan, we entered the Philippines market and expanded the market. By Daewoo E&C acquired Rating A for two consecutive years. We also operation, inspection and improvement activities by Daewoo E&C are recognized to be pioneering a new market through the consortium with MHPS, the earned Rating A for the first time in the ESG evaluation by Sustinvest. at the global level. We will become a global company with remarkable transparency company laid a bridge for entering the Philippines market and With the expansion of socially responsible investment, needs for trusted by internal and external stakeholders by improving the system continuously broadening the Asian market such as Vietnam, Indonesia, etc. disclosing ESG transparently are getting higher. Daewoo E&C will and reinforcing ethical and compliance management. work even harder to become a socially responsible company. page 016 CiViL proJeCt busiNess our BusIness and new VIsIon as we are moving into the page 024 4th industrial revolution, characterized by the housiNG & buiLDiNG convergence of information and busiNess communications technologies, the construction industry is pushing to find new opportunities. Daewoo e&C, a leading page 032 company in civil projects, pLaNt housing and building and plants, busiNess is improving construction technology even more through innovative technology development. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 016 our business and New Vision 017 cIVIl proJecT achieving the top record in domestic and overseas civil projects sector by leading the construction history BusIness current Business and in 2018, the Civil project Division won orders worth KrW 1 trillion, 276.2 billion and recorded Future Goals sales of KrW 1 trillion 731.3 billion on domestic and overseas business sites. in 2019, we will strive to exceed our order goal of KrW 1 trillion, 380 billion as well as make a performance turnaround When it comes to the domestic market, this year’s budget for the soC sector slightly increased to KrW 19.8 trillion compared to the previous year, but due to the overall slowdown of the construction economy, we expect intensified competition between domestic construction companies. in terms of the overseas market, it is likely to show continuous growth based on the emerging countries such as india, asia and africa and the resulting growth in the infrastructure market. under these circumstances, the Civil project Division has established six major strategies based on the newly proclaimed company-wide vision: maximization of order capability, reinforcement of PM capability, diversification of pivotal markets, cultivation of core products, expansion of the value chain, and taking the dominance of North Korea business in advance. by performing these six strategies, we will improve the system of the division and create continuous and stable profits. We will enhance operating profits by managing existing projects (77 domestic, 13 overseas) more tightly and increase quality in overseas orders by expanding our overseas bidding organization and reinforcing capabilities for estimation and design. in addition, the company will solidify the foundation for midand long-term business growth by cultivating renewable energy and new growth business such as Yeongwol eco Wind project with the beginning of ongoing Jeju solar power plant project. We will advance our smart construction capability by the application of new technologies such as drone, biM, construction automation, etc. the division served as a strong foundation during asian Financial Crisis and Global Financial Crisis by creating profits and managing the company's financial liquidity and again it will be the solid base for the achievement of Daewoo E&C's 2025 strategic goals. achievement of reinforcement new VIsIon of marketing orders “Build Together” capability advancement 1 276.2 securing a new of performance growth engine capability Amount of final orders in 2018: KrW trillion, billion amount of target orders in 2019: Krw 1 380trillion, billion •Maximization of order capability •Reinforcement of PM capability •Diversification of pivotal markets and cultivation of core products •Expansion of value chain •Taking the dominance of North •Cultivation of core products Korea business in advance sales Amount of final sales in 2018: KrW 1 731.3 trillion, billion amount of target sales in 2019: Krw 1 410trillion, billion *on-site director's meeting Delivering the vision, long-term strategy and goals of individual organizations to realize the vision 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 018 our business and New Vision 019 cIVIl proJecT Daewoo e&C has established detailed strategies for its new vision based on reinforcement of capabilities in each business division and domestic and overseas market environmental overseas Market outlook The civil project sector in the overseas construction market accounts for approximately 21% (UsD 2 trillion, 459.6 billion, as of 2019) and is expected to show faster growth than other sectors dIVIsIon analyses. through these activities, we will diversify and expand business sectors and solidify (construction, industrial facility, etc.). The construction market (civil project) in asia has a worth of Market perspective our position. these detailed strategies serve as the foundation to strengthen growth and UsD 1 trillion, 420.6 billion (as of 2019), which accounts for about 58% of the entire construction cope with external environmental changes such as foreign exchange fluctuations, policy market (civil project). it is likely to enjoy rapid growth (6.3-6.8%) in the construction market (civil changes, and oil price drops. We will strategically deal with these situations and grow further project) as the target market of Daewoo E&C’s Civil project Division, including southwest asia by thorough analyses of domestic and overseas markets. such as india, Bangladeshi and sri Lanka and southeast asia such as vietnam and Thailand. Based on the company-wide vision and six major strategies, the Civil project Division will maximize the award-winning capability for the target market and reinforce pM capability for performing pj. domestic Market Daewoo E&C implements various types of new business such as renewable energy projects to outlook cope with the recent sluggish growth in the construction industry, decreased sOC budget and overlook for world’s civil project Market (source: iHs Markit, Oct. ’18, Unit: Billion) construction paradigm change. To deal with the shrinking domestic market due to intensified caGr 5.2% 3,000 competition and the insecurity of financial market, we aim to overcome challenges by establishing our new vision and setting practical tasks. in september 2017, we won an order for a new project, jeju Tangerine solar power plant Construction project, and will expand the market based on this project. The size of the domestic renewable energy market including wind power 2,000 and solar power is expected to be KRW 2.3 trillion in 2018 and expand by five times as much and reach krw 9.5 trillion by 2030. Daewoo E&C will reinforce our capabilities and dominate/expand business by regarding renewable energy business as a core business for the domestic market. 1,000 0 domestic soc Budget (Unit: krw trillion, % compared to the total budget) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 outlook caGr* ▽4.2% Asia Middle East North America Europe Africa Central and South America 23.4 (7.2%) 19.1 19.8 (4.2%) 18.0 17.7 17.5 (4.4%) (3.6%) (3.3%) (3.1%) outlook for Target Markets (source: global Data 2018, Unit: Billion) annual average of ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21 ‘22 39% ‘07-‘17 • Continuously decreasing SOC budget since 2015: CAGR = -4.2% (partially increased in 2019) 4% 149 139 123 117 • Expected to increase to 10% on annual average in the health, welfare and employment sector 8% 108 90 5% 35% (press release for a budget plan by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, 2019) (*Cagr:Compound annual growth rate) 7% 21 26 2% total in ’19: 351 total in ’22: 422 Southeast Asia Middle East India North Africa Southeast Asia Middle East India North Africa outlook for domestic ※ Excluding China and Japan renewable energy Market 1. southeast asia • Continuing growth rate of 5-7% at an annual average(expected to account for 13% of the world’s market by 2025) proportion of capacity by energy source domestic Market size • Expanding the share of EPC as joint investment with China 7.5 4.3 3.7 • Basis for expanding ODA by advanced countries and support for South Korea’s new policy for North Korea category wind power solar power Total 9.7 ‘18 KrW 0.3 trillion KrW 2.0 trillion Krw 2.3 trillion 2. India 33.7 45.2 • Construction market in ’19 worth KRW 117 trillion (grown by 7% year-on-year) ‘20 KrW 1.8 trillion KrW 2.3 trillion Krw 4.1 trillion 31.9 • Expanding the opportunity for Korean companies to participate in a project such as special bridge due to ‘22 KrW 2.3 trillion KrW 2.7 trillion Krw 5.0 trillion limited participation of bidding by Chinese companies • Expected to win an order worth KRW 17 trillion for metro PJ in ’19-‘22 27.3 ‘24 KrW 3.3 trillion KrW 3.0 trillion Krw 6.3 trillion 3. Middle east 28.9 ‘26 KrW 4.0 trillion KrW 3.6 trillion Krw 7.6 trillion 31.6 Nuclear power • Qatar: Continuously winning an order for midand large-scale LRDP project (KRW 2-300 billion for each PJ) + Coal ‘28 KrW 4.5 trillion KrW 4.2 trillion Krw 8.7 trillion • Iraq: Expected to win multiple orders for post-war recovery project Nuclear power 23.0 50.9 + Coal ‘30 KrW 5.0 trillion KrW 4.5 trillion Krw 9.5 trillion • Kuwait: Winning an order for large-scale LNG floating terminal 14.6 19.3 34.7 11.7 7.6 aggregate (’18-’30) approx. KrW 41 trillion approx. KrW 43 trillion approx. Krw 84 trillion 4. north africa • Annual average growth rate: 3% or over (reduced orders due to low oil price) 2017 2030 2040 th (The 8 Basic Electricity supply plan by the Ministry of Commerce, industry and Energy, 2017) • Economic growth, increasing population » Expanding the development of industrial complex and electricity demand Nuclear power Coal LNG Renewable energy Others (Unit: %) • Financial shortage » Increased interest in private investment (aggressive business activity by China) 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 020 our business and New Vision 021 civil project division to achieve “build together”, the Civil project Division has established strategic goals and deKey performances for civil project division in 2018 tailed strategies. With these we will create social value and contribute to achieving sustainable new Vision construction business. philippine Jalaur dam The dam construction ordered from the national irrigation administration is UsD 193,494,091, construction period is 46 months. Major construction works include three dams (height 109m), waterway (80.74km), and irrigation facilities (9,500ha / renovation: 21,624ha). Build Together realizing best value together with the customer unmun dam safety reinforcement project The project ordered from korea water resources Corporation (k-water) through competitive bidding on turnkey basis. Emergency release facilities (tunnel L754.5m, D4.2m), and existing water intake towers 2 seismic reinforcement contents. The construction cost is 116.3 billion won (including vaT, total) and construction period is 48 months. Vision and core strategies of the 1st in winning domestic orders / sudoKwon The 3rd Landfill Stage 1 orders worth of KrW 3 trillion / Civil project Division operating profit of KRW 150 billion Landfill site (total 20 million ㎥) and environmental treatment facilities (landfill gas, leachate) are the main contents. The construction cost is 152.2 billion won (including vaT, total) and the construction period is 98 months. seoul Metropolitan area express railway a line as a privately-funded private railway company, we will construct a 43.6-km-long 1. advancement of performance 2. reinforcement of marketing 3. securing a new growth Deep underground railway, a car base, and five stops at paju Unjeong-samsung capability capability engine station. The amount of construction is 2.499 billion won (zero tax rate, total) 60 months. 1. Maximization of order capability 1. Diversification of pivotal markets 1. expansion of value chain • Enhancing the rate of winning orders • Establishing a technical sales • Implementing renewable energy • Minimizing gap between order and organization and placing it on the projects performance pivotal market • Carrying out private SOC convergence • Establishing market (country) projects 2. reinforcement of pM capability pioneering strategies • Expanding complex development • Reinforcing early monitoring projects SOSA-WONSI Double-Track Electrification (Completion) • Strengthening directly operated 2. Cultivation of core products as a privately-funded private railway company, Bucheon sosa-ansan won 23.3km and performance capability • Selecting core products and 2. preoccupation for North Korea completed 12 stations successfully. The total cost of the project is 1,549.5 billion won • advancing claim/process management establishing market strategies business • Cultivating keyman on overseas sites • implementing phased north korea (including vaT) and the construction period is 60 months. 3. advancing claim/process business 3. strengthening directly operated management performance capability 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 022 Our Business and New Vision 023 Key Business Since the construction of Busan-Masan Expressway No.3 in 1978, Daewoo E&C has engaged in every Harbor & Water Resources In terms of building harbor facilities such as revetment, seawall, dock and breakwater, Daewoo E&C major expressway construction project in Korea and promoted communication/development between boasts the highest competitiveness; when it comes to container berths, we boast the best performance Expressway regions and reduced logistics expenses. We built privately funded expressways such as Cheonan-Nonin Korea. With the construction of Busan Port, Korea’s top port and East Asia’s hub port, we contributed san, Daegu-Busan, and Yongin-Seoul Expressway as well as Pyeongtaek-Siheung and Guri-Pocheon to changing Busan Port into a logistics hub with world-level competiveness. The company successfully Expressway. In particular, for the Inje Tunnel, which is the longest domestic tunnel in the Donghongcompleted a shipyard in Oman and Qatar and implemented an overseas river restoration project in Alcheon-Yangyang Expressway, we succeeded in linking the metropolitan area with the East Coast in the geria, another first for a Korean company. After successful completion of Pakistan Hydroelectric Power shortest distance while minimizing its environmental impact. In 2018, with the Inje Tunnel, the company Plant, we extended our business sectors by launching construction of the Jalaur Dam in the Philippines received the grand prize for civil structure from the Korean Society of Civil Engineers and main prize in and constructed a 16km large-scale breakwater in Iraq. the environmental sector by the International Road Federation. We have also established our company as a world-renowned company in the expressway sector by successfully performing large-scale overseas projects such as expressway in Pakistan, and the world’s largest single expressway construction project, and expressway in Qatar. Environment Daewoo E&C has the most experience in building water treatment facilities, sewage treatment facilities and sewer pipes. We have developed eco-friendly designs and DNR (Daewoo Nutrient Removal) sewer treatment technologies for building complete underground facilities and developing the upper part as a park and public facilities. We also have new technologies and business expertise in renewable energy fields such as biogas power generation. Road & Bridge In 1984, Daewoo E&C built the Dongjak Bridge, Korea’s first railway and road composite bridge, and Gwangan Bridge, which has beautiful features in a total length of 7,420m and eight lanes across the shores of the Gwangalli Beach in Busan. In particular, the Geoga Bridge from Busan to Geojedo Island attracted the world’s attention by applying Korea’s first immersed tunnel process at the world’s record depth with a 2-pylon and 3-pylon cable-stayed bridge. While we successfully completed various roads such as Songdo Coastal Road, Gimhae Detour Road and Jeonju Detour Road, we also showed differentiRenewable Energy With a focus on solar and wind power energy sectors, Daewoo E&C is expanding our ability to develop ated technology skills by constructing the Bihar-Mumbai Coastal Bridge in India and a composite bridge new business opportunities and create new business models through our own development projects. between Botswana and Zambia, Africa. Starting with Jeju Solar Power Plant Project, we are implementing various renewable energy projects such as Yeongwol Eco Wind Power Project. Leisure Since our first leisure facility construction, the Suyeongman Yachting Center in Busan in 1986, Daewoo Railroad & Subway Daewoo E&C is the best construction company in the railroad sector, having carried out the maximum E&C has led the construction of golf courses. In addition to Adonis Country Club in Pocheon leading number of railroad projects revolutionizing public transportation in the 21st century. With the construction the high-class golf course, we have opened up a new concept of leisure culture through Ocean Hills of Seoul Subway Line No. 2, we joined the subway construction business and have constantly engaged in Yeongcheon C.C., Paganica C.C. in Chuncheon, and Gangwon Land C.C., which was built 1,150m above other large-scale subway construction projects, including Seoul, Incheon, Daegu, Busan and Gwangju. In sea level. We also constructed the best-quality golf course and resort facilities in Lao Lao Bay in Saipan, particular, for the Bundang Line, we completed a tunnel that passed under the Hangang River by using which is known to provide one of the best tourist experiences and scenic views, to give customers varithe SHIELD process with Korea’s largest aperture; this verifies our technology skills in a highly difficult ous opportunities for entertainment and relaxation. construction project. We also carried out other projects such as GTX-A wide area railway for the metropolitan area, Sosa-Wonsi Railway and Daegok-Sosa Railway, so we have enhanced competitiveness at the highest level in the private railway project sector. Future Plan Domestic: Selection of PJ based on selection and concentration, implementation of renewable energy projects, and taking the dominance of North Korea business in advance Overseas: E  nhancement of success rate of winning an order, reinforcement of PM capability on the site, and diversification of pivotal markets (market expansion) 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 024 our business and New Vision 025 orders Amount of final orders in 2018: KrW 6 863.5 trillion, billion HousInG & BuIldInG Leading future-oriented housing building with exclusive construction technology skills and know-how 6 450 BusIness amount of target orders in 2019: Krw trillion, billion current Business and In 2018, despite fierce competition from real-estate financial policies and increased supply, the sales Future Goals housing & building Division secured quality projects in the metropolitan area and local large cities with high profitability and distribution rate and won reconstruction and redevelopment Amount of final sales in 2018: KrW 6 515.6 trillion, billion projects with our all capabilities to take the lead in the new apartment sales market. housing building business is sensitive to economic change and project owners’ demands for facility investment and much influenced by government financial policies and regulations. In 2019, the real-estate market is likely to experience hardship due to continued low growth and shrinking 5 280 investment in real-estate property. however, it is also expected to expand the reconstruction amount of target and rebuilding market and increase preference for new construction due to the increasing sales in 2019: Krw trillion, billion deterioration of buildings and have opportunities such as creating demand based on changes in social trends. accordingly, the housing & building Division will establish itself as a main player in the domestic housing building business by advancing business risk management and construction technology to cope with market change and expand market share with innovation in products and brands. to secure a new growth engine, we will also secure the capability as a developer by implementing a project for planning, proposal and contest beyond simply securing the construction right and lay the foundation for sustainable growth by expanding the value chain. in terms of overseas sector, with the launch of “star Lake City” new town development project from development planning and finance to construction and sales based on independent know-how and technology, we will continue to secure new growth engines in the global market by seeking opportunities for pioneering overseas markets. achievement of reinforcement new VIsIon of marketing “Build Together” capability advancement securing a new of performance growth engine capability • Domestic and overseas business • Advancement of market analysis • Expansion of overseas management • Innovation of products/brands market • Advancement of construction • Establishment of type-based • Development of total • Cost reduction portfolio real estate • Customized construction method/ technology development *on-site director's meeting & workshop Delivering the vision, long-term strategy and goals of individual organizations to realize the vision 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 026 Our Business and New Vision 027 Housing & Building The Housing&Building Division, which integrates the existing housing and building division, strives Overseas Market In the midst of external environmental changes such as oversupply in domestic housing busito maximize synergy in the housing and construction sectors and advance into the global market. Outlook ness and government regulations, Daewoo E&C has continued to pioneer the overseas market. Division Continued improvement of cost ratio, profit business based on differentiated technology, We will For this goal, we focused on constructing a new town and diversifying business by analyzing Market perspective solidify our status as a leader in the domestic and overseas housing construction business by overseas markets. As a result, we have contributed to entering a new market with the first Koreexpanding target countries and new overseas business sectors. an-style and private-led new town development project in a foreign country. We will grow into a construction company whose world-level technology skills can be recognized by promptly identifying outlooks for overseas market and leading the business. Global Market Outlook for Housing Building Sector (Source: IHS Markit ’18.10, Unit: Billion) Percentage of World’s Construction Market (2017) 14,000 Domestic Market Daewoo E&C analyzes the domestic market in detail to reinforce competitiveness in the housing Outlook building sector and to ensure differentiated technology. The year 2018 had both expectations and 5.9% 6.6% 12,000 concerns due to the external environmental change in financial and supply elements, including Asia 12.6% Europe interest rate, loan regulations, and volume of supply and sales. Accordingly, Daewoo E&C has USD9.7 trillion 45.9% North America Middle East/Africa 10,000 thoroughly analyzed the domestic market and contributed to strengthened market dominance. Central and South America 29.3% Deteriorated Building (Unit: Building) 8,000 Type 1 and 2 Estimation of Domestic New Housing Demand (Unit: Household) 1,111 16,000 (2.3%) Category Whole country Metropolitan area Metropolitan city Provincial area Sejong City Percentage of World’s 6,000 14,000 Construction Market (2026) 12,000 ‘18 283,504 147,006 58,214 76,854 1,429 10,000 6.5% ‘20 296,371 152,324 59,420 82,749 1,848 6.2% 4,000 8,000 Asia 4,946 9.4% Europe 6,000 ‘22 309,199 159,354 61,932 85,702 2,180 (10.2%) USD12.8 51.3% North America 4,000 trillion Middle East/Africa 2,000 ‘24 320,785 162,570 61,544 94,156 2,516 1,111 26.6% Central and South America 2,000 (2.3%) (1.2%) ‘26 327,962 163,368 61,471 100,288 2,836 0 0 2014 2019 2024 2029 ‘28 326,791 160,804 60,940 101,954 3,094 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Korea Infrastructure Safety Corporation Source: IHS ‘30 327,956 159,988 61,506 103,091 3,371 North America Central and South America Europe Northeast Asia Oceania Southeast Asia Middle East/North Africa Africa Years of Each Housing Type (Unit: 1,000) Aggregate (’18-’30) 2,192,568 1,105,414 425,027 644,794 17,274 Aim to pioneer new markets in pivotal countries in Southeast Asia such as Singapore / Malaysia / Indonesia / Myanmar Category Apartment Total housing Less than 5 years 1,298(13.2%) 2,073(12.7%) Outlook for Domestic Interior/Remodeling Market (Unit: Trillion) 5-10 years 1,583(13.2%) 1,981(12.1%) Target Market Outlook in Housing Building Sector 10-15 years 1,758(17.9%) 2,588(15.8%) Category Market size Category Market size 15-20 years 1,901(19.4%) 2,562(15.7%) ‘18 32 ‘21 40.8 20-30 years 2,766(28.2%) 4,494(27.5%) ‘19 35.1 ‘22 48.7 Over 30 years 500(5.1%) 2,669(16.3%) Myanmar Major target countries Total 9,806 16,367 ‘20 37.8 ‘23 49.3 Vietnam Vietnam / Singapore / Malaysia Based on the Population and Housing Census in 2015 Source: IHS Malaysia Indonesia Indonesia / Myanmar Singapore Total Real-Estate Service Daewoo E&C has comprehensive real estate service provider that includes 'lease-transacIn 2017, the Vietnamese construction market was recorded as worth approximately USD 12.7 D.answer tion-distribution-management' in addition to the existing housing supply called 'developbillion, increased by 8.7% compared to the previous year, and accounted for 5.73% compared ment-distribution' construction. Also we has currently applied the D.Answer open platform to the total GDP. In 2018, the Vietnamese construction market is expected to grow continuously service to “Dongtan Haengbok Maeul PRUGIO” as a public support private rental service (New with increasing construction-related demands in various sectors such as transportation, energy, Stay) and provided rental management, daily convenience service and community service. We communication and housing as well as the amount of foreign direct investment (FDI) along with will expand existing housing and non-housing products provided by Daewoo E&C to customeconomic growth in Vietnam. Daewoo E&C has implemented independent/joint development er-oriented total real-estate service. projects in the THT site in reinforced cooperation with THT and DECV. Based on a successful project in Vietnam, we will constantly strive to diversify business operating countries based on Southeast Asia by strengthening networks with major target countries such as Malaysia and Singapore and establishing strategies for pioneering new pivotal countries. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 028 our business and New Vision 029 Housing & Building the Civil project Division has listed detailed tasks by establishing strategies for sustainable Key performances for Housing & Building division in 2018 growth of the division and made strategic goals and detailed tasks for management to achieve division build together . new Vision apartment we have adopted an environmental concept to apartment units for the first time in korea and led the improvement of quality of life and the housing culture. • Gwangju Central PRUGIO: 18 units, 20 floors, a total of 1,425 household units • Unjeong New Town Central PRUGIO: 21 units, 25 floors, a total of 1,956 household units Build Together • Ilsan Edu Fore PRUGIO: 16 units, 25 floors, a total of 1,690 household units realizing best value together with the customer urban residential complex we analyze needs and trends and contribute to a high-level residential culture to provide customers with special spaces.. • Songdo Landmark PRUGIO City: 36 floors, 2 units, 1,990 O/T rooms • Yeoksam Station Central PRUGIO City: 18 floors, 1 unit, 736 O/T rooms • Wirye Unam Station First PRUGIO City: 19 floors, 1 unit, 434 rooms redevelopment/reconstruction/remodeling Vision and core strategies of the 0 severe accident / Daewoo E&C leads the redevelopment, reconstruction and remodeling market based on operating profit of KRW 1 trillion / housing & building Division orders of KrW 10 trillion continuous product development and accumulated technology skills. • Banpo Central PRUGIO Summit: 35 floors, 8 units, 764 household units • Gwacheon Central Park PRUGIO Summit: 32 floors, 15 units, 1,317 household units • 15th sinbanpo reconstruction: 35 floors, 6 units, 646 household units work facility Daewoo E&C has earned a reputation in the domestic and overseas office market through the construction of Korea’s first intelligent building and our independent technology-based 1. advancement of performance 2. reinforcement of marketing 3. securing a new growth capability capability engine BMC building • Gyeongbuk Provincial Government: 30% of the ratio of renewable energy for eco-friend• Advanced risk management for • Advancing market analysis • Seeking opportunities for overseas liness green building at the highest level for construction advanced building domestic/overseas business projects by benchmarking • New building of KEPCO: received the grand prize at the korea green Construction • Enhancing the value of products and awards in 2015 as an eco-friendly building • Advancing construction/technology brand • Securing capability as a developer • Summit Tower: Total floor area of 146,654㎡, 2 units • Securing cost and award-winning • Expanding overseas market competitiveness • Launching and Expanding overseas business leisure hotel, condominium, education, research, medical and sports facilities, etc. Daewoo E&C has expanded a scope of relevant markets by constructing luxurious facilities meeting the needs for architectural use and aesthetic value. • Sheraton Incheon Hotel: received “world’s Eco-friendly Hotel” prize at the world Travel awards • Yongsan Dragon City hotel: Largest lifestyle hotel-plex with 1,700 rooms, korea’s largest scale • Daegu Baseball Stadium: korea’s first octagonal baseball stadium 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 030 Our Business and New Vision 031 Major Projects Daewoo E&C has contributed to improving the level of residential culture by introducing an environmental concept to apartment units for the first time in Korea. Launched in 2003, PRUGIO Redevelopment/ Daewoo E&C is taking the lead in the redevelopment, reconstruction and remodeling market based on continuous product development and accumulated technology skills. The Seocho PRUGIO SUMMIT Reconstruction/ Apartment provides “PRUGIO SUMMIT” by combining Korea’s representative residential brand named “PRUreceived the Presidential Prize in the 21st Best Living Apartment Awards. As it is expected to expand the Remodeling GIO” based on eco-friendly premium apartment with our residential philosophy and “SUMMIT” renovation and reconstruction market and have more preference for new construction due to increasing with the meaning of best, peak and top. Daewoo E&C will continue to provide healthy and pleasant deteriorated buildings, we will proactively participate in various urban renovation projects such as remodresidential cultural space with the nature to lead Korea’s residential culture and contribute to eling, redevelopment and reconstruction and lead the creation of pleasant and beautiful urban space. improving the quality of customers’ life. Work facility Daewoo E&C, which became a powerhouse in the office market by constructing an intelligent building, Yonsei Severance Foundation Building, has earned a reputation with the establishment of Headquarters of KDB Industrial Bank and Seocho Kyobo Tower, a landmark of Gangnam Station. We also recreated Seoul Square, a remodeled Daewoo Center Building as the largest office building in Korea, into an intelligent building with Studio apartment With the “THE O-ville, I Ville” series from the early 2000s, Daewoo E&C met the needs of customers cutting-edge facilities. In overseas countries, the company focuses on establishing skyscrapers. The KLCC Urban residential housing who want to design a life in a practical manner. In 2008, we launched “PRUGIO CITY,” a small-scale Power, established in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, applies our independent technology BMC to enhance strucresidential product integrating a studio apartment and urban residential housing. Through these eftural stability and has established itself as a landmark of the country along with the Telecom Building. forts, the company is taking the lead in the studio apartment and urban residential housing market. Commercial facility Daewoo E&C has constructed commercial facilities, which provide building owners with added value and customers with convenience. With the beginning of Migliore (Dongdaemun, Myeongdong, Busan, Daegu, Sinchon), which serves as a landmark in each region as a complex shopping mall, we have constructed other commercial facilities such as Techno Mart, Sindorim, a complex electronics distribution center. The company has also contributed to improving the economic and cultural levels in areas by establishing a complex town Urban residential complex As the taste for residential space is getting more diverse and luxurious, customers want to have more special space. Daewoo E&C has shown a distinguished and sophisticated residential culture by launchwith residential, work and commercial functions combined. ing Daewoo Trump World in Yeouido, City Park in Yongsan and Trump World Centum in Busan. In particular, the Trump World Centum in Haeundae, Busan is acclaimed as a model of the best high-rise apartment building and gained much attention. Daewoo E&C will continue to create residential culture at a higher level by analyzing customer needs and trends. Leisure Daewoo E&C has constructed distinguished hotels at home and abroad, including Seoul Hilton Hotel, Gyeongju hotel, condominium, Hilton Hotel, Lotte Hotel, Gangwon Land Hotel, Morocco Hilton Hotel (Algeria), Hanoi Daewoo Hotel (Vietnam), education, research, etc. We also provide education facilities to cultivate remarkable human resources for leading the future and advanced medical facilities to allow medical workers to provide the best service. We established Bundang Seoul medical and National University Hospital, large-scale hospital with 1,300 wards, Pusan National University Hospital/Children sports facilities, etc. Hospital, Ajou University Hospital, Benghazi Central Hospital (Libya), Tripoli Central Hospital, etc. The company also established various cultural facilities such as Korea International Exhibition Center (KINTEX), Korea’s representative exhibition convention center, National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art, Busan Museum Town house/Villa Daewoo E&C creates residential space with a new concept meeting consumers’ needs and leading of Art, National Museum of Korea, and Some Sevit, which is the world’s largest artificial island and complex the market trend. Increasing the level of high-quality villa such as Green County and Royal County, we cultural space where unique waterside cultural activities can be experienced on the Hangang River. achieve the philosophy of “Refresh Life” with people and nature through the countryside villa applying “Green Premium”, a renewable energy product, and town house brand “PRUGIO HEIM”. Future plan The Housing & Building Division will solidify its status as a powerhouse in the domestic development business by diversifying business models continuously and expanding business opportunities with the proposal of user-customized development projects on privately owned land and various sectors such as office, hotel, cultural and sports facilities and knowledge industrial center. In the residential sector, we will provide luxurious residential cultural space based on the brand renewal of PRUGIO where people and nature coexist. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 032 our business and New Vision 033 orders Amount of final orders in 2018: KrW 1 542.9 trillion, billion planT BusIness Expansion of value chain and diversification of business to secure a new growth engine amount of target orders in 2019: Krw 2 630 trillion, billion current Business and Future Goals starting with the turnkey project for ulsan thermal power plant in 1977, we have made significant contributions to our national economy and driven growth as we led the construction of oil & gas upstream and downstream as well as nuclear power plant, thermal power sales plant, cogeneration plant, tidal power plant and LNG storage facility. based on our industry1 944.5 leading performance and technological expertise, we are making substantial progress in the construction of high value-added plants in overseas markets. Amount of final sales in 2018: KrW trillion, billion Despite an unfavorable market environment, we have focused all our business capabilities and newly won orders for indorama Fertilizer ii With these new projects, we achieved sales 1 560 of KrW 1 trillion, 898.6 billion. in the Middle east and North africa, which are major overseas markets, we are implementing various projects such as Duqm Refinery Project (Oman), Clean amount of target sales in 2019: Krw trillion, billion Fuel project, al-Zour refinery project (Kuwait), saFi Coal power plant project (Morocco), ras power plant (algeria), and many other projects in Nigeria. in Korea, we are conducting projects such as ulsan s-oil spM ii, Wolseong radioactive waste facility construction project, and construction for exchanging steam generators at hanbit Nuclear power plants No. 3 and 4. the plant Division will increase our market share by strengthening business capabilities. achievement of new VIsIon reinforcement of marketing “Build Together” capability advancement securing a new of performance growth engine capability • Operating Lessons Learned TFT • Ensuring a marketing priority in • expanding the entire value chain • Analyzing causes for delayed PJ advance by introducing and • Pioneering FEED business to construction period and identifying implementing CrM connect with epC business measures for preventing •Advancing the product • Launching business in the recurrence (plans) modular plant market • Enhancing the accuracy of • Establishing strategies to enter construction expected cost rate/ the nuclear decommissioning cost reduction with score card system business *Town Hall Meeting workshop for sympathetic formation, renovation about nEw visiOn 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 034 our business and New Vision 035 plant division the plant Division is leading the market based on the company’s own performance and overseas Market Daewoo E&C is actively responding to the expansion of Lng projects and has been operating Lng capability in the overall generation plant sector along with oil and gas. We will ensure market outlook TFT since 2018 with the expectation of revitalization of the Lng business as global demand for Lng Market perspective share and contribute to creating economic value by expanding and diversifying our business to grows. Especially, we plan to expand our business area from construction oriented business to EpC secure a new growth engine. sector in Nigeria, Qatar and Mozambique. In the petrochemical sector, oil prices are expected to rise due to rising demand for crude oil and sanctions on iranian oil imports. in order to expand our business scope, we are striving to secure new growth engines, such as entering FEED design and maintenance and retrofit business. In the power generation business, we will expand our business centering on major countries in southeast asia in line with the economic growth in southeast asia domestic Market The domestic Lng market is likely to increase demand based on the government’s policy to expand and the increase in electric power demand. at the same time, we plan to expand our business area to outlook Lng-based power generation. accordingly, it is expected to have continuous orders in the Lng renewable energy sector in line with the spread of environmentally friendly energy globally. terminal, storage tank and pipeline pj, which are one of our company’s strengths. in the domestic in addition, in line with the national policies of many European and Middle East nations seeking to repetrochemical market, The investment for new facilities are expected to prepare for international place old nuclear power plants and introduce new nuclear power plants, we are preparing to re-enter Maritime Organization (IMO) 2020 and secure oil-refining margin. Daewoo E&C is expanding the the nuclear power export sector through business cooperation or joint business development with business sector based on our experience of completing the Ulsan s-Oil rUC pj, korea’s largest kEpCO and kHnp. To this end, we are securing new business opportunities by establishing a marplant. keting roadmap for new key countries. Despite intensifying competition from latecomers such as in the domestic power market, according to national Basic plan for Long-Term Electricity supply China, india and Turkey, Daewoo E&C will continue to make efforts to advance into the global top 20 and Demand, and recent fine dust issue, it is expected to phase out the nuclear / coal fired power with its own technological advances and differentiated competitiveness. plant and expand the renewable power and Lng-based power plant. outlook for Global oil & Gas Market (source: global Data 2019, Unit: Billion) overlook for world’s power (source: global Data industry Forecast 2019) in response to these changes in the power generation market, Daewoo E&C is preparing for the Generation project Market Lng group energy business, while promoting the pocheon ipp phase ii project and the hydrogen 14 14,000 energy complex project. in addition, with the expansion of the business of decommissioning the 12 12,000 nuclear power plant, which reached the end of its life, we are trying to dominate the market in advance based on our experience in commercial Large-scaled nuclear power plant. 10 10,000 8.6 8 8,000 amount of petrochemical 7.3 domestic power Generation (Mw) (Unit: Mw) project (Unit: krw) 6 6.17 6,000 5.23 4.27 category nuclear power coal lnG renewable category petrochemical 2.89 0.07 energy 4 0.06 1.29 4,000 0.05 1.12 0.05 0.95 ‘18 24,650 37,351 37,593 13,011 ‘18 2.5 trillion 0.28 0.04 0.82 0.59 0.7 2 3.3 2,000 2.64 2.99 ‘20 26,050 37,281 42,050 17,761 ‘20 4.3 trillion 2.11 2.11 2.36 0 0 ‘22 27,450 42,041 42,050 23,341 ‘22 5.5 trillion 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Oman Qatar Mozambique Nigeria North America Central and South America Europe China ‘24 27,250 40,921 43,310 30,696 ‘24 1.9 trillion Asia(excluding China) Middle East North Africa ‘26 23,700 39,921 44,310 38,826 ‘26 1.9 trillion outlook for each sector in (source: global Data industry Forecast 2019) outlook for power (source: global Data 2018) ‘28 21,100 39,921 47,460 48,226 ‘28 2 trillion oil & Gas Market (Unit: krw trillion) Generation sectors (Unit: krw trillion) ‘30 20,400 39,921 47,460 58,461 ‘30 2 trillion 6% 19% in asia 6% 11% 25% total for ’18-’30 170,600 277,357 304,233 230,322 total for ’18-’30 20.1 trillion 11% in the Middle east 40% 7.5% in southeast asia 24% 6% in africa 9% in Middle east 60 6% in russia (Cis) 19% 48 5% in africa 46 52 Source: Notification of Eighth National Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand (source: global Data industry forecast 2019) 33 5% 39 39 (Ministry of Trade, industry and Energy, December 29, 2017) Total 42% (128 trillion) 19 23 21 23 Total 22% (129 trillion) 9% 31% 27 9% 15% 13 13 total market size 304 trillion total in ‘19: total in ‘23: total market size 586 trillion total in ‘19: total in ‘22: (excluding China and Japan) approximately 80 trillion approximately 115 trillion (excluding China and Japan) approximately 129 trillion approximately 151 trillion North America Europe Central and South America Middle East Africa Asia Russia (CIS) Europe Asia Middle East Africa Southeast Asia Middle East Africa Asia Middle East Africa Russia (CIS) North America 1. southeast asia 3. africa 5. southwest asia • Annual average growth rate in the power generation • Economic growth, increasing population » Developing an • approved a plan to construct 10 new nuclear power plant past plan market: approximately 9% industrial complex and increasing electricity demands units in india (7,000Mw) • Continued to win many orders for coal power plant and • Lack of finance » Increasing interest in private investment • india's fourth largest Lng importing country, up 27% • EPC building construction • Past + Project proposal power generation combined cycle power plant projects • Algeria: KRW 4.8 trillion of orders for oil & gas in 2019 year-on-year • Expected to win an order for a new nuclear power plant in (growth of 9% compared to the previous year) • Planned to introduce a nuclear reactor for research in • Coal and combined cycle power construction (ipp) vietnam and philippines Expected to increase to krw 5.2 trillion by 2020 Bangladesh generation • Past + Renewable energy 2. Middle east 4. europe 6. russia (cIs) • Continued to win orders for large-scale combined cycle • Expanded policies on GHG emissions reduction » Expected to • Proactively increasing production after the U.S withdrew from • Focus on projects with midand (biomass and hydrogen) generation power plant decrease productivity in fossil fuel and expand the percentage the jCpOa (May 2018) large-scale power generation of • Past + Small-scale power generation project • Won an order for large-scale desalination plant project of nuclear power Low level of technology and deteriorated oil field » Expected to • Expanding the percentage of nuclear power to 15% by 2040 • Planned to win an order for new nuclear power plants in the expand the site and orders for pj 500Mw or over (expected to win an order for 10 nuclear power plant units) Czech republic (1-2 units) and poland (2-3 units)(’20) • Implemented 2 smalland mid-scale nuclear reactors • Expected to construct 13 units for a new nuclear power plant (sMarT) (signed an MOU between korea and saudi arabia) in the U.k. (-’30) • Qatar: Expected to win a large-scale PJ based on the LNG expansion plan 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 036 our business and New Vision 037 plant division the plant Division has listed detailed tasks by establishing strategies for sustainable growth Key performances for plant division in 2018 of the division and made systematic tasks for management to achieve “build together”. new Vision ulsan s-oil ruc project •As a petroleum residue advancement facility, RUC (Residue Upgrading Complex) is a facility to generate high value-added products such as gasoline or propylene by inputting petroleum residues again, which remain after gas, gasoline or diesel is extracted through the crude oil refining process. Build Together •In the Ulsan S-Oil RUC Project, Daewoo E&C completed Korea’s largest plant (76,000 BpsD based on residue processing), which used 110,000 tons of steel equivalent to the amount of building 11 Eiffel Towers and cement equivalent to build 3,000 apartment realizing best value together with the customer units in a total area of 1.1 million m2 within 35 months (june 1, 2015 – May 11, 2018). The completion of the project has verified the technology skills of Daewoo E&C. •Daewoo E&C will continue to focus our capability on the petrochemical plant sector, which is technology-intensive and high value-added industry. Morocco Safi Power Plant •in December 2018, Daewoo E&C successfully completed Morocco safi power plant, which is the company’s and Africa’s first ultra-super critical (USC) coal-fired EPC project. •Morocco Safi Power Plant is composed of two generators of 693MW and an ultra-large Vision and core strategies of the Global energy Developer power plant of 1,386Mw, which accounts for about 20% of annual electricity production plant Division in Morocco. •As the large project in Morocco was successfully completed, Daewoo E&C has solidified its status in the North African market and will continue to enhance our influence in the market. [UsC power plant: it refers to a power plant with a vapor pressure of 246kg/㎠ or over, which is higher than existing super critical plants, and vapor temperature of 593℃ or over. The UsC power plant has high-generation efficiency and lower GHG emissions than existing coal-fired power plants.] Jordan research nuclear reactor project 1. advancement of performance 2. reinforcement of marketing 3. securing a new growth •Daewoo E&C organized a consortium with Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute capability capability engine (kaEri) and served as an EpC contractor to design/construct/conduct a pilot test for a research nuclear reactor of 5Mw in the jordan University of science and Technology. • Enhancing the accuracy of • Reinforcing LNG sales power by • Expanding the entire value chain The initial defect inspection was done after completion in june 2017, and the company construction expected cost rate/cost operating the Lng TFT • Entering FEED and O&M business received the completion certificate from the owner in October 2018. reduction with score card system • Ensuring a marketing priority in • Diversifying products through the •Medical radioisotope produced in the Jordan Research Nuclear Reactor launched the • Analyzing causes for delayed PJ advance by introducing and modular plant market supply to the king abdullah University Hospital in October 2017 and has been recogconstruction period and identifying implementing CrM nized for its excellent quality and amount of radioactivity. measures to prevent recurrence • Entering a new country by winning (plans) an order for atimonan pj in the •The jordan research nuclear reactor project intends to construct a nuclear reactor for • Analyzing causes for repeated loss by philippines research and education, which was prepared by jordan ahead of the introduction of nuclear operating the Lessons Learned TFT • Pioneering FEED business by power generation to establish infrastructure. For the first time in 50 years of nuclear power and conducting activities to prevent launching NLNG Train 7 FEED + in korea, Daewoo E&C achieved nuclear power export in bulk and has been evaluated as a recurrence EpC-connected business dominant role in enhancing technology and awareness of korea’s nuclear power brand. • Won a total of 9 PJs in 2018 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 038 Our Business and New Vision 039 Key Business Petrochemical In the petrochemical sector, Daewoo E&C has expanded its market share by its own technology Oil refining The oil refining plant business covers not only plants, but also related oil, gas, pipelines for transskills and accumulated know-how. In 2018, we succeeded in winning an order for Nigeria Indorama portation and general oil refining facilities. Daewoo E&C has know-how for oil refining facilities and Fertilizer Train 2 Project. In particular, we possess high-level technology in the basic oil production storage facilities to separate crude oil based on boiling point. In 2018, we successfully won orders for facility sector for olefin such as ethylene, propylene and BTX and other aromatic products. Such efUlsan S-OIL SPM Project. We will continuously develop by focusing on differentiated know-how for forts have been recognized through our construction performance. We will continue to contribute to the oil refining business. developing core technologies and create high added-value in the petrochemical sector. Thermal power Daewoo E&C started the turnkey construction of Ulsan Combined Cycle Power Plant in 1977 and sucLNG With the rapidly increasing supply and demand of natural gas in North America and Asia, it is exgeneration cessfully implemented power plant projects in Nigeria, Oman, Libya, Morocco, Algeria and UAE. Also we pected to increase the demand for LNG for a long term. Daewoo E&C has achieved performance in have accumulated experience and technology to power plants. Based on our competitiveness, Daewoo liquefaction and gasification plant and maintained a continuous competitive edge in the construcE&C is expanding business into the world market. From Pocheon LNG power plant plant operation we tion of LNG liquefaction plant and capacity to perform LNG gasification plant EPC independently. have led the construction performance and ability developing our ability as a global energy developer. We succeeded in winning the NLNG FEED Project in 2018 and entered the LNG liquefaction plant FEED business for the first in Korea. Based on our efforts and capabilities, we will expand the market share in Nigeria and Algeria and strive to win orders proactively, securing EPC performance. Nuclear power Daewoo E&C has pioneered the global market with technologies utilizing nuclear power, which is the generation most economic and efficient energy in modern society with rapidly increasing energy consumption. Our business performance capabilities have been recognized with successful projects such as Shin Wolseong Nuclear Power Plants No. 1 and 2 and Jordan Research Nuclear Reactor, which is KoRenewable energy With the global eco-friendly trend and the declining price of renewable energy generation, the proporrea’s first nuclear power EPC export project; Wolseong Nuclear Power Plants No. 3 and 4 achieved tion of renewable energy generation is expected to increase in the future. Accordingly, Daewoo E&C the record for the world’s shortest construction period. We also acquired qualification of supplier for intends to strengthen its profitability by selecting and implementing target PJs based on its abundant nuclear power plant operating technical service (Level Q) for the first time of the domestic construcbusiness experience and capabilities. In addition, we will strive to achieve new results by securing tion companies. While nuclear power plant constructers focus on overseas nuclear power business preferential negotiating rights for renewable energy project in Pocheon IPP Phase 1. due to the sluggish domestic market with changed policies for nuclear power plant, Daewoo E&C is currently engaged in the nuclear power plant project in the Czech Republic and Poland as a part of Team Korea. We are also participating in the smalland mid-scale nuclear power plant project (SMART) in Saudi Arabia as an SPC company and endeavor to participate in a large-scale nuclear power plant project (LNPP) as a construction company. Future plan In order to seek a new business market and secure new growth engines, we will actively promote our business such as FEED business, the decommissioning of the old nuclear power plant, and the modular plant through expansion of the value chain. page 042 sustaiNabiLitY MaNaGeMeNt sYsteM our susTaInaBIlIyT FoundaTIon page 044 Corporate GoVerNaNCe Daewoo e&C inspects and page 046 improves the current status of risK MaNaGeMeNt sustainability management each year with the aim of enhancing environmental soundness, social responsibility and economic profitability. by developing environmental, social and economic capability, page 048 we will become a future-oriented company with continuous staKehoLDer eNGaGeMeNt change and innovation. page 050 MateriaLitY assessMeNt 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 042 our sustainability Foundation 043 sustainability Daewoo e&C has established the vision of “building together, realizing best value together compliance committee Established in 2015, the Compliance Committee (formerly the sustainable Management Commitwith the customer”. to meet economic, social and environmental needs for current and tee) reviews and decides on compliance issues and the performance of sustainability management Management system future generations. the company aims to become global top 20 that work for humanity and annually. in 2018 the Compliance Committee reviewed the major Esg-related policies such as daewoo e&c’s sustainability the world on the basis of the its core values of “challenge and passion” and “autonomy and ethics management, anti-bribery management performance, and compliance program inspection, Management system accountability,” while continuously developing its capabilities through change and innovation. and additionally approved 2019 compliance system and anti-bribery management plan and awarded employees for their contributions for upholding corporate compliance objectives. Build Together chairperson Ceo realizing best value together with the customer assistant administrator (audit director) Compliance supervisor 2018 Compliance Committee sustainability Global Management Top 20 commissioners (executive Members) CFo, Director of the Civil project Division, Director of the housing & building Division, Director of the plant Division, Director of the Finance Division, Director of the procurement Division, Director of the Value-up & innovation Division, Director of the strategic planning Division, Director of the hr Corporate Management & service Division, Director of the institute of Construction technology, Manager of the Q-hse services Division employee award Green Future shared 2018 sustainability Daewoo E&C as a global leader representing the korean construction industry, has implemented Growth Growth Growth Management assessment an advanced sustainability management system and received outstanding evaluation results from various external institutions that evaluated the level of corporate sustainability management. Maximizing corporate implementing eco-friendly reinforcing corporate receives “a” rating from KCGs esG assessment for two Consecutive Years values through financial construction management social responsibility *Korea Corporate Governance service (KCGs) performance an institution specializing in surveys, assessments Daewoo E&C received an “A” rating in 2018 after receiving the same rating in 2017. This signifies and research on corporate governance and that the company has a proper sustainability management system and its non-financial risks corporate social responsibility (Csr). (provides information for institutional investors) pose little threat to shareholder value. Daewoo E&C will improve sustainability by managing corporate governance and taking care of the company’s employees, suppliers, the environment and other non-financial areas of our business. Ensuring compliance implementing First to receive an “a” rating in sustinvest’s 2018 esG assessment with environmental increasing share in key compliance practices **sustinvest regulations by reducing in 2018, Daewoo E&C received an “a” rating with a total score of 91.05, and was ranked 11th in the markets and ethical Founded in 2006, sustinvest is a specialist research waste materials, management institute that conducts socially responsible investment capital goods sector and 62nd among 971 companies. The company received a “BB” rating last noise and vibration and consultations, research, sustainability assurance/ analysis and Esg assessments. year, which means its rating increased one rating level. Daewoo E&C’s increased its ranking by (Conducts investment consulting for the national pension Fund) 17 places in its sector and 129 places among all companies that participated in the assessment. Developing eco-friendly Daewoo E&C will continuously strive to increase its Esg rating by improving its Esg-related inExploring new Conducting Csr technology and frastructure. markets and through activities renewable energy businesses that contribute to society businesses 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 044 Our Sustainability Foundation 045 Corporate Governance Daewoo E&C has established a transparent corporate governance system to ensure BOD Independence and Daewoo E&C directors are appointed based on the proposals submitted to the General Meeting reasonable decision-making practices and to maintain a successful business environment. Expertise of Shareholders after candidates are selected by the BOD and the External Director Nomination The company ensures the transparency of its management structure through the principle of Committee. The External Director Nomination Committee selects 6 directors through a majority checks and balances and adherence to international standards. Daewoo E&C has reinforced vote of all BOD members including the current four external directors. External directors are indeexpertise and transparency in its management through the creation of an independent Board pendent from executives in accordance with the Commercial Act and other applicable laws. They of Directors (BOD). The BOD aims to ensure professionalism of employees and their decisionmonitor how the company manages its business and serve as arbitrators between directors. Daemaking process, establish business environment and internal monitoring for successful woo E&C has strived to appoint external directors with extensive expertise and work experience in business operation, and to establish a reliable and efficient corporate governance system. various sectors to ensure that the BOD has a comprehensive level of professionalism. As a result, the company’s external directors include two financial experts, one legal expert and one policy expert. The directors contribute to maintaining corporate management stability by performing checks and monitoring activities in their fields of specialty. BOD Functions and Roles The BOD is the key decision maker, which decides on major issues related to legislation and the Articles of Incorporation, along with business execution issues, and supervises business carried out by the executive management. Through the BOD, Daewoo E&C aims to establish trust with its How the BOD Operates and The operation of the Daewoo E&C’s BOD is based on the “Regulations of the Board of Directors,” stakeholders by maximizing its corporate values and ensuring transparency and reliability. its Activities and the board holds regular meetings along with Ad Hoc meetings when required. The minutes for each meeting are made public, and decisions for each agenda item are finalized through a majority vote by the directors in attendance. Board meetings were convened 16 times 55 agenda items were decided upon in 2018. BOD Organization As of March 2019, Daewoo E&C’s BOD is composed of two internal directors and four external directors. The CEO, who has a thorough understanding of the company’s internal situation, serves The Current Composition of the BOD as the chairperson of the BOD. All members of the BOD create a mutual system of checks and Category Specific Category Unit of Measure 2016 2017 2018 balances based on their expertise and work experience, and act as the key decision maker of the company. Meeting Meeting 16 15 16 BOD Issues resolved Issues resolved 65 49 55 BOD Organization (As of March 2019) Attendance rate Attendance rate 94.8 98.3 95.5 Reason for Category Name Gender Date of Birth Key Past Experience Appointment Current CEO of Daewoo E&C Internal Hyung Kim Male Dec. 1956 Former Director of Global Infra Division of POSCO E&C (Vice President) Daewoo E&C CEO The Evaluation and Remuneration for Daewoo E&C’s director is determined based on evaluation of the economic, Directors Remuneration of social and environmental management performance of the company and personal performance (2) Current CFO of Daewoo E&C Chang-Hwan Kim Male Nov. 1961 Former Director of Housing & Building CFO BOD Members such as annual operation of the committee and activities. Remuneration, including severance pay, Division of Daewoo E&C is given within the limitation of the directors’ remuneration approved by a general shareholders’ Joo-Ha Woo Male Nov. 1956 Former CEO of KOSCOM Policy expert meeting each year. The current status of total remuneration for directors and auditors is made External Kwang-Lim Yoon Male Jul. 1950 Former President of Jeju Bank Financial expert public in the business report and on the website. Directors Hyuk Lee Male Jul. 1963 Former Partner of Law Firm Lee & Lee Legal expert (4) Kyu-Yoon Choi Male Apr. 1954 Former Director of Financial Supervisory Financial expert Remuneration for Directors and Auditors (As of March 2019 / Unit: Person, KRW millions) Service Disclosure Supervision Bureau Average Amount of Number of Total Amount of Notes Remuneration per Notes Members Remuneration Person BOD Committees Daewoo E&C operates the External Director Nomination Committee and Audit Committee within Internal Directors (excluding external directors and members of 3 828 276 Includes remuneration for the BOD: 1) to ensure that an efficient decision-making process takes place; 2) to ensure relevant the Audit Committee) retired directors expertise is utilized within the company; and, 3) to reinforce the execution of sustainable manageExternal Directors (excluding members of the Audit Committee) 1 61 61 ment activities. The External Director Nomination Committee was established to ensure that transAudit Committee members 3 192 64 parency, reliability and independence is maintained during the process of recommending external director candidates. The committee has four external directors to ensure these values are put into place during the recommendation process. The Audit Committee conducts preand post-audits on Shareholder Status Daewoo E&C issued a total of 415,622,638 shares as of December 2018. The company’s largest the entire decision-making and work process to prevent corruption and other conflicts of interest. shareholder is KDB Value Private Equity Fund VI, which holds 50.8% of the company’s shares. Daewoo E&C’s business information, including its Annual Report, is disclosed through the FinanBOD Committees Organization cial Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange on a regular basis in accordance with regulatory Committee Function Members requirements, and is transparently shared with its shareholders and stakeholders. (As of December 2018) External Director Nomination Provides recommendations for external director Two internal directors, four external Committee candidates during shareholder meetings directors KDB Value Private Equity Fund VI 50.8% Kumho Petrochemical, Co., Ltd. 3.4% Audits the accounting practices and other Audit Committee Three external directors relevant work in the company National Pension Fund 6.5% Others 39.3% 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 046 Our Sustainability Foundation 047 Risk Management Daewoo E&C is strengthening its capacity to identify potential risk factors and prevent crises Benchmarking & Daewoo E&C reviews lessons learned from past projects and assesses risks for each phase and through preemptive risk management. In 2018, the company’s Risk Management Division Case Studies activity of a project to detect and solve potential risks that may arise in the project bidding or exwas expanded and reorganized to become the Value-Up & Innovation Division with a view to ecution stage. The company also examines and analyzes foreign risk management case or case reinforce the company’s risk management and better meet the its corporate values. Through studies from companies in the same industry to systematically establish a risk management these changes, and on the basis of improvements in business safety and long-term strategic model applicable to the company. Daewoo E&C is continuously communicating with project dirisk analysis, Daewoo E&C has uncovered new business opportunities and boosted its visions and departments relevant to the bidding process and is improving the preemptive project competitiveness. risk management measures drawn from this process. Risk Management System Preemptive Risk Management Analyzing Problematic Clauses To prevent and respond to potential risks from overseas project contracts and to share ways to Daewoo E&C conducts risk management in connection with midto long-term business stratein Contracts and Establishing a respond, Daewoo E&C continues to compile examples of problematic or unfavorable contract gies to better respond to risk in a preemptive manner. The company has created and continues Country Information DB clauses and response measures into a comprehensive project management system. This systo improve upon its company-wide risk management system by establishing a risk management tem can be used in a wide variety of ways depending on the country, activity type, and contracting culture and ensuring the company’s employees are committed to business stability. In 2017, party, and there are plans to conduct future overseas projects by expanding and systemizing the Daewoo E&C improved its bidding and contract review system for its overseas businesses and, system’s data. Following its entry and expansion into the global market, Daewoo E&C estabin 2018, further developed and heightened its expertise in the review system to cope with changlished the Country Basic Information Management System, which includes information about es in the global contract environment. In 2019, the company plans to link its New Vision with the approximately 50 countries across some 70 areas, including finance, taxes, politics and culture. goals of the Value-Up & Innovation Division through the implementation of Project Lifecycle Risk The database is accessible through the company’s Intranet and allows all employees to effectiveManagement. In terms of innovation in the company’s business infrastructure and development ly identify and respond to risks in a specific country. of its performance capacities, Daewoo E&C will further enhance its early-warning system, reinforce the review function aimed at securing marketing capacity and new-growth engines, and establish and strengthen the operation of a project rating system. Establishing Risk Analysis and Daewoo E&C has strengthened the functionality provided by Stage Gate and is providing support Evaluation System aimed at efficient project management from the stage information about the contract award is Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) received to the completion of a project. The company has reinforced the contract award stage (the The concept of enterprise risk concerns any risks that can impact corporate business targets capacity to verify the Stage Gate) and the execution stage (the strengthening of monitoring acand strategic directions yet are not directly related to specific projects. Enterprise risks are gentivities) to ensure the implementation of profitability-focused project risk management. Daewoo erally divided into national risks and corporate/market risks. National risks are political, social, E&C established a new, improved and reinforced process across the stage of deciding to move cultural and environmental risks due to domestic and global environmental changes and are forward with a bid to the monitoring and completion stages, and plans to reinforce the risk analmanaged on a company-wide level . Corporate and market risks refer to the risks involving the ysis system aimed at stable project management. same industry as the company, along with market and financial risks. Daewoo E&C establishes company-wide risk management measures each year to ensure the successful operation of its business, and conducts on-site risk management through continuous refinements in its enterprise risk management system. Stage Stage Stage Project Risk Management Gate 1 Gate 2 Gate 3 Project risks involve major risks that impact the achievement of a project target for winning a contract and/or implementing a project. Daewoo E&C preemptively deals with project risks by establishing and operating an efficient management system through project lifecycle analysis. Decision to move forward Decision to participate Decision to conclude For all overseas projects that are involved in the bidding process, the company makes an effort to with bid in bid a final contract quantify the qualitative factors of a risk assessment from the bidding stage to the post-contract award stage through a procedures-based management system. Overseas Risk Management Process Stage Stage Proposal Stage Assessment Stage Contract Award Stage Gate 4 Gate 5 Identify risks and Identify risks and preemptive Members of a company-wide countermeasures by analyzing response measures by evaluation committee information about project preparing and managing comprehensively review Project monitoring and execution and continuously the risk evaluation chart and results of the risk evaluation and Project transfer and start management log response measures manage risks project completion via on-site support 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 048 Our Sustainability Foundation 049 Stakeholder Daewoo E&C has strengthened communication channels to understand stakeholders and to maximize communication and value. Major stakeholders recognized by the company include: governments and Engagement their related institutions, which have midto long-term effects on corporate governance, shareholders, investors, customers, academia, associations, organizations, employees, local communities and suppliers. Daewoo E&C has established optimal communication channels with these stakeholders and proactively collects their views. The company also puts in practice shared values by fairly distributing the economic outcomes created through its business activities to stakeholders. Types of Major Stakeholders and Communication Channels Government and related Institutions Shareholders and Investors Employees Local Community Local communities Human resources that make up Provides regulatory and social Daewoo E&C investors who provide and their members who are Daewoo E&C, and the company’s foundation to drive corporate growth economic capital affected by Daewoo E&C’s business partners for sustainable management operations Heighten the satisfaction level of Contributes to the sustainable growth of Provide accurate and rapid information to Contribute to the growth of local employees and employee retainment the country by creating jobs, paying taxes shareholders and investors through communities by proactively fulfilling through capacity enhancement and and complying with the law transparent management activities social responsibilities improvement in quality of life • Baronet (intranet) • Community service club • General meeting of shareholders • Government committee activities • Labor unions • Cyber auditor’s office Cyber Audit • Annual report • Participation in research on policies • Labor-management consultative Office • Analyst meetings • Involvement in partnership programs committee • Monthly volunteer activities • IR Conference and other conferences and other programs • Compliance system • Social Contribution White Paper and • Overseas NDR (Non-deal Roadshow) • Ethic Help-Line other reports Communication Communication Channels Channels Academia, Associations and Customers Suppliers Future Society Organizations Organizations that provide expertise on Partners who contribute to our Talent who will lead in the future and Family and foundation of the construction market, and needed by business operations any stakeholders who are important Daewoo E&C who help create the future Daewoo E&C as long-term partners by providing energy and resources from a long-term perspective Daewoo E&C improves customer Establish a collaborative system for R&D Establish support and management Support and investment for satisfaction by creating the best housing collaboration through industry-academic for win-win, transparent and economic growth, environments and construction products cooperation and membership in various fair partnership social stability and integration and services associations and institutions • Integrated call center • A website-based collaboration system • Conferences • Job fairs • PRUGIO website (e-Cos) • Seminars • Recruitment website • Show houses • Supplier meetings • Association-related activities and • College student brand ambassadors • Social media and other online • Mutual growth workshops and other other related activities • Social media activities activities workshops 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 050 Our Sustainability Foundation 051 Materiality Assessment Daewoo E&C conducts a materiality assessment of its sustainable practices and identifies Materiality Assessment Based on the results of the materiality assessment regarding Daewoo E&C’s sustainability mancore issues based on relevant international standards, the media and benchmarking activities. Results agement issues, and with a basis on the interest level of stakeholders and business, the company In terms of stakeholder engagement, the company solicited views from experts through identified 10 core issues that are covered in this report. These issues have been reflected in this internal and external surveys in accordance with the international standard “AA1000SES.” report based on their materiality, inclusivity and responsiveness. This process led to the selection of 10 core issues for sustainability management that Daewoo Business Impact E&C needs to focus on, and these core issues are reflected importantly throughout this report. ● Employee capacity development The Materiality • Identify issues in internal and external sustainability management ● Realize a labor/management culture of trust Assessment Process Step 1. International standards related to sustainability management ● Participate in social contribution activities Identify sustainability (GRI Standards, UN SDGs, ISO 26000) Other external environments (media research, industry benchmarking) ● Achieve stable business performance management Issues ● Enhance brand value and • Create a pool of sustainability issues relevant to Daewoo E&C corporate image ● Strengthen R&D capacity ● Operate a health and safety management system ● Strengthen an environmentally-friendly system • Conduct surveys among internal and external stakeholders Step 2. The social/business-related impact of sustainability management issues ● Strengthen compliance Internal stakeholders: materiality from a business standpoint ● Operate mutual growth programs for suppliers Internal and external stakeholder engagement External stakeholders: materiality from a social standpoint ● Preemptive risk management ● Provide fair performance evaluations and compensation • Assessment by external experts ● Reinforce ethics management and efforts to prevent corruption • Social impact Step 3. External stakeholder surveys, media research, industrial benchmarking Materiality Assessment • Business impact Internal stakeholder surveys, assessment by external experts ● Conduct regular safety checks and monitoring activities • Identification of 10 core issues Step 4. ■ General Issues ■ Core Issues Interest of stakeholders Identification of 10 core issues based on the materiality assessment, Identify core issues employee interviews, management strategies and internal documents Issues Topic-specific Core GRI Standards Page Core Employee capacity development Training and Education 76~79 Step 5. Issues • Compose a table of contents based on core issues identified Realize a labor/management culture of trust 80~82 Publish sustainability Design a narrative for the report based on the core issues report Participate in social contribution activities Indirect Economic Impacts 74~75 Enhance brand value and the corporate image Indirect Economic Impacts 58~65 Achieve stable business performance Economic Performance 56~57 Strengthen R&D capacity Indirect Economic Impacts 66~71 Core Principles of the Daewoo E&C constructed an issue pool regarding Universal Standards and Topic specific StanMateriality Assessment dards of GRI Standards, the international sustainability reporting standard, and identified material Operate a health and safety management system Occupational Health and Safety 94~99 issues reflecting industrial characteristics considering stakeholders' interests and the company's Strengthen an environmentally-friendly system Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 83~87 related achievements. Strengthen compliance Compliance 100~103 Category Content Operate mutual growth programs for suppliers Indirect Economic Impacts 90~93 Identify sustainability issues by analyzing the internal and external environment General Provide fair performance evaluations and compensation Indirect Economic Impacts 78 Inclusiveness Issues (including benchmarking activities, media analysis, internal data review, and interviews) Preemptive risk management Governance 46~47 Materiality Identify issues through a materiality assessment (including stakeholder surveys) Reinforce ethics management and efforts to prevent corruption Compliance 43, 100~103 Verify the validity of significant issues (classifying them into core issues, general issues, Responsiveness Regular safety checks and monitoring Occupational Health and Safety 94~99 and other issues) page 054 FiNaNCiaLLY stabLe MaNaGeMeNt our The Efforts required to achieve stable Management performance susTaInaBIlIyT Enhancement of Brand value and Corporate reputation strengthen r&D capacity ManaGeMenT page 072 Future-orieNteD MaNaGeMeNt Daewoo E&C firmly believe that participate in social contribution activities the most important source for strengthen an environmentally-friendly system continuous growth is to secure Employee capacity development realize a labor/management culture of trust excellent and remarkable human resources. We recruit and cultivate human page 088 resources with global capabilities riGhteous MaNaGeMeNt and strive to make them feel a Operate mutual growth programs for suppliers sense of belonging and Operate a health and safety management system strengthen compliance devotion to the company. by implementing righteous management as an industrial leader, we also commit ourselves to establishing trust between all internal and external stakeholders. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 054 our sustainability topics 055 FInancIally Financially stable Management means achieving stable management performance, strengthening R&D capabilities, and strengthening the Daewoo E&C's practical opsTaBle 10.65 erations capabilities to enhance the trust of stakeholders. Furthermore, through risk ManaGeMenT management for brand value and enhancing the Corporate image, we are actively achieve 2018 annual sales of KrW trillion responding to the rapidly changing external environment and customer demand. 2018 20 patents / 4 new technology application Major Issues Business impact achieve stable business performance enhance brand value strengthen r&D capacity and the corporate image Level of stakeholder interest oppotunities risks achieving stable management performance, Despite the concern about profitability detestrengthening competitiveness and enhancing rioration due to changes in the domestic and brand value and corporate image play an imoverseas economic environment, investment portant role in responding to rapidly changing reduction, and cost increase, we will continue external environment. r&D can also lead to to make efforts to consolidate sound manhigh-value-added business creation. Daewoo agement through enhancing cost competiE&C will do its best to contribute to society by tiveness, new business development and r&D creating sustainable value. capabilities. sdGs and Major Issues of #sdGs core daewoo e&c issue #8. Decent work and economic growth achieve stable business performance #17. partnerships for the Goals enhance brand value and the corporate #16. peace, justice and strong institutions image #9. industry, innovation and infrastructure strengthen r&D capacity #12. responsible consumption and production 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 056 our sustainability topics 057 Daewoo e&C has committed itself to achieve stable management performance not only in Identifying new Profit Models: Daewoo E&C aims to enhance its asset utilization and establish a new profit model through a new Issue1. short-term performance, but also through macro-level, long-term performance. the company construction equipment equipment rental business utilizing suspended unused equipment in overseas construction sites. achieve stable will work to create profits, the basic objective of the company, while also create win-win value rental Business As a first step the company has signed an MOU with a leading Vietnamese construction company, and maximizing the added value of all stakeholders in the company, from governments, and CC1, and also with jp nelson, a specialized construction equipment rental company located in Management performance related institutions, shareholders, and investors, to customers, employees, local communities singapore. This will allow Daewoo E&C to share know-hows in the construction equipment rental and suppliers. Daewoo e&C will boost its profitability by enhancing its technical and cost business, and ensure stable business operations in its early stage. vietnam as a high prospect of competitiveness, and secure high-quality contracts through improvements in the company’s growth in the construction market, this new business will not only establish a new profit model financial structure and maintaining a balanced business portfolio. through the utilization of unused construction equipment as suspended construction equipment rental business, but also create synergistic effects construction projects in vietnam. accomplishing The efforts To achieve stable management performance, Daewoo E&C commits to achieve stable managerequired to achieve stable ment performance to ensure not only through short-term performance, but also through macManagement performance ro-level, long-term performance with a macroscopic view. The company will work to create profits, the basic objective of the company, while also create win-win value and maximizing the added value of all stakeholders including create shared value for mutual growth and maximize added value for all stakeholders, including the governments, related and related institutions, shareholders, and investors, to customers, employees, local communities and suppliers. Daewoo E&C will boost its profitability by enhancing its technical and cost competitiveness, and secureing high-quality contracts through improvements in the company’s financial structure and maintaining a balanced business portfolio. sales in the last (Unit : krw million) 2018 Business performance/ (Unit : krw million) three years Financial status summary 11,766,840 11,105,930 10,605,494 10,605,494 8,733,846 Investment development investment development business has dramatically increased in the recent construction market. Business that combines while the existing construction business focused on simple construction-based subcontracts, construction and Finance the investment development business signifies a chance for Daewoo E&C to expand the business sector into planning and implementation through various financial techniques and utilizing funds. Daewoo E&C takes an advantageous position by building an office and hotel in Starlake New City in 2,317,722 Hanoi, Vietnam, through a joint investment project with the financial sector. This project has allowed 628,734 297,330 Daewoo E&C to strengthen its capacity as a developer by expanding its value chain to a front-line industry. Daewoo E&C will continuously strengthen a new business model as of an investment development business combined with the financial sector to diversify its profit structure and contribute 2016 2017 2018 sales business Net profit total assets equity capital to secure high-quality contracts. profit sales in the last three years (Unit : krw billion) 6,864 6,580 6,022 2,792 2,620 2,160 1,882 1,944 401 1,742 339 132 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Civil project Division housing & building Division plant project Division others 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 058 our sustainability topics 059 Daewoo e&C puts its top priority on customers. We continuously improve customer quality pruGIo renewal The newly renovated prUgiO focuses on 'being natural' and 'natural comfort' that pursues the Issue2. satisfaction through proactive communication and customer quality satisfaction, and do our natural way of life. we do not simply provide facilities, but we aim to take customers' everyday life enhance best in creating customer value by recognizing customer value is also our value. into the next level by providing a higher residential service and cultural life, covering day-to-day life of our customers. in line with the new philosophy, Daewoo E&C will continue to make every effort Brand Value and to make sure that customers feel the great changes in every aspect from exterior to landscaping, corporate reputation community, customer service and as. BI character daewoo e&c's efforts to In 1994 Daewoo E&C first adopted the concept of 'eco-friendly' in the domestic apartment market, improve brand value and and in 2003 launched the 'prUgiO' brand ,which seeks a healthy and happy life with nature and corporate image has improved the residential culture level. prUgiO has been the no.1 supplier for many years and has been acknowledged by customers through numerous awards including the 'presidential prize for good Living apartments'. now, however, eco-friendliness has become a foundation of life, and in order to go beyond the prudence of eco-friendliness, prUgiO has carried out deep concern on residential environment for more than a year, and the result has been presented in 2019. Daewoo The character has an image associated with the Improvement of Brand Value reed of a p tree, the existing heritage of prUgiO, E&C's efforts to convey differentiated valued to its customers are continuing today. and a circle conjuring up the robustness of the and corporate reputation by earth and land. with the features of the logo, Brand renewal the character implies the personality of prUgiO and assists the Bi. The character signifies a new prUgiO in harmony beyond a certain frame. Be unique Brand identity summary brand essence the Natural Nobility Be right brand identity the Faith of basic Be Gentle balance through harmony Consideration and respect Be smart branded product be unique Design premium 4 strategies to improve green be right premium customer life quality and eco-friendly life style be Gentle Life premium be smart smart premium prugio offers premium services based on consideration and respect for the nature of life. we will provide differentiated services to customers through delicate landscaping services such as the greenery Lounge and studio, Open Field and Blue Library, and cutting-edge services such as ioT wall pad and fine dust barrier system. We will also endeavor to improve customer satisfaction through the Prugio Service , an AS subsidiary company, which celebrated its 20th anniversary this year. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 060 our sustainability topics 061 Quality Management Quality Management organization reinforcement of Quality risk Management organization Daewoo E&C’s quality management organization is composed of a Quality Management Team, Qualpreemptive preventive Daewoo E&C continues to manage the risks that affect the quality management system through idenity Engineering and Inspection Team and Business CM Team. The Quality Management Team superQuality tification of risks, assessment of quantities, and countermeasures after confirming internal and exvises the company’s quality management system, while the Quality Engineering and inspection Team ternal issues related to quality and the needs of stakeholders. in the future, Daewoo E&C will respond performs equipment and specialized work process-related inspectionses. The Business CM Team is to changing external needs and environmental changes, and strive to improve its brand image and responsible for managing the quality management and services in each business division, and concorporate image through improved quality control. ducts quality management of on-site construction and after-sales services. Fostering Quality Managers strengthening site Quality Management activities Quality engineering and reinforcing the specializations of Daewoo E&C operates a quality assurance system and Site Quality Performance Indicators (S-QPI) to Quality Management team in charge Quality Management Team Business division cM Team Inspection Team on-site Quality Managers enhance on-site quality management activities. Beginning with the introduction of starter and Helper, Conducts certifications on the Conducts equipment inspections, Manages construction company’s quality control system, standardizes quality-related and • Provide training in six major areas of our on-site quality support system in 2016, we have been able to improve quality consciousness and provides quality management training, work processes, signs contracts construction-related defect responsibility to ensure quality managers improve construction quality and contributed to customer satisfaction. in addition, we operate site human resources management, and evaluates third-party management on-site for perform their roles properly and enhance reviews quality inspectors, provides technical each business division Quality Performance Indicator (S-QPI) for quantitative self-assessment. their capabilities at each level system and performance, supports project-related specialized supports the on-site quality work processes, and supports • Conduct training on quality management theme-based Quality inspections management system, quality of bid-related purchases from a legal perspective for on-site quality supports business divisions managers recently, the construction industry has been strengthening the laws and regulations on quality (Con(bidding, technology), struction Technology promotion act). Daewoo E&C conducts quality control in accordance with legal evaluates the quality of suppliers requirements, and continuously review selected vulnerable elements on-site. in 2019, we will focus on cultivating Quality experts in large-scale crits, instrumentation management, and construction equipment as the themes of vulnerQuality Management strategic policy specialized areas able factors, and we will closely monitor the quality control status on-site and comply with the strict In 2019, Daewoo E&C established a strategic policy “The Best Quality, Guaranteed” to serve as • Improve the company’s ability to conduct implementation of laws and regulations. a foundation to the company’s qualitative growth in quality. with this as a basis, the company seinspections in specialized sectors and support on-site technologies (non-destructive, lected the following core strategies and Tasks to focus on: 1) reorganizing the company’s quality vibration, painting, and welding inspections, Develop core quality manpower and find and maintain outstanding suppliers management system; and 2), strengthening preemptive prevention and quality management Daeamong others) Daewoo E&C is nurturing core quality manpower with superior competence and sought to find excellent woo E&C aims to revamp its quality management system, by improving relevant work processes, • Cultivate quality assurance experts partners in quality management for customer satisfaction. internally, we will provide training to train expanding the company’s inspection management system, and clarifying the responsibility and systematically and efficiently through human quality managers with excellent competencies, and train specialists to improve their ability to conduct resource development tests in each field by training specialist quality experts. In order to identify and maintain outstanding exauthority for quality management. The company will also enhance quality management training for quality managers, and conduct quality management-related training for equipment suppliers ternal suppliers, we will establish separate inspection standards for each material and strengthen the to improve awareness of quality management among all the company’s employees. quality evaluation and quality education of our outsourcing suppliers. in addition, we conduct a Corporate Quality Group for quality managers' communication among headquarters and sites on a quarterly basis. strategies and tasks for strategic policy core strategies and Tasks Quality Management guaranteed best quality reorganizing quality strengthening preemptive Enhancing awareness of assurance system preventive quality quality assurance enhancing Quality Management category course name Targets assurance awareness Job Job Education for Quality Managers On-site quality assurance managers (Levels 1,2,3) improving awareness introductory Course new employees (new/experienced) curriculum Quality Management Systems and Penalty Management supervisors Quality Inspection Results and Theme-based Inspections On-site directors Quality Management Certificate Renewals Quality Management system iso 9001 : Quality Management system Manuever winter job Training Technicians reorganization Daewoo E&C continuously improves and enhances regulations such as manuals, procedures, enhancing awareness Quality Management Training for Suppliers Employees of suppliers instructions and work manuals to deal with changing demands for quality management. The company continues to make improvements in the Daewoo process Mapping system (DpMs) a rethe Corporate Quality Group sponse to changes in the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System and to ensure the utilization The Corporate Quality Group is a two-way quality manager communication consultation between headof the comprehensive process management system. The DpMs is the quality assurance mapping quarter and sites. Headquarter and on-site quality managers attend the quarterly meetings to select system that reflects Daewoo E&C’s critical workflows and is built to serve as a foundation for the and discuss topics related to quality, and share quality management status and internal and external effective operation and management of process requests stipulated by isO 9001:2015. inspection cases on site to prevent quality problems. ISO 9001:2015 KEPIC Quality Management Nuclear Power System Construction and Design • Seoul Gyeongin (Housing) (Jan. 11) Human Resources Training Institute integrated inspection Management system Construction: • Seoul Gyeongin (Building) (Feb. 14) Human Resources Training Institute MN,SN,EN,MH integrated Daewoo E&C has built an optimized collaborative space for equipment inspection and an integratDesign: MN,SN • Chungcheong (Feb. 14) West Sea Railway Construction Site 4 inspection ed inspection management system that utilizes iT technology to systematically accumulate the • Jeolla (Feb. 21) Gangjin-Gwangju Highway Construction Site 1 Management • Seoul Gyeongin (Civil and Plant)(Jan. 10) Human Resources Training Institute system status of inspections. as a result, we share the rapid and accurate status of inspection to maximize • Daegu Gyeongbuk (Mar. 13) Jangseong PRUGIO Construction Site the efficiency of work, systematically record the status of our work, and implement smart collab• Bugyeong (Mar. 12) Haeundae Central PRUGIO Construction Site oration between departments through real-time feedback. in 2019, we will expand this system to develop a system for inspection of building/housing and civil construction materials at home and Quality Management Certifications and Quality Management Procedures abroad. we will build an integrated inspection management system that can link the current moas part of its efforts to implement quality management, Daewoo E&C renewed four quality system bile web with BarOCOn, our company's management system. certifications in 2018, revised 209 business procedures, and newly established 36 new business proASME NBBI cedures, and operating total 1,169. as a result of continuous efforts to strengthen our pride and comNuclear and Non-nuclear Power Non-nuclear Power: R petence in quality, we continue to strengthen quality management as a leading quality management Nuclear Power: NA,NPT Non-nuclear Power: company in the industry. S,U,U2,PP 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 062 our sustainability topics 063 customer satisfaction To better enhance customer satisfaction, Daewoo E&C confirms the satisfaction of its customers Information protection Daewoo e&C has established a preemptive information security system to prevent the disclosure of Improvement toward the company’s flagship brand, PRUGIO, each year through major and reputable institutes personal information relating to customers and other confidential information from the company. The that conduct customer satisfaction evaluations. These surveys are conducted to understand the levand Management Chief Privacy Officer (CPO), under the leadership of the CEO, along with customer service employees, el of satisfaction felt by customers, identify areas of improvement, and ensure that complaints are protect and manage all information pertaining to company stakeholders, including company executives. received and managed through indicator management. Daewoo E&C also identifies the individual needs of customers and improves products and services on the basis of these needs. Customer establishment of in 2015, Daewoo E&C established the Enterprise Contents Management Account Management System Comprehensive Search system for integrated document management. Launched in December Integrated document Comprehensive index search of satisfaction surveys include both quantitative surveys and qualitative surveys. During the first half Link with organizational documents, files, folders, 2017, the document centralization system, which is integrated into the chart and other data of the year,, the Korean Standards Association (KSA) KS-SQI survey is conducted, while the Korea Management system company’s headquarters, enables the protection of documents from Enterprise Content Management productivity Center (kpC) nCsi survey is conducted in the second half of the year. security threats such as ransomware and malicious codes. The system System (ECMS) STORAGE ↔ DB boosts the utilization of information and enhances work productivity by Document Backup DRM comprehensively managing documents stored on individual pCs. Real-time/complete backup of the results of Customer satisfaction surveys documents on PCs The encryption and deciphering of files (based on annual regular assessments) First Half of the year second Half of the year Restoration of lost documents Identify Quality Management-related Levels Compared to Companies in the Top 3 analyze regular survey results strengthening the Daewoo E&C puts its top priority on customers’ personal information and complies with regulations on personal information protection in accordance with relevant laws and regulations privacy policy such as the “act on promotion of information and Communication network Utilization and information protection” and “personal information protection act”. in particular, we stipulate the 79.1 Qualitative survey Qualitative survey points policy for handling personal information in accordance with relevant laws and protect the rights th · Companies ranked top 3 in terms of quality management · all rival companies and interests of customers. For instance, we disclose the purpose for collecting personal infor(5 ) ·1,500 samples · approximately 1,800 samples 78.7 mation, period of ownership, disposal procedure with isO 27001 and measures for protecting 77.5 personal information on the official website. points points (7th) (7th) FGi survey Cs activity analysis · Two groups (Daewoo E&C) · all rival companies strengthening the Daewoo E&C affirmed the need for document-related security with the launch of the ECMS in 2015. The company op2016 2017 2018 · Two groups (other companies) · Cs data of each company erates an independent consultative body at its headquarters to enable thorough document-related security, and conKsa regular assessment ranking document security ducts regular consultations to analyze, secure and improve vulnerable areas of the system. Daewoo E&C is working to system strengthen its document-related security system by reinforcing the digital rights management (DrM) system. results analysis results analysis · identifyareas of improvement compared to · Understand Daewoo E&C’s level within the industry other top-ranked companies · identify areas of improvement simulated Hacking Tests Daewoo E&C conducts simulated hacking tests on the company’s major websites, including the prUgiO website and the company’s homepage, with a view to identify bottlenecks in online services, vulnerable points in the online system environment, and to understand how exposed personal information is onlinesimulated hacking tests are held once per 74 74 points points Feedback Feedback year and utilize the latest cyber-attack techniques and scenarios used by actual hackers. The tests presents technical (4th) (4th) · internal feedback · present strategic guidelines countermeasures to be taken to prevent vulnerabilities, potential cyber-attacks, and security threats on the company’s 69 homepage and other related websites, These efforts have contributed to the strengthening of stakeholder confidence points toward the security of Daewoo E&C’s websites. (6th) 1. Ks-sQi survey 2. NCsi survey (1) period: First half of the year (March to june) (1) period: second half of the year (july to October) 2016 2017 2018 (2) Evaluator: korean standards association (ksa) (2) Evaluator: korea productivity Center (kpC) NCsi regular assessment ranking (3) area of investigation: identify ranking compared to top three service quality companies (3) area of investigations: identify level compared to all rival companies in the apartment construction personal Information Daewoo e&C continuously performs its own inspections of the users of relevant systems, including pruGio customer service staff members, to ensure the thorough management of the personal information of (4) Method: Outsourced consultation on the KS-SQI model industry (4) Method: Outsourced consultation on analysis of protection, Management customers. the company is conducting a wide-range of efforts to strengthen security systems that involve (5) Evaluation points: a/s, B/s evaluation annual regular survey results (5) Evaluation points: Evaluate product quality before and Inspection the loss of the personal information and data of customers. and after use by customers personal Information Daewoo E&C conducts to respond to increased interest in personal information protection and cyber security and demands for responsible data management. as part of the company’s efforts to acknowledge the importance of handling Management Inspection personal information and improve the level of security implemented, Daewoo E&C conducts a three-staged, on-site pruGIo service with korea’s best technology skills and network for apartment facility maintenance, prUgiO serinspection process of managerial, physical and technical security-related conditions. The company runs inspections on vice provides effective and sophisticated services with a “prompt, kind and accurate” mindset. with the state of its personal information management by confirming its compliance with the Personal Information Proteconline education for information security local centers in eight target cities providing optimal service solutions through the smart network, and personal information protection tion act (pipa), which contains procedures concerning the collection, use, storage and destruction of personal informaprUgiO service has marked its 20th anniversary this year and exceeded 400,000 households units for all employees 5,104 employees tion that are conducted twice per year and/or on a regular basis. in total for management targets. we are proud of this achievement, and having the most extensive experience and know-how compared to other companies. Daewoo E&C and prUgiO service will strengthening the Daewoo E&C operates a consultative body at its headquarters to manage customer-related information. Through regular consultations with this body, the company reviews the legal compliance of its personal information management continue to improve warranty quality and customer satisfaction. personal Information system, security-related policies and internal management standards Daewoo E&C also conducts training for all its security system employees including employees deployed overseas or at worksites, and employees of contractors and suppliers focused on personal information protection as part of efforts to internalize a security management-related mindset. Integrated call center Daewoo E&C integrates its communication channels via the integrated Call Center established in in terms of the company’s sales management system, Daewoo E&C has reduced the potential for leaks of information 2013 and responsible for customer management from sales, contract, moving-in and after-sales by limiting authorization into the system to only those who have completed personal information protection training. Moreover, the company has added physical security measures by installing and operating image processing devices in services. Through the integrated system, the company operates all processes including sales, consupport centers for new apartment residents. Moreover, the Daewoo E&C is working hard to strengthen its informatracts, and after service. in 2014, the company integrated the Call Center and the voice of Customer tion security system by checking the on-site conditions that concern customer information management within all its (VOC) to improve classification and management of customer complaints. organizations and subsidiaries on a biannual basis. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 064 our sustainability topics 065 activities that enhance Daewoo e&C has set the core of its management strategy for 2019 to be “establishing the systemization of project Daewoo E&C has established a management system covering the entire project lifecycle that is foundation for sustainable growth by enhancing corporate value.” the company commits has review procedures aimed at identifying and proactively preventing any elements from impacting the implementation of corporate Value committed itself to achieving midand long-term strategic goals to meet the new vision of “build domestic and overseas projects. The company prepares for and manages project implementation Together.” These goals ”, include achieving sales of KRW 17 trillion in 2025 and, operating profits after a bid is decided on and a final contract is signed. Finally, feedback is provided to whether the of KrW 1.5 trillion in 2025 to become one of the world’s top 20 companies. With these goals in project was conducted efficiently and after-sales service management is provided. When deciding mind, Daewoo e&C has aimed to achieve its core strategic projects through the establishment of to participate in a bid, Daewoo E&C ensures the soundness of the contract in question through the Corporate Value enhance Division, . this division includes the Value-up & innovation Division enhancements in its contract review process and project rating system. The company uses a disand the Contract review team, which conducts risk management for the company. passionate perspective to identify and resolve issues quickly. The company is able to manage any risks that occur after participation in the project has been decided through this flexible response strengthening activities aimed in 2018, Daewoo E&C launched the value-Up & innovation Division under the aim of “Eestablishsystem. Daewoo E&C will make sure that it has the expertise to manage these issues by impleat enhancing corporate Value ing the foundation for sustainable growth by enhancing corporate value”.”in order to strengthen the menting systematic project review procedures. innovative function, the company has restructured the existing risk Management Division into the value-Up & innovation Division, and for the overseas On-site inspection and Emergency response Before change after change Committee along with the expertise in project management, the Construction Management Team was risk Management Division value-Up Division & innovation changed to value-Up & innovation Division. as part of efforts to manage a diverse set of risks through corporate Value enhancement Daewoo E&C has improved procedures to enhance its review processs and improve expertise to Construction value-Up & innovation strengthening of the company’s contract review processes, Daewoo E&C has also turned the existing assessment system cope with changes in the global contract environment. The company has strengthened overseas Management Team Division risk Management Team into the Contract review Team The value-Up & innovation Division is a comproject contract management, improved the operation of investment reviews, and strengthened its pany-wide organization focused on change management that will constantly identify, implement and risk Management Team project assessment Team review capacity by cultivating experts that can deal with various kinds of review processes. Daewoo evaluate the steps required to enhance Daewoo E&C’s corporate value. E&C also conducts study groups and shares pertinent information from work sites through knowlValue-up & innovation Division Value-up & Innovation division edge sharing and knowledge transfer activities. In 2018, the company reflected its corporate value Chart enhancement activities in evaluating its evaluation of strategic indicators, and enhanced its evaluValue-up & Innovation Team project assessment Team ation system by establishing an operational policy based on financial impact. Value-up & Innovation Value-up & Innovation Value-up & Innovation overseas the project review domestic project review Management assessment Detailed Measures involving the planning Team Team 1 Team 2 Team Team enhancing the Corporate Value Measures strategic index assessment • Supervises company-wide • Strengthens innovation in project • Manages project production costs • Conducts review of bids (SG1-3) • Conducts reviews of new and enhancement assessment system corporate value enhancement implementation and processes • Reviews project implementation ongoing projects activities • Manages major project risks • Supervises R&O risks • Manages the Business Financial indicators • Establishes and implements • Manages the Eemergency • Manages the Construction • Conducts overseas investment Management Ccommittee change management strategies response Committee Management Ccommittee reviews • Supervises corporate value Milestone compliance rate • Evaluates strategic indicators • Manages the Claim Response • Operates the Loss Investigation enhancement activities at • Conducts Appointment Ccommittee Committee Daewoo E&C headquarters Team-related work at • Conducts on-site inspections of performance assessment Operational indicators Daewoo E&C’s headquarters overseas construction sites project completion rate Improving the roles Involving The value-Up & innovation Division has established the target of “achieving the company’s vision strategic indicators corporate Value enhancement and midand long-term strategies by systematically managing activities related to corporate value enhancement at Daewoo E&C’s headquarters, and has established strategic next steps that are linked with the new company-wide vision. The company established the basis for managing activity indicators Capacity assessment the eight major strategic projects, increased project support aimed at boosting profitability, and heightened the role of lifecycle risk management. impact indicators Headquarter’s Goal Support achieving the vision and midto long-term strategies by systematically managing corporate value enhancement activities Contribution level assessment the Value-up & innovation Division’s Management policies nine major strategic projects enhance innovation in management infrastructure strengthen capabilities to implement projects reinforce marketing capabilities secure new growth engines assessing the Milestone schedule Design implementation plan for achieving the • At the end of each month, confirm whether projects to be completed monthly/ the milestone design implementation plan for achieving the eight major strategic projects eight major strategic projects Ⓐ schedule is delayed establishthe basis enhance project management/ Enhance project management/evaluation for managing the evaluation • Conduct evaluations of organizational and human resources-related assessments by the month eight major strategic improve corporate culture projects Improve corporate culture stipulated (september) Enhance innovation in project implementation enhance innovation in project implementation provide support for major project integration Ⓑ strengthen project assessing project results support aimed at provide support for major project integration Ease R&O-based cost fluctuations enhancing • Assessment of activity indicators and impact indicators profitability strengthen contract review process • Projects with impact (financial) indicators Ease R&O-based cost ﬂuctuations strengthen contract review process Prospects reflected in Q4; if the standard is not met, points are deducted in the 2019 assessment Establish and operate a project rating system Ⓒ Enhance the early-warning system project lifecycle risk establish and operate a project rating system management enhance the early-warning system 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 066 our sustainability topics 067 Issue3. as securing the capability for core technology is the basis for our financially stable smart construction smart Construction strategies management and an engine for developing original technology and new business, Daewoo The world is rapidly transforming into an “intelligent information society” that is often dubbed the strengthen r&d capacity e&C makes every effort to perform r&D and systemize company-wide strategies to secure Technology development “Fourth industrial revolution.” The Fourth industrial revolution is an inevitable process prompted the capability for core technology. by the advancement of digitalization and informatization and is reorganizing the industrial map. The construction industry needs to proactively reinvent itself to keep up with these changes to improve its productivity and competitiveness. DiCT is compiling local and international trends in the construction industry and quickly obtaining necessary technologies to actively respond to the needs of strengthening DiCT is the symbol of Daewoo E&C’s technology prowess and in 2018 the institute made predictions the Fourth industrial revolution. a newly established unit within DiCT establishes and implements dIcT’s capacity about changes in the market that resulted in solidifying the company’s technological competitivestrategies to promote digitalization within the construction industry and aims to create a culture ness through development of ioT/iCT convergence technology that will contribute to the company’s of digital construction and revolutionize the construction industry. as part of its efforts to secure future growth. Daewoo E&C expects there will be difficulties in conducting future projects due to relevant core technologies, DICT is currently developing and applying technologies in various fields, increased competition in both the korean and overseas markets. DiCT will help the company overincluding construction ioT, construction automation, BiM design, preCon response, ai and deep technology deployed to the Gangjin-Gwangju come these challenges. as part of its efforts to secure new growth engines for Daewoo E&C and railroad construction site learning-based design, drone-based surveying and ar/vr technology. with these efforts as a basis, help it dominate the future market, DiCT will focus its energy on the development of revolutionary Daewoo E&C is strengthening its competitiveness in the construction industry by enhancing safety “smart construction technology” to assist the company in achieving its strategic targets and adon construction sites and improving productivity. Ultimately, securing these core technologies will vance toward new heights in the industry. DiCT is the construction industry’s leader in developing ensure that improved productivity through “super-connection, super-intelligence and super-coninnovative technologies. From its position at the center of the Fourth industrial revolution, the instivergence” promised by smart construction can be achieved. tute will identify innovative ways forward for the company in the construction industry and present a vision for the company’s technology in line with the needs of the future market. DiCT will be the hub smart Construction roadmap and site application for realizing the technology that provides the foundation for “smart construction.” The DiCT has established a roadmap for the systematic implementation of smart construction, DiCt organizational Chart and in 2016 the company launched the development of DsC (Daewoo smart Construction) techdIcT director technology deployed to Gangjin-Gwangju nology. as of 2019, the technology is currently in use at three highway construction sites in korea. Technology research Manager railroad construction site Daewoo E&C aims to enhance the DSC system and efficiently apply the technology to housing, architecture and factory construction sites domestically and to improve productivity and maximize profits. Smart construction is a “construction platform” that comprehensively combines informaresearch and planning Team smart construction civil engineering research Team Housing & Building research Team plant research Team Technology Team tion on all aspects of a construction sites – from its materials, human resources, designs, con•Technology strategy/planning • Structural Engineering • Concrete materials • LNG/nuclear plants •Research task management • Smart construction platform specialized bridges/roads/railroads/materials • Structure construction/BIM • Enhances analysis and design struction process and operations – through convergence between the construction industry and •Technology support management • Drone/spatial information • Geotechnical Engineering • Noise and vibration • Manages materials/construction iT. This convergence allows the quick analysis of situations on construction sites and prompt re• Digital construction •HR/compliance Bevels/tunnels • Low energy • Manages test runs sponses to risks anytime and from anywhere. The platform ensures the highest level of work ef•Technology information/promotion • Construction automation Foundation/temporary works/waterproofing • Operates experimental laboratory • Renewable energy •Budget/performance/accounting/ • VR/AR • Operates experimental laboratory acoustic/facility experimental laboratory ficiency through highly advanced analytical processes on compiled data based on 3D models that fund management geotechnical/central experimental laboratory Large-sized/wind tunnel experiment laboratory contain detailed information on the construction site’s design and construction and operational processes. smart construction is also a “Cyber physical system” (Cps) that can immediately paju-pocheon highway Construction site No. 3 comprehend all situations that occur on a construction site and predict risks in advance through the use of construction simulations, automated construction management and smart safety consystemization of strategies for with a view to become one of the global top 20 companies, Daewoo E&C is making an effort to the dIcT achieve its new company-wide midand long-term strategies by leading the market and strengthtrols. armed with a database that contains information on its construction projects, Daewoo E&C ening its technology capacity. The company has established its r&D strategies through an analysis will be able to use “big data” to help resolve difficult and challenging issues on construction sites of the trends in each construction-related sector and has used this analysis to effectively obtain its and implement a completely automated construction management system in the near future. own capacity to research core technologies. Under the new company-wide vision of enhancing its project implementation, marketing capacity and identifying new engines of growth, Daewoo E&C smart Construction roadmap established new detailed strategies aimed at maximizing its business capacity in 2019 that include: stage 1 (~2018) stage 2 (~2021) stage 3 (~2025) 1) revolutionizing the implementation of technology-based construction; 2) expanding contracts and real-time monitoring/ digital virtual site construction/ aI data analysis/prediction alert technology analysis technology technology marketing activities that use development technology; and 3) secure technology that serves as a foundation for new-growth businesses. iot device, mobile device Cyber physical system trend analysis, ai prediction (safety/labor data collection/warning) (information visualization, (risk forecasting/optimization, Global Top 20 Establish a ioT monitoring system risk/process analysis) control information) *Deployed to pilot site Expand the use of Cps Optimize Cps-ai utilization process strengthen Daewoo e&C’s technological competency to achieve the new company-wide vision *Deployed to new construction site *automation of quality/procurement management and midand long-term strategies enhance the company’s project strengthen the company’s secure new growth engines implementation competency marketing competency revolutionize the implementation of Expand contracts and marketing secure technology that serves as a technology-based construction activities that use development foundation for new-growth technology businesses 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 068 our sustainability topics 069 Major Technology development Big data-based overseas Overseas projects have contractual agreements that cover all areas to be followed by contracproject contract tors. The first step to ensure the success of a project is the prompt and accurate analysis of these Management system contractual agreements. a knowledge delivery system that is based on the experience and knowledge of experts, along with a cognitive document system and, finally experts, accurately analyze utilization on drone technology as part of the “Daewoo smart Construction” project, Daewoo E&C is developing technology that contractual agreements compiled in human languages within the database. The system allows uses drones in the construction field. Drones are one of the Fourth Industrial Revolution’s major humans to create higher added value. The system rapidly and accurately analyzes contractual icons. The company has focused on the field of “construction surveying” for drones and is taking conditions to ensure the successful implementation of the project and will be deployed across the lead in developing drone survey technologies such as displacement measurement methods general contracts for overseas projects and major fields of design from the second half of 2019. using drones and patent applications for flat land creation methods. Through the development Daewoo E&C’s contract management system will significantly improve the company’s competitive of drone surveying technology, the Daewoo E&C institute of Construction Technology (DiCT) has advantage in its implementation of overseas projects. achieved more refined survey results through 3D modelling of construction sites that far exceed existing manpower-heavy surveying techniques. Based on these technological developments and 1. document datarization 2. natural language processing (nlp) Ground control point surveying achievements, Daewoo E&C has used drones on more than 40 construction sites and on the implementation of designs since 2016, and has used drones in both the construction site surveying and bid design stages since 2017. since 2018, the company has also employed drone surveying in large-scale overseas bidding projects that have led to high-quality designs. Daewoo E&C actively uses drone surveys on large-scale industrial complexes, which are difficult to measure with existing surveying techniques, to analyze earth-volume, review seawall displacement and to manage the amount of reclamation in dredged reclaimed land. The superiority of drone surveys is even 3. analysis system Modeling 4. pJ document analysis Drone flight more remarkable when compared to conventional manpower-heavy surveying techniques. The first area drones display superiority over traditional surveying techniques is “accuracy.” Drones enable Daewoo E&C to calculate soil volume more accurately by applying the 3D integral method as well as the conventional average sectional area surveying method. The second area drones have superiority in is “efficiency.” Drone surveys maximize the efficiency of field surveys by cutting down time and costs by 90% compared to traditional manpower-based surveying techniques. For exDrone flight path ample, it used to take more than five days to survey a 10-kilometer section on a construction site. Drones, however, can complete this same task within two hours and provide quick and accurate Fully prefabricated Bridge Daewoo E&C’s “fully prefabricated bridge” minimizes the time required to construct a bridge on a condata on the site’s geographical features. Daewoo E&C’s continued technological development on Technology struction site by using prefabricated bridge piers, girders, deck and barrier. The bridge is an innovative drone technology will allow the technology to become a critical part of all areas of the construction feat of engineering that reduces construction periods and enhances the construction process by allowindustry over the long-term. These areas include civil engineering, architecture, housing and fac❶ ing quick construction of a high-quality bridge. Daewoo E&C has ensured that the “fully prefabricated tory-related facility maintenance and process management. bridge” can be used as both highway and railroad bridges by developing precast concrete decks, precast ❷ concrete barriers, PnP girders, concrete filled tube girders and modular pier system. These technological developments will contribute to the improvement of the company’s technological capacity. ❸ orthographical photograph/Generat❹ ing Digital surface Maps/3D Models ❹ ❹ precast Concrete Deck (Dps) pnp Girder (Dps+psC Girder) ① ② Contour plot and earthwork analysis ③ ④ Concrete Filled tube highway bridge New-type of concrete Filled tube railroad bridge + Modular pier system 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 070 our sustainability topics 071 Implementing Modular The korean construction industry has experienced increases in construction production costs and construction noise The increasing desire for a better quality of life has led to a rise in interest toward the environment, construction Technology delayed construction projects due to an aging workforce, increases in labor costs due to insufficient Management system including environmental noise. statistical data compiled by the national Dispute Mediation Comsupply and demand, diminishing construction quality due to the use of more workers from other (dw-cnMs) mittee in December 2018, show that environmental noise greatly impacts people’s daily life with countries, and a climate change-induced increase in days where construction work is impossible. complaints due to noise and vibration accounting for 85% of environmental disputes. DiCT has DiCT aims to cope with these changes in the construction industry through the development of developed real-time iCT technology that constantly measure the amount of noise from urban conmodular engineering, which is a technology-intensive method of factory production. Modular engistruction site. The data collected from this process can be managed systematically through wired/ neering is the method of producing 60% 90% of a construction project’s materials into a box-type wireless internet and smartphones. with the use of this technology, Daewoo E&C can systemmodule in the factory before transporting these modules to the construction site and stacking them atically manage all kinds of noises and vibration that occur on construction sites. as of 2018, the to complete the construction project. Daewoo E&C aims to use phased development of modular technology has been deployed to ten construction sites in urban areas. Daewoo E&C aims to add engineering technology to further innovate the company’s construction-related production methods automatic noise-measuring device monitoring of fine dust, an issue of growing important in society, to the system as part of its efforts while diversifying its business and generating profits. and fine dust measuring device to create an even more pleasant residential environment. stage 1 ~2021 stage 2 ~2024 stage 3 2025~ computer engineering The rapid development of computer technology has increased understanding held by engineers by Technology simulating phenomena that had long been the focus of inquiry and bringing light to them in a physroof-top Modular construction Midto High Modular construction diversify Modular Technology (Computational Fluid ical manner. Huge facilities such as power plant that have a comprehensive set of different techdevelop Midto High Dynamics + structural analysis) nologies in place generally have difficulty conducting experiments. These facilities can find suitable develop Modular Technology expand Modular Technology Modular Technology answers to the problems they face through computer calculations that review and forecast any poEstablish fundamental modular construction Develop modular technology for mid to Commercialize midand high rise tential problems. Computational fluid dynamics allow factories to confirm the movement of fluids technology Build roof-top modular high rise buildings modular construction such as gas and liquid along with the process of transmitting heat in advance and, through strucConstruct mock-up modular housing Construct modular model housing Establish a modular production factory tural analysis, predict changes in solid matter. Computer-based engineering technologies are used Develop a small-scale business model for the Develop a large-scale business model for the Expand the domestic and overseas modular affordable housing. affordable housing construction business (dormitories, hospitals, hotels) across all kinds of factories and facilities onshore or offshore. DiCT’s newly developed technologies will significantly improve Daewoo E&C’s competitive advantage in its implementation of projects. Computational Fluid Dynamics Case study concrete crack reduction Following the strengthening of defect-related standards for apartments in 2015, there has been an Technology for apartment increase in complaints about concrete cracks and defects that frequently occur in the process of projects constructing apartment frames along with an increase in the costs for repair and reinforcement. (expansion of smart Concrete Daewoo E&C believes it is imperative to secure technologies that reduce concrete cracks with a Crack reduction technology) view to strengthen its marketing capacity through enhancement of its brand image. The company is developing customized smart crack-resistant concrete that meets the demands of any structure and purpose with an aim to reduce cracks by 80% or more and decrease crack repair costs by 50% or more compared to existing concrete. Through this new technology, Daewoo E&C will improve the quality of concrete used in construction and enhance its brand image and maximize its profits. Causes of Cracks in underground parking Lot slabs cracks and leakages from cracks and leakages due to cracks and leakages in parking lot slabs landscaping underground retaining walls 주차장 주차장슬래브 슬래브균열누수균열누수 Defects 조경에조경에의한 균열누수 지하옹벽 균열누수균열누수 shrinkage/dry plastic주차장 슬래브 균열누수 shrinkage 조경에 의한 균열누수caused by 의한 균열누수 degradation 지하옹벽 지하옹벽 균열누수absorption ratio/dry shrinkage cracks and defects in root penetration resistance cracks균열하자 and defects 소성수축소성수축 / 건조수축 / 건조수축 균열하자 균열하자 방근성능 저하에저하에 방근성능 따른 따른 하자흡수율 흡수율 하자 흡수율 / 건조수축 균열하자 / 건조수축 / 건조수축 균열하자 소성수축 / 건조수축 균열하자 방근성능 저하에 따른 하자 supersized water tank enhancing Factory Many factories require offshore structures. recent growth in the Lng market has led to more Lng paved road (plain concrete) offshore structures exports and an increase in construction orders for terminals that can be imported. DiCT has developed an automatic design program for offshore berthing and pier structures that are currently in use. Daewoo E&C plans to develop its own design technology that can be applied to import and export Lng terminal projects in the future. The company has independently designed its own offshore pipeline technology whose effectiveness has been confirmed through use in current projects. Daewoo E&C plans to use this technology in future onshore and offshore pipeline projects. Parking lot floor (plain concrete) 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 072 our sustainability topics 073 FuTure Future management by Daewoo E&C signifies our intention to develop an innovative business model to create growth-led business, contribute to developing hr capability ManaGeMenT and expand the value chain. For these goals, we establish a method of success suitable for new changes and develop capabilities for the next generation. also implementing social contribution activities, trust-based labor-management culture by developing capabilities for executives and employees, strengthening the eco-friendly system. Major Issues Business impact Development of employee capacity Conducting social contribution activities Creating a labor-company relationship based on trust reinforcement of eco-friendly system Level of stakeholder interest oppotunities risks To enable a sustainable future by preemptively issues related to organizational culture and launderstanding the needs of employees, local bor-management relations have become a hot communities, and the international community, topic and have attracted much attention both inwe are striving to provide training programs side and outside the company. Therefore, Daewoo that meet the needs of individual employees E&C operates programs and systems to impleand build trust based labor-management culment trust based labor-management culture. in ture. we also strive to contribute to the society addition, the construction industry is under presfrom a long-term perspective through social sure to decrease greenhouse gas emission and contribution activities in local communities. waste disposal, so we have systematic measures in place to respond to such changes in advance. sdGs and Major Issues of Major #sdGs daewoo e&c issue #3. Guarantee the healthy lives and well-being of Conducting social contribution all generations activities #11. Create sustainable cities and residential areas 643,135 #4. promote inclusive and equitable quality education along with lifelong learning opportunities for all Development of employees' #8. encourage sustained, inclusive and sustainable capabilities training cost per capita in 2018 : Krw economic growth, full and productive Labor-management relationship employment and decent work for all based on trust #10. reduce inequality training hours per capita in 2018 : 49hours #13. take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts #15. restore sustainable ecosystem reinforcement of eco-friendly system 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 074 our sustainability topics 075 Daewoo e&C selects local communities as major stakeholders and conducts social Issue1. contributions to improve social values and reflect the character of the construction industry. conducting social the company moves beyond simple social contribution activities and aims to strengthen Korean society’s sustainability by contributing to the resolution of its social and environmental contribution activities problems while making efforts to meet stakeholders’ expectations. Daewoo e&C will use the project management experience and infrastructure the company has accumulated over the past 45 or so years to ceaselessly make contributions to Korean society. The social contribution in 2007, Daewoo E&C formed the “Daewoo E&C social service group” made up of employees of the activity system company headquarters, domestic and overseas sites and social volunteers. The company conducts social contribution activities through relay-volunteer-program and carries out environmental cleanup programs for local communities and sharing programs for the socially disadvantaged on a regular basis. We continue to broaden the scope of the activities, and launched Family Volunteers group which includes not only employees but their families. The group recently took part in mural painting activities for communities. social Contribution organizational Chart social contribution committee HQ organization on-site organization Volunteer Team (csr consultative Group) (Division/Office/Team) (Korea/overseas) ① ② ③ ④ the building houses with hope program ① ② ⑤ ⑤ ⑥ “habitat” activities by College student ambassadors director, social service Group ③ ④ ⑥ Executive Office of Volunteer Group social contribution (permanent organization) The Building Houses with Daewoo E&C conducted the Building Houses with Hope program twice in 2018 during the first and Hope program second half of the year. Habitat korea, which deals with residential issues and housing renovation Major social Contribution activities Major Targets Major sectors social contribution activities projects in poverty-stricken regions, was the company’s partner in planning the program. Employpeople with disabilities Environmental improvement remodeling dilapidated ees from Daewoo E&C’s Plant Division, Strategic Planning Division, Procurement Division, Q-HSE Elderly people living alone Talent donation facilities services Division and prUgiO service Center participated in the program. The volunteers visited single-parent families sharing activity Donations to the Un Children’s Fund households that receive government support to survive and reside in dilapidated houses in Mapo-gu Deliver coal briquettes, and Yongsan-gu. The volunteers put in new wallpaper, redid floors, and renovated sinks and insulaMaking and sharing kimchi tions. The Building Houses with Hope Program reflects the unique character of Daewoo E&C, and the company plans to conduct the program six times in 2019 as its flagship CSR activity. date event and participation department 2019 building houses with hope social contribution as one of the best construction companies in korea, Daewoo E&C expands the scope of its social program plan (tentative) Mar The 1st Building Houses with Hope : plant Division, audit Committee, prUgiO service Center activities domestically contribution programs beyond the country to overseas and aims to deliver long-term value with apr The 2nd Building Houses with Hope : Housing & Building Division, value-Up & innovation Division and overseas sincerity by linking the programs to the company's business areas. JuN The 3rd Building Houses with Hope : Civil Projects Division, Q-HSE Services Division, PRUGIO Service Center JuL The 4th Building Houses with Hope : Daedaehong (Daewoo E&C college student ambassador group) sep The 5th Building Houses with Hope :Hr Coporate Management & service Division, strategic planning Division oCt The 6th Building Houses with Hope :procurement Division, Finance Division, prUgiO service Center area category Major activities notes “Building Houses with Hope” three times a year volunteer work by subsidiary employees Domestic talent donations Support for field trips support for career experiences and special lectures environmental Building Houses with Hope three times a year 2019 Building Houses with Daewoo E&C runs a college student ambassador program each year to build a youthful corpoimprovement activities Cleaning gyeonghuigung palace park volunteer work by subsidiary employees Hope program plan rate image and conduct Csr activities. in 2018, the company ran the Building Houses with Hope sharing activities sharing coal briquettes, year-end “sharing of the love,” group blood donations yangji village in sanggye 3and 4-dong (Tentative) program and conducted activities ranging from improving traditional market environments to relief work in indonesia after the tsunami cleaning up protective care facilities for abandoned pets along with 36 college student ambasother activities Making baby shoes for infants up for adoption volunteer work with employee families sadors. The activities related to interior improvement was particularly meaningful because it overseas Medical support support for free treatment of eye-related diseases Morocco, india delivered social value that both put Daewoo E&C’s abilities on display and linked up with the Living and providing those located near construction sites with water areas of interest held by college student ambassadors. along with its college student ambassaEthiopia, singapore environmental support Other environmental improvement activities dors, Daewoo E&C will continue to spread vitality and passion throughout society as part of its educational support support for school supplies to kindergartens and orphanages india efforts to fulfill its social responsibilities. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 076 our sustainability topics 077 Issue2. Daewoo e&C recognizes that developing the competency of its employees is both an asset and Human resource development structure the engine for heightening the company’s competitiveness. accordingly, the company strives to developing create a corporate culture centered on effectively managing its human resources. Daewoo e&C fosters its recruiting and implementing a human resources development system through fair employee capacity Ⅰ. Hrd action plan by new Vision and equal opportunities, and conducting rational performance evaluations, and contributing to addressing social inequalities such as the prohibition of discrimination against the socially disadvantaged, such as women and the disabled. Vision Build Together realizing best value together with the customer Human rights policy Daewoo E&C has enacted the human rights policy to reinforce human rights protection and fulfill its social responsibility by reflecting issues related to the protection of human rights. These include Strategic goal Global Top 20 the Labor standards act and international standards such as iLO Declaration and OECD guidesales of Krw 17 trillion and operating profit of Krw 1.5 trillion by 2025 line in performing tasks by employees. Details of the policy are based on the Constitution of the republic of korea, labor-related laws, prohibition of discrimination against ethnicity and religion and forced labor. support for Fulfillment of HRD consultants' roles Action plan new vision & core strategies for organizational changes core strategies advancement of reinforcement of securing a core Value propagation reinforcement of leadership capability performance capability marketing capability new growth engine Transparency-based •Organizing domestic/overseas training courses •Support for cultivating local experts •Reestablishing a code of conduct for •Establishing class-based leadership recruitment of Talent Diversifying and advancing training courses Language and different culture in a new business county core values •Developing a program to internalize education system Establishing a communication core values course for managers Job café Daewoo E&C held the Job Café to provide applicants with the opportunity to acquire sufficient “performance-centered Hrd to contribute to achieving goals by aligning vision and strategy” information about the company and desired job positions. Existing job fairs for each university had limitations in providing many students with the opportunity; we have adopted a pre-online application system in the job fair and changed the form into the job Café. with the changed system, applicants acquire customized information about the desired job and detailed information Ⅱ. current status of Hrd system about the applied company through one-on-one consultation with senior employees working at the actual site, while the company recruits remarkable employees who are the most suitable for Hr People with challenging and passsionate spirits, who fulfill their responsibilities with confidence model the company’s organizational culture, not just based on a simple background. in 2018, the job Café was operated seven times from september 10 to 18 and attended by a total core value/vision sharing and performance-oriented leader development of job experts establishment of on-site learning of 363 job seekers. action-oriented performance cultivation and global talents support system strategic internalizing core value and Establishing leadership pipeline by Early development of junior position performing the role of control tower by task spreading communication-based reforming job/role-based and establishing strategic cultivation job operating system and institution and corporate culture education system education system connecting with Hr system Job café operation learning support and system Value/Introductory track leadership/core Hr track Global/Job track operation • Held seven days in Seoul/Gyeonggi-do and in four major local regions • Four people per hour/Reservation system •Introductory course for new employees •Newly appointed executives •Common job capability education •Barobaeum (cyber training center) •Mentoring for new employees •Highest executives system (negotiation, planning/ •Sharing Class • One-on-one job consultation with veteran employees in each job, and introduction to the •Overseas site trip by new employees •Leadership for new team leaders/ proposal, pT, accounting, Oa, BiM) •HRD committee workshop •Together Challenge on-site directors •Jobs in the winter •Support for external training (E-HR) company and the recruitment process •Introductory course for experienced •Leadership F/U for team leaders/ •Improving PM capabilities •Operation of education credit system, suband professional/ recruited employees on-site directors (every two years) etc. sep. 10 (Mon) sep. 11 (tue) sep. 12 (Wed) sep. 13 (thu) sep. 17 (Mon) sep. 18 (tue) sep. 19 (Wed) track •Team synergy workshop (OD) •Domestic and overseas training •Real-estate developer •Employees awareness survey, etc. •Course for promoted employees at •Process management Busan Daegu gwangju Daejeon Headquarters summit gallery (seoul) each position •Contract/Claim management •Insight seminar/class •Legal education for technicians, etc. review/Improve each track every year based on internal and external environmental changes and internal demands 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 078 Our Sustainability Topics 079 Fair assessment and reward system Change management Improvement of Performance Daewoo E&C improved its employee assessment program as part of its efforts to promote a perLife Vision Plus for Daewoo E&C operates a regular program to help employees design their future based on the Management System formance-based corporate culture. The assessment measures for the company's management Designing growing need to plan out their lives and manage change across their life-long careers with the was redesigned for more fairness and transparency by enhancing quantification and objectification Employee futures company. In 2018, the company provided a 16 hour, one night, two day long change management with detailed KPI and adopting assessment verification procedure through Management Evalutraining with a view to provide middle-aged employees with the tools to prepare for the second ation Committee. The company applied global performance management trend that emphasize phase of their lives. The training helped them understand their own personal changes and how cooperation and teamwork, and improved its assessment systems to reduce seniority/promotion to deal with anxiety by examining their own mindsets and designing their future lives. Training centered HR practices and promote task/performance centered HR culture. participants were given the time to reflect on themselves with the phrase “Knock On Change!” as part of the trainings efforts to help them respond to the changing global environment and think about their lives after retirement. Daewoo E&C’s training will continue to provide trainings that are focused on the areas of interest held by future participants. Curriculum Topic Assessment and Daewoo E&C has implemented fair and transparent evaluation by adopting the management by Life Vision Plus Curriculum Reward System objective (MBO) approach and strictly prohibits discrimination based on gender, level of education, Change Management Perceived change situation through life history writing nationality and other personal characteristics. For all employees, evaluation reflects individual job Open mind Relation through empathy performance and contribution to corporate performance, and determines individual performance Balance of Income&Expenditure Asset management and manage cash flow ratings based on which the company differentiates salary increase rates. In 2018, detailed coaching and feedback is improved. Employees can appeal the results of the evaluation of performance. Career Design Find own strengths and establish a systematic plan for ideal life Daewoo E&C will continue to implement a compensation system based on fair and non-discrimiHealth Care Health management know-how and training methods natory performance. Tax-tech of inheritance Manage your assets through inheritance bestowed by trends Career Management Utilizes strengths and experiences to improve performance Overseas HR Management Sharing Class for Daewoo E&C employees participate in the “Sharing Class” and share their various talents, techfield of Daewoo E&C inhouse niques, experiences, and professional know-how. In April and August 2018, employees took part in experts knowledge sharing an event called the “Trend Insight #AR/VR” to share knowledge and construction market analyses to help them respond to global technological changes such as virtual reality and augmented reality. Expanding the Pool of Daewoo E&C has established and managed its global talent pool with a basis on the BAROCON The event used modeling data of AR/VR technologies that are applicable to construction work and Outstanding Foreign system as part of its efforts to retain outstanding foreign employees. The company continually promoted the strengthening of company-wide communication about job competency and R&D. Employees updates the pool of outstanding foreign employees each year through a detailed work proficiency survey on outstanding foreign workers recommended by overseas construction sites. Daewoo E&C 2018 Sharing Class ensures outstanding foreign employees continue to be retained by the company through management of their career history and recent work experience. Support for Overseas Labor Daewoo E&C publishes a labor management work manual for for overseas sites and headquarters Management staff members about countries the company has new projects in or countries the company has conducted projects in the past and new projects have begun. The manual presents a comprehensive introduction to labor management issues in each country, from the recruitment of local employees to follow-up management. and Through continuous improvement of the BAROCON system, Daewoo E&C monitors and manages a range of data required for labor management including: 1) the return of an employee back home in the middle of an overseas project; 2) re-employment procedures; 3) contract extension procedures; and, 4) statistics on the wages of foreign workers. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 080 our sustainability topics 081 Issue3. Daewoo e&C strives to strengthen the company’s warm-hearted and tolerant corporate culture Welfare and Benefits Daewoo E&C runs a range of welfare and benefit programs aimed at ensuring its employees by enhancing company-wide campaigns and employee communication channels. the company are happy and achieve a work-life balance. the company’s welfare programs include energizing will continue to energize the company’s organizational culture through a range of activities for employee Happiness a childcare leave system, adjusted working hours for employees with children, health organizational culture such as “break the Wall Campaign” and by placing an emphasis on communication and through family-friendly management, and time off to enjoy culture and leisure activities. the company understands collaboration. that employee happiness directly impacts their work and the sustainability of the company and system will ensure employees continue to receive superior levels of welfare and benefits. Trust Based organizational Daewoo E&C runs a childcare leave system for all its employees. The company has expanded the The pruGIo daycare center Daewoo E&C runs a childcare leave system for all its employees. The company has expanded the culture system for childcare support by shortening working hours for employees with children, implementsystem for childcare support by shortening working hours for employees with children, implemented a flexible working system and provided family-care leave. Daewoo E&C further has a system ed a flexible working system and provided family-care leave. Daewoo E&C further has a system to protect pregnant employees and employees with a pregnant spouse by reducing their working to protect pregnant employees and employees with a pregnant spouse by reducing their working hours, allowing them leave before and after childbirth, and providing paternity leave. in 2016, the hours, allowing them leave before and after childbirth, and providing paternity leave. in 2016, the company opened the prUgiO Daycare Center to address childcare-related issues faced by its emcompany opened the prUgiO Daycare Center to address childcare-related issues faced by its employees. a total of 37 children attend the daycare center as of 2018. ployees. a total of 37 children attend the daycare center as of 2018. children drawing contest with On june 2, 2018, Daewoo E&C held the “Children Drawing Contest with jung Dae woo” and emJung dae woo ployees and their family members had an excellent time. Held at the Children’s grand park, the event was attended by employees from all of the company’s korean and overseas construction sites and their elementary school-level children. about 300 employees and their family members participated in the event, which was held under the theme of “My Happy Family and House i want to Live in.” Outstanding pieces of artwork were posted on Daewoo E&C’s intranet. The company will continue to energize communication with its employees and their family members in diverse ways. Lunch with Ceo New year's greetings corporate culture campaigns Daewoo E&C conducts a range of campaigns to create a healthy corporate culture. The “From now, From Me” campaign, which began as part of efforts to create a healthy company and corporate culture, originated from the conviction that small, individual-based practices can serve as engines for company growth and future development. This campaign selected a total of 8 practical tasks. These tasks included: a proactive attitude toward work, a clear work commitment, a lateral approach to decision-making, outstanding team-work, smart reporting and strict company security. Daewoo E&C produced and distributed campaign posters throughout the company to encourage the achievement of these tasks. The company will conduct an even greater range of campaigns in the future to establish a proactive and healthy corporate culture. also Daewoo E&C held a contest “More precious than Flowers” In 2018, Daewoo E&C conducted the fifth “More Precious than Flowers” event. The event was held to think of slogans and ideas to improve the company’s work culture following the implementation event with parents over one night and two days and the parents of employees were invited to enhance employee pride of the 52 hour-per-week work policy. The contest was held under the theme of “Do & Don’t” to imand a sense of belonging in the company. The company invited 36 employee parents and toured the prove work productivity, ensure employee work-life balance, establish a stable working hour adjustcompany’s headquarters, summit gallery, songdo sheraton Hotel, siheung Central prUgiO and ment system, and improve work concentration and prevent overtime. The slogan Valuable Work DiCT. Time and Leisure Time Together was selected as the winner. Dos and don’ts selected through the contest included “short and Brief Meetings that report Only Major points” and “no repetitive Meetings with Many people.” with these slogans, the company will promote the 52-hour work week system and continue to enhance employee mindsets toward work. 'From Now From Me' Campaign 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 082 our sustainability topics 083 Implementing the 52-hour in accordance with the partial amendment to the Labor standards act on july 1, 2018, Daewoo Daewoo e&C acknowledges the increasing importance of environmental management, work week to reduce E&C organized the working Hours reduction task force (TF) in april 2018 as part of efforts to acIssue4. and thus our internal systems aim to fulfill our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. employee working Hours We thoroughly respond to stakeholder demands regarding the environment, and have tively respond to the changed system before the new legislation took effect. The TF studied and Improve an implemented various proactive measures to ensure our operations comply with domestic and analyzed different work types at each construction site and established a plan for standardizing environmental overseas regulations. working hour reductions through the use of korean and overseas pilot sites and labor-management monitoring and workshops. Upon implementation of this plan, the company also held disManagement system cussion forums with the CEO and education programs for employees. Daewoo E&C has worked to ensure the changes in the system are put into place early on by improving its e-Hr system, which is based on the introduction of a flexible working system. While overseas sites improved their vacation system based on a three-month flexible working system, company headquarters and Korean constructions sites have adopted the pC-OFF system as part of their efforts to take the lead in establishing an environmental The isO14001:2015 standard for environmental management systems has been applied to our “smart work” into practice. Management system internal systems spanning through engineering, procurement, construction, and even r&D. This allows our operations to adhere to the underlying principle of sustainable environments, and our employees to proactively implement company-wide environmental policies and targets. environmental Management environmental Management policies environmental Management Targets system • Implement EMS in accordance with ISO14001 standards and • No violations of environmental laws and regulations and complying to environmental laws and regulations no environmental accidents Mind-care counseling center Daewoo E&C runs the Mind-care Counseling Center to promote employee emotional health. The • Minimize environmental impacts of business operations • Establish and achieve energy and resource-saving targets program offers consultations for employees by a professional psychiatrist, a consulting program • Respond to stakeholder demands regarding the environment Establish and achieve targets for waste processing costs and climate change compared to sales to improve the relationships between parents and children, and career consultations to help children choose career paths. The center also conducts face-to-face counseling to address on-the-job Environmental Management: Midand Long-term Plans stress and management of emotions. in 2017, a total of 95 employees visited the center, and 135 Zero violations of environmental laws and regulations employees used the center in 2018. Daewoo E&C will continue to commit itself to promoting and Establish energy / resource targets managing the mental health of its employees. Establish waste emissions targets baroCoN environmental system Barocon environmental system waste environmental Iso 14001 GHG energy usage regulation management organization Health Improvement Daewoo E&C conducts three major health campaigns to help employees effectively manage their operation management management management (Contract, emission) management programs health. The program is run in the first and second half of the year and include a metabolic syndrome prevention and anti-smoking campaign, blood donation campaign and Cpr simulation educationprogram. environmental Management To systematically implement environmental management, Daewoo E&C established Corporate organization HSE Team and an Global HSE Team within the Q-HSE Services Division, which is under the direct anti-smoking Campaign leadership of the CEO. The two teams are responsible for supervising the company’s environmental management system. environmental Management Q-Hse services division Chart corporate Hse Team Global Hse Team appointing environmental Each construction site is assigned three managers to ensure that the environmental management Managers system is intact. These personnel are in charge of all environmental needs including gHg emissions, documentation, on-site environment (fugitive dust, noise & vibration, etc.) and also responding to any complaints. roles and responsibilities are evenly spread across administration, project control, and construction teams to ensure a system of checks and balance. on-site environmental Management site supervisor organizational Chart supervises all environmental affairs administration project control construction on-site environment aspects includes handling reports, includes managing government includes managing government civil complaints, and gHg relations and documentation relations and documentation 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 084 Our Sustainability Topics 085 Eco-friendly Daewoo E&C has implemented a systematic and eco-friendly construction process as part of Major Eco-friendly Technology Development its efforts to respond to heightening demands for environmental management due to fine dust, Construction climate change and other environmental issues. The company has also implemented proactive environmental management policies that include the development of eco-friendly products and technologies, and it is making every effort to take the lead in establishing environmentallyEnergy Management System To more proactively cope with the expansion of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and rapidly changfriendly infrastructure within the construction industry. Daewoo E&C will continue to maximize Integrated into Smart Homes ing global construction trends, Daewoo E&C is building an energy management system integrated and Apartment Complexes into smart homes and apartment complexes. The company recognizes that the efficient use of enits energy efficiency and develop its renewable energy technologies. ergy and the reduction of GHG emissions are a national and global mission. For more efficient energy use over the mid-and long-term, technologies, such as energy pattern recognition using Big Data and IoT(Internet of Things), efficiency enhancement with the real-time and predicted data, are recently receiving attention DICT aims to improve Daewoo E&C’s level of customer service through Constructing Eco-friendly, Daewoo E&C aims to construct completely energy self-sufficient housing through the development efforts to establish a standard communication system and data collection protocol that can effecZero-energy Housing of energy-saving technology called the “Green Premium.” Apartments with “Green Premium” tively identify indicators related to energy use, the residential environment and facility operations, technology will have real-time energy monitoring systems that will save energy and allow residents along with technology that can both analyze and utilize the compiled data. to control gas, lighting and security settings, and even call elevators from inside their own homes when needed. The technology will allow apartments to manage energy use through a real-time remote meter-reading and monitoring system that collects and analyzes data related to electricity, gas, water, hot water and heating. These developments will allow Daewoo E&C to construct zeSmart Homes and Apartment Complexes System ro-energy housing through the convergence of passive technology in the field of energy-use reduction and active technology in the field of energy self-sufficiency. CLOUD Various Smart App. SERVER Sensors Building Zero-energy Housing PASSIVE ACTIVE Minimize energy consumption of cooling Generate renewable energy and heating systems (e.g. enhanced insulation) (Including solar power, biogas, geothermal power,) Minimize energy consumption Energy self-sufficiency Deep BIG Integrated Learing DATA GATEWAY Building Zero-energy Housinge Implementing a Renewable In response to the Paris Climate Agreement and the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy's “ReSuction-type Foundation for Daewoo E&C’s suction-type foundation for offshore wind power was designed and developed Energy Business newable Energy 2030” plan, the company is pursuing a range of renewable energy projects in the Offshore Wind Power through research funded by the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries (Project Name: Development of fields of solar, wind, and biogas. For example, in the solar photovoltaic sector, Daewoo E&C is takdesign basis and concrete technologies for offshore wind turbine support structures/20120093). ing part in the “Jeju Solar Photovoltaic Energy Project,” which is being supported by the Jeju Special This foundation was developed using the advantages of a suction-type foundation, which is inexSelf-Governing Province. Construction on the project began in April 2018 after its contract was pensive and for easy and swift installation. The suction-type foundation is made out of concrete signed in September 2017. The company is replacing existing sources of energy on Jeju Island with material, which, compared to steel, is better at resisting changes in shape and is less susceptible renewable energy sources through the use of former tangerine gardens and jointly owned village to fatigue and corrosion. Three cells are installed inside the mono-pod suction-type foundation land to generate profits for the local community. Daewoo E&C is strengthening the basis for midand this allows operators to control its vertical position during the construction and operational and long-term business growth through renewable energy projects and facility renovating projects process. Compared to existing jacket foundations made out of steel, this suction-type foundation that use eco-friendly technologies. reduces construction costs and shortens installation periods. This suction-type foundation ensures that Daewoo E&C complies with both the “Paris Climate Agreement” and the Korean govThe Current Status of Renewable Sector Project Period ernment’s “Renewable Energy 2030” plan. Energy Projects Solar photovoltaic energy Jeju Solar Photovoltaic Energy Project September 2017~ Haenam Wind Power Energy Project Onshore wind energy Yeongwol Wind Power Energy Project Uljin Wind Power Energy Project Seonamhae Offshore Wind Energy Project Offshore wind energy Centrifugal model experiment of Stability assessment of Vertical position control Onshore transfer of suction-type Underwater installation of Jeollanam-do Offshore Wind Energy Project foundation for offshore foundation for offshore assessment of foundation for foundation suction-type foundation wind power wind power offshore wind power 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 086 Our Sustainability Topics 087 Strengthening Environmental Daewoo E&C recognizes that its employees have a duty to preserve the environment. The comManagement of Air, Air Education pany has expanded environmental education from only being held for environmental managers Waste and Hazardous Daewoo E&C participates in the “Voluntary Agreement between the Ministry of Environment and to an educational program focused on the need-to-know information for all construction site Chemicals Construction Companies for Reducing Fugitive Dust.” In 2017 and 2018, the company proactively employees as part of its efforts to improve company-wide environmental awareness. implemented both the required and recommended areas of the agreement on 66 construction sites and completed the development signed the for real-time monitoring of construction site Environmental education Chart Title Program Title Date attendees performance. In 2019, Daewoo E&C will sign the “Voluntary Agreement for Coping with Highly Main program Environmental Manager Capacity Building Program 1st : 04.05 / 2nd : 05.18 / 3rd : 11.29 102 Concentrated Fine Dust” with the Ministry of Environment and continue its voluntary efforts to 1st : 10.29 / 2nd : 10.29 / 3rd : 11.05 address fine dust-related complaints to protect people’s health and improve air quality. Supplementary Administrative Manager Training 4th : 11.06 / 5th : 11.06 / 6th : 11.07 465 training 7th : 11.07 / 8th : 11.12 / 9th : 11.12 Waste Site Environment Management Training 3,154 The Framework Act on Resource Circulation went into effect in January 2018. The act is aimed (Civil Project Division) Monthly Site Environment Management Training at reducing the generation of wastes that can cause environmental pollution if buried or burned, 1.1~12.31 12,361 Training (Housing and Building Division) with an exception for recyclable construction wastes such as recycled aggregates. Daewoo E&C Site Environment Management Training(Plant Division) 3,536 has further strengthened efforts to prevent generating such waste and has implemented strict Total 19,516 recycling standards for any waste generated from construction sites. Hazardous Chemicals Responding to Climate Change Daewoo E&C has committed itself to preparing a response system for the continuous reduction Daewoo E&C strictly manages all hazardous substances that are handled on construction sites to of GHG and identifying new opportunities through the implementation of energy-efficient imprevent the pollution of neighboring areas due to accidental hazardous chemical leakages or disprovement measures. The company continuously monitors GHG emissions in real-time given charges. The company transparently and properly manages the entry and final disposal of all hazthat the construction industry faces high-levels of GHG emissions from the beginning to the ardous substances on every construction site. In 2018, Daewoo E&C made efforts to reduce hazardcompletion of a project. ous chemical-related risks on all its construction sites by replacing existing hazardous substances with eco-friendly alternatives on 23 facilities that handle highly-concentrated hazardous chemicals. Carbon Footprint Daewoo E&C operates a greenhouse gas emissions management system to preemptively cope with the global environmental issue of climate change mitigation. Since 2012, we have improved the integrated management system BAROCON and added the greenhouse gas inventory system. With this change, we have successfully and effectively managed GHG emissions and measured the amount of energy use in all business sites and buildings. As each division sets its reduction target, GHG emissions compared to sales are automatically calculated with a monthly reduction target, this system automation has achieved the advanced greenhouse gas management system. Greenhouse Gas Inventory – Greenhouse Gas Energy Management Daewoo E&C conducts real-time monitoring on the amount of energy used by each construction site, building and energy source as part of its efforts to ensure systematic energy use. The company also operates an energy usage reduction program for all employees at its headquarters and at DICT to enhance company-wide awareness about how to efficiently use energy. Voluntary Agreement for Reducing Fugitive Dust GHG Inventory Energy Establishment of As a response to the national GHG emissions basic plan and basic roadmap by 2030, Daewoo GHG Emissions Reduction Plan E&C aims to reestablish a midand long-term action plan for GHG emissions reduction and conduct company-wide reduction activities. We will reinforce real-time monitoring for a reduction Environmental Information Every June target, encourage business sites (based on those with a large amount of emissions) to conduct Disclosure reduction activities, seek company-wide GHG emissions items and expand reduction activities. CDP Every July We will also preemptively deal with requests to disclose information related to GHG emissions to IR Report Every July enhance transparency and trust between stakeholders. Report on the establishment and results IR Report Reported on a quarterly basis of GHG emissions reduction plan is made public to stakeholders on a regular basis. Agreement for Fine Dust 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 088 our sustainability topics 089 acquired anti-bribery Management system Iso 37001 for the first time in the construction industry rIGHTeous ManaGeMenT Daewoo e&C strives to fulfill its corporate social responsibility, conduct fair management activities and reinforce compliance. We operate various programs to fulfill social responsibility by providing fair opportunities, mutual growth, customer safety and on-site health and safety management. the company will constantly 34 analyze the environment to fulfill corporate responsibilities and roles and contribute to meeting social needs. held meetings with suppliers Major Issues Business impact operation of health and safety management system reinforcement of compliance Mutual growth with suppliers interest of stakeholders oppotunities risks social interests in the safety of not only field To become a company that grows through workers but also members of partner comtransparent and fair management, Daewoo panies are increasing, and the importance of E&C received the certificate for anti-Bribery safety and health management system has Management system(isO 37001) for the first been strengthened accordingly. Daewoo E&C time in the korean construction industry and operates the safety and health management set ethical standards for all employees. in system based on its CLEAR safety culture. addition, we are taking the lead in integrity management through regular meetings with partner companies for mutual growth. sdGs and Major Issues of #sdGs Major daewoo e&c issue #3. ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all, at all ages #11. Make cities and human settlements Mutual growth with suppliers inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable #3. ensure healthy lives health and safety management #16. inclusive system for sustainable reinforcement of compliance development 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 090 Our Sustainability Topics 091 Coexistence and Daewoo E&C has taken the lead in settling a culture of mutual growth in the construction Shared Cooperative Our efforts to operate a cooperative association to ensure balanced development and sustainable industry as we established Business Partnership Management Team (currently Business Association for Balanced growth with suppliers were recognized, so Daewoo E&C was ranked 1st among construction comMutual Growth Partnership Planning Team) as a department in charge of mutual growth for the first time Development panies in the mutual cooperation evaluation of balanced development with construction companies in the construction industry in 2000 and served as an organizer for the joint proclamation and efficient construction performance in 2018. This achievement can be attributable to our efforts Four Major Elements in the Guidelines by Fair Trade Commission ceremony of fair trade and mutual growth agreement with ten construction companies in to establish a long-term coexistence model as “KEEP COOP (Key Environment Engineering Profes1. Contract guidelines for Win-win cooperation 2. Guidelines for selecting and operating suppliers 2011. We maintain relationships with various suppliers and support them to reinforce selfsional Cooperation)” to improve technology competitiveness between suppliers and create added 3. Guidelines for installing and operating an internal review committee for subcontracts sufficiency by focusing on the possibility of mutual growth through partnerships based on the value and to establish “4S Structure Safety Cooperative Association” to create a cooperative culture 4. Guidelines for issuing and preserving desirable written statements for subcontracts philosophy of “growth of suppliers means the growth of Daewoo E&C”. for coexistence. The company will continuously prepare measures for coexistence and mutual growth with suppliers. Operation of Shared Cooperative Association Strengthening Coexistence Daewoo E&C conducts various support activities to promote mutual growth with suppliers. ReinCategory Detailed implementation Purpose with Suppliers forcing partner relationships through funds, education support and meetings is leading to improving the competitiveness of suppliers and mutual growth, and communication programs to strengthTotal engineering service regarding structural safety throughout Establish a new mutual growth model combining Daewoo E&C’s 4S Structure Safety en mutual bonds contributes to developmental partnerships between Daewoo E&C and suppliers. the entire construction period from design to construction and technological competence and practical skills of SMEs in the field of Cooperative Association maintenance after completion structural safety In addition, we have independently established and operate principles to respect the physical and intellectual properties of suppliers. We also established the four major elements in the fair trade KEEP COOP (Key Total service in all business areas including core material Overcome SMEs’ structural limitations such as shortage of research guidelines for partnerships between large-scale companies and SME and complied with the rules Environment Engineering production, integrated management S/W development, design, personnel and lack of technological competence, and strengthen Professional Cooperation) diagnosis, plant building, trial operation and Maintenance business competitiveness by securing new high-value added business areas in signing a contract. These guidelines are notified on our website. Support for Coexistence with Suppliers Daewoo E&C has focused on supporting suppliers to establish the foundation for self-sufficiency to reinforce coexistence and cooperation with suppliers. As of 2018, we have created a mutual growth fund of KRW Meeting with Suppliers Daewoo E&C has taken the lead in creating a culture of mutual growth in the construction indus28 million and granted loans to suppliers, and have also exempted and relieved suppliers with exceptional try as we established Business Partnership Management Team (currently Business Partnership Financial and outstanding performances from performance bonds to help address financial burdens. support No. of Employees Participating in the Planning Team) as a department in charge of mutual growth for the first time in the construction Meeting with Suppliers industry and served as a major supervisor for the “joint proclamation ceremony for fair trade and 2016 2017 2018 mutual growth agreement with ten construction companies” in 2011. For instance, we provide colTo promote the practical growth of suppliers, Daewoo E&C provides supplier education programs based 110 100 101 lective training for suppliers’ executives and practical education for site management by employees. on quality, construction and HSE (Health, Safety, Environment). We operate four education courses on construction jobs, Subcontracting Act and Framework Act on the Construction Industry to improve the job caWe also hold meetings to reinforce communication with suppliers. In February 2018, the proclama2018 Meeting with Suppliers (total 34) pabilities of suppliers’ employees; in 2018, a total of 179 employees completed education. The company also tion ceremony for safety innovation was attended by suppliers’ CEOs to ensure commitment. In the · Excellent / Mutual Growth Meeting with Educational conducts safety and environmental education for on-site directors of major suppliers, new suppliers and the Major Suppliers 1(for Outside Suppliers) technology research support sector, we improved technology skills among suppliers by holding a support CEOs of new suppliers. · Material / medium-term business technology presentation and supporting joint research and patent application. On February 22, 2018, partnership mutual growth Meeting 1 (for material / medium-term we held a meeting with suppliers selected as excellent/major suppliers and prepared countermeaWith the aim of fulfilling social responsibilities based on coexistence with suppliers, Daewoo E&C provides cooperation company) sures for any common issues. Through these efforts, we established the “performance sharing · Material supplier meeting 32 support to improve awareness of sustainable management and address any problems. We conduct a “Clean system” and contributed to forming a sustainable supply chain. (by general material item) Holidays Campaign” to enhance the mindset for ethical management by suppliers. We offer benefits such as Sustainable exemption of penalties for suppliers achieving outstanding performances in the supplier improvement prosupply chain gram results. By designating Safety Inspection Day, we hold a safety activity briefing and session for suppliers’ management CEOs and on-site directors and encourage them to participate in implementing sustainable management. Mutual Growth Conference Daewoo E&C invites the employees of excellent suppliers to a Mutual Growth Conference to share policies and programs related to mutual growth. We also held a meeting and invited the CEOs of 33 suppliers to promote communication between suppliers and share information. The company also operates the unfair transaction reporting center through the supplier communication channel “e-Cos”, which solidifies a role Communication support as a communication channel for coexistence with suppliers. Agreement on Mutual Growth On April 25, 2018, Daewoo E&C signed an agreement of financial support with the KDB to achieve Financial Support between mutual growth with suppliers. Both Daewoo E&C and KDB created the mutual growth fund of KRW Schedule Meeting Daewoo E&C and KDB 28 billion in total. With this fund, about 400 suppliers of Daewoo E&C can benefit from reduced Domestic HSE team Positive safety culture (CLEAR) interest rates for loans from the KDB. Various coexistence programs are currently run based on the belief that the development of suppliers with remarkable technology skills and high potential of Giving a plaque of appreciation to excellent/major suppliers and Supplier awards ceremony commendation to excellent suppliers growth can lead to the growth of Daewoo E&C. These efforts will be the foundation for the development of construction industry in the future. 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 092 Our Sustainability Topics 093 Selection and Evaluation Daewoo E&C has established a systematic process for selection and evaluation to maintain a Evaluation and Daewoo E&C conducts quarterly on-site evaluations and half-yearly headquarters evaluations sustainable supply chain in selecting and evaluating suppliers. We select new suppliers based on Monitoring for Suppliers for suppliers with transaction performances for a certain period to establish a sustainable supply of Suppliers seven-staged procedures and continuously improve systems and infrastructure for efficient work. chain. In particular, we check the construction quality and on-site management capability of suppliers by carrying out on-site evaluations on a quarterly basis and examine the financial capability, safety and environmental management and status of repairing defects through headquarters evaluations. With comprehensive evaluations for economic, social and environmental risks in addition Selection of Suppliers Daewoo E&C pioneers new overseas markets and implements new business for mutual growth to the construction capability of suppliers, we select excellent suppliers and provide them with the with suppliers and reinforces capabilities to lead the construction industry. For these goals, we benefit of exemption from a performance bond for a year. The company also operates separate continuously seek excellent and competitive suppliers based on the supplier selection process to bidding participation criteria to promote financially healthy and reliable suppliers to participate secure the quality of construction and promote smooth construction implementation. In addition, in bidding. We impose sanctions such as limitations in bidding and cancellation of registration on we operate IT-based “e-Cos” website to receive applications all year around and select final new suppliers not meeting the criteria, so the company continuously implements a sound and transsuppliers based on safety evaluation, document screening and capability evaluation for each conparent supplier evaluation and monitoring system. struction type. Applicant reviews are conducted based on construction and technology capability, Supplier Evaluation and Monitoring Process financial stability and credit rating; added points are given to sustainable management items such 2. Request evaluation 4. Collect and report as safety environment, labor and ethical management. We also fulfill social and environmental 1. Site evaluation on of suppliers per 3. Conduct evaluation on-site evaluation 5. Reflect final a quarterly basis of suppliers evaluation results responsibilities in the supply chain by giving added points to companies with the certification of ISO project site results 9001 and ISO 14001. Business Partnership Planning Team On-site manager, on-site director, head of manageBusiness Partnership Planning Team Comprehensive ment team evaluation No. of Registered New Suppliers New Supplier Selection Process 2. Request evaluation 1. Headquarters 5. Adjust the rating of 2016 2017 2018 1. Register suppliers 2. Register suppliers 3. Safety evaluation evaluation on a of project sites by 3. Conduct evaluation 4. Collect and compliance violating (Register on the e-Cos) (Submit documents) (Domestic HSE team) Evaluation Manageof suppliers Determine the rating 0 188 212 quarterly basis company ment Team Business Partnership Relevant headquarters Business Partnership Planning Team department Planning Team 7. Notify evaluation 6. Consultation and notify 5. Capability evaluation results 6. Report to final 4. Document screening results for each construction type Reflect results to the decision-maker (Business Partnership (Business Partnership (Domestic outsourcing system Planning Team) Planning Team) team 1 and 2) Business Partnership Business Partnership Planning Team Planning Team 7. Print out a registration certificate Conditions for Cancellation of • Causing financial loss or reputational damage to Daewoo E&C Supplier Status Economy • Causing serious defects or quality issues and failing to address them • Engaging in collusion or spreading false rumors • Failing to meet credit rating standards Selection of Overseas To select overseas suppliers in a consistent and efficient way, Daewoo E&C has adopted the PQ Environ Suppliers (Pre-qualification) system and reinforced the pre-qualification procedure. In evaluating PQ, we mental • Causing serious environmental issues conduct a multi-faceted evaluation of company scale, construction performance, safety, quality and financial information to seek excellent overseas suppliers and connect to the overseas exter• Failing to pay employee wages or other such issues nal bidding process so that more competitive and fairer suppliers are utilized and managed. Society • Causing repeated safety accidents (Three or more serious incidents or three or more deaths per year; Register company Select and evaluate Register new overseas Pre-qualification Registration information overseas suppliers suppliers System for Overseas Suppliers • Request to write and • Conduct overseas PQ • Add and manage Education Regarding Daewoo E&C provides education regarding fair trade for employees. In 2018, we provided educaregister information Transmit evaluation (multiRegister a suppliers in the Fair Trade for Suppliers tion seven times in total and 207 employees participated in fair trade education. through Daewoo E&C data faceted evaluation for company Daewoo E&C overseas overseas PQ portal site automatically construction, finance, suppliers pool Category No. of participants to the (directly completed by BAROCON safety, quality, overseas suppliers) performance, etc.) • Enable the search of Supplier fair trade education(off-line) 160 overseas suppliers by • Send out results specific features Supplier fair trade special education(off-line) 47 automatically via email Overuse of Power(on-line) 4,869 Total 5,076 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 094 Our Sustainability Topics 095 Operation of Health and Daewoo E&C was the first in the industry to implement the OHSAS 18001 standard. We Health and Safety When any issue occurs, Daewoo E&C Health & Safety Management Committee disseminates continuously acknowledge that health and safety management is crucial not only to protect lives, Consultation System and implements resolutions through consultation with relevant committees for systematic operSafety Management but also in increasing customer satisfaction and boosting employee morale. Under the corporate ation of health and safety. With these activities, we forge a foundation upon which we can improve System policy of Protecting lives through change and innovation, we strive for continuous improvement high-standard safety management system by reflecting opinions from business divisions and onof our health and safety culture. site workers proactively. Procedure of Health and Management Consultation Disseminate and Issue implement raised Establishment of Health and Our policy aims to create a strategic safety culture, and to apply them to our numerous sites more resolutions Safety Policies efficiently. Executive officers at Daewoo E&C commit themselves to communicate a firm intention for safety at the workplace by means of showing exemplary behavior. We have also established and implemented a health and safety management policy system that is combined with safety management and health management for efficient site management. Consultation Industrial Health & Committee of Health & Safety Safety Executive Officers Committee Management Discussion of pending Review issues for Committee issues Collect opinions consultation Report work from business Collect opinions from performance and divisions workers plans Health and Safety Management Policy Protect Human Lives through Change and Innovation Policy System Compliance with Participation of all members Consistent improvements Consultation Committee of Industrial Health & Safety Health & Safety Category principles and guidelines • Establish smooth Executive Officers Committee Management Committee • Eradicate similar accidents • Comply with health & communication system • Prioritize health & safety Chairperson Head of Q-HSE Services Division Head of Q-HSE Services Division CEO safety laws and • Allocate roles and when assessing Health & Safety Executive Health & Safety Executive Officer Executive regulations responsibilities to all members construction plans Strategy Member Head of Health & Safety Director of Health & Safety Executive in charge of health and • Implement preliminary • Raise safety awareness • Establish advanced health Department Health & Safety Manager of safety (administrative secretary) Commissioner risk assessment through consistent training & safety system through Employees • Implement prior and education improvements Labor-Management Council permit to work system for high-risk activities Frequency Half-yearly Quarterly Half-yearly Reinforcement of Health and Daewoo E&C operates the Health & Safety Management Committee with the aim of implementing Health and Safety Daewoo E&C was the first construction company in Korea to implement a proper health and safety Safety Organizational System health and safety management more systematically. As safety-related accidents can be prevented only Management System management system. In November 2000, we became the first in the industry to attain OHSAS 18001 cerwhen employees and workers are guaranteed sufficient rest, our Corporate HSE Team and Global HSE Certification tification (British Standards Institution) to gain global credibility. In June 2015, we acquired KOSHA 18001 Team directly monitor company-wide activities. Under direct leadership of the CEO, our Health & Safety (Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency) in order to continuously implement and enhance our sysManagement Committee monitors performance indicators and plays a pivotal role in setting the directems related to health and safety. tion of our health and safety policy, and also formulating mid to long-term strategic roadmaps for our safety system. Our Corporate HSE Team and Global HSE Team take part for corporate level affairs, while Category KOSHA 18001 OHSAS 18001 Current Status of Health and our Construction Management teams of each business division take part for more detailed strategy Safety Management Certification Initial certification 2015.06.26 2000.11.30 making. Follow-up audit Once a year Once a year Extension (renewal) evaluation Once in three years Once in three years Health & Safety Management CEO Korea Occupational Safety & Committee Certification agency BSI Korea Health & Safety Committee Health Agency Q-HSE Services Division Corporate HSE Team Global HSE Team CLEAR TFT Health and Safety Daewoo E&C encourages all employees to participate in activities for systematic health and safety manPerformance Management agement. For this we operate and prepare separate KPIs for safety management. In 2018, we conducted 1,271 on-site safety inspections and and achieved 0.46 of the accident rate. 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 096 Our Sustainability Topics 097 Health and Safety Risk Daewoo E&C predicts and handles risks related to health and safety by developing a monitoring Reinforcement of Health Daewoo E&C has established health and safety policies and a detailed management system system for health and safety leading indicators. In 2017, 1,400 safety inspections across based on the regulations for health and safety management to reinforce health and safety for Management domestic and overseas sites and 1,271 in 2018. Through the inspections, a safety culture in and Safety Management employees. In particular, we implement guidelines for risk assessment and pre-safety evaluation which all employees are engaged has been created and contributed to establishing, applying and for Employees to prevent and deal with any safety issues related to business operation. In addition, we operate internalizing this culture across all business sites. the safety management system by setting independent targets and meeting legal requirements with the development of work guidelines through managing various risk elements and establishment of the management system. Reinforcement of Safety Daewoo E&C continuously strengthens the level of implementation of safety inspection by exInspection System panding inspections of construction machinery. As a result, our safety inspection performance has Internalization of Basics and Daewoo E&C conducts a campaign for internalizing basic principles to comply with health and greatly improved since 2015. Principles for Health and safety management. empowering managers to immediately terminate work upon identifying hazSafety ards, we conduct various activities, including Permit To Work (PTW) for high-risk work, authority Category Items to inspect Types of Safety Inspection to shut down work, management of construction machinery for Hold Point and reinforcing proper Inspections by executive officers Inspections by the CEO, inspections by the heads of divisions, inspections by PM usage of protective gear. Among them, the PTW System requires workers to check the preparation HSE inspections and support Regular site and system inspections, HSE theme inspections, etc. of adequate safety measures before performing tasks with a high level of accident risk. The system contributes to securing safety and preventing accidents. Expert inspections External system and technology safety inspections On-site support HSE Helper, Starter, etc. Basic Principle Compliance Campaign for Health and Safety Management 1. 2. 3. 4. Special inspections Safety inspections for thawing season, etc. PTW Authority to shut Hold Point Proper use of Life guard down work to construction safety protection Sheathing technical safety inspections, tower crane, construction lift Technical safety support PTW ensure safety machinery equipment inspections before delivery/during use Active Participation of CEO in Safety Activities Check by CEO Site Audit Safety of Technique Support Other Site Check 10 times 94 times 1,032 times 135 times Proactive On-site Support Daewoo E&C supports activities to prevent any potential accidents on the construction site. We have identified potential risks and near-miss accidents to remove these issues and operate support activities such as making it mandatory to acquire on-site director safety qualification to reinforce safety awareness and operating the nomination evaluation committee. Support for Suppliers to Daewoo E&C provides feedback through on-site diagnosis to conduct health and safety risk manEstablish Autonomous Safety agement for suppliers. We aim to promote prevention activities by encouraging suppliers to carry • Strengthen site responsibilities: Transition from follow up responsibilities to prevention check Management System out voluntary safety activities and self-improvement of safety levels. In 2016, we offered 20 major responsibilities suppliers to join us in a voluntary four-step risk management program through which we were able Major activity implementation (Plan-Do-Check-Action) check No. of Suppliers Participating in Risk Management to collectively improve safety levels. In 2017, Daewoo E&C increased the number of targeted suppli(Major activity: Weekly Risk Assessment, Daily Meeting, TBM, Work Plan, PTW) 2016 2017 2018 ers to 31. In 2018, 43 suppliers participated in the health and safety risk management and feedback Confirmation of R&R implementation 11 suppliers 31 suppliers 43 suppliers program. The company will continuously expand the scope of targeted suppliers and contribute to Feedback (Report/Training) strengthening their capabilities for risk management and accident prevention. » Reinspection of sites below the optimum level and evaluation result utilization Level Improvement through Diagnosis (individual/collective training) 2016 2017 2018 1. Initial 2. Improvement 3. On-site 4. Improvement 5. Feed + 6. Supplier diagnosis plans assessment diagnosis diagnosis workshop 27.5% 40.25% 26.2% • Expect reduction effect of frequency of accident risk through potential risk/Near miss check and remove Improved by 26.2% in 2018 : Risk = Frequency X Strength » Risk(↓)=Frequency(↓)xStrength • Injury accident management (Reactive) » Potential Risk/Near miss management (Proactive) Health and Safety Management With the increasing proportion of foreign workers in domestic and overseas sites and increase in for Foreign Workers number of overseas projects and sites, Daewoo E&C is focusing on managing the health and safety • Liability to on-site director safety awareness and safety accident prevention conditions for foreign workers to respond to the increasing number of foreign workers on the site. Mandatory to acquire on-site director safety qualification In particular, as Chinese workers account for over 90% in the domestic construction sites, we have Nomination evaluation committee operation adapted our system to provide training courses in Chinese, and have also recruited staff to support Chinese workers by distributing guidelines and conducting separate training. 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 098 our sustainability topics 099 Implementation of Health Daewoo e&C implements the CLear Culture, a program to provide health and safety education clear, unique safety Daewoo e&C strives to internalize CLear, our unique safety culture, as the company-wide and enhance awareness to promote awareness of all employees of health and safety, including culture. as the unique safety culture of Daewoo e&C, CLear was developed by reflecting the and safety education and headquarters, sites and foreign workers. We have also distributed foreign education materials culture of daewoo e&c specialty of domestic construction sites based on iiF (incident & injury-Free, JMJ associates), reinforcing safety culture for safety education to foreign workers and expanded the scope of safety education to suppliers. which was introduced through overseas projects. After the first launch in Banpo Central PRUGIO by installing a safety experience center at the DiCt, we have internalized the importance of summit construction site in 2015, CLear contributes to establishing and leading a positive safety experience-based education with facilities such as virtual reality (Vr) experience, Cpr training, culture up to now. safety belt experience, etc. Internalization of Daewoo E&C divides core behavioral value into five items to internalize our unique safety culture clear culture CLEar. The CLEar program aims to change our underlying behaviors through “recognition” and Health and safety Daewoo E&C provides all employees with health and safety education. This education is given to protect each other through expanded “relationships”. since 2015, the program has been applied education for all employees not only safety, health and environmental managers, but also on-site pMs, on-site directors, suand operates in eleven construction sites. pervisors and suppliers’ CEOs. in addition, on-site directors disseminate the contents of education and contribute to boosting the intensity of health and safety education on the site. commitment : executives leading by example on their commitment towards safety through Five Major behaviors for CLear c actions and communications in 2018, manager-level education was attended by a total of 274 employees and specialized capability education by 1,447 employees; a total of 2,022 employees completed health and safety education. The company will systemize health and safety education for all employees. l listen & speak : two-way communication that ensures that we listen to each other unique safety e eliminate ua·uc : employees look out for each other to eliminate risk factors Culture of reinforcement of Health and Daewoo E&C aims to strengthen health and safety education to enhance the importance of Daewoo e&C safety education for employees health and safety and awareness for employees. we will subdivide a common curriculum for a appreciate sa·sc : appreciation and encouragement of behaviors that comply with regulations health and safety management into specialized courses for each level/job and make it mandatory for all employees to receive the education. we will also operate health and safety management education by proactively utilizing experience-based education facilities for safety and r relationship : improvement of relationships between all members construction safety experience. Current status of CLear program Category item to inspect plan for reinforcing health and safety Category Current Changed education in 2019 2015.11~ to current Banpo Central prUgiO summit • To establish the foundation for spreading • To install company-wide education course 2016.07~ to current Choji station Major Town Eco Complex Construction site safety culture (CLEar) for safety culture (CLEar) Direction 2017.01~ to current pyeongtaek vision Lake prUgiO Construction site • To operate common education-based • To develop specialized courses for each curriculum level/job 2017.08~ to current Daegok-sosa Double-Track no 4 Construction site operation • 15 courses/ 61 sessions / 2,022 people • 23 courses/ 174 sessions / 5,987 people 2017.09~ to current 2nd Daesin prUgiO Construction site • Expansion of mandatory education for all employees: education for safety culture 2018.02~ to current godeok Central prUgiO Construction site (CLEAR) + Experience-based safety education 2018.03~ to current Oryong Edu Forest prUgiO Construction site Major points • Vitalization of safety education for Chinese workers: On-site visiting education and development of education materials 2018.05~ to current gwacheon knowledge information Town Zone Construction site 2018.09~ to current goobo Construction Co., Ltd. Construction site 2018.09~ to current Osstem implant Central research institute Construction site expansion and reorganization of 2018.10~ to current Hwaseo station park prUgiO Construction site experience-based safety education Future direction for Daewoo E&C has made implementation plans for the unique safety culture CLEar in connecVr safety experience Living safety experience Construction safety experience clear culture tion with the strategic direction of the new vision. in 2019, we will establish a pool of consultants, expand the scope of site adaptation, promote the culture to the entire company and develop overseas site modules. We also selected a final target as the overall introduction of CLEAR to suppliers by 2021. we will establish a safety culture for suppliers and external stakeholders. Health and safety psychology Daewoo E&C operates Health and safety psychology Coaching program to heal employees’ coaching program mental injuries, prevent health disorders and cultivate positive minds. in 2017, the program op2019 2020 2021 erated for 210 people in 9 sites. in 2018, 79 people participated in the program in 4 sites. Through Establish a pool of consultants Operate a responsible team accelerate consulting this program, employees reduced any work loss such as accumulated stress, post-traumatic Expand the scope of sites (20 sites) Cultivate consultants Operate the committee stress disorder and lowered concentration by stress. The company will create better health and Company-wide CLEar Expand a scope of sites (40 sites) implement in-branding education/promotion Diagnose safety culture Expand CLEar to suppliers safety education through psychology coaching for employees. Develop overseas site modules 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 100 Our Sustainability Topics 101 Reinforcement of Daewoo E&C seeks sustainable management through fair, transparent performance and Compliance Organizational Daewoo E&C conducts compliance-related tasks based on the Compliance Team to strengthen the enhances awareness of ethics and compliance among all domestic and overseas employees. System and Roles capability to ensure compliance. We operate the Compliance Committee in charge of deliberating imEthical and Compliance We carry out various activities to settle the ethical and compliance culture under the slogan of portant issues related to ethics and compliance and Compliance Council in charge of carrying out detail Management “Build Together with Compliance” with the aim of creating culture of fulfilling legal and social activities. Compliance activities are implemented systematically by compliance leaders supervising acresponsibilities as an industrial leader. tivities in each division and compliance managers in charge of unit groups under the leadership of the Compliance Supervisor. Compliance System In 2013, Daewoo E&C proclaimed the “Daewoo New Way” and reformed ethics policies and related Compliance Organizational System Compliance Committee CEO (Chairman) Deliberate and resolve important complianceorganizations. As we introduced the compliance system and built the voluntary compliance system Executive Officer related issues in 2015, we committed ourselves to enhancing company’s reliability. In 2018, the company adopted Anti-Bribery Management System(ISO 37001) and was certified for establishing the anti-corruption Compliance Supervisor Head of Management Supervise the operation of compliance Diagnosis Division system meeting the international standard. The company receives pledges from employees each year to encourage their active participation and vitalizes reporting unethical cases through the Compliance Team internal report reward system. We also operate the compliance system to ensure an effective reCompliance Manager Consult concrete activities Compliance Council Compliance affairs Compliance Leader (share activity performance, improvements, etc.) sponse to any issues related to compliance and ethics. (support, inspection, evaluation) Employees appointed by each division Supervise compliance activities in the headquarters Midand Long-term Strategy Compliance Leader Employees appointed by (dissemination, education, inspection, etc.) Become a global leading transparent company expertise related team Employees appointed by Supervise compliance activities in the headquarters Settlement Compliance Manager team and site (dissemination, education, inspection, etc.) Compliance Conference in 2019 Contribution to company’s Growth sustainability • Global leading company for sustainability Settlement of ethical compliance culture Training and Promotion Daewoo E&C provides offline compliance training to new employees, chief managers and employees Introduction • Settlement of autonomous of suppliers with outstanding performance to prevent any legal violation and offer video educational compliance activities Prevention of corruption materials online throughout the year to enable more employees to complete required compliance Course Description • Certification and maintenance training sessions. In 2018, we launched a workshop for compliance managers to focus on reinforcing of Anti-Bribery Management 1 Session st Confession of Courageous Conscience their capabilities and spreading actual cases. In addition, the company constantly conducts promotional Operation of compliance (Internal Report) System(ISO 37001) and program expansion of the system to Information Security 2nd Session (Personal Information Protection) activities on a daily, weekly and monthly basis to call attention to the importance of compliance among • Creation of the basis for the the entire company compliance system 3rd Session Expediency does not Work (Anticorruption) employees. We publish the monthly newsletter “Compliance Together” and weekly report of “compliance • Zero corruption risks and • Establishment of compliance enhancement of internal and violation cases” and “weekly trend” and make public daily trends and policies in the bulletin board. The 4th Session ISO 37001 (Anti-bribery Management System) system external reputation and reliability company also carries out multiple campaigns such as “Clean Holidays Campaign” and “Healthy Notice (Regulation/organization/ • Enhancement of company’s Memory of Gifts 5th Session (Improper Solicitation and Graft Act) program, etc.) sustainability for Family Events” in order to build desirable relationships with stakeholders and prevent unethical con6th Session Overuse of Power (Mutual Cooperation) duct related to business affairs. 2014 2016 2019 2021~ Major Directions for 2019 1. Reinforce the capability of compliance manager 2. Expand inspection for unit group and increase support for compliance Reinforcement of among subsidiaries and suppliers compliance system 3. Expand the application of anti-bribery management system (ISO 37001) to the entire company Reinforcement of 1. Reinforce case-based education and enhance educational effectiveness education promotion 2. Enhance employees’ awareness for anticorruption Workshop for Managers Online Education Enhancement of internal 1. Release a sustainability report external reputation and 2. Manage and respond to reputational risk and needs for corporate social reliability responsibility 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 102 our sustainability topics 103 Inspection and evaluation Daewoo E&C has implemented compliance inspection and evaluation based on a unit group since 2015 receive Iso 37001 To operate the global-level compliance system, Daewoo E&C adopted isO 37001 (anti-Bribery Managewith the aim of enhancing employees’ awareness of compliance. inspection and evaluation for win-win ment System) and acquired the certificate in October 2018, the first domestic construction company to Cooperation, anticorruption, prohibition of inappropriate behaviors and speeches among employees, do so. For about a year, we diagnosed the internal control measures of the company, established the and protection of human rights were conducted for 35 unit groups in 2018 and will be carried out for 60 anti-bribery management system, anti-bribery policy and anti-bribery objectives, and conducted internal unit groups in 2019. Inspection results are reflected in each division’s management evaluation, and a audits. After complimentary actions for nonconformities, we were certified for establishment through an commendation is given to those with outstanding performance to motivate employees. external review by Bsi korea. Daewoo E&C will continue righteous management, solidify trust with domestic and overseas stakeholders and serve as the cornerstone for sustainability management. Correction and verification of selection of inspection target implementation of inspection effectiveness • Identify compliance risks in • Issue a request for correction teams/sites for insufficient points and • Select target teams/sites for • Inspect the current status of major compliance risks inspection by considering the compliance system operation in (taking measures) compliance trend and current teams/sites and examine • Check the results of status of business division insufficient points implementation and effects of corrective measures Inspection sector: win-win cooperation, fair competition, anticorruption, harassment in the company, protection of human rights, employment, etc. Expected effects for the ISO 37001 certification procedure 4. external 1. current status 2. system review and diagnosys 3. Internal review establishment certification (February to (June 2018) (april to May 2018) (July to august March 2018) 2018) Third-party compliance risk Daewoo E&C does not limit compliance activities to the company and expands the scope to subsidiaries • Analyze company’s procedures • Evaluate corruption risks in • Provide training to cultivate • Certification review by BSI Korea Management and suppliers. subsidiaries conduct independent compliance activities every month, and the outcome of and guidelines and identify each group (pilot team/site) internal commissioners 1st document review (july) / activities is reflected in the evaluation of subsidiaries’ management performance. In addition, we send improvements • Set a target for anticorruption • Conduct internal review and 2nd on-site review (august) •Provide education for core • Proclaim the anticorruption take corrective measures for • Issue a certificate a letter for compliance engagement to suppliers under the name of the CEO to reinforce compliance requirements in isO 37001 management policy inadequate issues capability in the entire supply chain; in case of any compliance violation among suppliers, we impose • Report review results to the management sanctions such as cancelling registration and restriction. The company has enacted the overseas anticorruption guidelines to prevent any risks in performing a global business and implemented anticorruption activities by inspecting compliance status in overseas sites. To block the possibility of any corruption in the organization by the system and reduce corruption risk Definition of Anti-Bribery The standard for anti-bribery measures enacted by the international Organization for standardization Global sustainability leading company Management system (isO), isO 37001 is the international standard to ensure the effective plan and execution of corporate an(Iso 37001) ti-bribery activities. 2019 plans expansion of the anti-bribery management system (Iso 37001) company-wide plan Do Check act • Evaluate corruption risks for all teams/sites and establish targets/plants to prevent corruption Establish/Operate measures by identifying the types and significance of corruption risks • Identify the situation in a • Financial/Non-financial • Internal review • Corrective measure • Continuous internal review corruption-related organization control measures • Identify inadequate issues • Continuously improve the and requests by stakeholders • Operate the internal report • Report to management system identify inadequate issues and continuously improve the system • Evaluate corruption risks and system (Compliance Committee) review by manager establish countermeasures • Receive, report and process • Announce Anti-Bribery Policy corruption information • Reinforce training related to anti-corruption practical training for staff in charge Online training appendIX 106 Management performance 107 key sustainability Management performance Data 118 gri index 120 UngC 121 sDgs 122 isO 26000 123 assurance statement on greenhouse gas Emissions 124 independent Third-party assurance statement 126 social Contribution performance awards 127 Membership 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 106 Appendix 107 Management Performance Key Sustainability Management Performance Data Economic Performance Economic Performance Total Company Sales Percentage of Total Sales Current Status of R&D (Unit: KRW billion) (As of 2018) Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Amount Investment KRW million 14,615 13,457 13,880 10,605 11,767 16% Manpower No. of developers Person 83 83 83 ■ Housing & building 3% Research projects 34 38 48 11,106 ■ Civil projects Result Industrial property rights (Patent, new technology) Case 62 65 58 18% 62% ■ Plant business Awards 6 5 6 ■ Others Performance of Contribution Cost for Technical Support Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Performance of Contribution Cost for Technical Support KRW 100 million 682 808 705 Sales of Each Business Division ■ 2018 ■ 2017 ■ 2016 (Unit: KRW billion) 8,000 6,022 Performance of Industrial Property Rights (Unit: Case) Category 2016 2017 2018 6,863 Civil Project Division 2,160 1,882 1,742 6,580 Category 2017 2018 Remarks 6,000 Housing & Building Division 6,022 6,863 6,580 Existing patent 285 308 Plant Division 2,792 2,620 1,944 Application 22 20 4,000 2,792 Patent Others 132 402 339 Registration 23 23 2,160 2,620 1,882 1,944 Total effective registration 308 331 2,000 1,742 Existing patent 9 11 132 402 New environmental technology (1), New construction technology (1), 339 Application 2 4 0 Green technologies (2) New technology Civil Project Division Housing & Plant Division Others Registration 2 3 New environmental technology (1), Green technologies (2) Building Division New technology (1), New construction technologies (7), Green Total effective registration 11 14 Change in the Amount of Construction Contracts Balance of Construction Contracts ■ 2018 ■ 2017 ■ 2016 (Unit: KRW billion) technologies (2), New environmental technologies (4) 25,000 Existing patent 153 164 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 21,472 21,414 Application 5 2 SW 2 21,843 Others Civil Project Division KRW billion 1,364 1,180 1,219 20,000 Registration 11 6 Design (2), SW (4) Housing & Building Division KRW billion 4,222 6,534 6,525 Total effective registration 164 170 Design (80), SW (83), Utility models (7) 15,000 Plant Division KRW billion 16 (758) 1,108 Existing patent 447 483 10,000 Application 29 26 3,655 6,650 Total 5,752 3,273 Registration 36 32 5,000 5,006 2,487 Total effective registration 483 515 0 Civil Project Division Housing & Building Division Plant Division Current Status of Major Shareholders (Unit: Share) Credit Ratings (As of April 2018) Shareholder Ratio No. of shares ■ KDV Value 6 Ltd. Effective rating Evaluation Evaluating Agency KDV Value No. 6 50.75% 210,931,209 40.64% ■ National Pension Corporate bill Corporate credit rating category 50.75% National Pension Service 6.53% 27,126,251 ■ Employee Stock Korea Ratings A2ARegular evaluation Ownership Association NICE Investors Service A2ARegular evaluation Employees' Stock Ownership Association 0.58% 2,391,470 6.53% ■ Others Korea Investors Service A2ARegular evaluation Others 40.64% 168,909,822 0.58% 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 108 Appendix 109 Key Sustainability Management Performance Data Economic Performance Environmental Performance Sales in Each Region Eco-friendly Building Certification Status in 2018 Category Project Eco-friendly Building Certification Project Eco-friendly Building Certification 2016 2017 2018 G-SEED Preliminary Certification ‘General (Green 4th Grade)’ / Energy Energy Efficiency Certification ‘1+ Grade’ / G-SEED Certification ‘Best (Green Suwon station PRUGIO Xi Yeoksam Station Central PRUGIO City Efficiency 1st Grade 3rd Grade)' Korea 7,787,956 9,110,477 8,251,919 Energy Efficiency Preliminary Certification ‘1st Grade’ / G-SEED Preliminary G-SEED Preliminary Certification ‘General (Green 4th Grade)’ / Energy Hwaseo Station Park PRUGIO Samsongwonheung Station PRUGIO Certification ‘Excellent (Green 3rd Grade) Efficiency 1st Grade Middle East 1,238,664 1,417,585 1,585,783 Energy Efficiency Preliminary Certification ‘1st Grade’ / G-SEED Preliminary Cheonan Buldang Park PRUGIO 1 G-SEED Preliminary Certification ‘General (Green 4th Grade)’ / Energy Chuncheon Central Park PRUGIO Certification ‘Excellent (Green 4th Grade) Complex Efficiency 2nd Grade Asia 434,744 480,331 321,421 Energy Efficiency Preliminary Certification ‘1st Grade’ / G-SEED Preliminary Cheonan Buldang Park PRUGIO 2 G-SEED Preliminary Certification ‘General (Green 4th Grade)’ / Energy Yongin Yeongdeok Park PRUGIO Certification ‘Excellent (Green 3rd Grade) Complex Efficiency 2nd Grade Africa 1,644,629 757,793 445,961 Energy Efficiency Preliminary Certification ‘1st Grade’ / G-SEED Preliminary Pangyo First Hill PRUGIO Gimhae One Major G-SEED Certification / Building Energy Efficiency Certification ‘2nd Grade’ Certification ‘Excellent (Green 3rd Grade) Others (63) 654 410 Mapo 3 district 3 district Urban Energy Efficiency Preliminary Certification ‘1st Grade’ / G-SEED Preliminary Uiwang Zhang'an District Park PRUGIO G-SEED Certification / Building Energy Efficiency Certification ‘2nd Grade’ Environment Improvement Project Certification ‘Excellent (Green 3rd Grade) 1 Complex Total 11,105,930 11,766,840 10,605,494 Gumdan Central PRUGIO G-SEED Preliminary Certification ‘Good (Green 2nd Grade)’ / Energy Gyeongju Central PRUGIO G-SEED Certification ‘4th Grade’ / Building Energy Efficiency Certification Efficiency Preliminary Certification ‘1st Grade’ ‘2nd Grade’ Based on the Business Report Gwacheon Jugong 1 Complex G-SEED Preliminary Certification ‘Best’ / Building Energy Efficiency Anyang Bisan Elementary School G-SEED Preliminary Certification ‘Excellent (Green 3rd Grade) / Energy Preliminary Certification ‘1st Grade’ District Efficiency Preliminary Certification ‘2nd Grade’ G-SEED Certification General (Green 4th Grade)’ / Building Energy Efficiency G-SEED Certification ‘4th Grade’ / Building Energy Efficiency Certification Ansan Metro Town PRUGIO Hillstate Gwangju Central PRUGIO Certification ‘2nd Grade’ ‘2nd Grade’ Remuneration for Directors and Auditors (As of 2019/Unit: Person, KRW million) 7%(5,176 tCO2eq) GHG Intensity 5%(3,406 tCO2eq) Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 No. of Persons Internal Director (Excluding outside directors and Audit Committee members) Person 2 2 3 0.881 ■ Purchased electricity Outside Director (Excluding Audit Committee members) 2 1 1 0.770 ■ Stationary combustion Audit Committee members 3 3 3 0.667 ■ Mobile combustion Total amount of Director (Excluding Outside Directors and Audit Committee members) KRW million 1,612 826 828 88%(62,133 tCO2eq) remuneration Outside Director (Excluding Audit Committee members) 93 59 61 2016 2017 2018 Audit Committee members or auditors 122 180 192 Emissions for each type (2018) Average Director (Excluding Outside Directors and Audit Committee members) 806 413 276 Current Status of GHG Emissions for Each Source Outside Director (Excluding Audit Committee members) 46 59 61 Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Audit Committee members or auditors 41 60 64 Direct emission Stationary combustion tCO2eq 5,061 4,119 5,174.523 *Including remuneration for retired directors Mobile combustion tCO2eq 6,057 5,027 3,409.104 Indirect emission Purchased electricity tCO2eq 57,475 61,357 62,136.091 Operation Performance of Board of Directors GHG Emissions Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remarks No. of meetings Number 16 15 16 Total site consumption tCO2eq 60,509 62,958 64,221 Scope 1+2 No. of resolved agendas Case 65 49 55 Total building consumption tCO2eq 8,080 7,544 6,494 Scope 1+2 Percentage of directors attendance % 94.8 98.3 95.5 Total emissions tCO2eq 68,589 70,501 70,715 Scope 1+2 GHG intensity tCO2eq/KRW 100 million 0.881 0.770 0.013 (Scope 1+2 )/Domestic sales *The number of business sites is rounded off, so there are differences between GHG emissions for each source and total emissions. Water Consumption Number of Meetings by Subcommittees of Board of Directors Unit 2016 2017 2018 Ton 1,206,713 2,088,275 1,614,303 Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Audit Committee Number 6 10 9 Waste Outside Director Nomination Committee 2 1 0 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remarks Volume treated Ton 597,000 592,790 570,845 Domestic sites Treatment cost KRW 100 million 153 169 199 Domestic sites *Payment of the Waste Disposal Charge *Increased amount of waste generated at large sites 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 110 Appendix 111 Key Sustainability Management Performance Data Environmental Performance Social Performance Energy Consumption Eco-friendly Purchasing (Unit: KRW billion) Current Status of Employees Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remarks 296 0.60% Total site consumption TJ 1,202 1,258 1,295 255 12.82% 10.38% Total building consumption TJ 157 111 126 21.89% ■ Permanent 206 Total consumption TJ 1,359 1,369 1,421 ■ Contract ■ Domestic ■ Male 6.40% Energy intensity TJ / KRW 100 million 0.017 0.015 0.013 Total usage / Domestic sales ■ Others ■ Overseas ■ Female 2016 2017 2018 71.11% ■ Executives 87.18% 89.62% Environmental Unit – Performance of HSE Audit (As of 2018) By Type of Employment (2018) By Region (2018) By Gender (2018) Category Civil project Housing Plant Total On-site environmental instruction and inspection 10 36 1 47 Category Details Gender Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remarks HSE system audit (Special) 0 1 0 1 Total number of Employees, contract employees, experts , HSE system audit (Fugitive Dust) 4 4 2 10 Person 5,998 5,842 5,359 employees recruited employees (except foreigners) Total 14 41 3 58 Management Male Person 41 38 32 executives Female Person Male Person 3,680 3,628 3,506 Permanent employees Environmental Protection Expenditure and Investment No. of employees Female Person 318 315 305 (Unit: KRW million) for each Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Male Person 420 442 337 Including contract executives employment type Contract employees Expenditure and investment for Environmental investment KRW million 189 194 190 Female Person 6 6 6 environmental protection Environmental cost KRW million 182 176 179 Male Person 1,320 1,175 928 Others Environmental training No. of employees attended environmental training Person 31,720 19,516 27,188 Female Person 213 238 245 Domestic Male Person 4,546 4,499 4,127 No. of employees Female Person 527 549 545 in each region Overseas Male Person 915 784 676 Excluding overseas local employees Environmental Education Performance Female Person 10 10 11 Category Training course Unit Job education for on-site environmental managers Male Person 5,461 5,283 4,803 Regular Period Hours 8Hr Female Person 537 559 556 (Monthly education) Diversity of No. of participants Person 198 Elderly Person 366 323 400 Over 55 years of age Environmental education employees Training course Unit Job education for on-site environmental managers performance Foreigners Person 27 17 14 Not included total head count Occasional Period Hours 1Hr People with disabilities Person 65 60 44 As of December 2018 (Ordinary education) No. of participants Person 26,990 New Recruitment, Turnover and Retirement Environmental Regulations Violation Cases Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Details 2016 2017 2018 Male Person 83 73 46 New Hires Violation of environmental Total amount of penalties (KRW) 3,000,000 0 1,000,000 Female Person 12 8 6 laws and regulations No. of cases 1 0 1 Retirement · Male Person 145 130 208 No. of sanctions 1 0 0 Resignation Female Person 17 11 22 *Violation of environmental laws about Fugitive Dust Standard *Permanent Employees Only ※ Refer to annual reports and disclosure materials 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 112 Appendix 113 Key Sustainability Management Performance Data Social Performance Total Number of Managers Number of Female Managers (Unit: Person) Retirement Pension Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 113 112 Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total number of managers (Department manager and higher position) Person 3,297 3,148 2,736 100 Amount of cost KRW million 234,892 243,796 241,556 Total number of executives* Person 210 160 121 DC Person 1 5 5 No. of subscribers 2016 2017 2018 DB Person 4,214 4,217 3,881 Performance of Education and Training Maternity Leave No.of benefitted employees No.of returned employees Childcare Leave No.of benefitted employees No.of returned employees Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 26 251 Education cost per capita KRW 680,544 687,766 643,135 229 20 Education hours per capita Hour 80 66 49 182 22 17 225 19 208 166 10 Information Security Education 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit Target Completed completed Completion ratio (%) Remarks Information security online education Person 5,104 5,104 0 100% 3 rounds in total Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total Person 251 229 182 Total Person 17 20 26 Male Person 229 203 165 Male Person 6 7 14 Female Person 22 26 17 Female Person 11 13 12 Current Status of Completion for Sexual Harassment Prevention and Human Rights Education Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Education hours KRW / Person 5,946 5,898 5,487 Ratio of return Unit 2016 2017 2018 Education hours per capita Hour / Person 1 1 1 Maternity Leave Total ratio of return % 99.10 98.10 98.10 Ratio of return Unit 2016 2017 2018 Performance Evaluation Childcare Leave Total ratio of return % 58.82 95.00 84.62 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Eligible person Person 5,305 5,225 5,025 Evaluation ratio % 100 100 100 Average days of leave 2016 2017 2018 Day 359 250 272 Current Status of Labor-Management Committee Ratio of Labor Union Membership 34.1% Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 29.3% Performance of laborNo. of committee meetings Number 4 4 4 26.3% management committee No. of resolved agenda items Case 6 5 19 2016 2017 2018 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 114 Appendix 115 Key Sustainability Management Performance Data Social Performance Performance of Domestic HSE Education Securing Safety in Advance by Pre-risk Management (Unit: Number) Category 2016 2017 2018 Category System audit Check Category Initial Site Field safety of Construction Equipment Site for pilot operation of CLEAR program 2 5 10 Securing Safety Theme Check Hazard Prevention Plan Request technique T/C Lift/Gondola Implementation of mutual growth safety programs for suppliers 20 30 48 Domestic Audit 94 65 56 Domestic Support 12 2 65 625 342 Mental coaching program (No of Sites/No. of participants) 10/272 9/210 4/79 Category Emergency check for Construction Total System audit Technology check Security check severe accidents machinery check Performance of Overseas HSE Education Overseas Audit 12 9 1 0 0 2 Category 2018 Securing Safety with Inspection by Managers NEBOSH ICC (Construction safety engineer in the U.K.) 10 OSHA 30 (Introductory education for construction safety in the U.K.) 48 Check by CEO Site Audit Safety of Technique Support Other Site Check 10 times 94 times 1,032 times 135 times OHSAS 18001 (Course for senior experts in the health and safety management system) 4/79 In-house HSE-Q Training Performance Accident rate Category Target of Training Order Person Category 2016 2017 2018 On Site Director 6 159 Mortality per 10,000 workers1) 1.29 0.48 0.55 Supervisors 9 465 Converted accident rate 2) 0.33 0.33 0.40 Safety manager 11 379 LTIR3) 0.02 0.07 0.05 Health&Safety manager 2 93 1) Mortality per 10,000 workers: Annual mortality for 10,000 workers Safety manager New employees 1 6 2) Converted accident rate: Converted accident rate for 100 causalities a year (1 fatality = 5 injured workers) In-house HSE-Q 3) LTIR (Lost Time Injury Rate): Rate of accidents for lost work (probability for casualties per 1 million hours) Safety/Health&Safety manager New 2 13 Training Environmental manager New 2 87 Current Status of Suppliers Quality manager New 1 12 Quality manager Intermediated/Advanced 1 38 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Quality manager Specialized 1 51 Total No. of suppliers Company 976 989 1,059 Newly appointed employees( Overseas) 12 70 Amount of purchase for suppliers KRW 100 million 35,608 34,545 31,240 Outdoor Training HSE-Q Training Performance Major Suppliers Category Target of Training Order Person Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Outdoor HSE-Q Training Specialized Training 116 No. of major suppliers Company 123 101 101 Amount of major suppliers purchase Total amount KRW 100 million 14,890 16,904 12,460 among total purchased amount Percentage % 41.8 48.9 39.9 Supplier HSE-Q Training Performance Category Target of Training Order Person Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 CEO of Supplier New 1 84 Mutual Growth Fund and Loans KRW 100 million 272 280 280 Supplier HSE-Q Training On site Director of supplier 11 404 Education for the improvement of suppliers job capability Person 195 173 179 Machinery and material suppliers 1 45 No. of employees participating in supplier meetings Person 110 100 101 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 116 Appendix 117 Key Sustainability Management Performance Data Social Performance No. of Fair Trade Violation Cases Performance of Social Contribution Activities (Unit: Person) (Unit: Hour) 2,500 Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 No. of participants in social contribution activities Average hours of social contribution activities per capita 1,722 169 Fair trade violation No. of violation Case 1 0 0 2,000 Amount of penalties KRW million 69,207 0 0 1,309 1,000 957 Rate of Completion for Online Compliance Education Offline Compliance Education 500 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 3.9 7.3 Completion rate % 96 97 100 Attendants Person 3,036 1,745 2,416 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Including CP check education, winter job education, supervisor education, etc. Average hours of social contribution activities per capita are calculated based on Number of participants in social contribution activities Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Rate of Autonomous Compliance Activities Implementation Annual number of participants Person 957 1,722 1,309 Total expenditure KRW million 9,749 419 214 Category Details Unit 2016 2017 2018 Operation cost KRW million 25 58 107 Talk Once/month % 95 99 100 Donation (culture, arts, etc.) KRW million 9,723 361 107 Message Once/quarter % 99 99 99 Average hours of activities per capita Hour 3.9 7.3 169 Independent education Once/half-year % 100 100 100 Relay Volunteer Work (Unit: Number) (Unit: Person) Company-wide Quality Monitoring Customer Compliant Counseling No. of volunteer work No. of participants Category Details Unit Monitoring Category Unit 2018 Unit 7 406 Quality evaluation for New Number 25 No. of integrated call center counseling cases Case 24,030 Monthly average in 2018 6 6 286 equipment suppliers Re-evaluation Number 59 (Response rate in the integrated call center) % 96.3 255 Purchase quality prevention activity Number 53 (Immediate response rate in the integrated call center*) % 87.6 Plant visiting inspection Number 1,877 No. of VOC (Voice of Customers) counseling case Case 1,837 Monthly average in 2018 Plant residing inspection Number 6 (VOC processing rate) % 97.7 Annual short-term contract with a third-party 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Number 10 (Average days of processing) Day 14 inspection company * Immediate response rate in the integrated call center: Unit 2016 2017 2018 Response rate of representatives within 15 minutes after a signal is sent Number 6 7 6 Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey* Person 286 406 255 Unit 2016 2017 2018 Rating 6 4 4 Safety Management Performance * Results of National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) Survey No. Site Date of accomplishment Performance Note 1 Kuwait AL-ZOUR REFINERY PJ (site) 2017.12.29 Achieved 10 million hours of zero accidents JV integrated (FDH) Headquarters and On-site Quality Management 2 Ulsan S-OIL RUC PJ [AREA3] (site) 2018.03.25 Achieved original target for zero accidents 4 times (3.64 million hours) Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 3 Algeria RDPP PJ (site) 2018.07.05 Achieved 20 million hours of zero accidents On-site quality performance index Participation rate (%) 89 95 98 4 Kuwait CFP PJ (site) 2018.09.16 Achieved 60 million hours of zero accidents JV integrated (FDH) Headquarters quality evaluation Average score 86 86 87 On-site quality evaluation Average score 85 86 90 5 Saudi Arabia JAZAN REFINERY PJ (site) 2018.09.17 Achieved 60 million hours of zero accidents JV integrated (JGC, Daewoo E&C) 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 118 Appendix 119 GRI Index Disclosure Issue Disclosure Issue Topic pages Topic pages No. Title Core Normal No. Title Core Normal 102-1 Name of the organization 8 ◯ 102-50 Reporting period 2 ◯ 102-2 Organization’s activities 8~9 ◯ 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 ◯ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 16~39 ◯ 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 ◯ 102-3 Location of headquarters 8~9 ◯ GRI 102: 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 ◯ Reporting practice 2018 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 ◯ 102-4 Location of operations 8~9 ◯ 102-55 GRI content index 118~119 ◯ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 44~45 ◯ 102-55 GRI content index about Disclosure 118~119 ◯ 102-6 Markets served 16~39 ◯ 102-56 External assurance 123~125 ◯ 102-7 Scale of the organization 8~9 ◯ 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 50~51 ◯ GRI 103: GRI 102: 102-8 Information on employees and other workers gender 111 ◯ Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 50~51 ◯ General 2018 102-8 Information on employees and other workers National 111 ◯ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50~51 ◯ disclosures 2018 102-8 Information on employee type gender 111 ◯ GRI 201: Business 102-8 None Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ◯ Significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees ◯ Report 2018 102-8 Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c None ◯ GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 infrastrucature investments and services supported 74~75 ◯ 102-8 Explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made Annual Report ◯ Economic Impacts 2018 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 74~75 ◯ 102-9 Supply chain 90~93 ◯ GRI 205: 100~103, 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including 8~9 ◯ 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures ◯ Anti Corruption 2018 116 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 61, 64, 96, 100 ◯ 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 110 ◯ 102-12 External initiatives 120~122 ◯ GRI 302: 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 110 ◯ 102-13 Membership of associations 126 ◯ Energy 2018 302-3 Energy intensity 110 ◯ GRI 102: 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6~7 ◯ 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 84, 86 ◯ Strategy 2018 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10~11 ◯ GRI 303: Water 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 109 ◯ GRI 102: 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 10~11 ◯ 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 109 ◯ Ethics and integrity 2018 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 100~103 ◯ GRI 305: 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 109 ◯ GRI 102: 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 44~45 ◯ Emission 2018 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 109 ◯ Governance 2018 102-18 Governance structure* 74 ◯ 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 109 ◯ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 48~49 ◯ GRI307: Environmental 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 112 ◯ 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 110 ◯ GRI 102: Comliance 2018 Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 48~49 ◯ GRI 403:Occupational health 2018 102-43 48~51 Approach to stakeholder engagement ◯ and safety management 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 94~99 ◯ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 48~51 ◯ system 2018 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report ◯ GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 112 ◯ 102-45 Entities included entity in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report ◯ 2018 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 50~51 ◯ GIR 404: GRI 102: Defining report content and topic Boundaries that how the organization has implemented the Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 76~79 ◯ 102-46 2, 50~51 ◯ Reporting practice 2018 Reporting Principles for defining report content 2018 102-47 List of material topics 50~51 ◯ GRI 412: Human Right 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 76 ◯ 102-48 Restatements of information None ◯ Assessment 2018 102-49 Changes in reporting None ◯ GRI 419: * Social Contribution Committee Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area** 116 ◯ Compliance 2018 GRI 471: Marketing and Type and numbe of sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for new construction, CRE8 84, 109 ◯ Labeling 2018 management, occupation and redevelopment ** Number of violations of fair trade 2019 DaeWoo e&C sustaiNabiLitY report 120 appendix 121 UNGC SDGs (sustainable Development Goals) The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary corporate initiative to urge companies to fulfill corporate responsibilities. Since 2012, Daewoo E&C The Un general assembly elected the sustainable Development goals (sDgs) in 2015 to promote the world's sustainable growth. The goals, has joined and strived to comply with ten major principles pursued by the UngC, including human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. which are to be followed by the international community, including both advanced countries and developing countries, from 2016 to 2030, we will conduct more systemic sustainability management by joining the global standards for corporate social responsibility. contain 17 major goals and 169 subsidiary goals. Daewoo E&C has actively discovered and operates projects that are in line with the sustainable Development goals, based on vision 2025, which are green growth, Future growth and shared growth, as well as our sustainable management strategy systems. Ten Major principles of unGc and related activities areas principles related activities pages sdGs Goals content content pages 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of • Supports the international standards and labor standards such as ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages implementation of social contribution activities 74~75 internationally proclaimed human rights. iLO proclamation and OECD guidelines Mutual growth with suppliers 90~93 human rights 76, 112, 116 • Provides all employees with sexual harassment prevention and Health and safety management 94~99 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. human rights education ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong Development of emplayees capablities 76~79 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the • Respect for freedom of association and collective bargaining rights learning opportunities for all Labor-management relationship based on trust 80~82 80, 112 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Respect for freedom of association and collective bargaining 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full achieve stable business performance 56~57 forced and compulsory labor. • Supported global human rights protection standards such as Korean 76, 120 and productive employment and decent work for all Development of capabilities for employees 76~79 Labor Labor standards act, Un Human rights Declaration • Joined UN Global Compact and declaring human rights protection Labor-management relationship based on trust 80~82 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. promote sustainable industrialization and innovation reinforcement of r&D capability 66~71 • Transparent HR recruitment 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in • Implements fair evaluation and compensation 76, 78, 81 respect of employment and occupation. • Operates family-friendly welfare and benefits program reduce inequality Development of capabilities for employees 76~79 • Establishes the environmental management system and operates a Labor-management relationship based on trust 80~82 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to responsible organization 83~87 environmental challenges. • Systemize the eco-friendly construction process to cope with climate change Create sustainable cities and residential areas implementation of social contribution activities 74~75 Mutual growth with suppliers 90~93 • Signs a voluntary agreement for fugitive dust reduction in the 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environment construction business 87 environmental responsibility. • Voluntary agreement to cope with fine dust establish sustainable production and consumption culture reinforcement of r&D capability 66~71 • Develops zero energy house technology with eco-friendly design 9. Businesses should encourage the development and • Implements renewable energy projects 83~87 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Signs an voluntary agreement for fine dust and fugitive dust reduction Cope with climate change reinforcement of eco-friendly system 83~87 • Establishes GHG emissions reduction plan • Reinforces compliance system 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • Establishes midand long-term compliance strategies anti-corruption 100~103 restore sustainable ecosystem reinforcement of eco-friendly system 83~87 including extortion and bribery. • Training and promotion of compliance education • Certification of ISO37001 (Anti-bribery Management System) establish the right legal system for all Enhancement of brand value and corporate image 58~65 preventing corruption 100~103 establish partnership to accomplish a goal achieve stable business performance 56~57 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 122 Appendix 123 ISO 26000 Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary corporate initiative to urge companies to fulfill corporate responsibilities. Since 2012, Daewoo E&C has joined and strived to comply with ten major principles pursued by the UNGC, including human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We will conduct more systemic sustainability management by joining the global standards for corporate social responsibility. KSA-19-GHG-342 Core Themes of ISO 26000 and Related Activities Core Subject Issues Related Activities Pages Operation of the Audit Committee and Outside Director Nomination Committee under the Board of Governance Decision-making structure and process 44~45 Directors Due diligence Human rights risk situation Operated Compliance System Review by Unit Implementation of human rights education and ethical management campaign 100~103 76, 100~103 GHG Verification Summary Avoidance of complicity Contract and implementation of the four major guidelines for fair trade 90~93 Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co.,​ Ltd. Human Resolving grievances Implementation of Ethics Help Line and internal reporting system 76, 100 rights Discrimination and vulnerable groups Fair evaluation and compensationㅋ 76 Civil and political rights Proactively responded to revised Korea Labor Standards Act and Complied with ILO standards 80, 82 Verification Scope Korean Standards Association has conducted reasonable GHG emissions Economic, social and cultural rights Family-friendly system and support for work-and-life balance for employees 81~82 verification based on GHG report provided by Daewoo Engineering & Construction Fundamental rights at work Sexual harassment prevention and human rights education 101, 116 Co.,Ltd which includes Scope1 and Scope2. Employment and employment relationships Compliance with domestic labor standard act and ILO standards 76, 100 Verification Standards and Guidelines Conditions of work and social protection Efforts to prohibit discrimination for socially disadvantaged people and address social inequality 76 To conduct verification activities, verification team applied verification standards Labor practice Social dialogue Operation of labor union, labor-management committee and supplier meetings 80, 91 and guidelines. The standards and guidelines are as follows. Health and safety at work Operation of Health and Safety Committee and employees health management program 94~99 ·GHG&Energy Target Scheme guideline(2016-255) provided by Ministry of Environment, Republic of Korea Human development and training in the workplace Operation of education, training and program for strategic direction to reinforce HR capability 77~79 ·Verification guideline for management of GHG emissions trading scheme(2018-070) Prevention of pollution Voluntary agreement for managing fugitive and fine dust 87 provided by Ministry of Environment, Republic of Korea Sustainable resource use Development of eco-friendly technology and construction materials 83~87 ·KS Q ISO 14064-1,2,3 : 2006 Environment ·IPCC Guideline. Climate change mitigation and adaption Greenhouse gas, waste and energy management 83~87, 109~110 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of the natural habitats Expenditure and investment for environmental protection 83~87, 109~110 Verification Conclusion As a result of verification activities, verification team has found no significant Anti-corruption Reinforcement of ethical managements system and systemization of compliance system 100~103 errors. Therefore, Korean Standards Association confirms that following emissions Responsible political involvement Membership and activities for relevant associations and societies in each division (department) 127 data are adequately quantified. Fair Fair competition Inspection of unit-based compliance and reinforcement of fair competition 100~103 operation (unit : tonCO2eq) Promotion social responsibility in the value chain Reflection of sustainability management in evaluating suppliers and limitation of unqualified suppliers 90~93 GHG Emissions Operation of integrated call center and grievance-handling process and efforts to enhance customer Respect for property rights 62, 116 Year Scope 1 Scope 2 Total satisfaction level Fair marketing Fair marketing by reinforcing competitiveness 16~39 2018 8,584 62,136 70,715 Protection of health and safety for consumers Acquisition of domestic and overseas quality certificates (ISO9001, KEPIC, ASME, NBBI, etc.) 60~61 Sustainable consumption Eco-friendly purchase, eco-friendly technology development and green building certification 83~87 ※ There is a difference between the total quantity of GHG emission and the sum of each workplace’s emission. Consumer Consumer service support and resolution of complaints Operation of integrated call center, customer satisfaction survey (including immediate response rate) 62, 116 (Decimal place is not considered when calculating the emission of each workplace.) issues Reinforcement of customer information security inspection system and operation of information Protection of consumer data and privacy 63 security education March 31, 2019 Access to essential services Operation of total real-estate service “THE ANSWER” and integrated call center 26, 62 Education and awareness Operation of total real-estate service “THE ANSWER” and integrated call center 26, 62 House Renovation with Hope, company-wide relay voluntary work, overseas site social contribution Community engagement 74~75 activities Education and culture Social contribution by talent donation, environmental improvement and sharing activities 74~75 Local community Job creation and support for capability development Talent donation by career experience and special lectures Reinforcement of smart construction technology, eco-friendly technology and drone measuring 74~75, 79 KOREAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION engagement Technology development and access 66~71 technology and development Wealth and income creation Connection to creating local income by utilizing jointly owned sites with villages 74 Health Support for overseas voluntary work for free eye disease treatment in Morocco and India 74 Establishment of national infrastructure such as road and bridge and implementation of overseas Social investment 16~39, 74 relief activities 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 124 Appendix 125 Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement Introduction Stakeholder Inclusiveness DAEWOO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (“DAEWOO E&C”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV DAEWOO E&C has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Future generation, Regulators, Shareholders and Investors, GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of 2019 DAEWOO E&C Sustainability Report (the “Report”). The directors of DAEWOO E&C have Customers, and Academia / Industry association / Research institute, Employees, Local community and Suppliers. DAEWOO E&C engages sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. Stakeholder engagement and expectations are DAEWOO E&C in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and described in the Report. information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Sustainability Context Scope and Basis of assurance The new vision, 'Build Together' announced in 2018 with core values of “challenge and passion” and “autonomy and accountability” and 2025 strategic Based on non-financial data and sustainability performance data generated from 143 domestic project sites and 4 buildings owned by goals to grow into a company that creates the best value for customers are presented in the Report. The Report also addresses the key strategy and DAEWOO E&C in Korea in 2018, we have assessed sustainability report content and quality definition principles in accordance with GRI Standards. strategic tasks and discloses various sustainability achievements. In addition, Daewoo E&C reports 10 material topics which are featured in ‘Financially We have reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Standards which are identified in the materiality determination process; stable management’, ‘Future management’ and ‘Righteous management’. Each material topic is reported in conjunction with SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals), which helps readers understand the sustainability management of Daewoo E&C. No. Material topic GRI Disclosure No. Material topic GRI Disclosure 1 Development of Employee competency 404-2 6 Improvement of R&D capacity 203-1, 203-2 Materiality 2 Trust between labor-management relationship N/A 7 Implementation of health and safety management system 403-1 DAEWOO E&C has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. 37 issues were pooled for internal and external stakeholder survey 3 Philanthropy 203-1, 203-2 8 Continual improvement of environmental management system 307-1 to rate the material issues. 10 material topics and 4 general issues are prioritized accordingly. The assurance team has reviewed the materiality 4 Increase in brand value and improvement of corporate image 203-1, 203-2 9 Compliance 419-1 assessment process and confirmed relevant material topics prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. 5 Achievement of stable management performance 201-1 10 Mutual growth with suppliers 203-1, 203-2 Completeness DNV GL’s assurance methodology, VeriSustainTM1 which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including The Report covers the impacts of material topics on the stakeholders for the reporting period and key performance in 2018. The reporting boundary International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) is applied for the assurance engagement with the limited level of assurance. includes the operations over which DAEWOO E&C implements management control in 2018 however the quantified performance data from 143 sites The assurance was carried out from April and till May 2019. The site visit was made to DAEWOO E&C’s Headquarters in Seoul, Korea. We undertook and 4 buildings operated by DAEWOO E&C in Korea. DAEWOO E&C could report material concerns identified through engaging key stakeholders for the following activities as part of the assurance process: international projects. • Challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Timeliness, Clarity and Reliability system, information flow and controls; The assurance team has sampled data and tested accuracy. Based on the test, the intentional error or misstatement is not noted from the data • Interviewed representatives from the various departments; and information disclosed in the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data in a reliable manner. The • Conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system as they relate to selected data was identifiable and traceable. content and performance data; • Reviewed the materiality assessment report. Competence and Independence DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Conformity Limitations Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of DAEWOO E&C’ subsidiaries, associated system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2 during the assurance engagement Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for DAEWOO E&C’s website (www.daewooenc.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL have Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the no other contract with DAEWOO E&C and did not provide any services to DAEWOO E&C in 2019 that could compromise the independence or organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate impartiality of our work. level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly address the adherence to the May 2019 Jang Sup Lee Principles for defining report content in GRI Standards. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; Seoul, Korea Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) 2 DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 2019 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 126 Appendix 127 Social Contribution Performance Membership Civil Project Division Division Associations and Institutes title Description Strategic Construction Association of Korea, International Contractors Association, Korea Federation of Construction Contractors, Korea Chamber of Commerce & Singapore Subway Construction Site No. 216 Improved pavements Planning Division Industry, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, Korea Information & Communication Contractors Association, CM Association of Korea, Korea Specialty Construction Association, Korea Facilities Maintenance Association, Construction Management Strategy Society of Korea Construction Management Bridge Construction Site in Bihar, India Operated medical facilities, provided AIDS vaccine and enhanced awareness Association, Professional Infrastructure Developers Association, Korea Machinery Facility Association, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea-Vietnam Provided snacks, fruits, school supplies and daily supplies Friendship Association, Construction and Economy Research Institute of Korea Sea-crossing Bridge Construction Site in Mumbai, India Supported kindergartens near the construction site with school supplies (crayons, picture books) Provided one refrigerator (190L) and medicines Plant Division Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, Korea Plant Industries Association, Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation, Korea Nuclear Society, The Korea Gas Union, Korean Radioactive Waste Society, Korea Engineering & Consulting Association, Korea Plant Industries Association (PEA Club), Expressway in Ethiopia Provided local residents with water from the Zeway Lake by using a sprinkler truck Korea Electric Engineers Association, Korea Coating Experts Society, Engineering Guarantee Insurance Housing & Building Division HR & Management Korea Construction Engineers Association, Korea Employers Federation, Korea Fire Facility Association, Construction Industry Human Resource title Description Service Division Manager Council, Korea Software Technology Promotion Association, Korea Personnel Improvement Association, Korean Human Resource Development Support supplies to Oksan Senior Citizen Center Provided supplies (rice, ramen) Association, Jongno Integrated Defense Council, National Workplace Commander Association, Korea Emergency Planning Officer Association, National Association of Reservist Battalion Commander, Korea International Trade Association, SeriCEO, Support supplies for the summer in the senior citizen center Provided supplies (fan, watermelon) Korea Emergency Plan Commission by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport Delivered relief supplies for earthquake damage in Pohang Delivered relief supplies for earthquake damage in Pohang Housing & Building Korea Housing Association, Korea Institute of Construction Engineering & Management, Architectural Institute of Korea, Korea Institute of Building Making a Beautiful Way to School Campaign Displayed posters made by Howon Elementary School students on the fence Division Construction, Korea Housing Service Society, Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Korea Developer Association, Korean Institute of BIM, Korea Military Sponsored Senior Citizen Party in Godeok 2-dong Provided supplies (rice) Supplies Cooperative, Korean Institute of Illuminating and Electrical Installation Engineers, Korean Institute of Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers, Implemented residential environmental improvement construction for the disadvantaged Implemented residential environmental improvement construction for the disadvantaged Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture, Construction Engineering and Management Society, Korean Institute of Architectural Sustainable Environment and Building Systems, Korea Green Building Council, Korean Society of Living Environment System, Korean Institute of Traditional Landscape Architecture, Delivered supplies to Gwacheon Welfare Center for People with Disabilities Provided supplies (rice 200kg) Korea Society of Environmental Restoration Technology, Korea Institute of Information & Telecommunication Facilities Engineering, IBS Korea, Korean Association of Air Conditioning Refrigerating and Sanitary Engineers, Korea Facility Management Association, Construction & Residence Study Group, Plant Division Korea Green Roof & Infrastructure Association, KMU Industry-Academic Cooperation Foundation, Korea Remodeling Association, Korea Institute of Ecological Architecture and Environment title Description Guardians for Gyeonghuigung Palace Park Contributed to purify the environment by agreement with Jongno-gu District Office Civil Project Korean Society of Civil Engineers, Korea Planning Association, Korean Society of Transportation, Korean Geotechnical Society, Korean Society of Coin Donation with Love Supported coin donations Division Engineering Geology, Korean Tunneling and Underground Space Association, Korean Geosynthetics Society, Korea Road & Transportation Association, Support for the 11th – 13th Free Eye Camp Voluntary Work Supported free eye disease medical treatment Korea Society of Road Engineers, Korean National Committee on Large Dams, Korea Water Resources Association, AWC(Asia Water Council), Korea Morocco SAFI Power Generation PJ (construction site) Railway Association, Korean Society for Railway, Korea Railway Association (International Cooperation Committee), Korean Railway Construction Engineering Association, Korea Ports & Harbors Association, Korean Society of Coastal and Ocean Engineers, Korean Society of Hazard Mitigation, Korea Environmental Industry Association, Korean Society of Coastal Disaster Prevention, Korean Wetlands Society, Korea Concrete Institute, Korean Society of Awards Steel Construction, Korea Association of Waste to Energy Technology,, Road Engineering Association of Asia & Australasia, Korea Road Forum, Korean National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage, Korea Water and Wastewater Works Association Division Performance Institute of Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea Carbon Capture and Storage Association, Korea Construction Transport New-Technology Association, Civil Project Excellence Prize in the Construction and Facility Safety Contest in 2018 (held by Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport) – Asan-Cheonan Expressway Construction Site No. 3, Construction Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH), American Concrete Institute (ACI), International Federation for Structure Concrete (FIB), American Division Excellence Prize in the Construction Safety Innovation Awards in 2018 (held by Korea Expressway Corporation) – Daegu Outer Circular Expressway Construction Site No.2, Institute of Steel Construction (AISC) Highest Level in the Safety Environment for Singapore Subway Construction Site No. 216, Main Prize in the Environmental Management Section by International Road Federation (IRF), Grand Prize for “This Year’s Civil Construction Building” by Korean Society of Civil Engineers, Tunnelling Awards by Korean Tunnelling and Underground Space Association (Inje-Yangyang Tunnel), Citation by President and Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport for the “27th Road Day”, Grand Prize for Construction Safety Finance Division Korea Listed Companies Association, Korea Association for CFO, Listed Companies CFO Forum Innovation (Asan-Cheonan Expressway Construction Site No. 3),Grand Prize for the Road Section in the Civil Construction Facilities (Cheonmasan Tunnel Construction Site), Appreciation Plaque from KOTRA Q-HSE Services Construction Safety Officers' Council (CSOC), Korea Construction Quality Association, Korean Society for Construction Quality, Construction Safety Manager Housing & Giheung Station Park PRUGIO construction site received an award certificate from the Mayor of Yongin City Government, Godeok Gracium construction site received an award Division Committee, MaeKyung Safety & Environment Institute, Korea Environment Construction Association, KOSHA 18001 Conference, Korea Safety Management Building certificate from Gangdong-gu District Office, Godeok Central PRUGIO construction site received an award certificate from the Head of Gangdong-gu District Office, & Science, KEPIC WEEK Sponsorship (Korea Electric Association), Association of Construction Safety Managers, Association of Construction Health Division Ansan Park PRUGIO construction site received an award certificate from Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency, Jungdong Central Park PRUGIO construction site Managers received an award certificate from the Mayor of Bucheon City Government, Yangju New Town PRUGIO construction site was selected as an excellent apartment house in Gyeonggi-do and received an award certificate, Seongnam Sujin Station Studio Apartment construction site received an award certificate from the Mayor of Seongnam Internal Audit & Fair Competition Federation, UN Global Compact City Government, Yeongjong Haneul New Apartment Sales Office received an award certificate from Incheon Metropolitan City Development Corporation, Godeok Gracium Consulting Division construction site received an award certificate from the Head of Gangdong-gu District Office Institute of Citation by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport for the Day of Construction Engineers in 2018, Citation by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport Construction for the Construction Day in 2018, Citation by the Chairperson of the National Assembly Transportation Committee, Citation by President of Korea Federation of Construction Technology (DICT) Contractors, Technology Prize by Korean Geotechnical Society, Excellent Thesis Prize by Korean Geo-environmental Society Build Together
