COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 Mr. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY10017 USA. Dear Secretary-General, STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER This is to confirm VAS2Nets Group’s support and compliance with the Global Compact ten principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anticorruption. Alongside other initiatives by the UNGC towards the achievement of 2030 sustainable development goals. The company has continued to make an impact since we join the association in its immediate environment. Putting necessary measures in place to ensure vendors comply with the UNGC principle and how they also contribute to the sustainable development goals for operational excellence. Therefore, this is to reiterate that VAS2Nets will not cease from aligning its strategies in line with the global compact standard and other recommended models. Thus, we shall continue to enhance our capability towards achieving sustainable development goals. Yours sincerely, Stuffman Ayo Managing Director/CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 ABOUT US VAS2Nets Technologies Limited is a leading developer of consumer and enterprise mobile value-added service in and outside Nigeria with extensive experience in the development and delivery of mobile value-added service, voice service, and broadcast service. The company is licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC). VAS2Nets focus on providing total product and services (social and financial inclusion) to our reputable client base of mobile operators, financial institutions, consumer brands, and content providers. VAS2Nets has over 10 mobile operators’ customer in different Africa countries (Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, etc.) Our Vision: To create an ecosystem using mobile technology. Our Mission: To help people all over the world realize their creative desires and provide service beyond their expectations. Our business has three critical vertical: Mobile Communities, Financial Mobility, and Mobile Service Aggregation. UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS  Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right.  Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human right abuse. VAS2Nets has continuously adhered to internationally proclaimed human rights, and strengthen its operations with guiding principles to encourage imbibing the culture of respecting human rights, and non-violation of same within its environment. The company fosters non-abuse of human rights and incites employees of these values to reinforce others to honor them. The human resources team provides active support services in respect of human-right to the workforce. Comprising of people with different backgrounds coming together to achieve the stated goal, by creating a conducive and common ground to work as a team and promote the organization’s objectives. Hence, the human resources team has enhanced its strategic plan to include diversity and inclusion management. To influence employees’ behavior, promote collaboration, increase job satisfaction, improve their morale, and encourage employee engagement. VAS2Nets shows total compliance to fundamental human rights stated in the international bill of rights, with an understanding of the company that its employees are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. The management has continued to promote teamwork and enhance its community of practice to motivate its employees, improve their skills, and encourage oneness and sense of affiliation in the organization. Above all, the company doesn’t alienate any of its staff, including the janitor. VAS2Nets pride itself not depriving its employee and stakeholder of access and enjoying their fundamental freedoms and thus forbids; the distinction of any kind, such as race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinions, national or social origin, property, birth or another status. VAS2Nets support its stakeholder right to life, liberty and security of persons; which is instrumental to the enjoyment of other human rights which are; freedom from slavery and servitude; freedom from torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; the right to recognition everywhere as a person before the law; the right to an effective judicial remedy; freedom from arbitrary arrest, detention or exile; the right to a fair trial and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal; the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty; freedom from arbitrary interference with privacy, family, home or correspondence; freedom of movement and residence; the right of asylum; the right to a nationality; the right to marry and to found a family; the right to own property; freedom of thought, conscience and religion; freedom of opinion and expression; the right to peaceful assembly and association; and the right to take part in the government of one’s country and to equal access to public service in one’s country. The company continues to implement a policy that establishes employer and employee rights. While considering the current global pandemic, a reviewed handbook in line with the International Labor Organization standard as a multinational company to accommodate other regional cultures and ethical values as commenced. The reviewed handbook will be available before the end of the second quarter. It will be made available for all employees and other necessary stakeholders. The company has a code of conduct in line with industry standards that embrace organizational values, customers’ interest, and protection. The code of conduct explicitly states the company’s obligation to protecting employees’ and clients’ information. It further states channels for handling complaints to ensure customer satisfaction, guaranteeing no parties’ right is infringed. IMPLEMENTATION  The company has placed a suggestion box at the front office to encourage both internal and external customers’ suggestions and recommendations for protecting everyone’s rights.  The company has a complaint procedure in place, the channel is a two-way process; up down and mid-level. The management is involved in issue management, and these are majorly critical situations. In contrast, at mid-level, the senior managers are engaged in employees and customer complaints and issue resolutions.  Human resources policy aligns with the global compact principle.  The human resources and audit team are saddled with ensuring compliance with the global compact principle.  More policy is being created and provided to the required stakeholder for their awareness and acknowledgment.  Vendor service level agreement modified to ensure vendor compliance to human rights principle.  Provide competitive industry wages to enhance employee wellbeing and satisfaction.  Provision of job which aligns with employee skills, competence, and qualification.  Training conducted for new employees and periodic sensitization to employees to raise the level of awareness on human rights. MEASUREMENT  Management buy-in and support to the global compact principle  Employees compliance to the global compact principle  There has been no legal liability or fines relating to human rights abuse on the company or any of its staff.  Periodic review and audit by the internal audit & risk manager to access and evaluate the company exposure to risk on human rights.  Compliance with industry-standard practices. LABOUR PRINCIPLE ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS  Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to bargain.  Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour  Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour The company encourages fear hearing and the right to bargain as part of the organization value system, to promote the company culture towards strengthening the employer and employee relationship. The organization also encourages informal associations within its environments, which fosters knowledge sharing, teamwork, and diversity management. VAS2Nets comply with all forms of global standards on equal employment and frowns at all kinds of forced labor. The practice of forced labour was never recorded in the company. Therefore, In line with the international bills of right, the company ensures its employees and stakeholders enjoy their social security. The right to work; the right to equal pay for equal work; the right to rest and leisure; the right to a standard of living adequate for health and wellbeing; the right to education; and the right to participate in the cultural life in their immediate environment. Thus, the company has handbook, policy, and procedure that guide the company stakeholder from not acting contrary to the company purpose and objectives. Human trafficking, coercion in employment, exploitative labor contract systems, and debt-induced or ‘debtbondage’ or ‘bonded labor’ have been identified as forms of forced labor, thus are not practiced in the company. As a multinational company, we shall ensure our managers’ combat forced and compulsory labour in countries of operation by not demanding payments to get employment and not withholding identity documents during work and desisting from any other elements of forced labor. Child labor does not have a place in the company; there is a recruitment policy that guides on employment process and procedure stating the quality of manpower required in the organization. Child labor is an element of child abuse and has a significant effect on children’s health, education, and livelihood. It subjects children to miniature in the society, worn out by premature aging, born out, and depression. While we realized the effect of child labor, we consistently engage our vendors to desist from such act and ensure compliance to standard practice which help to beautify the future of the younger ones. Part of our objective is to enhance due diligence capacity on our suppliers, clients, and vendors. To combat all forms of forced and compulsory labor in their activities. This is of the essence to keep promoting the global compact principle. The company handbook under review will inculcate international standards practices in people management. IMPLEMENTATION  All employees are entitled to medical insurance and are encouraged to take their annual leave to enhance their wellbeing and wellness  The company implemented a yearly benefit scheme for employee children to help save for their children’s education programs.  There are policy and procedure in the company against discrimination  Employee recruitment and selection is based on a merit system  Providing a safe and conducive working environment for the employee and vendors.  Providing access to affordable facilities that can facilitate employee education, welfare, and other imperative needs.  Outsource the performance management system for objective and relieve the human resource team the privilege to focus on other strategic activities.  Provide a fair and equitable reward system in compliance with statutory standards to all staff.  Service level agreement developed to strengthen excellent working standards with vendors.  Implementation of 13th-month salary, inclusive of other available benefits to enhance and ensure employee commitment and engagement. MEASUREMENT  Every employee gets fair and equitable remuneration commensurate with their role, input, and qualification.  The company workforce cut across different ethnicity, gender, religion, language, and age.  The company has placed a disciplinary policy to improve employees’ working relations and tolerance to ensure a consistent standard of behavior.  Employee disciplinary action has been conducted relatively without sentiment.  There are weekly review and assessment of managers’ performance by management.  There has never been any reported case of injuries by employees and vendors at work premises.  We have 100% compliance with every industry related process policy and procedure. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLE ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS  Principle 7: Business should support precautionary approach to the environmental challenge.  Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology. VAS2Nets understand the impact of environmental preservation and the influence of nature on health, human experience, and arts. The company enhanced its support to the non-governmental organization via wildlife preservation, environment, and human health management. The company is a significant partner to the Association for Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities of Nigeria (AIDDN). Providing financial support and looking at delivering professional tutor in the following area; occupational therapist, physiotherapist, and speech therapists for the association to help enhance the intellectual capability of the children in the association to be useful in their capacity to the society and their immediate environment. VAS2Nets gave financial and technical support to Afrinet Limited, ensuring non-extinction of some wildlife in Africa, especially Pangolin. VAS2Net also provided support to Accessible Care for Everyone Initiative towards the ACE Initiative Free Mobile Clinic, aimed at providing free access to health care during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis in Lagos state for the less privileged. Ongoing support is to the children of the deceased employee, ensuring continuous education through necessary financial support. The company is willing to work with more NGOs supporting environment management, alleviating poverty, promoting children and women education, enhancing entrepreneur skills, and, most importantly, non-governmental organizations providing service adding value to human life. VAS2Nets plans to re-engineer its mobile health service medium, which helps the populace seek medical attention remotely, talking to a doctor on their immediate health challenge. Doctors provide professional advice and recommendation to get better via online medium. This will facilitate health management during and after the COVID-19 lockdown in providing virtual health-related service as much needed by the customers. As an IT firm, the company has continued to develop mobile solutions services that can aid and enhance business efficiency to its business partners. There has also prompt modifying its streaming platform to improve service delivery to the entertainment industry, schools, and many other sectors and institutions https://lodios.com/. VAS2Nets engage small and medium local suppliers for the procurement of products and services to support business sustenance, economic development, and enhancing business value. The company patronizes Pricepointe, a new wholesale departmental store in the region for office requisition and items. Bryanston Travels, NETCODE Technologies, CleanersLab, among others, and firm owned by women. The local suppliers were selected for a business relationship based on their price, quality products, payment options, availability of products, etc. Business relationships with all clients are done and completed with virtual payments. The impact of this business relationship has mitigated against kickback, soliciting of gifts, bribery, and other elements of unethical practices for the company employees. VAS2Nets understands the impact of mobile solutions and applications to small and medium enterprises and large corporate organizations. Thus focus on providing block chain and AI solutions to its business partners to enhance their business operations, especially the financial sector and e-commerce platform. IMPLEMENTATION  Lodios is a media streaming platform that presents a new dimension of media experience  The human resources team and audit & risk management team has been saddled with the responsibility of working with the non-governmental organization on projects in ensuring environmental preservation.  The company has increased its budget for corporate social responsibility by over 200% to facilitate support for more NGOs to enhance community work adding value to life and environment.  External audit of the company devices and infrastructure to ensure alignment with environmental and industry standards that won’t jeopardize the customer information.  HR and management team implemented remote working for all employees in line with the reduction of air pollution due to traffic congestion and global pandemic. MEASURMENT  The company has ensured the electric bulb and air condition installed in all offices are energy savers by over 15%.  The company has contributed to clean air with its teleworking strategy.  There have been no significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.  There has been an increase in the number of organizations and individuals VAS2Nets financially or technically support through corporate social responsibility to promote a friendly business environment and wellness by over 100%.  Increase in the number of mobile solution services to the energy sector, game & betting industry, banks, microfinance institutions, e-commerce, etc. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS.  Principle 10: Business should work against corruption and bribery in all its form Anti-corruption practices and awareness promote VAS2Nets integrity, trust and efficient business dealings with the employees and the business partners of the organization. It has guide employee behavior and decision making. The effect of corrupt practices is known to all employees and necessary stakeholder to the organization, everyone is encourage to imbibe the best practices to enhance the goodwill of the company. The company has made the effect of corruption known to its employees, that it damage the business goodwill, hinder business growth, and affect business operations and financial outcome of the organization. Hence, reasons to desist from it. Management support and buy-in has made the mitigation of cash transaction successful. The tone at the top further strengthen the implementation of invoice before payments realistic and consulting of more than one vendor before final decision on procurement is made for all office required items, infrastructure and provisions achievable. Necessary policy are in place to promotes anticorruption practices, for all organization stakeholder; management, employee, supplier, clients, business partner among others. There is a statement of compliance from the CEO assuring of compliance with the global principle. The company has communicate to its suppliers and vendors to shun every act of bribery, kickback and unnecessary gift to our employees, which is also stated on the supplier service agreement. They are encourage to escalate any employee who exhibit any form of corrupt practices. All corruption elements has been identified and stated in the policy for employee understanding to desist from such; bribery, payments facilitation, fraud, extortion, collusion, and money laundering; the offer or receipt of gifts, loans, fees, rewards, or other advantages leading to inducement on activities that is dishonest, illegal, or represents a breach of trust. It can also include practices such as embezzlement, trading in influence, abuse of function, illicit enrichment, concealment, and obstructing justice. All charitable donations either financial or kind goes through series of approval process from human resources being initiator then to audit & risk and finally to the managing director in order to ensure the intention of the donations is not a bribery in disguise and mitigating conflict of interest in any form attributed to the donations. The company suppliers and vendors are aware of the anticorruption awareness and escalation channel are made known to them. All employees across the company in Nigeria, Ghana and Cameroon etc. received awareness of anticorruption. Our goal is to sustain our internal process which has not recorded any form of corrupt practices and further put in place measures that would curb any act of corruption not to occur in the organization. More so, there is need to improve training and awareness channel to management and employees so as not to get involve in bribery and corruption. The company understand as a service firm every stakeholder in the company from the governance body, employees, business partners, and other persons have a high risk incidents of corruption, deliberate or being lured, hence can be mitigated by awareness. IMPLEMENTATION  Whistle blowing mail created; whistleblowing@vas2nets.com no escalation received till date  Conduct training and awareness to employees on anticorruption practices.  Periodic internal audit of process and procedure for compliance and commitment  Cash transaction faced out rate is now 100%  Management support and involvement in the measures to ensure no corruption practices.  Participation in all anticorruption initiatives and seminar to strengthen our operations and goodwill.  There is check and balances on all transactions and retirement of fund to curb any unethical practices.  Develop and implement of anti-money laundering policy.  Review of Gift policy to address and accommodate Entertainment policy. MEASURMENT  VAS2Nets has never been involved in public legal case and rulings on corruption and bribery against any of the company stakeholder; management, employees etc.  There has not been any confirmed cases of corruption in the company  No employees have been dismissed as a result of corruption, however, one of the company driver has been disciplined for soliciting gift from clients. VAS2Nets Focus on the Sustainable Development Goals. ACHIEVEMENT ON THE SDG  Provision of employment with gender equality  Provision of fair and competitive wage for employment to eradicate poverty among staff  Prompt payments of salary to mitigate against hunger and enhance good health  Provision of financial support to aid school bills payments to aid education of deceased staff children and other incapacitated staff.  Provision of health insurance to employees to enhance good health and wellness  Establish a micro finance assistance and other form of financial facilities to all staff through partnering banks.  Establish a reward mechanism to employees for any innovative ideas submitted to the company authority.  Promotion of female employees to managers and senior manager positions to encourage others females career development.  Job enlargement of some female employees to enhance their skills and competences  Encouragement of female member involvement at the Management and Board level.  Continuous deployment of mobile solutions that ease efficiency of business for clients  Partner with Entrepreneur Organization through our corporate social responsibility towards motivating undergraduates to becoming innovative and entrepreneur in their various skills to become self-independent after school.  Provision of financial support to ACE initiative to aid their Free Mobile Clinic  Partner with Association for Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities of Nigeria (AIDDN) providing education and financial support for children with down syndrome and other intellectual capabilities
