SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 1 4 ELLAKTOR GROUP 10 ENVIRONMENT 78 1.1 Group Presentation 12 4.1 Contribution to the increase of 1.2 Business model 26 Renewable Energy Resources 1.3 Materiality analysis 31 availability and reliability 80 1.4 Sustainable Development 4.2 Contribution to Circular Economy 84 Goals 34 4.3 Management of Environmental 1.5 Stakeholder Engagement 37 Footprint 87 1.6 Group Strategic Priorities 4.4 Biodiversity 100 and Targets 40 2 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 06 OPERATION 46 SOCIETY 104 2.1 Governance 48 5.1 Creating Value for Society 106 2.2 Compliance 51 5.2 Supply Chain 110 2.3 Risk Management and 5.3 Communicating with Local Business Continuity 54 Communities 112 2.4 Digital Transformation 58 5.4 Contributing to Society 112 3 6 AT A GLANCE 2019 08 EMPLOYEES 60 APPENDIX 118 3.1 Working Environment 62 6.1 Report Methodology 120 3.2 Health and Safety 71 6.2 GRI Standards Table 121 6.3 Athens Stock Exchange ESG Reporting Guide Table 129 6.4 UN Global Compact Table 131 recognised corporate governance principles, complies With respect to the Group’s occupational health and in the areas where it operates, emphasising on improvwith business ethics values and fosters sustainable safety, a fatal accident involving an AKTOR employee took ing local infrastructure and the residents’ quality of life. development. place in 2019. Following this event, emphasis was placed The total amount of social contributions amounted to on the establishment of specific indicators, in order to € 2.5 mil. For the first time, the Group systematically evaluated monitor the health and safety performance of the its operation with respect to the UN’s 2030 Sustainable Group’s projects and activities on a continuous basis. In 2020, taking into account the COVID-19 pandemic, the Development Goals and the risks and opportunities that Group’s main concern is to sustain its business continuity the external environment presents for the implemenThrough RES projects, the Group contributed towards and implement its investment plan by taking all necestation of the Group’s business model and its reputation, the increase of Renewable Energy Resources availability sary measures to secure the health and safety of its while it simultaneously recorded its future priorities and and reliability, access to clean and affordable energy, as employees, subcontractor employees as well as the challenges. Based on the results of the evaluation, a well as the mitigation of climate change impacts. In 2019, users of its services and the customers. At the same Group-wide sustainable development strategy was the Group added 105.6 MW to its wind farms’ total installed time, particular emphasis is given to the systematic developed, while at the same time measurable shortcapacity, while in early 2020 another 90 MW were put implementation of the targets that have been set for term and medium-term targets were established for all into trial operation. The total installed capacity of the all sustainable development topics. These targets both areas of its operation. Group’s wind farms amounted to 401 MW in late 2019, affect and are affected by the Group’s operation, while while from early 2020 it increased to 491 MW. the transformation of the Group’s operation is based on The Group’s top priority remain the creation and distributheir achievement. tion of economic value in parallel with the return to In 2019, ELLAKTOR Group generated a total of 909 GWh profitability, emphasising in the Concessions and Renewof electricity from RES. During the same period, the Οn behalf of the ELLAKTOR Group’s Board of Directors able Energy Sources segments, strengthening the Group consumed 180 GWh for its operation. Therefore, Environment segment and restructuring the Construction the generation of electricity from RES in 2019 surpassed Georgios Provopoulos segment by focusing on its activities in Greece, Romania the total energy consumption fivefold. Chairman and Qatar (only for facilities management). The Group’s contribution to Circular Economy and to the Leveraging on its strategic focus towards investments decrease of solid waste disposed in landfills is significant. in RES projects, the Group, in late 2019 and early 2020, In 2019, the Group managed more than 428 thousand proceeded with the successful issuance of an internatons of mixed municipal solid waste, out of which 38% tional green bond, amounting to € 670 mil., which constiwas separated and utilised through reuse, recycling or tutes the largest high yield green bond in Europe for other methods. 2019 and the first one in Greece. It is a great pleasure to present ELLAKTOR Group’s 2nd We recognise that investments in the innovation and Sustainable Development Report, following the election With regards to its human resources, the Group’s goal digital transformation of our operation constitute a of the Group’s new Board of Directors in July 2018, which is to continue to create high-quality employment significantly important factor for the Group’s continuous marked a major change in the Group’s strategy and opportunities and utilise the workforce from the local growth and for safeguarding its business continuity. This management. communities in which it operates in, as well as establish became particularly evident during the outbreak of the a healthy and safe working environment that fosters the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, during which the 2019 was a year of major restructuring for the Group, professional development of its employees. In 2019, Group's plan to implement rotating and remote working with the creation and staffing of new Divisions and four (4) new departments were created in the Human was expedited, in order to ensure that employees could departments as well as the development of new Group Resources Division and group-wide policies and procecontinue to work safely. policies and procedures, all of which contribute towards dures were established in regard to employee benefits, the Group’s transformation into a modern organisation training, evaluation and development and the utilisation With regards to the Group’s social contribution, in 2019, that continuously grows, improves its internationally of existing staff to fill open positions. it continued to invest in the support of local communities 5 2019 CONCESSIONS ENVIRONMENT RENEWABLE CONSTRUCTION REAL ESTATE ENERGY SOURCES DEVELOPMENT € 1,273,630 thousand 11% of net sales from sustainable consolidated net sales products and services in Greece 286,500 € 1.35 bil. 5.5 mil. vehicles crossings backlog in Construction Smart Park on daily average visitors 32,819 hours employee training 429 thousand 25 438 MW 5,458 employees € 213.6 mil. tn of third-party waste under management wind farms capacity from RES in Greece (incl. subsidiaries and joint ventures) employee benefits of third-party waste 179,743 MWh 61% of the Group's waste was utilised and did not end up 38% treated was utilised 2 biogas 909 GWh of energy consumed in a landfill through processes exploitation electricity of reuse, recycling, plants generation etc. from RES € 2,405 thousand 93% of supplies procured from invested in the local domestic suppliers community in Greece Note: The data refers to activity in Greece, except for the financial data which refers to the total activity of the Group. 10 11 Depict the Group’s new business model 4 key pillars of the Group’s sustainable developmen strategy were defined ELLAKTOR Group pledged to uphold the Global Compact principles 12 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 13 1.1 GROUP PRESENTATION International Presence of ELLAKTOR Group ELLAKTOR Group is the largest infrastructure group in Greece with an international presence, nearly 5,975 employees (excluding Joint Ventures) and a turnover of € 1,273.6 turnover mil. Operating in 29 countries 1,273.6 mil. (Group financial results). It consists of more than 100 companies, more than 20 affiliated companies and 150 joint ventures. More than More than 20 years after the triple merger of Elliniki Technodomiki, AKTOR and TEV which led 100 companies 20 affiliated companies to the creation of ELLAKTOR, the Group is redefined by setting modern corporate Approximately governance as a cornerstone and by giving priority to enhancing Group operations, to reorganising its capital structure and to further capitalising on synergies, in order 150 joint ventures to provide increased added value to its shareholders, its employees and the Greek economy. 1 country AFRICA 6 countries ASIA 1 country OCEANIA 7 countries AMERICA 14 countries EUROPE Key Sectors In 2019, operating in 29 countries, ELLAKTOR Group Draft Merger Agreement, stipulating the absorption of brought life into projects that accelerate growth and ELLINIKI TECHNODOMIKI ANEMOS from ELLAKTOR. improve the quality of life in communities across the The absorption was completed in July 2019. world. All Group companies as well as the joint ventures where On March 2019, the Board of Directors of ELLAKTOR the Group is a part of, are presented in the Annual CONCESSIONS ENVIRONMENT RENEWABLE CONSTRUCTION REAL ESTATE and ELLINIKI TECHNODOMIKI ANEMOS approved the Financial Report 2019. ENERGY SOURCES DEVELOPMENT 14 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 15 CONCESSIONS ELLAKTOR Group is active in the Concessions segment through its subsidiary, AKTOR CONCESSIONS, which is a Important events Risk and uncertainties leader in concessions projects in Greece. The Concessions segment consists of shares in the largest and most modern motorways in Greece, in parking buildings and marines. The Concessions segment of ELLAKTOR Group In 2019, the revenues from the Concessions segment Depending on prevailing economic circumstances, there has vast experience that covers the whole spectrum of needs relevant to concessions, whether it is design, stood at € 239.9 million, compared to € 240.6 million is a risk of reduced vehicle traffic flows and therefore financing and construction or maintenance and operation. in 2018, marking a marginal decrease by 0.3%. The inof project revenues, even though the trend has been a creased traffic in mature concession projects continued rising one since the beginning of 2015. Main companies in Greece: in 2019, with the traffic on Attiki Odos increasing by 4.45%. However, since late February 2020, the Greek govern• ATTIKI ODOS S.A. ment has steadily taken measures to curb the spread • ATTIKES DIADROMES S.A. of the Covid-19 pandemic, which have adversely affected • MOREAS S.A. the activities of the concession companies. The extent Outlook of the consequences depends on the duration of the pandemic and the civil protection measures adopted There are significant demands for new infrastructure by the state. The subsequent decline in traffic on motorworks in Greece and it is estimated that private funds ways has significantly reduced revenues from tolls. will contribute to efforts in that direction through Although, given available cash and cash equivalents and concessions and public-private partnerships, particularly reserve account funds which are necessary to support given the limited financial resources available to the the contractual obligations of concession projects, it is Greek public sector. estimated that short-term cash deficits will not be created and that loan obligations will be dealt according to the 2019 Review The business plan of the subsidiary AKTOR CONCESspecified timeline. However, it is noted that the concesSIONS, mainly with a view to synergies with other Group sion companies are taking all appropriate measures activities, focuses on: to limit the consequences, prioritising the health of employees and motorway users, and they are consid• Participation in new projects to be realised through ering measures to manage these impacts, as well as €239.9 million PPP or concession agreements. the possibility of applying compensatory provisions to turnover the concession agreements. • Expansions and actions to increase the efficiency of the Company’s projects. Uncertainty at a macroeconomic level may lead to delays in the implementation of new projects. • Expansion of participations through the secondary market. 275 km of highways under the management and operation of the Group’s companies 286,500 vehicles crossings on daily 16 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 17 ENVIRONMENT ELLAKTOR Group’s activity in the Environment segment is implemented through its subsidiary, HELECTOR, which Important events is a vertically integrated company in the field of waste management and energy production. The valuable know-how and specialization of ELLAKTOR’s Environment segment allows the Group to offer integrated solutions in waste The turnover of the Environment segment in 2019 result, it is imperative that modern waste management management that include the design, construction and operations of up-to-date waste treatment plants, as well amounted to € 87.1 million compared to € 86.3 million methods are adopted which can contribute to the developas of alternative fuel production and biomass exploitation projects. in 2018, marking a marginal increase by 0.9%. ment of the segment. Main companies in Greece: It is noted that on 28.05.2019, the Company acquired a 75% share in Solid Waste Recycling S.A., its distinctive • HELECTOR S.A. title being ASA RECYCLE. Risk and uncertainties • STERILIZATIONS S.A. • APOTEFROTIRAS S.A. In 2019, HELECTOR and its subsidiaries signed a series The need to upgrade the domestic waste management • EPADYM S.A. of project contracts, either exclusively or as members of infrastructures is imperative; however, the implementajoint ventures, with the most notable of which representtion of new projects could be adversely affected by ing projects with a total budget of around € 40 million. changes in their implementation, limited and costly liquidity from the domestic banking system, and timeconsuming procedures for authorisations or any reactions from local communities (e.g. applications before the Outlook Council of State). The outlook is positive for the Environment segment in Potential delays in the scheduled design of the essential Greece, given that the country has been slow to adapt domestic waste management infrastructure and the 2019 Review to European Union regulations on waste management, collection payments, as well as a decrease in recyclawhile at the same time it has been burdened with substanbles' price are likely to occur as a consequence of the tial fines for continuing to operate illegal landfills. As a Covid-19 pandemic. €87.1 million turnover 2 Biogas exploitation power plants for electricity generation with a capacity of 30 MW in Greece 429,000 tons of third-party waste managed annually in Greece 18 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 19 RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES ELLAKTOR Group is present in the Renewable Energy Sources (RES) segment through the parent company, Important events ELLAKTOR, which develops, constructs, and operates wind farms. The RES segment, following its strategic investment plan, constantly expands its portfolio of projects by steadily increasing the installed capacity of the wind farms. The The turnover of the RES segment in 2019 amounted to Power generation in the RES segment depends primariexisting and the under-construction wind farms are situated in selected locations, combining specific characteristics € 64.0 million compared to € 60.2 million in 2018, marking ly on the prevailing wind conditions which exhibit an favourable to the operation of wind farms and show high rate of return. an increase by 6.4%. inherently stochastic behaviour and seasonal fluctuations. Keeping the production equipment in a high Main company in Greece: The total installed capacity of the RES segment stood at availability mode is ensured through long-term mainte401 MW as at 31.12.2019, of which 105.6 MW currently nance contracts with the wind turbine manufacturers, • ELLAKTOR S.A. operate in trial mode. Furthermore, up until the end of which include availability guarantees and clauses April 2020, an additional 90 MW were put into trial operarequiring the recovery of any revenue loss incurred due tion, increasing the total installed capacity of the RES to their fault. Furthermore, the equipment is insured segment to 491 MW. Lastly, two wind farms with a total against the usual risks in the sector, as well as against installed capacity of 88.2 MW are in the initial stage of loss of gross profits with leading insurance companies. construction. 2019 Review Despite progress made in recent years, the RES segment Electrical power generation reached 708 GWh in 2019, is still facing challenges due to the complex bureaucratic marking an increase by 6.6% compared to 2018, due to a licensing procedures governing the development and corresponding increase in installed capacity. The average operation of new projects, as well risks associated with annual capacity factor for 2019 remained virtually potential appeals that may be lodged with Hellenic 2 nd largest unchanged at 26.8% compared to 26.9% in 2018. Council of State against the validity of these project licences, which in turn may lead to significant delays wind energy producer in Greece and/or suspension of works on certain projects. Moreover, any changes in the institutional framework Outlook may adversely impact operating results and the ability of the Company to finance new RES projects, or extend The outlook for the market for renewable energy sources the time required for their development or licensing. in Greece stays positive. Taking into account the country’s international obligations (National Plan for Energy and 22 wind farms Climate 2021-30, Government Gazette, Series II, No 4893/31.12.2019), there should be an increase in wind in operation farm installed capacity from 3,576 MW by the end of 2019 (HWEA, Wind Energy Statistics – 2019) to 7,050 MW in 2030. The new operating aid scheme for RES projects, in accordance with Law 4414/2016 provides for sliding Feed-in-Premium and 20-year power purchase agreements, which give a significant incentive for implementing the projects. 401 MW installed capacity Risk and uncertainties The uncertainty caused by the financial crisis in Greece over the last few years, together with developments in the domestic electricity market with liquidity problems facing the primary public sector company in the sector, 178.2 MW despite clear improvement following the introduction of wind farms measures under Law 4414/2016, as well as the recent under construction onset of the Covid-19 crisis, may adversely affect business operations, operating results, and the economic circumstances of the segment. 20 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 21 CONSTRUCTION ELLAKTOR Group is a leader in the Construction segment through its biggest subsidiary, AKTOR, with 70 years of Important events experience in complex and demanding infrastructure, building, and industrial projects, as well as in photovoltaic parks. The portfolio of the Construction segment consists of bridges, motorways, metro projects, biological treatment plants, The Construction segment recorded income of € 875.2 It is noted that the execution of construction projects natural gas pipelines, refineries, logistics buildings, shopping centers, office buildings, residential buildings, casinos, million in 2019, a reduction of 40.2% compared to 2018 always involves a risk of incurring penalties due to delays industrial buildings, tourist and hotel units, cultural centers, hospitals, airports, educational buildings, athletic complex(€ 1,463.1 million), primarily due to delays in the award in the execution of the works which are not the fault of es, railway projects, tunnels, dams, port projects, energy production stations, electromechanical projects etc. of tender projects. the Group’s companies. Main companies in Greece: Invitations to tender for new projects in Greece were In order to handle the challenges of the segment as well limited in 2019. In terms of project implementation, as the impact of accumulated losses on its liquidity, • AKTOR S.A. emphasis was placed on making progress with the AKTOR has proceeded with more intensive cash reserve • AKTOR F.M. S.A. Thessaloniki Metro works, the implementation of the management measures. • TOMI S.A. Gold Line Metro project in Qatar, and the implementa• HELLENIC QUARRIES S.A. tion of road and railway projects in Greece and other The Covid-19 pandemic has negatively affected the ability Balkan countries. of AKTOR to implement existing projects (due to the decrease in staff availability, the additional personnel safety and hygiene rules, the problems in the supply chain), while the schedule for contracting new projects Outlook to compensate for incomplete projects is expected to be negatively affected. In 2019, contracts in the amount of € 337.4 million were signed. Subsequent to 31.12.2019, additional contracts worth € 235 million were signed, while new projects worth € 570 million have been secured and signature of the respective contracts is awaited. Currently, international operations contribute about 48% of the revenue 2019 Review from construction activity (2019), and accounted for 58% of the construction backlog (including contracts for signature), concentrated in Romania. Public investment is expected to rise following the €875.2 billion government's announcements regarding the intention to accelerate implementation of projects, and also as a turnover result of the Covid-19 pandemic stimulus measures to promote recovery of the economies in countries where AKTOR is strategically active, offering significant opportunities in infrastructure projects related to the company's activities. €1 .35 billion Risk and uncertainties backlog Following the completion of the major infrastructure projects in Greece, a delay in the tendering of new construction projects (public works and/or concession works) is currently taking place. Meanwhile, the Group has limited its presence beyond Greece, exclusively to Romania and Qatar. In particular, the projects which the Group is undertaking in Qatar pertain exclusively to operation and maintenance services. In addition, the strong domestic competition, as well as the increased costs of borrowing and obtaining letters of guarantee, adversely affects the Group’s profit margin in relation to construction projects. 22 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 23 REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT ELLAKTOR Group’s operations in the Real Estate Development segment come through its subsidiary, REDS, which Important events Risk and uncertainties identifies properties with positive prospects and attractive pricing in order to develop them into high quality ventures. The Real Estate segment focuses on Retail Parks, Entertainment Centres, Residential Complexes, Exhibition Centers, The Group’s real estate development segment recorded The income for the segment comes mostly from Offices and Mixed Use Buildings. In parallel, the Real Estate Development segment of ELLAKTOR Group provides revenue amounting to € 7.1 million for 2019, compared operating leases and may be significantly affected if the services to third parties who need expert local consultancy and service provision. REDS can undertake the concept to € 6.9 million for 2018, which translates into an increase lessees fail to fulfil their obligations, for example due to design, the support in the legal, urban, territorial and technical framework for the development of large private of 3.7%. restricted economic activity. investments, the development and construction management, the planning, lease strategy and real estate management, as well as feasibility studies and business plans. The segment's main activity for 2019, was the operation of The portfolio of the “Smart Park” lessees is strong and the retail shopping ‘Smart Park’, in Yialou, Spata, Attica. healthy, as it mostly consists of known and profitable Main companies in Greece: The construction of Phase B of the Smart Park, which companies with good credit rating. However, the possibilcovers approximately 15,200 m2, was completed on time, ity of renegotiations with the lessees cannot be excluded • REDS S.A. and commercial operation of the new development began and will be considered on a case by case basis, always • YIALOU COMMERCIAL & TOURIST S.A. in November 2019 with a total leased surface area correwith a view to ensuring that the companies in the segment • KANTZA EMPORIKI S.A. sponding to 80% of the surface area available for lease will continue to consistently meet their obligations. in the new complex. The Covid-19 pandemic has put the prevailing conditions Smart Park’s yield is closely monitored by the use of and status quo in the real estate market at risk. The indicators, the most important of them being the visit and government-imposed suspension of operations for shop sales statistics. According to the above indicators shopping malls and centres, and the measures adopted for 2019, increased traffic of around 9% was observed to mitigate the consequences and to ensure the functioncompared to 2018, while in-store sales similarly rose ing of the economy, such as the reduction of commer2019 Review by 13%. cial lease rents, affect planning, increasing liquidity risk. Outlook €7.1 million The Cambas Park will be developed in the area of Kantza turnover Pallini, at the Camba winery, combining the use of office, commercial and cultural facilities. It would seek to highlight existing, preserved buildings and the provision of refurbished public natural and recreational areas to its visitors. The project is approximately a € 200 million investment, of which apart from the investments made 53,000 m2 for the reconstruction of the Camba winery, 50% of the total area, specifically 157 acres, will be allocated to the total surface of Smart Park, Municipality of Pallini for shared public use, increasing the largest retail park the available area for the public plaza and playgrounds. in Greece With regard to the properties in Romania, the best investment prospects are being explored in an effort to find a co-investor or a buyer. In addition, REDS S.A. will undertake all necessary actions 5.5 million on behalf of AKTOR CONCESSIONS SA for the development of the property situated in Chalandri near Attiki Odos visitors at Smart Park and the Doukissis Plakentias Metro Station, comprised of a building with a total floor area of 11,600 m2 on a plot of land with an area of approximately 10,450 m2. In particular, the renovation and rental or sale of the building is under consideration, depending on market conditions. 24 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 25 SHAREHOLDING MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS AND NETWORKS The Company’s share capital amounts to € 220,700,163.09, divided into 214,272,003 shares, with a nominal value of The Group and/or its subsidiaries are members of Greek and international associations, organisations and bodies, €1.03 each. All shares are ordinary, registered, voting shares, listed for trading on the main market of the Athens with a view to contributing to the development of their industries, constantly improving the services provided, as well Stock Exchange, specifically in the “Constructions and Construction Materials” sector. as managing, in the best possible way, the impacts from their operation. ELLAKTOR Shareholding 31.12.2019 Hellenic Federation of Enterprises The Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) represents In 2019, ELLAKTOR Group pledged to uphold the Global Greek enterprises and industries and supports their Compact principles, throughout all sectors of its operation interests at national and European level, through the and while interacting with its stakeholders. AKTOR, as 132,574,104 respective European representation agency for entera subsidiary of the Group, is represented by the Group prises and industries, BUSINESSEUROPE. in the International Organisation and is now a member Free Float (<5%) of the local network (Global Compact Network Hellas). 54,815,876 Anastassios Kallitsantsis and SEV Business Council for Sustainable Development 61.87% Global Compact Network Hellas Dimitrios Kallitsantsis* The SEV Business Council for Sustainable Development 214,272,003 Total Shares was created in order to act as a strong and dynamic Global Compact Network Hellas promotes the UN Global 25.58% supporter of businesses that want to play a leading Compact principles in Greece. It is an independent and role in promoting Sustainable Development in Greek self-governing entity, which works in close collaboration entrepreneurship. Members of the Council undertake with the UN Global Compact in New York, and acts as a 12.55% to actively participate in its proceedings and to abide by point of contact for all its members. 26,882,023 a common Code of Sustainable Development Principles, which must be applied and constantly improved and ELLAKTOR Group is one of the founding members of the Leonidas Bobolas** adjusted. Global Compact Network Hellas and AKTOR has been a member since 2019. ELLAKTOR Group is one of the Council’s founding members, while Mr. Anastassios Kallitsantsis, Group * Through PEMANOARO LIMITED, which is jointly controlled by Mr. Anastasios P. Kallitsantsis and Mr. Dimitrios P. Kallitsantsis. CEO, served as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors Hellenic Association of Toll Road Network – Also, Mr. Anastasios Kallitsantsis holds (a) 190,500 shares and an equal number of voting rights, i.e. 0.09%, and (b) through the of the SEV Business Council for Sustainable DevelopHELLASTRON company controlled by him, i.e. ARGONIO ENTERPRISES LIMITED, 1,336,989 shares and an equal number of voting rights, i.e. ment from 2009 until mid-2019. 0.62%. ATTIKI ODOS and ATTIKES DIADROMES are members ** Mr. Leonidas Bobolas’ holding (and voting rights) also includes 1.14%, held by the company controlled by him, i.e. ORANOM of the Hellenic Association of Toll Road Network – HOLDINGS LTD (i.e. 2,450,000 shares and an equal number of voting rights). CSR Hellas HELLASTRON, in which all modern motorways and facilities with tolls operating in Greece participate in, This is a non-profit network of enterprises. Its purpose aiming to promote professional, scientific, research, is to promote the concept of Corporate Social Responsocial and educational topics relating to road transsibility and showcase it within the business and social portation in Greece. environment. AKTOR and ATTIKI ODOS are members of CSR Hellas. Federation of Recycling and Energy Recovery Industries and Enterprises (SEPAN) United Nations Global Compact HELECTOR is a member of the Federation of Recycling The UN Global Compact promotes, on a global scale, and Energy Recovery Industries and Enterprises the adoption of the Global Compact’s world renowned (SEPAN) and holds a position in the federation’s Board 10 principles, on human rights, labour, environment and of Directors. SEPAN was created to promote the advananti-corruption. tages of adopting a circular economy business model, through actions related to recycling and energy recovery AKTOR and ATTIKI ODOS have become signatories to the from waste, aiming to strengthen the sustainable Global Compact since 2008. development of the country. 26 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 27 1.2 BUSINESS MODEL For years, ELLAKTOR Group has been actively and substantially contributing to SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PILLARS sustainable development by supporting the Greek economy, aiming for a safe and In October 2019, the ELLAKTOR Group Sustainable In 2019, the Group commenced the process of detailed fair working environment, reducing the negative impacts of its activities on the Development Division was created, whose responsibilirecording the performance of its companies in relation environment, investing in energy production from renewable energy sources (RES) ties include, amongst other things, the development of to sustainable development, which in conjunction with the Group’s sustainability strategy in cooperation with the results of the materiality analysis that are outlined and in urban waste management, while also financially supporting various social the Group’s Compliance and Sustainable Development below, led to the redefining of the Group’s strategy and activities and citizens in need. Committee. Moreover, the Sustainable Development mapping of its sustainable development priorities and Division oversees and supports the Group’s companies targets throughout all its companies and activities. in their relevant activities. The Group makes systematic efforts in all these areas in order to increase its positive impact on the economy, the society and the environment, thus multiplying the value created by its activity for all stakeholders. Sustainable Development Pillars of the Group STRATEGY The Management of the Group aims to ensure that Having accumulated considerable expertise in the most ELLAKTOR extends its existing leading presence in the complex and demanding projects, ELLAKTOR Group Concessions, Renewable Energy Sources and Environcombines its 70 years of experience with cutting-edge ment segments, while fully leveraging the competitive technological developments, promoting projects that advantage offered by its prominent position in Construcaccelerate development and improve the quality of life tion and re-establishing ELLAKTOR’s status as one of the of people around the world. leading infrastructure groups in Greece and southeast Europe. OUR VISION Business Ethics Innovation ELLAKTOR Group seeks to develop projects that are a dynamic and consistent player enhancing and dissemgrowth drivers and help improve peoples’ quality of inating sustainability on all levels. life, in the areas where it operates, and to evolve into OUR VALUES CO 2 Ethics Our conduct is ethical and promotes transparency and open communication Collaboration We encourage teamwork, constructive collaboration and collective accountability Employee health, Safety Low Carbon Respect We respect diversity and provide equal opportunities in the workplace and Development Economy Safety We commit to promoting a safe working environment In addition to the pillars that focus on the Group’s operations and activities, the Group recognises societal support as an important characteristic of its strategy. The strategic pillars that make up the Group’s social contribution are Innovation We value agility, innovation and an entrepreneurial spirit presented in the Social Contribution section of the Report. Social We acknowledge our environmental responsibility and act in ways that reduce the Responsibility impact of our activities on the environment 28 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 29 ELLAKTOR Group Business Model INPUTS VALUE CREATION OUTCOMES Financial Capital Vision Sustainability Priorities Financial Capital • Total Group equity € 533 mil. • Consolidated income € 1,273,6 mil. We create projects that contribute to development by improving Business ethics • Net debt € 1,028.2 mil. the quality of life of people around the world, and we are evolving • EBITDA € 80.6 mil. into a dynamic and sound actor that support and promotes • We adopt best practices with respect to business ethics, corporate sustainable development at all levels. governance and risk management. Productive Capital • We motivate our associates to adopt responsible business practices. Productive Capital • Tangible assets € 630.8 mil. • Wind farms in operation* 25 • Intangible assets Employee health, safety and development • Motorways under and Concessions Strategy management* 275 km Rights € 483.3 mil. • We support our employees, by establishing a safe working We are developing our activities in the Concessions, Environment environment, where they can develop and grow. and Renewable Energy Sources business segments, capitalising Intellectual Capital Intellectual Capital on our expertise in construction, and at the same time we are continuing to reorganize the way we operate. Innovation • Goodwill € 2.2 mil. • Intangible assets € 36.7 mil. • Depreciation € 102.6 mil. (licences in the • We are rebranding as a modern Group of companies by diversifying renewable energy our activities. • We redesign the way we operate, based on the transition to the new sector) Values digital era. Human Capital • We explore the opportunities for a more efficient use of technologies • Employee benefits € 213.6 mil. in our activities. Human Capital • Employees on permanent contracts* 87% • Employees* 5,458 Ethos Respect Innovation Low carbon economy • Hours of training for employees* 32,819 Natural Capital • We recognise the international and domestic targets and initiatives focusing on the transition to a low carbon economy, by reducing the greenhouse gas emissions arising from our activities and investing • Generation from renewable Natural Capital in our business activities that contribute to tackling climate change. energy sources* 909 GWh • Third-party waste • Electricity consumption* 69,426 MWh Safety Cooperation Social under management* 429,000 tn • Water consumption* 935,836 m3 Responsibility Social Capital Social Capital • Blood units from • Social contribution* € 2.5 mil. Main Activities blood donations* 544 • Employee participations in • Taxes paid € 58.6 mil. voluntary blood donations* 278 • Subcontractor fees € 308.6 mil. (including insurance contributions for subcontractor personnel) * Referring to activities in Greece Concessions Environment Renewable Construction Real Estate Energy Source Development 30 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 31 1.3 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Aiming to enhance its sustainable development strategy, the ELLAKTOR Group conducted an analysis of the material topics relating to its operation, which also reflect the most significant impacts of its activities on the wider economy, society and the environment. IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS The Group identified 21 material topics related to its • Publications from the last three years (2017-2019) activities by reviewing the following: related to the ELLAKTOR Group and its subsidiaries • International and sectoral sustainable development • Internal documents (e.g. policies, strategies, standards such as the GRI standards and the GRI management systems, operating standards, etc.) Construction Sector Supplement, the SASB standards and the ESG Reporting Guide of the Athens Stock • United Nations Global Sustainable Development Exchange Goals (SDGs) • Sustainable Development Reports of peer companies • Principles of the United Nations Global Compact EVALUATION AND PRIORITISATION Senior members of the parent company’s and subsidiar• highest priorities and future challenges of the ies’ Management were invited to evaluate and prioritise segment the 21 material topics based on the following criteria: In this context, 7 workshops were conducted, where • impact significance (positive or negative) of the topics representatives from the Management of the Group’s on the wider economy, society and the environment companies participated. During the meetings, the material and consequently, on the achievement of the UN topics that pertained to each company were evaluated Sustainable Development Goals and the results were verified by the Group’s Management and the Group’s Compliance and Sustainable Develop• impact significance (positive or negative) of the ment Committee. topics on the ability of the Group and its companies to fulfil their business targets, or on their reputation 32 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 33 Material topics for ELLAKTOR Group Significance of the topics’ impact on the economy, society, the environment 1. Creation and distribution of economic value MOST MATERIAL 2. Creating of high-quality employment opportunities (full-time, for highand/or low-skilled workers, with satisfactory remuneration) 3. Safeguarding occupational health, safety and wellbeing of employees (including subcontractors employees) 4. Safeguarding regulatory compliance and business ethics 5. Reinforcement of innovation and digital transformation and the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals 6. Ensuring business continuity and emergency preparedness 7. Contribution in the increase of renewable/alternative energy sources availability and reliability of, while reducing and offsetting greenhouse gas emissions and other gaseous pollutants (e.g. NOx, SOx, VOCs) MATERIALITY THRESHOLD 8. Provision of employee training, evaluation and development 9. Safeguarding human rights at work MOST 10. Safeguarding health, safety and wellbeing of end users and structural integrity MATERIAL and safety TOPICS 11. Continuous improvement of community relations and responsiveness to their needs Significance of the topics’ impact with respect to the Group’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to implement their business model or to their reputation 12. Minimisation of waste and increase of circular economy practices 13. Contribution in the improvement of urban and built environment 14. Improvement of resources and materials efficiency 15. Reduction of non-renewable energy consumption and increase of energy efficiency Creation and distribution of economic value 16. Reduction of water consumption and effluents Creating of high-quality employment opportunities (full-time, for highand/or low-skilled workers, with satisfactory remuneration) 17. Improvement of the social and environmental impacts of suppliers and partners Safeguarding occupational health, safety and wellbeing of employees (including subcontractors 18. Protection and preservation of biodiversity employees) LESS MATERIAL 19. Contribution in the increase of ESG (Environment, Society, Governance) financing Safeguarding regulatory compliance and business ethics 20. Identification of financial implications due to sustainability issues Reinforcement of innovation and digital transformation (risks and opportunities) Ensuring business continuity and emergency preparedness 21. Minimisation of noise Contribution in the increase of renewable/alternative energy sources availability and reliability of, while reducing and offsetting greenhouse gas emissions and other gaseous pollutants (e.g. NOx, SOx, VOCs) Priorities and future challenges of the sector 34 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 35 1.4 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Group has adopted the United Nations 2030 Agenda, represented by the 17 Sustainable Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. The Group’s priority is to achieve the goals Development Goals Group’s Contribution that are directly linked to the activities and challenges specific to its segments of operation, and to the material topics arising from its operation. ELLAKTOR Group builds infrastructure projects that contribute towards the sustainable development and strengthening of local communities. At the same time, it invests in the development of modern technologies, capitalizing on the benefits of the internet, digital media and new technologies. It uses technology to optimize its operation as well as modernise its projects. ELLAKTOR Group through its activity in the Concessions, Construction and Real Estate Development segments, has set a target to implement and operate projects that contribute towards increasing urban citizens’ wellbeing and creating a friendly and sustainable urban environment. It analyses and evaluates the risks pertaining to its operations and projects and takes precautionary measures, in order to minimise risks, manage emergency situations and ensure the cities’ uninterrupted operation. It aspires to help create cities Sustainable with opportunities for all, access to basic amenities, energy and transport, and with safe Development road networks, resilient to climate change and natural disasters. Goals Group’s Contribution The Group invests in the well-being of its people, in shaping a good working environment ELLAKTOR Group contributes towards the enhancement of circular economy, through its and in ensuring its employees’ and employees hired by subcontractors Health and Safety. activity in the Environment segment, where it focuses on waste management, the separation The Group’s companies apply the practices outlined by the relevant Health and Safety and utilisation of recyclable material, the production of alternative fuels and the exploitation Management Systems, to their offices and construction sites as well as to the projects of biogas. In addition, it takes measures to reduce and effectively manage the waste they develop. They identify risks and take precautionary measures to eliminate accidents generated from its operation. and health incidents. ELLAKTOR Group supports national efforts for the transition to a low carbon economy and ELLAKTOR Group, leveraging its diversified portfolio of activities, focuses on the developrecognises the positive opportunities of the RES market, by intensifying its actions for the ment of new and innovative projects, that contribute towards developing and improving increase of its wind farms’ installed capacity and invests in further expanding its activities quality of life. The Group supports the Greek economy and creates value that is distributed in the RES segment. It also aims to reduce its energy consumption from non-renewable to society. It creates mutually trusting relationships and supports local communities in sources. which it operates. In the meantime, aiming at the satisfaction and wellbeing of employees, as well as the creation of a working environment that supports their personal and professional developELLAKTOR Group seeks to conduct its business according to the principles of business ment, the Group pursues the creation of quality full-time employment opportunities of low ethics and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. It has developed and and/or high specialisation with adequate remuneration. In addition, the Group provides adopted a Code of Conduct, an Ethics and Compliance Programme, as well as policies equal opportunities for all, avoiding any discrimination regarding gender, age, nationality, and procedures to effectively deal with ethics and compliance issues. beliefs and physical ability and selects personnel using meritocratic and reliable methods. 36 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 37 1.5 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT For ELLAKTOR, the systematic and essential two-way communication with its stakeholders, is the basis for the evaluation and planning of its actions and practices, and for dealing with day-to-day challenges. The Group recognises as its stakeholders those groups that directly or indirectly affect and are affected by its activities. Stakeholders belong either to the Group’s inner environment (shareholders, employees) or outer environment (suppliers, customers, associates). In 2019, the Group reviewed its stakeholder groups. LOCAL COMMUNITIES STATE AND AND AUTHORITIES REGULATORY AUTHORITIES (local media, local NGOs, local authorities, local civil society organisations) EMPLOYEES SUBCONTRACTORS STAKEHOLDERS CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS SHAREHOLDERS, SOCIETY INVESTORS AND (media, NGOs, civil BONDHOLDERS society organisations) BANKS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 38 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 39 At ELLAKTOR Group, our key concern is to establish mutual trust and excellent cooperation with our stakeholders, MEANS while taking great care in addressing the different expectations and demands of each stakeholder group. STAKEHOLDERS KEY REQUIREMENTS OF COMMUNICATION LOCAL COMMUNITIES Local community members and local Constant communication with local AND ADMINISTRATIVE authority officials (local media, local Project managers, depending on ensuing BODIES NGOs, local civil society organisations) needs as well as annually through the MEANS in the areas where the Group operates Group’s Sustainable Development STAKEHOLDERS KEY REQUIREMENTS OF COMMUNICATION are interested in employment opportuReport. nities, as well as in the Group’s activities on issues of common interest, such as EMPLOYEES Employees wish to work in a safe Constant and direct communication via environmental protection and social environment, earn a competitive salary, the Group’s intranet for all developments support. enjoy advancement opportunities within and changes. the Group and be treated with respect and meritocracy. Continuous communication with the Group’s Human Resources Division, SUPPLIERS AND Suppliers and partners wish to have a Direct communication through the They also want to know the Group’s depending on the needs that arise. PARTNERS consistent, profitable and long-term Procurement Managers of each activity, activities and their developments. relationship with the Group in all areas. ad hoc depending on ensuing needs. Updates from Management via special employee events twice every year. CUSTOMERS Our customers want to have an Direct communication through the SUBCONTRACTORS They wish to have a consistent, profitable Direct communication through the Site excellent cooperation with the Group in persons responsible for each project / and long-term relationship with the Group Managers of each activity, continuously all areas and to receive quality projects area of operations, on a consistent basis in all areas. Moreover, they want their and as needed. and services according to the agreed and as needed by the customer. employees to work in a safe environment. specifications and timelines. STATE AND They are interested in the lawful and Constant updates with announcements, SHAREHOLDERS, They are interested in the Group’s Constant updates with announcements, REGULATORY responsible operation of the Group, press releases and presentations, INVESTORS AND profitability, the business developments press releases and presentations, AUTHORITIES environmental protection, social actions, through the website and the Media, as BONDHOLDERS in its areas of operations, as well as its through the website and the Media, as the respect and protection of employees’ well as annually through the Group’s performance in social and environmenwell as annually through the Group’s rights, as well as employees’ Health and Sustainable Development Report. tal topics. Sustainable Development Report. Safety. Direct communication through the Project They also wish to ensure the Group’s Continuous communication with Group Managers of each activity, and through viability and implementation of strict Investor Relations. meetings with Management, ad hoc Corporate Governance standards and depending on ensuing needs. principles. Meetings with the Management and Financial Division of the Group, ad hoc depending on ensuing needs. SOCIETY Society’s members wish to be updated on Constant updates with announcements, any changes of the Group’s Sustainable press releases and presentations, Development activities, the financial, through the website and the Media, as BANKS AND The Banks that the Group cooperates Constant updates with announcements, environmental and social aspects, and the well as annually through the Group’s FINANCIAL with wish to have timely updates on press releases and presentations, business developments and activities of Sustainable Development Report. INSTITUTIONS financial and business developments. through the website and the Media, as the Group. well as annually through the Group’s Meetings with the Group’s Corporate They also wish to ensure the Group’s Sustainable Development Report. Communication Division in regard to viability and implementation of strict Media, ad hoc depending on ensuing Corporate Governance standards and Meetings with the Management and needs. principles. Financial Division of the Group, ad hoc depending on ensuing needs. Meetings with the Group’s Sustainable Development Division, with regards to NGOs and civil society organizations depending on ensuing needs. 40 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 41 1.6 GROUP STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND TARGETS Topics 2020 Target Medium-term targets (2022) Sustainable Develop a three-year plan including Development measurable improvement targets and Having identified the main sustainable development priority pillars, the Group proceeded Strategy sustainable development initiatives per with defining the topics per pillar, for which short-term (2020) and medium-term (2022) segment. targets were set in order to monitor the Group’s impact and progress. The targets Policies and Develop and implement a central that were set in 2018 have been redefined and integrated in the Group’s new target procedures management system for policies and and activity plan. procedures. Stakeholders Conduct a stakeholder engagement Develop and implement an annual The main targets for the next year and for 2022 are presented per pillar and topic. survey to record and evaluate stakestakeholder engagement plan relevant holders’ needs and expectations on to Group’s key stakeholders. sustainable development issues and subsequently incorporate them in the Group’s materiality analysis. BUSINESS ETHICS Topics 2020 Target Medium-term targets (2022) Ethical business Align the Group’s Compliance System Develop an anti-bribery management EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY AND DEVELOPMENT practices with the guidelines of ISO 19600:2014. system and obtain certification in accordance with ISO 37001:2016 for all Develop an anti-bribery management of the Group’s main companies. Topics 2020 Target Medium-term targets (2022) system and obtain certification in accordance with ISO 37001:2016 for Perform training for 100% of the Group’s Enhancement of Strategically align the vision, mission, Implement initiatives for the adoption ELLAKTOR and AKTOR CONCESSIONS. employees on regulatory compliance company culture values and behaviours which represent of a uniform Group culture and values issues. the Group’s culture. throughout the Group’s activities and Develop a Group donation (monetary or companies. in-kind) and sponsorship policy. Develop a Human Resources policy. Create and implement an Employer Analyse results from the Employee Branding action plan. Management of Complete Data Protection Impact Develop an information security manageEngagement Survey and develop actions information and Assessments (DPIA), where applicable. ment system and obtain certification in in order to improve results. Implement Employee Engagement personal data accordance with ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Survey every two years. for ELLAKTOR. Training Complete Training plan for all Group Complete the development of the Procurement Implementation of a Group ProcureIntegrate sustainability criteria in the employees. Leadership Training Academy. management and ment Policy. evaluation process of significant cooperation with suppliers, partners, and subcontractors. Develop an online training platform. Perform Reskilling and Upskilling for suppliers and Establish centralised procurement. executives in order to acquire necessary subcontractors Systematically record the trainings skills for the transition to the digital age. Develop and implement detailed conducted at project and activity level. systematic recording and traceability of the Group’s purchased materials and services. Evaluation and Evaluate the performance of 100% of Evaluate 100% of Group employees’ development employees working at the Group’s Head performance. offices and managerial positions in Sustainable Establish key performance indicators for projects/activities, in accordance with Implement a “360 Feedback” evaluation Development all of the Group’s material issues. the new evaluation system. process for division/department/project Strategy managers. Develop an employee potential evaluation process. 75% of promotions to be covered through the internal employees’ potential evaluation process. 42 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 43 Topics 2020 Target Medium-term targets (2022) Topics 2020 Target Medium-term targets (2022) Employee Benefits Establish a retirement plan for all Group Develop a procedure for employee reHealth and Safety Increase audits of subcontractors. Conduct internal audits for 100% of the executives. wards in the form of bonuses. inspections Group’s projects and activities, annually. Conduct internal audits for 60% of the Increase the number of benefits (e.g. reGroup’s projects. staurant coupons, awards to employees with long tenure, etc.). Monitoring health Implement Monthly Safety Reports and Achieve zero accidents. and safety a Health and Safety Inspection List for Attracting new Participate and support events that Develop an internship programme for performance all Group projects and companies. employees connect young people with the labour university students. market. Increase of diversity Record and assess existing employees, Develop a plan targeted towards increaswith respect to gender and age. ing gender and age equality in the Group’s workforce. INNOVATION Employee well-being Develop a programme that will enhance employees’ well-being. Topics 2020 Target Medium-term targets (2022) Process automation Automate Human Resources’ procedures, Automate building management proceEmployee volunteering Organise a voluntary blood donation Develop an employee volunteering action as well as site and supplier reports, which dures. event at the Group’s Head offices. plan. require significant handling of paper and physical presence for signatures. Install Document Control software in the Strengthen Develop and implement a Group Develop and implement a procedure for construction sites of large projects. occupational health Occupational Health and Safety Policy. on-site inspections of projects/activities Implement and operate Management and safety culture at regarding safety issues, by management Reporting applications. all levels Assign a Health and Safety Manager for executives. all of the Group’s companies/projects/ Enhance remote Utilise video conferencing and interaction activities. Develop initiatives, such as Safety working software on specific projects, in order to forums, Safety Champions and awareensure that remote working can be carried Assign a team for the investigation of ness campaigns for all Group projects out. accidents and near-misses per segment and activities. and develop training material based on the results of the investigation. Business continuity Develop business continuity management system for the Group’s critical operations. Develop and implement daily 15-minute safety sessions for all of the Group’s projects and activities, where supervisors discuss and disseminate safety messages, with the participation of all employees working on projects. LOW CARBON ECONOMY Training on Health Train all executives and employees in and Safety managerial positions on occupational health and safety issues. Topics 2020 Target Medium-term targets (2022) Carry out training on technical issues in Increase of investments Strengthen RES portfolio by increasing all Group segments by certified bodies. in RES the number of wind farms, photovoltaic parks and biomass exploitation projects. Systematically monitor and record the trainings carried out for employees hired Contribution to circular Improve recovery rates of recyclable Further increase the number of investby subcontractors. economy materials in treatment plants. ments in innovative waste management technologies. 44 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ELLAKTOR GROUP 45 Topics 2020 Target Medium-term targets (2022) Monitoring performance Implement a uniform methodology Monitor and record subcontractors’ on environmental issues regarding the monitoring and record of environmental performance. environmental performance indicators. Monitor and record the performance of 100% of Group projects/activities in Greece. Environmental Conduct on-site internal audits for 33% of Conduct on-site internal audits for all inspections the Group’s projects/activities. Group projects/activities within the 2020-2022 period. Develop a tool that will enable the remote audit of Group’s projects/activities. Develop an Environmental Management System and obtain certification in accordance with ISO 14001 for ELLAKTOR (RES segment) and HELLENIC QUARRIES accordingly. Training and raising Train all employees based at construcEstablish an annual training and awareness on tion sites, on environmental and energy awareness plan on environmental and environmental issues management issues. energy issues for all Group employees. Biodiversity Implement bird monitoring programmes in significant biodiversity areas, where projects/activities are located, especially during the birds’ breeding season as well as during the spring and autumn migration periods. 46 47 Establishment of Group’s Compliance and Sustainable Development Committee Approval of Group’s Anti-Bribery Policy Approval of Group’s Whistleblowing Policy 48 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 OPERATION 49 2.1 GOVERNANCE Organisational Chart The demanding and constantly changing environment in which ELLAKTOR Group BOARD OF DIRECTORS operates, dictates an effective Corporate Governance framework, which will respond to the challenges of the times and adapt to the business, economic and social conditions, by recognising risks and opportunities. The sound system of principles that forms the BOD AND BOD COMMITTEES’ NOMINATION AND foundation for the way ELLAKTOR Group is organised, managed and operates, seeks SECRETARIAT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE not only the realisation of strategic objectives, but also the protection of the Group’s internal unity. Moreover, this also safeguards its integrity and reliability, while strengthCOMPLIANCE AND SUSTAINABLE ening its competitiveness by adopting agile structures and ground-breaking approaches. AUDIT COMMITTEE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT DEPARTMENT COMPLIANCE DEPARTMENT CEO PROJECT AND RISK GROUP STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER CHIEF FINANCIAL CHIEF OPERATIONS CHIEF LEGAL CHIEF RISK OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER HR CIO ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE ELLAKTOR Group’s operation is based on a modern the Group’s Board of Directors has established Commitand effective model geared towards sustainable and tees with supervisory, authorisation, coordination and responsible development. The Group applies corporate advisory competences, comprised of its members, in governance practices in relation to the size, composition, order to assist the Group Management in performing CONSTRUCTION CONCESSIONS ENVIRONMENT RES REAL ESTATE tasks and operation, in general, of the Board of Directors its functions. (BoD) and its committees. The organisational chart depicts all Committees, which Given the nature and purpose of the Company, the report directly to the BoD, as well as the Committees complexity of its affairs and the multitude of its reporting to the Group’s CEO. subsidiaries and joint ventures in Greece and abroad, Executive body or position BoD or Management Committee Segment 50 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 OPERATION 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Corporate Governance Code was prepared by the The Corporate Governance Code guarantees the duration In the context of the above, the Committee’s primary It should be mentioned that in 2019, ELLAKTOR Board Group’s parent company, ELLAKTOR S.A., pursuant to and effectiveness of the Group’s operation, securing the responsibility is to advise and make proposals to the Remuneration Policy has been approved by the Annual Law 3873/2010 and includes the corporate governance interests of all stakeholders and observing the principles Board of Directors regarding the Group’s Sustainable General Meeting of ELLAKTOR’s shareholders, which principles that govern the Group’s management and of transparency, professional ethics and responsible Development Policy. Among other things, the Committee sets out the details in relation to the (i) current rights control. management of all resources. supervises the preparation of the Group’s Annual and obligations and (ii) the terms under which future Sustainable Development Report and submits proposals remuneration may be offered to current and/or new The Group’s Code is based on the Corporate Governance The ELLAKTOR Corporate Governance Code is structured concerning the participation of the Company (and Group Board Directors. The Policy applies to the remuneration Code of the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) as follows: a) the General Principles which constitute the companies) in internationally recognized indicators for of all members of the Board of Directors and it aims at (January 2011) and, by extension, on the OECD Principles general corporate governance framework and summarise sustainable development. ensuring that ELLAKTOR is remunerating its Board of Corporate Governance, and the ‘Principles of Corporate the guidelines, and b) the special Practices, into which Directors on the basis of the Company’s short and longGovernance in Greece Recommendations for its CompeGeneral Principles are qualified, as “compliance or More information on the Group’s corporate governance, term business plan. titive Transformation’ of the Hellenic Capital Market explanation” provisions, which form the basis of the the Committees, as well as its important developments Commission. The Code also includes the mandatory ELLAKTOR S.A. corporate governance statement. and policies can be found in the Corporate Governance rules that have been ratified by laws or regulations of section of the Group’s website and the Annual Financial competent bodies such as the Hellenic Capital Market Report 2019. Commission. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.2 COMPLIANCE The Board of Directors is responsible for setting the of a series of necessary reforms. These reforms are Corporate Strategy and the Group’s growth policy, and intended to enhance Group-level operations, reorganThe Group intends to carry out its activities honestly, ethically, with integrity and in bears the overall responsibility for managing the compaise activities to enable synergies, and restructure the ny’s risks, including those relating to the credibility of company overall, so that the Group will be in a position line with the applicable laws, regulations and standards, its policies and guidelines, financial statements. to respond to modern trends more effectively. and its Code of Conduct. All codes, policies and procedures have been communicated The new composition of the Board of Directors that was At the end of 2019 (31.12.2019), the ELLAKTOR Board of to all Group employees. elected at the Shareholders' General Assembly in July Directors is made up of nine (9) members, all of who are 2018, reflects ELLAKTOR’s undivided commitment to Greek nationals, of which seven (7) are men and two (2) The Group is implementing an Ethics and Regulatory In 2019, ELLAKTOR Group, carried out audits to identify modern Corporate Governance and the implementation women, two (2) are between 30-50 years old and (7) are Compliance Programme designed to prevent, identify corruption issues, during which no significant risks were above 50. and address issues of ethics and regulatory compliance. found for the Group’s companies. In addition, there The Programme is currently being updated. were no cases that reached the courtrooms in relation to corruption and anti-competitive behaviour against the COMPLIANCE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE Aiming to enhance its regulatory compliance, transparGroup or its employees. ency and zero tolerance on corruption issues, the Group Compliance and Sustainable Development Committee1 • Shifting from environmentally friendly activities to and its subsidiaries, in early 2020, adopted the Anti-Bribery It should be mentioned that HELECTOR, implements an was established in early 2019, whose tasks in the area strategic penetration into sectors and technologies Policy and the Whistleblowing Policy. Anti-bribery management system in accordance with the of sustainable development involve the formulation of that have a direct positive impact on the environment. ISO 37001:2016 standard, which has been certified since a comprehensive sustainable development strategy for 2017. the Group aimed at: • Evolving gradually from a responsible employer to an organisation in which human resources develop • Identifying clear objectives and priorities for the and progress both individually and collectively. CODE OF CONDUCT environment, community, and employees. • Supporting the Group’s suppliers, in order to improve The Code of Conduct contains the fundamental principles, This set of principles and rules extends to all Group • Moving from charity to substantive social responsitheir overall environmental and social performance. the rules and the values that shape the context of the companies and the way which they conduct their bility, setting goals that will have a significant positive Group’s activities and determine the everyday behaviour business with customers, subcontractors, suppliers and impact on society. and practices of all employees, covering issues related partners. All Business Units of the Group must abide by to corruption, inappropriate behaviour, gender equality and protect the principles and values set out in the Code and the promotion of all employees well-being, regardless of Conduct. of their position and rank. The purpose of the Code is to provide guidance to employees on proper conduct and The Code is currently being updated. 1 It is noted that the Compliance Committee on how to address issues related to business ethics has existed since 2016. principles and rules. 52 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 OPERATION 53 ANTI-BRIBERY POLICY DATA PRIVACY In January 2020, the Group’s Board of Directors approved The Policy applies to all Group Companies and is binding The Group’s approach to processing and assuring In addition to actions related to the compliance of GDPR, the Anti-Bribery Policy, which seeks to strengthen the on (i) the members of the Board of Directors (BoD) and personal data is in line with the requirements of the EU’s any relevant data protection issues that took place Group Management’s commitment towards zero tolerance persons carrying out managerial duties throughout General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2016/679. during operations of the Group were resolved. Most against bribery, creating a framework of obligations and Group companies, (ii) Group personnel, (iii) customers, In 2019, the following actions took place: importantly: guidelines, to be used as a tool for preventing, deterring suppliers/subcontractors and persons providing services and combating bribery. to Group companies and (iv) any third party acting on • A Data Protection Officer (DPO) was appointed for • Processing candidate’s data, through the Group’s behalf of the Group. all the Group’s companies. collaboration with the company WORKABLE. • The policies and procedures, focusing on enriching • Processing data through the whistleblowing platform. and strengthening the data protection framework in WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY accordance with the GDPR and developments of At the end of 2019, an internal audit regarding the implethe National Legislation, were reviewed, revised, mentation of EU’s GDPR 2016/679 and Law 4624/2019 In January 2020, the Group’s Board of Directors approved or (d) be sent by post to the address: ELLAKTOR SA, improved, updated and further enhanced. More was carried out. Out of the 18 findings in total, 1 was the Whistleblowing Policy, which sets out the principles 25, Ermou Street, 145 64 Kifissia, to the attention of the specifically, actions carried out include: related to non-compliance, 16 were observations and 1 and framework under which the Group accepts, processes Compliance Department of the Company, or to the postal proposed potential improvement. All recorded findings and investigates any allegations (submitted anonymously address of another Group company, to the attention of Update of the Processing Activities File. were forwarded to the Compliance and Sustainable or by name) of irregularities, omissions or other criminal the respective company’s Compliance Department, and Development Committee, the Head of the Compliance acts that have come to the attention of the staff, customers, should be marked “Confidential”, or (e) be submitted in Enrichment and strengthening of the Group’s Data Department and the Group’s DPO. Compliance actions suppliers or other third parties. The Policy applies to all printed format directly to the Company's Compliance Protection Policy. were designed and implemented, based on the Internal Group companies. Department or one of the other compliance departments Audit Department’s findings and recommendations. of the Group. Completion and expansion of the data protection Complaints may: (a) Be reported directly to the Group clauses with respect to employees’ and customers’/ A complaint was submitted to the Hellenic Data ProtecHead of Compliance or to the Compliance Officer of one In 2019, no incidents of corruption were recorded and suppliers’ contracts and revision of the standard tion Authority, regarding ATTIKI ODOS’ cookies policy on of the Group’s companies, or (b) be sent to the email there were no cases of contract termination between contracts. its website. Upon the provision of further explanations address compliance@ellaktor.com, or (c) be submitted employees or associates due to corruption issues. In to the Authority, the case was filed. There have been no via the anonymous complaints application (platform), addition, the Group did not exhibit any financial losses Expansion of existing and introduction of new data other complaints or exercise of rights by the data subjects which can be accessed at https://integrity.ellaktor.com, as a result of business ethics violations. protection procedures, which refer to the manage nor any inspections on behalf of the competent Data ment of data breach issues, data retention and Protection Authority. destruction, exercise of rights, e-mail policy and postal mail management. In addition, some complaints/inquiries were made TRAINING against ATTIKI ODOS, which mainly concern objections towards users’ registration process (the legality of the Group employees regularly attend educational and in Aspropyrgos in Attica and Sindo in Thessaloniki, • A Steering Committee, in which the DPO participates, procedure was explained and it is made available to the informative seminars on regulatory compliance issues. were trained on Group’s compliance policies and was appointed to coordinate and oversee the Group’s applicants in advance), requests for access to personal Indicatively, in 2019, trainings were conducted as procedures of HELECTOR’s Anti-bribery management data protection issues. The Committee is responsible, data (the requests are fulfilled depending on whether follows: system in accordance with the ISO 37001:2016. amongst other things, for the approval of policies, and the legal requirements are met) and revocation of the procedures in relation to data protection issues. consent form with regards to forwarding customer • Group’s executives and employees from the Group’s • Four (4) Group executives were trained on issues satisfaction surveys (completed). All complaints were Financial Department, Construction segment’s relevant to combating corruption from ACFE The Processing Activities File and the Data Protection dealt within one month, with no follow-ups taking place. Technical Department , Human Resources Division, (Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, Greece). Policy contain all the principles that establish procedures IT Division and the Real Estate Development segment, Following this, the executives have become members for the processing of any personal data by the Group, In 2019, there were no incidents regarding the breach were informed on the topics of combating bribery and of the ACFE, and two (2) of them received the CFE the relevant obligations, data privacy rights, as well as of customers’ personal data. corruption as well as handling whistleblowing. (Certified Fraud Examiner) certification. the required security measures. The Data Subjects’ Rights Procedure and the Data Retention and Destruction • HELECTOR employees in Thessaloniki (HELECTOR’s Also, in November 2019, the Group companies’ CompliProcedure have been included in the Data Protection administrative staff in Thessaloniki and employees ance Officers and the certified Auditors (CFE’s), attended Policy’s appendix. in charge of the company’s operations, as well as ACFE Greece’s annual conference “Integrity: The Ultimate construction site supervisors in the landfills of Brand”, which took place as part of the International Tagarades and Mavroraxis), as well as employees of Fraud Awareness Week. HELECTOR’s subsidiary ASA Recycle, which operates 54 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 OPERATION 55 2.3 RISK MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY ELLAKTOR Group places particular emphasis on internal audit and risk management The Group’s companies have developed management • ISO 50001 – Energy Management System systems and received certifications in accordance with systems, aiming to adopt and operate systems and processes for optimal risk manthe following standards: • ISO 39001 – Road Traffic Management System agement. • ISO 9001 – Quality Management System • ISO 37001 – Anti-bribery Management System The Group’s risk management, includes strategic, For effective implementation of the new framework, • OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001 – Occupational Health • ISO 27001 – Information Security Management financial and operating risks, as well as those relating educational meetings were carried out with the respecand Safety Management System System to compliance and to the Group’s reputation, and is an tive Directors of AKTOR in order to establish a new integrated and continuous process, aiming to minimize corporate risk management culture. It was decided • ISO 14001 and EMAS – Environmental Management unexpected derogations from the Company’s goals and that the new risk management framework will be impleSystem increase the Group’s true value. mented on a pilot scale for specific projects. In the last quarter of 2019, the Risk Management Division In 2019, AKTOR formalised further the procedures for List of Certified Management Systems was established, with the aim to provide reasonable the management and processing of project bids, aiming assurance that the Group’s strategic objectives are at submitting competitive and well-costed proposals, (IS SA 5 attained and that decisions are made within the risk taking into consideration the risks (threats and opportuO S45 18 00 00 1:2 1:2 01 00 8) 7 2 13 assumption limits. nities) that are inhered in the tenders. The procedures IS O 01 6 01 01 14 00 20 1:2 01 1:2 1:2 1: outline the actions for selecting and bidding for new :2 IS 5 00 00 01 O 50 00 00 90 1:2 39 37 27 The Risk Management Division proposes actions and projects, as well as the bid development methodology. OH 01 1 O EM AS O IS O O IS IS IS COMPANY III identifies weaknesses in relation to risks that the Group poses (detection, assessment, management and monitorThe Group, proceeded with assessing all possible threats ing) at all business levels, according to the type, the with respect to the information systems’ security and severity and the probability of the risks, so as to mitigate / developed appropriate policies, which have been commuCONCESSIONS limit their potential adverse effects on the Group's nicated to the Group’s employees through its new AKTOR CONCESSIONS S.A. objectives. Intranet. ATTIKES DIADROMES S.A. In addition, the Group’s internal audit system is regularly The overall risk management system enables the Board ATTIKI ODOS S.A. assessed, in order to mitigate operational risks by taking of Directors and the Management to make better informed MOREAS S.A. corrective measures. decisions, taking into consideration the risk-return relationship. All significant decisions relating to strategy, With respect to the Construction segment, the Risk financing, investments and participation in projects will ENVIRONMENT Management Division established a systemic risks and be assessed explicitly and independently by the Risk HELECTOR S.A. opportunities management framework, which will identify, Management Division. STERILISATION S.A. evaluate and monitor risks related to construction and other relevant activities in order to prevent any possible The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall APOTEFROTIRAS S.A. negative consequences for the projects/operations of effective management of risks, including those relating EDADYM S.A. the Group. to the reliability of financial statements. CONSTRUCTION AKTOR S.A. CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AKTOR FM S.A. In order to ensure transparency in all its activities and with the applicable legislation, this ensures constant HELLENIC QUARRIES S.A. greater efficiency of its business operations, the Group improvement and greater reliability of the Group, also TOMI S.A. has developed procedures and management systems, providing multiple benefits related to safe working which are certified according to international manageconditions, protection of the environment and enhanced ment standards. Apart from guaranteeing compliance productivity and sustainability. REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT YIALOU COMMERCIAL & TOURIST S.A. 56 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 OPERATION 57 In the past, any precautionary measures that were In 2019, the Quality Management Systems of all individual CONVENTIONAL RESPONSE TIME ACTUAL RESPONSE TIME implemented, mainly concerned the prevention of companies were revised, in accordance to the requireTO INCIDENTS, AS OUTLINED IN TO INCIDENTS (AVERAGE 2019) occupational hazards and the environmental impacts ments of the new version of the ISO 9001:2015 standard. CONCESSION AGREEMENT under the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 standards respecThe identified threats are now categorised by their tively. With regard to the Quality Management Systems, respective risks depending on the severity inflicted on individual precautionary measures were implemented the companies’ services/projects (Low, Medium, High, by the Quality Manager, mainly for management issues etc.). Occasionally, threat management procedures are of the system. developed according to the specific project/customer In accordance to the revised ISO 9001:2015 standard, the requirements. During annual management reviews of the Quality Management Systems (at project and company ATTIKI ODOS and ATTIKES DIADROMES 20’ 6’ requirement for “preventive measures”, included in older level), threats (if any have occurred) and determined versions, has been replaced by a risk-based thinking precautionary measures are reviewed together with approach. This approach stipulates that organisations mitigation actions. should identify possible threats and opportunities that relate to their activities and take them into account when designing their Quality Management System. MOREAS 60’ 14.7’ BUSINESS CONTINUITY The Group develops and maintains Business Continuity • the Group’s important operations are established Plans, in order to ensure the uninterrupted operation of and categorised with respect to the prioritisation of all its important information systems and, by extension, the Group’s business activities, In order to control traffic and handle incidents on the Moreover, in 2019, the procedures for the installation the important continuation of operations following a Attiki Odos and Moreas motorways, collaborations have of alternative infrastructures / systems at the MOREAS disaster. Business Continuity Plans are approved by the • the information resources that support the critical been established with all competent bodies (Hellenic facilities began. In case of a major incident these facilities Management and are regularly evaluated, in order to operations of the Group, are recognised and the Police, Fire service, Emergency Aid Centre, General will be used for the basic operational needs of the Group. appropriately reflect the Group’s operations, both at a maximum recovery time is determined; and Secretariat for Civil Protection etc.), as well as with the technical and organisational level. The methodology used State Agencies that oversee the projects, the Region and The main premises of ATTIKI ODOS and ATTIKES DIAto develop and implement business continuity is based • the risks encountered by information resources as the Municipalities where the motorways pass through. DROMES at Paiania and of MOREAS at Nestani (Arcadia), on the following principles: well as the business implications of relevant threats Large scale drills take place in the motorway’s tunnels, have been verified as Independent Civil Defense are recognized and used in the development of the where response times and the efficiency of the involved Institutions by the Ministry of Interior. • the development of the business continuity strategy Business Continuity Plans. bodies are examined. Also, any possible problems are must comply with the Group’s targets and priorities, recorded, and corrective actions are proposed. EMERGENCY RESPONSE In case of emergencies, the competent Group Divisions Operation and Maintenance Manuals, approved by the coordinate their actions accordingly with the executives Greek public sector. Meanwhile, both companies have of the subsidiaries. In addition, the Group’s companies, drafted Action Plans, which are included in their may have their own procedures and plans, depending Operation Manuals and describe the methods for dealing on their activities and responsibility. with different types of emergencies and situations. In addition, Evacuation Plans are in place and evacuation The responsibilities of ATTIKI ODOS and MOREAS, in drills are carried out on an annual basis requiring relation to risk management and emergency responses, employee participation. In 2019, ATTIKES DIADROMES constitute contractual obligations, which are included in carried out an evacuation drill with the participation of the Project’s Concession Agreements, as well as in the 15 employees. 58 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 OPERATION 59 2.4 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION The Group emphasises on its digital transformation, in order to improve its operation. ELLAKTOR Group aims to fully utilise the opportunities • The use of the Business Process Management (BMP) offered by the digital transformation and acquire relevant tool to automate business processes. The digital transformation covers the following areas: knowledge and skills at all levels, in order to develop a working environment that is acclimated to the present • The use of special automation in the waste managedigital reality and the opportunities that it offers. ment plants to improve the speed and quality of the process. The Group’s digital transformation is a continuous effort, which predominantly embraces the concept of change, • The use of communications technology, to transport specifically focusing on change in the working processand control data during the production of electricity Mobile telephony Robotics and es rather than technological change. Digital technologies from renewable energy sources. services automation are widely used in different sectors and activities of the Group. Some examples include: • The use of digital signatures in conventional documents for increased flexibility and time efficiency in • The use of the Building Information Modelling (BIM) relevant processes. in matters of architecture and construction, which creates significant benefits through the life cycle of In 2019, the use of the cloud was completed through the a building. PaaS (Platform as a Service) and the IAS (Infrastructure as a Service) models, providing flexibility and scalability, • The use of Infrastructure as a Service (IAS), which where necessary. A specific application on the cloud offers a cost-effective, safe, and flexible digital was used for the management of new hires, while a Cloud resource service (data processing and storage), large number of the Group’s Data was stored on the 3D printing technologies specifically for construction companies, that adjust cloud, increasing mobility of remote access. their resources depending on the number of projects and employees they have at that time. In early 2020, due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the implementation of remote working was • The secure use of mobile technology services and expedited, in order to ensure that the Group’s employees data availability from virtually any location, offer could continue to work safely. flexibility and immediacy in work and decision making. The Group managed in a very short time, to provide • The analysis of data with the use of advanced data its employees, who needed to have access to remote Artificial analysis methods support the projects’ valid and working, with all the necessary equipment and respecData analysis timely monitoring, enabling the company to proceed tive training as well as the appropriate platforms, in intelligence with corrective actions, if necessary. order to support their access to safe remote working. The service was widely accepted by all employees, • The use of advanced SIEM (Security Information and ensuring a high level of business continuity. Event Management) techniques, enables the Group to protect its information by identifying possible incidents of data interception or incidents of deception aimed at intercepting data. Internet Cybersecurity of Things 60 61 Establishment and staffing of new Divisions and Departments Establishing new processes for human resources training Design of a Group performance evaluation system for all Group employees 62 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES 63 3.1 WORKING ENVIRONMENT ELLAKTOR Group’s employees are the driving force behind the Group and its most made concerned the organisational design and recording which more than 2,500 employees have access to, via of staff needs, different human resource management computer, mobile phone and tablet, regardless of where significant comparative advantage. The Group’s ability to implement complex projects issues (data changes, voluntary departures, dismissals, they are. All formal company announcements are posted under technical difficulties and stringent timelines, is attributed to its employees, who disciplinary issues, changes in compensation, deposit on the Portal. The Group’s Management, by acknowlgranting, working hours, payroll etc.), as well as employee edging the importance of transparency and the sound contribute their knowledge, professionalism and dedication to offer high quality benefits provided. In addition, a uniform reporting system informing of employees, takes immediate or timely services to customers and partners. for all human resources data (number of employees, action to inform its employees on any significant change benefits per employee, demographics, etc.) was devethat took place with respect to the Group’s operation. loped, which are now held centrally for the whole Group. Also, notice boards are situated in the Group’s The Group invests in the well-being of its people and in shaping a positive working construction sites, plants, central offices and other environment. It seeks to create the appropriate structures and working conditions In order to better communicate the Group’s issues to operating buildings of the Group to inform employees employees, a Group Intranet Portal was developed, in on recent developments and information. that will promote employee training, development and advancement, offering equal opportunities and supporting diversity. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT ELLAKTOR GROUP EMPLOYEES The Group aims to continuously improve its human reemploying existing staff and staff that will be available At the end of 2019 (31.12.2019), the Group (including It is worth noting that 28% of employees and 8% of sources management methods, by following best practices. following the conclusion of their current projects in Joint Ventures in which Group companies withhold more Management executives are from the local communities Therefore, in 2019, it proceeded with the establishment any open positions of the Group. than 50% and/or exercise management) employed 5,458 in which the Group operates. The percentages have been and staffing of four (4) new departments in the Human employees in Greece. 99% of employees are employed calculated for the Group’s activities outside of Attica. Resources Division, which will develop initiatives and • Development of a recording system of the rented full-time and 87% have indefinite term contracts. 16% of programs for all the employees of the Group: accommodations for project staff. employees work at the Group’s Head offices, while the majority of employees (84%) work at the Group’s • Human Resources Management Department The structural changes of the Group that took place in construction sites and individual projects. 2019, relating to the establishment and staffing of new • Compensation and Benefits Department Divisions and Departments are reflected in the updated The majority of ELLAKTOR Group’s operations are carried organisational charts of the Group and its subsidiaries. out by its employees. However, this practice differs in • Employee Recruitment Department some of the operations in the Construction segment. The Group’s policy with respect to staff turnover, is to More specifically, in public sector projects, the majority • Training and Development Department investigate and prioritise the possibility of filling open of the work is executed by Group employees and only a positions from its existing staff, by assisting them small percentage of the work (<10%) is executed by subIn regard to the Construction segment, considering the throughout the recruitment process with professional contractors. The subcontractors are predominately complexity of its operations and the large number and training, informing them on the details and specifications responsible for performing earthworks and concrete geographical sparsity of its projects and worksites, the of the position and offering appropriate tools. work. On the contrary, in building projects of the public Human Resources Division of the Group proceed with sector as well as most of the private sector, the majority the following actions in 2019: In an effort to identify the needs, desires and expectations of the work is executed by subcontractors (>95%). In of the Group’s employees, a survey was conducted in such cases, the subcontractors undertake and perform • Development of a system for the monthly recording of the framework of the initiative “Great Place to Work”. concrete work, masonry, roughcasting, painting, flooring, employees per Division, aiming to effectively manage Employees from all Group companies participated in etc. At the end of 2019 (31.12.2019), 1,543 subcontractors its human resources, increase its efficiency, control the survey via forms and electronic questionnaires. The employees were involved in Group activities and projects. costs and accurately appraise its projects. results of the survey will be analysed in 2020 with the aim to identify potential areas of improvement. • Development of forecasting system regarding hiring requirements and departures per Division based on In 2019, the Human Resources Division updated its the projects’ progress. The aim of the system is to former policies and procedures and established new cover any immediate operational needs of a project ones, aiming to enhance transparency, equal opportunithroughout its completion, while at the same time ties and effective operation within the Group. The changes 64 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES 65 ELLAKTOR Group Employment Data 90 29% 1,423 Women 19% Women 482 4,976 3,945 1,513 Employees Employees 28% Ιncluded in the Ιncluded in the Men Women top 10% of employees bottom 90% of 72% by total employees by total compensation compensation 392 3,553 81% 71% 5,458 Men Men Employees Employees per age group 1,124 312 >50 24% 45% Women Men 26% 4,764 694 Employees on Employees on indefinite term fixed-term contracts contracts 61% 5,458 3,640 76% 55% 382 Employees 13% <30 Men Women Between 30-50 1,465 31 27% 43% Women Men 5,386 72 Full-time Part-time 3,329 697 1,432 employees employees Employees Employees Employees <30 between >50 3,921 73% 57% 41 30-50 Men Women 55% 8% 1% 43% 386 91% 269 19 403 1,103 297 1% 3,015 1% 1% 47% 24% Women Women 7 32 13 4,586 862 1% 0.4% 98% Employees Employees 1,400 working outside 7 13 at Group’s main the Group’s offices main offices 459 3,493 Full-time Indefinite term Full-time Fixed-term 53% 76% Men Men Part-time Indefinite term Part-time Fixed-term 66 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES 67 New hires • A questionnaire was developed to investigate issues The Group encourages its employees to participate in related to leadership, personal skills and team seminars, conferences and trainings that focus on management. The aim of the questionnaire was to technical, technological, leadership and customer service 214 explore the potential establishment of a Training and safety issues, which relate to the Group’s activities. 21% Academy focusing on leadership issues. The results Often training is carried out internally, by instructors from 310 30% >50 from the questionnaire were used to derive the thematic within the company. The competent Human Resources Women priorities in relation to the training activities that are Division, selects and coordinates training programs for expected to take place in 2020, as well as to determine its staff, following requests from individual Divisions and 1,032 1,032 317 the issues that will be covered by the Training Academy. Departments. Employees Employees 31% <30 As part of the development of a structured training plan, In 2019, 32,819 training hours were carried out (26,953 for 70% in 2019 the Group began an initial recording of training men and 5,866 for women). The average training hours 722 programs which have been recognised as a priority for per employee amount to 6 hours (7 for men and 4 for Men 48% the Group’s operations and concern health and safety, women). The total expenditure of employee training for 501 quality management and sustainable development issues. the year amounted to €137,432. Between 30-50 A database was developed including programs that must be carried out on a regular basis. Subsequently, the training needs of other thematical topics, such as Departures technical issues, procedures, legislation, etc. will be recorded. 440 333 23% >50 Employee training 31% Women (training hours and average training hours per employee) 1,437 1,437 Employees Employees 223 15% 26,953 24,501 32,183 1,104 77% <30 Men 54% 774 Between 30-50 30% 14% 16% 5,866 8,318 Turnover rate Voluntary turnover Involuntary turnover rate rate 636 Note: The turnover rates have been calculated using the number of employees who departed and the average number of employees per year. Top 10% of employees by total Men Group offices compensation EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 6.83 hours per 9.65 hours per 6.47 hours per employee employee employee The training and development of the Group’s employees More specifically: constitutes one of the most important pillars for achieving Bottom 90% of the Group’s business targets. 2019 was a year of reorgani• New policies and procedures were devised regarding employees by total zation for the Group, characterized by the creation of the the preparation and drafting of training plans, as well Women Off-site compensation Training and Development Department at Group level as the implementation of training programs. 3.88 hours per 5.33 hours per 1.32 hours per and the establishment of new staff training procedures. employee employee employee 68 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES 69 EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Aside from the training carried out on occupational health Due to the complexity of the Group and its individual Employee performance evaluation has been implemented • Development of two different evaluation forms, one and safety, which is a top priority for the Group and is companies’ activities, each company/department requires up until 2019, in some of the Group’s companies, by for Group executives and one for all other employees. outlined in the next section, in 2019, additional training different types of specialised training. For example, using individual evaluation procedures. In the context courses were implemented on different thematic topics ATTIKI ODOS and ATTIKES DIADROMES organised of employee development and continuous improvement, • Drafting of relevant policies and procedures. that effectively contribute to the coverage of operational trainings/participations in conferences on the following in 2019, the design of a Group performance evaluation needs. More specifically, Group employees attended topics: system for all Group employees was initiated, in order • Development of appropriate training material. training programs/seminars on the following topics: to achieve both personal and corporate goals. • Appropriate communication with users • Creation of training plan. • Management-Leadership In order to complete the evaluation system, the Group • Communication of crisis management procedures proceeded with the following actions: The new evaluation system is expected to be carried • IT out for the first time within 2020 and will be repeated • Customer management • Selection of necessary skills in order achieve the on an annual basis. • Legislation corporate targets, according to which employee • Training of new patrol officers and intervention performance will be evaluated. • Regulatory compliance teams • Quality assurance • Theoretical and hands-on training on toll conductor’s duties ATTIKES DIADROMES: Employee Evaluation • Operational needs • Snow removal According to the evaluation procedure, all department In the beginning of each year, the company’s current • Technical skills Directors and Managers conduct an evaluation of the staff anonymously evaluate their Managers and Directors Similarly, employees from MOREAS completed trainings whole staff at the end of the year. The evaluation forms on the previous year’s work, by using the specific evaluaIt should be noted that in 2019 emphasis was placed on on accounting (international accounting protocols, are on a 5-grade scale and evaluate specific skills and tion forms outlined above which include specific skills training for the new whistleblowing platform, as well as taxation of legal entities, etc.) behavioural traits. The evaluation results are taken into and behavioural traits. training for the executives of the Group’s companies on consideration for employee development and advanceanti-corruption issues, as mentioned in the Compliance ment issues within the company. Through this specific In 2019, 819 employees (419 men and 400 women) were section. evaluation procedure, training needs focusing on the evaluated. improvement of the staff’s knowledge and efficiency are identified. NEW HIRES TRAINING In 2019, the Group proceeded with updating the training • Rules and basic principles on health and safety in the material for its newly hired employees, who are based workplace. HUMAN RIGHTS SUPPORT in the Group’s Head offices as well as the ones working on project sites. The objective was to disseminate initial • Topics concerning quality assurance. For ELLAKTOR Group, respect of human rights is a Aside from ensuring salaries comply with the National requisite information to the newly-hired employees, in non-negotiable value and thus the provision of equal Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Group follows and order to inspire them and ease their daily routine in their • Group’s sustainable development, actions and opportunities is a mandatory condition. Adherence to implements the clauses outlined by the labour legislation new position. targets. this commitment is accomplished through the establishin relation to working hours, work schedules and payment and implementation of transparent and sound ment of expected benefits/subsidies. The main topics of the introductory training course, • Topics regarding human resources management: practices through appropriate policies and procedures. include the following: changes in personal data, annual leave requests, Moreover, throughout the recruitment and selection of In 2019, new policies and procedures were established reporting of absences/illnesses, benefits, performance potential candidates, the Group ensures that there is no on employee recruitment and selection in the context of • Presentation of the Group and its main activities. evaluation system, participation in training activities, discrimination in terms of race, age or gender and that promoting equality and eliminating discrimination. More internal communication through the company’s equal opportunities are offered to people with disabilities. specifically, the Group proceeded with: • Topics concerning regulatory compliance, which Intranet Portal, etc. All employees are at least 18 years old. It should be include information on the Code of Conduct, antimentioned that the Group employs people of 40 different • Establishing a Recruitment Department, which falls corruption policy, as well as the new whistleblowing • Group accomplishments and awards. nationalities (in all countries of operation). under the Group’s Human Resources Division and platform. focuses on drafting an employee recruitment and The printed material will be ready for use in the second ELLAKTOR Group is aligned with and follows the relevant selection strategy. half of 2020. labour legislation. 70 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES 71 • Drafting job descriptions that clearly define all main • Establishment of specific internal recruiting procedure. Amongst other things, the Group participates in sports Also, children of employees are eligible to stay at reresponsibilities and outline all necessary competenThe process is similar to that of external recruitment. activities for its employees, aiming to encourage teamcreational children’s camps during the summer period. cies, technical knowledge and skills that each However, the job position is posted on the Group’s work and enhance its staff’s mental and physical health. candidate must hold. Intranet Portal. By following a similar policy and recognising the major An annual Christmas event is organised for employees’ importance of education for young peoples’ future, ATTIKI • Drafting of specific job description template for open • Enhancing the external recruitment process, by children, in order to strengthen employees’ families. ODOS has established an annual scholarship that is positions. procuring a specialised online job posting and CV offered to employees’ children. management platform. • Establishing an approval procedure for filling open job positions, depending on the operational needs as There are no labour unions in the Group’s companies. well as on each company/division budget. However, the Group as a supporter of open communi• Establishing a meritocratic interview system, with the cation, carries out meetings with labour unions from different sectors (Builders’ Union and Employee 3.2 HEALTH AND SAFETY participation of executives from different hierarchical Technicians’ Union). Moreover, it allows union represenlevels, in order to ensure that candidate’s skills and tatives to enter the Group’s premises and to inform the values match the Group’s corporate culture. Group’s employees on union matters. Safeguarding health and safety of all Group employees is an important part of the Group’s overall corporate culture and philosophy. The Management is committed to: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS In 2019, a Remuneration and Benefits Department was In regard to maternity leave, the Group fully implements • Continuously maintain and improve health and safety • Conduct continuous training and informing of its formed at Group level, aiming to set a clear strategy. the provided applicable labour legislation. To ensure in the workplace. employees on issues related to health and safety in Throughout the year, employee remuneration was rethe systematic enhancement and care of its staff, the the workplace. examined, in order to comply with the National Collective Group’s companies offer a series of benefits, including: • Facilitate employee consultation and participation for Bargaining Agreement, as well as with the Group’s new the design and review of Health and Safety ManageThe Group aims to minimise accidents and occupational Remuneration and Benefits policy. • Provision of company car, fuel card, transceiver ment Systems. diseases in the workplace, by preventing and assessing (i.e. e-pass) and mobile phone, based on the position occupational risks and taking all necessary precautionThe Group proceeded to evaluate each unique employee held. • Comply with existing national and European legislation ary measures. role weight and contribution towards the Group’s corpoand implement all regulatory requirements, including rate results. Following the process, each role had a • Monthly kindergarten allowance to employees with the required inspections and control actions. specific “Grade” assigned to it. Subsequently, the “Grades” kids of preschool age. were grouped into “Clusters”. Every “Cluster” was assigned with a range of salaries and special benefits. • Renting of accommodation for Group executives, if The results from the process were used to create the a change of residence is required. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT Group’s new Remuneration and Benefits Policy. A new set of changes to salaries and benefits were completed In 2019, 52 female employees from ELLAKTOR Group In order to safeguard the safety of all employees, the More specifically, the Health and Safety Engineer, in based on the new Policy, where deemed necessary, made use of maternity leave. Moreover, within the year, Group has set up a Health and Safety Division, while collaboration with the Occupational Physician, conduct while any remaining discrepancies will be gradually 30 female employees returned back to work upon the the companies AKTOR, AKTOR FM, TOMI, ATTIKES regular inspections on the conditions of the working resolved in subsequent years. completion of their leave (regardless of the year it was DIADROMES, ATTIKI ODOS, HELECTOR, STERILISATION, premises, examining that project safety measures are commenced). APOTEFROTIRAS and EDADYM have certified Health and obeyed. Also, they examine the implementation of approThe Group offers its employees group life insurance Safety Management Systems in accordance with the priate Personal Protective Equipment and draft/update programs, as well as additional medical insurance. All In addition, transport is offered to employees during OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 45001:2018 standards. The the Written Occupational Hazard Assessment (WOHA), employees are entitled to these benefits, except for hourly arrival and departure times to and from the Group’s companies with Health and Safety Management Systems in accordance with the applicable legislation, as well as paid, part-time employees who are employed occasionHead offices. have a Health and Safety Department or Manager. Every the requirements of the Health and Safety Management ally in Group projects or operational units. Additionally, Group project/activity has a Health and Safety Engineer Systems (HSMS). In addition, they are responsible for protected members from employees’ families may also (Officer and/or Safety Coordinator), as well as an Occupaemployee health and safety training. be eligible for coverage (with a small charge on the tional Physician (if necessary), to supervise the impleemployee). mentation of proper practices in the execution of projects. 72 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES 73 HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Internal audits are carried out on a regularly basis, in • The project/activity’s Management. In 2019, the Group’s companies recorded 71 employee lost time accidents (excluding pathological cases), of which the context of HSMS implementation, through which: 55 were minor and 16 were serious. • The Human Resources Department, Health and • potential non-compliance/discrepancy issues are Safety Division, etc. identified and the requisite corrective actions are implemented and • The state bodies that relate to the investigation and Accident Causes/Nature* recording of the accident. • it is assured that the HSMSs operate sufficiently and there are no health and safety repercussions which • The project owner and/or other third parties. 23% have not been recognized and/or treated. Operation of vehicles / project machinery / For every accident, a relevant assessment and categoriequipment / tools It should be mentioned that, in 2019, the Group’s Health sation is carried out, depending on the type of injury and and Safety Division conducted 28 internal audits in nature of the accident. The people in charge of these 30% Employee fall companies of the Construction segment. 3 incidents of actions are the Health and Safety Engineer, together non-compliance were identified and all the necessary with the Occupational Physician of each project/activity. 8% corrective actions were taken, following the evaluation All accidents are reported on the Ministry of Labour’s 71 Othes causes (minor injuries on fingers, of each case. internet platform. false step, animal bite, etc.) Accidents The Occupational Physician assesses occupational Consequently, following the investigation of the accidents’ 3% hazards relating to the health of employees by conductcauses, the appropriate measures are taken to prevent Transport from and to work ing regular job-related inspections and handing out similar accidents from re-occurring in the future. The 17% brochures. In order to ensure employees’ occupational Health and Safety Division, in collaboration with the Health Road accident health, the issues eligibility certificates after considering and Safety Engineer and the Occupational Physician, each employee’s medical history. Moreover, the Physician organise new training courses and internal communi20% can issue verbal or written recommendations at any time, cation actions, ensuring that the safety measures are Mechanical / Manual cargo movement in relation to the prevention of negative interactions being applied and followed for the entirety of the project/ between work and employees’ health, with respect to activity. In addition, the WOHA is updated, where applicaemployees’ medical-professional history and the nature ble. of their work. 71 Injuries 11 Injuries According to the requirements of the Group companies’ of Group employees of Group’s subcontractor employees The Occupational Medical Office for ATTIKI ODOS and Health and Safety Management Systems, “near-miss ATTIKES DIADROMES assembled remote medical offices accidents” are also recorded. “Near-miss accidents” at important points of the Attiki Odos motorway and refers to sudden events in the workplace, where no proceeded with the provision of first aid training to a employee injury, illness or physical harm took place. The number of employees. In addition, workplace hygiene recording, reporting and analysis of these incidents is inspections were carried out by the Medical Office, while important for the improvement of the existing HSMS and the Visiting Health Physicians consult and raise awareprotection measures. In 2019, 23 “near-miss accidents” Men 60 Women 11 Men 11 Women 0 ness of employees on important health issues. Due to were recorded by the Group’s companies. the very nature of the Group’s projects, a number of employees are expected to be exposed to natural, chemical Aiming to systematically monitor the projects’ compliance or biological risks. Therefore, very strict precautionary with the requirements of the legislation in force, an *Excludes incidents due to pathological causes. measures are taken and medical examinations are internal procedure entitled “Monthly Safety Report” is systematically provided to employees, together with applied, which is expected to be reviewed within 2020. measurements of harmful factors in the workplace. In addition, the Group proceeded with the establishment On the 27th of October 2019, a fatal accident occurred, In order to avoid such incidents, a series of actions were of health and safety metrics (i.e. accident severity rate, involving an AKTOR employee who was electrocuted approved and implemented: In case of an accident involving a Group employee, or an accident frequency rate, health and safety training metrics while working on replacing overhead power lines of the employee hired by a subcontractor/supplier, that took etc.) and targets, in order to evaluate the performance electricity transmission network. The accident took place • Medium voltage control poles, low-medium voltage place in the Group’s workplace, the Emergency Response of projects with respect to health and safety issues. after the working hours on a low-voltage pole, which was detectors, low-medium voltage groundings and Plan is put into operation in accordance with the HSMS. not included in the scheduled work plan of the day. The safety-cabinet groundings were inspected, and In October 2019, AKTOR upgraded its HSMS and received incident is being investigated from the competent authorisubsequent maintenance works were carried out. Moreover, a series of actions are carried out in order a certification from an external body in accordance with ties and up until today the company has not incurred any to inform: ISO 45001:2018 standard. fine or other any sanction for violating the occupational • The Electricians A’ of the specific project (who had health and safety regulations. obtained the prerequisite working experience) updated their licenses to Head Electricians. 74 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES 75 TRAINING ON HEALTH AND SAFETY • Personal Protective Equipment was re-handed out • All employees in respective projects throughout In order to ensure employees’ awareness on health and The Health and Safety Engineer and/or any other to all employees working on the project. Greece were re-trained on compliance with the safety safety issues, as well as the improvement of the perforcompetent person in charge of a project/activity train rules and instructions, by the relevant Safety Officers mance of processes in place, employee training is and inform employees in short meetings, prior to the • Additional low-voltage detectors were handed out and/or the project Managers. required to be carried out on a regular basis. Throughstart of specific projects (tool-box meetings). to each licensed electrician and respective associate. out training, emphasis is placed on the health and safety • The number of inspections in relevant projects was impacts of non-compliance with the relevant rules and In 2019, the Group’s companies carried out various increased. instructions, on the avoidance of accidents, and on the trainings/seminars, which included: benefits of employees taking precautionary measures and complying. • A fire-safety seminar was carried out at ELLAKTOR Group’s Head office, by Fire brigade Officers. The Health and Safety Performance* Metrics for Group employees During the inspections, the Health and Safety Inspectors, seminar included hands-on training on how to put identify in collaboration with the individual executives, out a fire. It was attended by the Group’s Fire safety Accidents-Incidents Frequency Rate the training requirements with respect to health and team, in order to continuously train and to remain in safety issues in the different operating activities of the a state of readiness in case of emergency situations. Group. In addition, each area/project Manager is capable 34 employees (33 Group employees and 1 employee of assessing employees’ training requirements and hired by a subcontractor) took part in the hands-on submitting proposals for employee training to the Group’s training and received relevant certification. Health and Safety Division, in collaboration with the Health Men 7.99 Women 3.57 Total: 6.71 and Safety Engineer. • Training for the new Fire-safety team was performed by the parent company ELLAKTOR’s Safety Officer, Each newly hired employee working in all Group with the participation of 29 employees. Accidents-Incidents Frequency Rate = (Total number of lost time accidents / Total number of working hours) projects/activities is informed on the health and safety x 1,000,000. The metric presents the number of accidents per 1 mil. working hours. policy and management system, the general safety rules • Four (4) 15-minute evacuation/fire drills were that apply, the persons responsible for safety-related implemented at Smart Park’s communal areas, by issues (safety officer, coordinator, occupational physithe Head of the shopping park’s Fire-safety team. Accidents-Incidents Severity Rate cian) and the risks of the tasks to be performed. For 5 employees from the park’s Fire-safety team and example, in 2019, 29 newly hired employees at EDADYM 80 employees working at Smart Park’s stores attended an 8-hour introductory course on health and participated in the drills. safety issues. All employees, based at ELLAKTOR Group’s Head offices have access to the “Health and • Meetings were conducted between the members Safety Guide for employees working at ELLAKTOR of the Group’s Emergency Response Team (37 Men 0.15 Women 0.04 Total: 0.12 Group’s Head offices”. Employees based at construction employees), aiming to evaluate the Team’s response, sites, amongst other things, are trained on the brochure during the 5,1 Richter earthquake that took place in “General Occupational Health and Safety Instructions for July at Parnitha. all Specialisations” as well as on the Health and Safety Accidents-Incidents Severity Rate = (Total number of hours lost / Total number of working hours) x 100. The metric Guidelines outlined in the Health and Safety Systems of • Two seminars were carried out on the topic of presents the working hours lost due to accidents per 100 working hours. each project. Indicatively, in 2019, 42 employees of the “Basic First Aid Principles and Cardiopulmonary RES segment, 79 AKTOR FM employees, 27 APOTEFROresuscitation (CPR)”. The seminars were attended TIRAS employees, 100 TOMI employees and 53 EDADYM by the Group’s First Aid team (41 participants) and employees attended training courses on general health included theoretical and hands-on training on CPR Accidents-Incidents Rate and safety guidelines, with a duration of 1-2 hours, which manikins. were carried out by the Safety Officers. • Two First Aid Seminars, with a duration of 5-hours The Health and Safety Engineer of each project/activity each, were implemented by an external certified or the Group’s/companies’ Health and Safety Division, instructor. The seminars were attended by 20 Men 1,521 Women 727 Total: 1,301 organises a seminar specifically tailored to employees employees from the Joint Venture HELEKTOR-TH. G. who conduct high-risk tasks (i.e. working at heights or LOLOS-CH.TSOBANIDIS-ARSΙ. Also, a 3-hour First in confined spaces), in order to fully inform them on the Aid seminar was implemented by the National correct and safe execution of their work, ensuring they Emergency Aid Centre, with the participation of 77 Accidents-Incidents Rate = (Total number of lost time accidents / Total number of employees) x 100,000. The metric are able to perform their work effectively. employees from EDADYM. presents the number of accidents per 100,000 employees. * The metrics do not include the fatal accident, the incidents due to pathological causes and any minor-injuries (first-aid). 76 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES 77 • Training on the provision of aid to people with visual Employees at ELLAKTOR Group’s Head offices, are impairment, with a 1-hour duration, was implemented informed/trained via the Group’s Portal (intranet) by the by the Head of Smart Park’s Fire-safety team, with Safety Officers on issues such as: the participation of 3 employees from YIALOU COMMERCIAL & TOURIST and 6 employees from • Emergency Response Plans, with data from the Smart Park stores. Emergency Response team. • Seminars entitled “Risks and Precautionary Measures”, • Meeting points in the occasion of a building evacuawith a duration of 3-hours, were implemented by the tion. Hellenic Institute for Occupational Health and Safety (ELINYAE) and the Safety Officer of HELLENIC QUAR• Barriers to accessing Fire Extinguishing Equipment RIES. The seminar was attended by 14 employees in the Group’s Office Complex. from the Ioannina quarries and 9 employees from the 3 quarries in Thessalia. • Instructions on vehicle and passenger movement within the Office Complex, in the event of rain. • Training was performed on the topic of “Maintenance and safety of high-medium voltage/digital relays”, • Health and Safety instruction for the Group’s Head with a duration of 24-hours, by the Institute of Industrial Office, in the event of an earthquake. and Business Education and Training (IVEPE-SEV), with the participation of 13 employees. • Evacuation of the ELLAKTOR Group Head Office, by the Emergency Response Team. In regard to AKTOR’s project sites, in 2019, 5,168 training hours1 were completed on the “General Health and • Dangerous weather conditions (snow-frost). Safety Guidelines”. In addition, a 5-hour training on the safe use of scaffolding and machinery for technical Lastly, in 2019, the employees hired by subcontractors, projects was carried out by the Hellenic Institute of also attended training courses on occupational health Occupational Health and Safety (ELINYAE). The trainings and safety issues, which were conducted by projects’ were attended by 75 employees from the working site Safety Officers. of Dimario in Xanthi. In August, the 5-hour simulation road safety seminar “Avenue for Traffic Safety” was implemented by the Road Safety Institute “Panos Mylonas”. The seminar was attended by 70 employees from the Egnatia Odos East and West maintenance section project at Derveni in Thessaloniki. 1 About 50% of all projects. 78 79 4. Issuance of 2 international green bonds amounting to € 670 mil. Establishment of Sustainable Development Division, which oversees the environmental performance of the Group’s companies Completion and trial operation of 3 wind farms with a total capacity of 105.6 MW, in Western Macedonia and Thrace 80 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 81 4.1 CONTRIBUTION TO THE INCREASE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES AVAILABILITY AND RELIABILITY ELLAKTOR Group, recognising the business opportunities offered in the generation The Group companies that invest in RES projects are Starting 2020, the construction of 2 additional wind within the RES segment (22 wind farms, 1 photovoltaic farms with 88.2 MW total capacity, in Evrytania, is being of energy, and striving to combat climate change and contribute to the access of park and 1 small hydroelectric power plant) as well as scheduled, while wind farm projects with 454.1 MW total affordable and clean energy for all, has deemed the Renewable Energy Sources in the Environment segment (3 wind farms, and 2 biogas capacity, progress through various stages of licensing power plants). In total, the Group companies operate 25 procedure. Lastly, 1 biogas power plant (3.5 MW) at the segment (RES) a main priority, emphasising the construction and operation of wind wind farms with 402 MW total capacity. In 2019, 3 wind Municipality of Lagadas in Thessaloniki and 2 biomass farms as well as energy recovery from biogas. It aims to further contribute to the farms with 105.6 MW total capacity were completed and powered boilers (30 MW of total capacity) at the Municiincrease of RES availability and reliability, which are the basic requirements for put into trial operation in West Macedonia and Thrace. pality of Amyntaio are under construction. In addition, 1 photovoltaic park (P/V) of 2 MW, 1 small reducing greenhouse gas emissions and preventing climate change. hydroelectric power plant (SHPP) of 5 MW and 2 biogas Through the generation of 909 GWh of electricity from exploitation plants of 30 MW are currently operative for RES in 2019, it is estimated that the Group contributed electricity generation. to the prevention of 575 thousand tons of CO2 eq. being released in the atmosphere. It should be noted that the In the first months of 2020, 2 wind farms (90 MW) in Group consumed 180 GWh for its operations (see section Epirus were completed and subsequently put into trial Management of Environmental Footprint), and hence its Key figures of the Group in 2019 operation. energy balance for 2019 amounted to -729 GWh. 25 wind farms 402 MW capacity 707 GWh generated electricity 1 pholtovoltaic park 2 MW capacity Energy Generation from RES Operation of ELLAKTOR Group 3 GWh generated electricity 2 biogas exploitation plant 30 MW capacity 909 GWh 180 GWh energy energy 186 GWh generated generation consumption electricity 1 small hydroelectric power plant CO2 575 thousand tons CO2 73 thousand tons CO2 eq. emissions CO2 eq. emissions 5 MW capacity prevented 12 GWh generated electricity 82 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 83 Group companies’ RES projects in operation in 2019 Green Bond Green Bond Installed capacity Type of Revenues allocated Installed capacity Type of Revenues allocated Municipality Location (MW) Project to projects (€ mil.) Municipality Location (MW) Project to projects (€ mil.) Alexandroupoli Magoula Kazakou Diplon 23.00 W/F 42.1 Trizinia Asprovouni 20.70 W/F 29.2 Alexandroupoli Magoula Kazakou Diplon Trizinia Ortholithi 20.70 W/F 29.4 Extension 16.10 W/F 20.3 Trizinia Psili Rahi – Lapoussa – Argos-Mycenae Mount Ktenias / Psilo LithariSpasmeni Plaka 16.10 W/F 22.4 Kontodiasela 23.00 W/F 30.0 Trizinia Vromosikia 11.05 W/F 15.5 Argos-Mycenae Lekana 2.00 Solar 10.7 Fyli Fylis Landfill 24.50 Biogas Argos-Mycenae Tripoli Lyrkeio 39.60 W/F 49.7 438.45 482.4 Arriana-Alexandroupoli Orfeas-Eptadendros 28.80* W/F 24.1 Voio East Askio Maestros 36.60* W/F 37.9 Voio West Askio 40.20* W/F 40.9 Group companies’ RES projects in trial operation since the beginning of 2020 Grevena River Smixiotikos 4.95 SHPP Green Bond Installed capacity Type of Revenues allocated Thermi Tagarades Landfill 5.05 Biogas Municipality Location (MW) Project to projects (€ mil.) Thiva Pefkias 9.90 W/F 10.1 Zitsa and Pogonio Kasidiaris 1 Karnies-KaravamiaKarystos Kalinousiza Karpastoni 1.20 W/F 1.3 Elatos 50.40 W/F 53.1 Kefalonia Monolati-Kseroliba 13.60 W/F Pogonio Kasidiaris 2 Agriahladia Pr. Ilias Petra Haidos Kefalonia Monolati-Kseroliba Extension 6.40 W/F 8.2 Diavolorahi Pr. Ilias 39.60 W/F 42.4 Kefalonia Agia Dinati mountain 32.20 W/F 40.6 90.00 95.6 Kefalonia Agia Dinati mountain Extension 2.35 W/F 3.3 Kos Krotiri 3.60 W/F 3.8 Lesvos Skamniouda-Pachis Ridge 4.80 W/F Group companies' RES projects under construction Lesvos Skamniouda-Pachis Ridge 4.20 W/F Green Bond Installed capacity Type of Revenues allocated Movemvassia Mali Madi Metamorfossi 7.65 W/F 12.6 Municipality Location (MW) Project to projects (€ mil.) Monemvassia Kalogerovouni 17.10 W/F 21.3 Agrafa Grammeni Tourla Karnopi 46.20 W/F 52.0 (budget) Monemvassia Gropes-Rahi Gioni 18.90 W/F 23.7 Agrafa Michos – Boidolivalo – Apelina 42.00 W/F 58.0 (budget) Patmos Kokkinos Kavos 1.20 W/F 1.5 Amyntaio Amyntaio 30.00 Biogas Rhodes Chalatas 3.00 W/F 4.0 Lagkada Mavrorachi Landfill 3.52 Biomass 121.72 92.0 *In trial operation. Green Bond Note: RES project financed by the Green Bond: 84 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 85 GREEN BOND The Group, by applying practices of responsible operation, It should be mentioned that 100% of the revenues from • The largest landfills in Greece with a capacity of > 91,357 tons of waste, out of which 28,336 tons (31%) focuses on the effective management of its environmental the two aforementioned bonds, amounting to €670 100 mil. m3, including the Integrated Solid Waste were either reused as compost for the needs of the impacts, while at the same time it invests in enhancing million, have been allocated to RES projects that are Management plant in Fyli, which can manage facility or sold as recyclable materials. its activities in the RES and Environment segments. already in operation/trial operation (578 million in total) 1,897,000 tons of municipal solid waste per year. Within this framework, it explores financing opportuor are under construction (remaining 92 million) and • Recovery of recyclable materials, which were reused nities which value responsible investing criteria (ESG therefore there are no unallocated revenues. Through the practices applied in projects, high reuse in various activities of the Environment segment. –Environment, Social and Corporate Governance). In and recycling rates are achieved, ensuring the value More specifically, in 2019, rock debris were recovered the end of 2019 and early 2020, the Group issued 2 With regards to the RES project portfolio of the Green of natural resources, raw materials and products are from the construction of Landfills, which after special international green bonds, amounting to € 670 million. Bond (see tables pages 82-83), through the generation maintained. Indicatively in 2019, the following were treatment was reused for the construction of new Both bonds received the “Eligible Green Project Criteria” of 653 GWh of electricity in 2019, the Group contributed achieved: landfills and/or the covering of waste. certification from the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI). to the prevention of 413 thousand tons of CO2 eq. being According to the certification criteria, the bonds are tied released into the atmosphere. • Exploitation of 38,541 m3 of treated effluent waste At the same time, the Group always collaborates with to RES projects that are either already in operation or from the leachate treatment unit of the Integrated relevant licensed bodies and special associates for the under construction (see tables on RES projects above). Solid Waste Management plant in West Macedonia. collection, transport, treatment, recovery, reuse and/or The waste was used for the plant’s operational needs, disposal of its waste. such as cooling of the biological treatment unit, cleaning of the waste management units and irrigation Τhe thermal energy from biomass generation project purposes. with 30 MW of total capacity, under construction in Amyntaio, which includes the construction of 2 biomass • Exploitation of produced biogas from landfills and incineration units, is capable of supplying the existing generation of electricity (186 GWh) for the grid. district heating network of the Amyntaio, Filota and 4.2 CONTRIBUTION TO CIRCULAR ECONOMY Levaia settlements (see section Contribution to the • Collection and recycling of “blue bin” waste (recyclable increase of capacity and Renewable Energy Resources packaging materials) and redistribution of produced credibility). This project is an important challenge for the In the circular economy model, the value of products and materials is conserved for materials to raw material producers. The subsidiary Group, since the shift towards circular economy at a company ASA RECYCLE that manages “blue bin” domestic and international level is expected to further as long as possible by extending their lifetime and increasing their recycling and waste, recycled 69% of the total waste processed, enhance interest in similar activities/projects. reuse rates. The transition to a circular economy requires fostering and implementing which corresponds to 35,403 tons. In 2019, in the context of developing new business modern and innovative waste management methods, aiming to fully maximise the • Production of high-quality compost from organic opportunities, the Construction segment through Hellenic use of waste. waste at the waste treatment plants. At the Mechanical Quarries obtained an operating license for two new waste Recycling and Composting Waste plant in Liosia, management centers for the treatment of excavation, 30-50 tons/month of compost were produced, which construction and demolition waste (ECDW), which are The Group is currently active in its efforts to support • The Integrated Solid Waste Management plant in were distributed in packages or in bulk, either comexpected to begin operation within 2020 and contribute circular economy through its Environment segment and West Macedonia, which is the first Waste Management mercially or free of charge, following requests of the towards the environmental upgrade of the surrounding particularly through HELECTOR. HELECTOR is one of the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) project, with a Special Inter-collective Association of the Prefecture areas in the Regional Unit of Ioannina. Amongst other largest companies specialising in Waste Management capacity of 120,000 tons per year. of Attiki (EDSNA), which is the project owner. The things, the centers are expected to significantly in Southeast Europe. It is active throughout the whole specific compost is certified by the Inspection and contribute towards the: spectrum of the design, construction and operation of • The operation and maintenance of the Mechanical Certification Organization of Organic Products to be modern waste treatment plants, biological waste Recycling and Composting Waste plant in Liosia, with used in biological agriculture, amongst other things. • Decrease and steady elimination of uncontrolled treatment plants and energy recovery from biogas in a capacity of 350,000 tons per year. waste disposal to vulnerable deposits such as water landfills plants. • Production of 32,861 tons of RDF (refuse derived fuel) streams and areas of special natural beauty. • 13 Waste Treatment Plants with a total capacity of and SRF (solid recovered fuel), to be used as secondary Τhe Environment segment’s activity and the principles of more than 2.2 million tons per year. fuel in the cement industry. • Increase of the lifetime of landfills. circular economy are indissolubly linked. More specifically, the company holds important know-how in energy • The only incinerator of toxic waste in Greece, with a • Collection and recycling of mixed waste and • Exploitation of the plants’ products and residuals, recovery from landfill biogas. The electricity generation capacity of > 12,000 tons per year. redistribution of produced materials to raw material following the appropriate specifications for the plants with 24.5 MW of capacity at the Fyli Landfill, which producers. In 2019, the Integrated Solid Waste redevelopment of inactive quarries, integrating them was designed, built and operated by the Group, are • 2 Recycling Materials Sorting Centers with a total Management plant of West Macedonia processed into the natural environment. among the largest biogas plants worldwide. The Group’s capacity of > 175,000 tons per year. portfolio in Greece and abroad includes, amongst other things: 86 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 87 MANAGEMENT OF THIRD-PARTY WASTE IN 2019 In 2019, the waste treatment plants of the companies in 429,000 tons of third-party waste. With respect to the transport of hazardous waste (e.g. from medical units (hospitals, clinics, microbiological the Environment segment in Greece managed around hospital waste), the companies in the Environment labs, private hospitals, dental clinics, veterinary clinics segment possess the requisite licenses and have taken and pharmaceutical warehouses), applying advanced the best possible preventive measures ensuring the technology and best available techniques. protection of public health and the environment. In 2019, Treatment Methods of Non-Hazardous Waste (kg) 8,571 tons of hazardous waste were transported. In addition, the Group, through its subsidiary STERILISATION, manages the plant for the sterilisation of Purely In the field of Hazardous Medical Waste Management Infectious Hazardous Waste (PIHW), storage of Hazard(HMWM), the Group manages through the HELECTOR ous Mixed Waste (HMW) and of Other Hazardous Waste S.A. – ARSI S.A. Joint Venture, the only Medical Waste (OHW) coming from medical units at the 2nd Industrial Incineration Plant (MWIP) in Greece. The plant has been Area of Volos. More specifically, in 2019, the plant treated 57% * in operation since 2002 at the landfill area in Ano Liossia. 3,315 tons of hazardous waste by applying advanced Landfill In 2019, the plant treated 3,669 tons of hazardous waste methods and inactivation techniques. 6% 425,203,993 Storage 8% Other methods 17% 12% 4.3 MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Recycling Reuse A main objective and priority of the Group is the effective management of the *The amount includes 3,446 tons of hazardous waste, which were managed by STERILISATION as non-hazardous waste environmental impacts that result from its operations. Το ensure the protection of the following their inactivation. environment and natural resources, the Group employs all the requisite preventive measures and invests in reducing its environmental footprint. Treatment Methods of Hazardous Waste (kg) ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT In 2019, a Sustainability Division was established at management of effluent waste and the protection of Group level and tasked with the responsibility, amongst biodiversity. At the same time, the compliance of the other things, to systematically monitor the Group’s Group’s companies with respect to the relevant environ0% companies’ environmental parameters of operation, mental legislation is ensured. Other methods developing appropriate programmes that will result in the improvement of the key segments’ environmental The main impacts of the Group’s companies relate to the performance, as well as enhance the Group’s employee’s consumption of resources (energy, water and materials), 97% 2% environmental awareness. the emission of air pollutants and the generation of Recycling liquid and solid waste. In all projects and activities, from Incineration 3,793,790 The key companies of sectors in which the Group construction to the rehabilitation phase, the Group operates, excluding the parent company, implement focuses on protecting the environment and minimising 1% certified environmental management systems (ISO 14001 the impacts of its activities on it. Based on the activities Storage and/or EMAS), through which they reduce the impact of of each company and individual projects, environmental their activities on the environment and enable initiatives impacts are identified and appropriate action plans are in respect to recycling, energy saving, water consumption, developed. 88 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 89 To minimise the environmental impacts stemming from • Monitoring noise, vibrations and other nuisances, in Energy Consumption (MWh) its activities, the Group focuses on: order to reduce impacts on society, traffic, utility networks and protected areas. • Application of increasingly environmentally friendly technologies. • Complying with the environmental legislation in force and conducting regular audits. 4% (6,407) 39% (69,426) • Managing energy consumption, aiming at energy Natural Gas Electricity saving and efficiency through specific activities and • Protecting ancient artifacts and monuments of monitoring of consumption. cultural heritage. • Monitoring air pollutants. • Restoring green spaces and the projects’ landscapes 1% (1,698) based on the approved environmental terms. Diesel for • Decreasing the amount of waste produced, through 179,743 MWh 1% (2,485) heating reuse and recycling. • Rational management of raw materials and natural Gasoline resources. • Decreasing water consumption and increasing its reuse, where possible. • Monitoring bird areas, where required, and imple55% (99,724) 0% (2) menting measures for the protection of biodiversity. Diesel fuel LPG • Avoiding water pollution and implementing strict precautionary measures. • Informing and training employees on environmental energy issues in the workplace and the impact that • Managing hazardous waste, according to relevant the companies’ operations have on the environment legislation and in cooperation with licensed collection/ and society in general. transportation companies. Energy Consumption per Segment HELECTOR: Continuous efforts for improvement of environmental management In 2019, HELECTOR proceeded with reviewing 5 key • The communication of environmental issues with 0.20 0,20 0,39 0.39 0,20 0.20 0.19 0,19 procedures regarding: stakeholders. 0,02 0.02 • The implementation of environmental terms in Waste • The utilisation of environmental management proTreatment Plants. grammes. 84,479 • The management of gas, liquid and solid waste. • The management of complaints from local communities. 56,814 35,074 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Throughout the entirety of the Group’s activities, efforts In 2019, the Group’s total energy consumption amounted 2,062 1,314 are made to rationally manage all forms of energy conto 179,743 MWh (647 TJ). The largest share of energy Concessions Environment RES* Construction Real Estate sumption and protect natural resources. Energy consumconsumed resulted from diesel consumption (55%), Development ption is monitored both at the Group’s Head offices as which is mainly used for the operation of the work-sites’ well as at the facilities of the Group’s companies. In machinery, as well as for the Group’s passenger car fleet. addition, AKTOR, AKTOR FM, ATTIKES DIADROMES, At the Head offices, energy consumption amounted to Total Energy Consumption per Sector (MWh) ATTIKI ODOS and MOREAS implement certified Energy 0.232 MWh/m2. Management Systems in accordance with the ISO 50001 Energy Consumption per turnover (kWh/€) standard. *The data regarding the parent company ELLAKTOR have been included in the RES segment. 90 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 91 Environment segment: Monitoring energy indicators In 2019, targeted initiatives/actions were implemented area. This resulted in a 4.5% energy reduction in the The companies of the Environment segment have been consumption per sterilisation cycle, etc.), striving for to reduce energy consumption, which include: entirety of the parks communal areas. monitoring specific performance indicators over time (e.g. continuous improvement. energy consumption per kilo of waste treated, energy • Replacement of conventional lamps with new LED • Replacement of older printers at the Head offices lamps. Indicatively, a 29% reduction in lighting energy with new, high-energy class equipment. consumption was achieved at the Magoula Attica Progress of energy indicators for STERILISATION Equipment Management department and a 65.5% • Issuance of an environmental guide on energy saving (58 MWh) reduction in lighting energy consumption practices and informing employees at the Head was achieved at Smart Park’s underground parking offices. 17.80 17,80 2015 O.095 15.68 15,68 2016 O.089 MOREAS: Actions to reduce energy consumption In 2019, 33 lighting fixtures were replaced with new LED of its heating needs. The estimated energy savings from 12.65 12,65 2017 O.077 fixtures at the Nestani Control and Maintenance Center targeted initiatives amounted to about 10.3% (121 MWh). (CMC). In addition, a heating pump was installed at the In 2020, the replacement of lighting fixtures at the 2018 12.21 12,21 O.074 West Peloponnese Motorway Traffic Police building, Kalamata Tolls is scheduled. which became autonomous from Nestani CMC, in terms 11.91 11,91 2019 O.077 In regard to the RES segment, the amount of energy • Installing Management and Automated Test Systems Electricity consumption per sterilisation cycle (kWh/c) Electricity consumption per kg of waste treated (kWh/kg) consumed is derived from the activity of the company’s at its plants. Head offices and the consumption of diesel for employees’ company vehicles. Energy consumption during the • Installing a Power Management System. construction of wind farms is not monitored, as all At the same time, holistic IT and Telematic Management from medical units was improved and a reduction of the construction works are carried out by sub-contractors. • Installing an advanced Distributed Control System systems are used to increase the reliability of the specific activity’s environmental/energy footprint was – CMDA. hazardous waste collection and transport system. achieved. The above systems helped improve the In regard to the Environment segment, recognising that Through these systems, an improvement in the manageindicators for diesel consumption per ton collected and the production process of the waste treatment plants is • Implementing a programme for equipment Maintement of employees and vehicle fleet was accomplished, the average consumption per 100 km, as depicted in the significantly energy intensive, the Group allocated great nance and Inspection. the monitoring of the route of infectious hazardous waste following diagram. importance to the management of its energy needs and continuously evaluates possible improvement opportu• Implementing emergency systems for maintenance nities with respect to its energy performance, implementworks and possible disruptions in the operating ing the appropriate actions: system. 86.39 2015 23.24 88.07 2016 22.98 87.62 2017 23.65 83.07 2018 23.22 74.16 2019 21.55 Diesel Consumption/ton (lt/tn) Average consumption per 100km (lt/100 km) 92 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 93 In 2019, the Group’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions emissions – scope 2) and the remaining 40% (29,262 tn Other Pollutant Emissions amounted to 73,193 tn CO2 eq., of which 60% (43,931 tn CO2 eq.) resulted from the consumption of natural gas, CO2 eq.) resulted from electricity consumption (indirect diesel for heating, diesel fuel, gasoline and LPG (direct emissions – scope 1). NOx (tn) 115.34 GHG Emissions (tn CO2 eq.) SOx (tn) 0.47 VOC (tn) 8.66 1% (635) Gasoline PM10 (tn) 9.33 37% (26,928) Diesel fuel 0% (0.40) LPG AIR POLLUTANTS The main responsibility of the Group’s Environment In that context, it implements the best-available combussegment is to ensure the air quality of its premises and tion techniques and continuous inspections, with the aim 73,193 tn CO 2 eq. the surrounding areas. to minimise air emissions. 0% (453) Diesel for heating 60% (43,931) Electricity 2% (1,244) Natural Gas The emission factors from the National GHG Inventory It should be mentioned that in the Group’s Annual Report 1990-2017 were used to calculate the CO2 emisFinancial Report 2019, the difference exhibited in the sions from natural gas consumption, diesel for heating, total amount of emissions published, resulted from the diesel fuel, gasoline and LPG. The CO2 emissions from revision of the factor used for the calculation of emissions the consumption of electricity are calculated using the derived from electricity consumption and the amounts data found in the annual national reports that are submitof CO2 equivalent from CH4 and N2O. ted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and in the national gross Lastly, the Group proceeded with the calculation of the electricity consumption data from the European Statistical remaining air pollutants (NOx, SOx, VOC, PM10), which Authority (Eurostat). resulted from direct energy consumption (natural gas, diesel for heating, diesel fuel, gasoline and LPG). The For the conversion of CH4 and N2O emissions to tons emission factors from the EMEP/EEA Air Pollutant of CO2 eq., the 100-year time horizon Global Warming Emissions Inventory Guidebook 2013 were used for Potential values that are included in the Decision 24/CP.19 the calculations. of the Conference of the Parties of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), were used. 94 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 95 HELECTOR: Monitoring the air emissions from the hospital waste incineration facility at Ano Liossia WATER CONSUMPTION AND EFFLUENT MANAGEMENT HELECTOR implements a plan for monitoring the air Air emissions are monitored via state-of-the-art measureThe amount of water consumed from the Group’s compaThe Group’s total water consumption for 2019 amounted emissions from the hospital waste incineration facility ment equipment. The measurement programme nies mainly concerns hygiene purposes, irrigation, to 936 thousand m3, of which 8% came from recycled at Ano Liossia, in accordance to the requirements of the monitors both point emissions as well as fugitive cleaning (road and/or vehicles), waste treatment, etc. water. At the Head offices, water consumption amountrelevant legislation. The main objective is the technical emissions on a continuous and periodic basis. Analysts ed to 0.167 m3/m2. assessment of the combustion parameters’ performance, have access to the plant’s Data Collection System (DCS), as well as the continuous and lawful operation of the which allows them to fully monitor the units’ operation, incineration facility. The plan concerns the online analytiwith the aim to minimise air pollution. Water Consumption (m3) cal systems for monitoring parameters and air emissions and the periodic monitoring of air emissions concentrations carried out by certified external laboratories. 734,332 Annual average emission measurements (mg/Nm3) per 30 minutes in two parallel incineration 66,594 79% Groundwater lines, A and B for 2019, compared to relevant limits set by legislation (control limits at 100% and Water from wastewater 7% 97% of the measurements) treatment plant 400 14% 935,836 m 3 134,910 Public water utility companies 200 200 100 106.03 81.62 The 79% of water consumed by the Group, is derived and reuses them for the biological treatment of waste from groundwater. 99% of which concerns the irrigation and/or for the irrigation of its facilities. 60 50 needs of ATTIKES DIADROMES, ATTIKI ODOS and MOREAS from the Concessions segment. In order to In the Construction segment, and more specifically in 30 save as much water as possible, the companies carefully AKTOR’s construction-sites, appropriate measures are 20 manage irrigated water from well drilling and/or wasteimplemented to reduce water consumption, which water treatment plants. The irrigation is controlled from include: 10 10 10 the central electronic systems that are programmed depending on the climate conditions, in order to avoid • Reuse of water for cleaning machinery and water wasting water resources. In addition, quality, chemical spraying purposes at the construction sites. and microbiological analyses are carried out regularly to monitor the water’s quality. In 2019, ATTIKES DIADRO• Installation of specific guidelines in employee areas MES and ATTIKI ODOS exhibited a reduction in the total (toilets, kitchens, etc.) that outline best practices and amount of water consumed by 7.23% compared to 2018. instructions for employees to avoid wasting water. 17.43 Respectively, in the Environment segment, HELECTOR In the Real Estate Development segment and particularly 11.41 implements consistent and long-term measures that at the retail Smart Park, the treated municipal waste3.44 2.63 3.52 2.84 focus on the conservation and rational use of water at water, generated from the operation of the park, is 0.16 0.06 1.60 0.65 its Waste Treatment Plants. More specifically, it treats utilised through the installed wastewater treatment the leachates that are generated from its operation plant, for the irrigation of the park’s communal green SO2 CO NOx HCI DUST TOC through its Leachate and Effluents Treatment Plants spaces, via an underground pipeline network. Line Α Line Β Boundary to 100% Boundary to 97% of measurements of measurements 96 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 97 In all areas of the park that are irrigated with treated or passed on for final disposal. In addition, in the conThe companies in the Concessions segment, recycle all Out of the total amount of waste (hazardous and nonwater, signs have been placed that state in Greek and crete batching plants, suitable slopes and ramps have types of waste generated from the operation of motorhazardous) generated from the Group’s activities in 2019, English that the water is not potable. been developed in order to direct effluents into sediment ways (lubricant waste, accumulators, spare parts/met36% was reused or recycled, 25% was temporary stored tanks. als, garden waste, etc.). and 39% ended up in landfills. In the Construction segment and with the aim of minimising water pollution in the construction sites, wasteFor the activities in the Environment segment, liquid water management is carried out in accordance with waste that is generated from the companies’ different the relevant legislation and the Environmental Terms processes are separated into industrial wastewater and Management of non-hazardous waste Approval Decisions (ETAD), whereas the chemical sewage. Due to the industrial wastewater and sewage’s analysis of water effluents is conducted at regular different pollution load, different treatment techniques intervals, where required. In the projects where there are used prior to their provision to the end-user, in is a repair shop for vehicles, effluents from the vehicle accordance with the facilities’ ETAD. At the same time, service ramp are collected and treated in line with the frequent quality analyses are carried out on the liquid 25% 26% Standard Environmental Commitments or the project’s waste that is generated from the waste treatment plants ETAD, and are then reused for water-spraying purposes (Landfills, Recycling Materials Sorting Centers, Waste Temporary Storage Reuse Treatment Plants, etc.). 566,125,989 kg HELECTOR: Research project for the treatment of liquid waste with high pollution 10% load 39% Landfill Recycle In 2019, the research project focusing on the developThe project is implemented in collaboration with the ment of a hybrid treatment model of leachates from Environmental Pollution Control Laboratory, and the landfills commenced, which combines batch reactor Laboratory of Polymer and Dyes Chemistry & Technolotechnology with the use of membrane technology and gy of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and the Advanced Oxidation Processes via UV radiation. The Hellenic Open University, and aims to minimise the project’s overarching objective is to promote the landfill leachates’ environmental footprint through a more research and development of the processes, design, flexible, simple and economically-viable anti-pollution techniques and tools for treatment of liquid waste with technology, which will be an attractive alternative to high pollution load, such as the leachates that are conventional methods for the treatment of highly-polgenerated from the landfills. It looks to flexibly and luted liquid waste streams. Management of hazardous waste efficiently combine cutting-edge technologies, which are currently in experimental-research phase worldwide. 0% 34% Incineration Other methods SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT The Group’s waste management policy primarily seeks The collection, transport and disposal of waste is carried to reduce the amount of waste generated and any out by licensed bodies (subcontractors), which are 7% associated risks, optimise its recycling and reuse and registered in the Digital Waste Registry (DWR) of the 929,377 kg Temporary Storage finally its appropriate disposal. Ministry of Environment and Energy. 59% 0% The management of waste is carried out, based on the At the Head offices, the Group implements recycling Recycle Landfill requirements of the national and European legislation, programmes, which include office waste (paper, toner, as outlined in the Environmental Terms Approval plastic, etc.) ,electrical and electronic equipment waste Decisions (ETAD), as well as any other requirement (computers, monitors, etc.), home batteries, UPS and based on the specificity of the project or activity. generating sets batteries as well as lubricant waste. 98 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 99 Non-Hazardous waste generated by the Group Hazardous waste generated by the Group Treatment Methods Treatment Methods Non-hazardous Temporary Hazardous Waste Temporary Other waste category (kg) Reuse Recycling Landfill Storage Total Category (kg) Recycling Storage Incineration methods Total Paper 48,242 48,592 Used mineral oils 57,536 4,125 61,661 Scrap metal 5,710,901 5,710,901 Accumulators 11,862 1,080 12,942 Glass 163 163 Electrical and electronic waste 24,484 24,484 Plastic 13,951 15,051 Other hazardous Tyres 3,645 3,645 waste 3,540 6,396 8,027 17,963 Metal (aluminium) 825 825 Light bulbs 1,779 1,779 Cables 3,326 3,326 Batteries 11,670 11,670 Mixed packaging 173,910 173,910 Lubricant packaging 3,140 20 3,160 Mixed municipal Animal byproducts 2,306 2,306 waste 25,710 88,650 112,910 Waste from paints, Excavations, adhesives and caulking Constructions and materials that contain Demolitions Waste organic solvents or (ECDW) 148,371,730 50,788,790 221,067,442 139,732,000 559,959,62 other hazardous substances 180 130 310 Wood 68,630 68,630 Total 114,191 11,751 2,306 8,027 136,275 Total 148,371,730 56,838,093 221,156,092 139,732,000 566,097,915 Note: The data above does not include 793,102 kg of solid hazardous waste, which were generated from the activities of the companies in the Environment segment. Of which, 429,863 kg were sent for recycling, 722 kg were disposed in landfills, 53,459 kg were temporarily stored, and 309,058 kg were managed Note: The data above does not include 28,074 kg of solid non-hazardous waste, which was generated from the activities of the using other treatment methods. The values in the “Other Methods” category, mainly refers to fly ash resulting from the incineration of hazardous medical waste, companies in the Environment segment. 26,178 kg were sent for recycling and 1,896 kg were disposed in landfills. In addition, which is handled by a hazardous waste management company for inactivation (through physical-chemical treatment). Post-treatment the waste is distributed 364 units of toners were sent for recycling. abroad, to be discharged in hazardous waste landfills. 100 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 101 The management of special waste, such as electrical and Similarly, in the management of demolition materials, the Specifically, in 2019, in the context of wind farm construc• All medium voltage cables were set underground, electronic equipment waste, accumulators reused vehicle demolition phases are scheduled by taking into account tion, the following projects were implemented, which and where possible all high voltage ones as well. tyres, etc., is carried out through approved alternative the building materials and their potential use. More were included in the approval of the respective environmanagement systems. specifically, in 2019, 61% of waste (hazardous and nonmental terms and the respective informative actions of • Use of new methods for the transport of large wind hazardous) at AKTOR’s construction sites was utilised the competent forestry offices: turbine units, with the aim to reduce large road work At the construction sites, a comprehensive management (reuse, recycling, temporary storage, etc.) and was not constructions (expansion of forest roads) in forest process of hazardous and non-hazardous waste is disposed in landfills. • In the Region of Epirus, in line with the construction areas. adopted in accordance with environmental management of the Kasidiaris 1 and Kasidiaris 2 wind farms, the systems. The majority of waste is intended to be utilised Any hazardous waste that stems from construction reforestation of 150 km2, the reconstruction and • Withdrawal of wind turbine positions, in cases where and avoid disposal. A typical case of this is excavation activities are temporarily stored at working sites in improvement of around 3 km of forest roads, as well they are expected to cause problems to birds products, which are integrated in the project itself or are specially designed spaces (sheltered spaces with imperas redevelopment projects in the forests of the city (i.e. OrfeasEptadendros wind farm). used in the restoration of affected areas and landscapes. meable surface and surrounding safety guardrails), until of Ioannina were implemented. their scheduled collection from a licensed subcontractor. • Instalment of bird strike prevention systems. • In the Region of West Macedonia, the reconstruction and improvement of around 50 km of forest roads, At the same time, a bird monitoring programme is as well as the construction of technical works and implemented in significant biodiversity areas (e.g. Natura) passages in these roads were implemented, in line during all phases of the projects’ construction (construcwith the construction of the two wind farms in East tion preparation, construction and operation). In all 4.4 BIODIVERSITY and West Askio. projects where a bird monitoring programme is in place, annual reports are submitted to the competent authori• In the Region of East Macedonia-Thrace, the reforties for evaluation. estation of 40 km2 as well as the expansion work of 4 km of forest roads were implemented, in line with Indicatively, following the completion of the OrfeasThe Group undertakes initiatives to protect biodiversity, by fully complying with the the construction of the Orfeas-Eptadendros wind Eptadendros wind farm in Thrace, located at a boundary relevant legislation and environmental requirements, as well as the environmental farm. of significance for birds (GR005), a DTBird monitoring management processes applied to projects in regions with a high environmental and strike prevention system was installed in all wind Aiming to reduce the environmental impacts from wind turbines. The new DTBird system operates using colour value. farms’ construction and operation and taking into account cameras and megaphones, in conjunction with image that some of the Group’s RES projects are situated within recognition software. The system detects the birds from Natura 2000 areas, in Special Protection Areas (SPA) a distance proportional to their size and records their The Group takes into consideration the environmental requirements of projects or or in Special Areas of Conservation (SAC), or near areas movements on video, which is then stored in the systems activities in areas neighboring sensitive regions, and monitors protected species with important bird fauna, the Group proceeds, where database. When the bird enters the predetermined (flora and fauna), as listed in the approved environmental terms. possible, to modify the park’s initial design, as follows: boundary, the system emits a warning noise alert and a second louder alert, if the bird continues on the same • Decrease the number of wind turbines (W/T) flight path. Assessing the hazard, the system will disconincluded in the wind farm’s initial design, resulting in tinue the wind turbine’s operation and restart it once Concessions Segment fewer implications on the natural habitat. Indicatively: the bird is at an appropriate distance from the wind turbine (stop control module). The system has been in On the Attiki Odos motorway, management of landscape Animal Welfare Company” has been established, with East Askio (Kozani Regional Unit) from 17 W/T of place since 2009, in numerous wind farms in more than is carried out, ensuring the motorway complements the the main purpose to support the organisation in the 2 MW to 9 W/T of 3.6/4.2 MW 14 countries, showcasing satisfactory results (based on surrounding environment. In 2019, 800,000 trees and collection and protection of stray and abandoned animals, tests performed in Sweden, Switzerland, Norway and bushes as well as 78,000 m2 of turf have been preserved. the nursing of injured animals, as well as with the West Askio (Kozani Regional Unit) from 21 W/T of the United States of America). The flight detection rates neutering and adoption of the animals. 1.8 MW to 10 W/T of 3.6/4.2 MW are high (>80%) as is the effectiveness of its actions. In regard to the protection of the local fauna, a special fence was installed to protect wild or stray animals from Kasidiari 1 (Epirus Regional Unit) from 25 W/T of All of the above measures taken for the redesign of wind getting into the motorway. In addition, with the instalment RES Segment 2 MW to 14 W/T of 3.6 MW farms and reduction of environmental impacts consist of special stickers in accordance with international of, amongst other things, the Group’s response to the standards, incoming birds are prevented from hitting For each wind farm there is an environmental manageKasidiari 2 (Epirus Regional Unit) from 25 W/T of expectations and needs of the local community, which the glass noise barriers. ATTIKI ODOS and ATTIKES ment plan, which is applied both during its construction 2 MW to 11 W/T of 3.6 MW have emerged from the Group’s systematic consultation DIADROMES collaborate with the Wild Life Conservation and its operation. Moreover, to offset the impacts on land procedures. Society (ANIMA) in Greece to help with the aid of wild from wind farm construction projects, the implemenOrfeas-Eptadendros (Evros and Rodopi Regional animals and birds that may enter the motorway. In tation of reforestation of similar-sized areas or forestry Unit) from 10 W/T of 3 MW to 8 W/T of 3.6 MW addition, a long-term partnership with the “Hellenic projects of equal value is scheduled. 102 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 103 RES projects located in NATURA areas and important areas for birds Construction segment The company HELLENIC QUARRIES operates a quarry • Monitoring and recording of birds’ patterns and the Municipality Location Type of Project Natura (SPA, SAC) at “Mavra Vouna” at the Municipality of West Achaea. The otter population in the area of the quarry and within quarry is located in the location “Limnothalassa Kalogria radius of 700 meters from its outer boundaries. as, Dasos Strofylias kai Eleos Lamias – GR2320001”, The results are then submitted to the Ministry of Alexandroupoli Magoula Kazakou Diplon W/F which is included in the European Network of Protected Environment and Energy. Sites Natura 2000 (Special Areas of Conservation, and ArrianaOrfeas-Eptadendros W/F Special Protection Areas of Birds). • Reforestation and afforestation, in accordance with Alexandroupoli approved studies from the competent authorities. To ensure the protection of biodiversity, permanent monitoring of the area is carried out, as well as the • Creation of slopes and cavities in the area’s hills, to Argos-Mycenae Lyrkeio W/F SPA:GR2510004 following actions: attract and nest wildlife/predators. Τhe procedure is Tripoli done in consultation with the Managing Body of the Kotychi – Strofylia Wetlands. Grevena River Smixiotikos SHPP SPA:GR1310004 Zitsa and Kasidiaris 1 Karnies-KaravamiaW/F Pogonio Elatos Kefalonia Monolati-Kseroliba W/F SPA:GR2220006 Kefalonia Agia Dinati W/F SPA:GR2220006 Lesvos Skamniouda-Pachis Ridge W/F SPA:GR4110010 Lesvos Skamniouda-Pachis Ridge W/F SPA:GR4110010 Monemvassia Mali Madi Metamorfosseos W/F Monemvassia Kalogerovouni W/F SPA:GR2540007, SAC:GR2540001 Monemvassia Gropes-Rahi Gioni W/F Pogonio Kasidiaris 2 Agriahladia W/F Pr. Ilias Petra Haidos Diavolorahi Pr. Ilias Important bird areas: GR005, GR050, GR072, GR085, GR118, GR123, GR134 Monitoring bird areas: 104 105 5. € € 2,504 thousand in community investments Establishment of a new social contribution strategy 97.3% of drivers surveyed stated that they feel very/quite safe when driving on Attiki Odos motorway 544 blood units were collected from volunteer blood donors 106 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 SOCIETY 107 5.1 CREATING VALUE FOR SOCIETY One key objective and strategic priority for the Group is to operate responsibly within The Group’s 2019 Annual Financial Report, which includes the Board of Director’s Report and the Annual the society where it operates, so as to enhance its positive impact and return value Financial Statements, is available on the Group’s website. to it. The Group contributes to the welfare of society through its business operations It is estimated that 11%1 of the income from the activities and social activities, responding consistently, responsibly and transparently to the of the Group's companies in 2019 came from products social demands and needs. and services that have environmental and/or social € 1,273,630 thousand benefits. This category includes revenues from RES Group Net Sales energy production, waste management, biomass 2019 GROUP FINANCIAL RESULTS utilisation, as well as the sale of recyclable materials. The Group’s consolidated net sales, from all its activities • Assets: € 3,055,623 thousand in Greece and abroad, for the fiscal year 2019 amounted to € 1,273,630 thousand. The consolidated financial • Liabilities: € 2,522,573 thousand data of the Group for the 2019 fiscal year reflect the following key indicators: • Equity: € 533,050 thousand 11% 1 The percentage is derived from the available data of From sustainable the RES, Environment, and Concessions segments products and Economic Value 2019 (thousand €) ELLAKTOR Group (ATTIKI ODOS ATTIKES DIADROMES) and the Real services in Greece Estate Development segment (REDS). Net sales 1,273,630 Financial income, other income and profits 84,546 Economic value created 1,358,176 ENSURING HEALTH, SAFETY AND EXPERIENCE OF USERS Operating cost 1,103,670 Concessions segment Real Estate Development segment Employees’ salaries and benefits: 160,005 The safety and service provided to the users of motorways In the Real Estate Development segment, and more Salaries and wages constitute key focus areas of the Group’s companies that specifically regarding the operation of the retail Smart Social insurance expenses 36,032 are responsible for their operation and maintenance. Park of the Group’s company YIALOU EMPORIKI & The companies ensure the proper maintenance, safety TOURISTIKI, the health and safety of visitors and Cost of defined benefit programmes 4,057 and smooth operation of the motorways, so that commutemployees of the park are a key priority. ing becomes safer and more comfortable for the users. Other benefits to employees 13,530 On Attiki Odos, the average response time to incidents The Smart Park was designed and built to provide Payments to capital providers 84,147 is 6 minutes. visitors a safe outdoor walk free of cars and motorbikes, while also taking into account the needs of visitors with Payments to government agencies 59,9091 The company ATTIKES DIADROMES implements the disabilities. In 2017, the communal areas of the Park specifications of the ISO 39001:2012 standard on road were certified in accordance with the requirements and Community investments 2,5042 traffic safety management, receiving several awards in recommendations of the ELOT 1439:2013 standard the field of road safety from the European Commission, Organisation friendly to citizens with disabilities Economic value distributed 1,463,855 the International Road Federation (IRF) and the InternaRequirements and recommendations , with respect to: tional Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association (IBTTA). Economic value retained (105,679) The positive effect of these actions is reflected by the • accessible parking spaces, 1 The amount includes € 2,472 thousand, which is the compensatory fee of 3% on the turnover (pre-VAT sales) of the wind drivers' responses in the annual survey of subscribers farms that is withheld and allocated as follows: 2.7% to the local community and 0.3% to the Special Fund for the Implementation and drivers in regard to the feeling of safety. Specifically, • accessible entrance, of Regulatory Urban Planning schemes (Green Fund). in 2019, 97.3% of respondents stated that they feel very/ 2 The amount refers to donations (financial and in kind), as well as sponsorships for social activities in Greece. quite safe when driving on the Attiki Odos motorway. • accessible routes (horizontal and vertical), 108 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 SOCIETY 109 • accessible assistance and services, Smart Park’s security personnel is trained in First Aid Indicatively, in the Concessions segment, ATTIKES It also makes recommendations for heavy maintenance and in cases of urgent needs, specially designed areas DIADROMES conducts regular checks and inspections and/or improvements to ATTIKI ODOS, which then • accessible fixed equipment, are provided in several locations of the park that include at the technical elements of ATTIKI ODOS based on proceeds with developing the relevant implementation emergency first aid equipment, such as 2 defibrillators. the Greek State’s Inspection and Maintenance Manual. plan. • accessible exits and All fire extinguishing facilities, fire detectors, portable • employee training and education. fire extinguishing equipment, etc. are regularly maintained in accordance with the latest provisions of the IMPROVING THE URBAN AND STRUCTURED ENVIRONMENT The design and construction of the Smart Park expansion, Law, whereas the Fire Safety Certificate is renewed at ELLAKTOR Group contributes substantially to the expanIn the Concessions segment, specifically in regard to the consisting of an area of 15,200 m2, which was completed scheduled intervals. Among other things, the Smart sion of the urban environment through the Construction Attiki Odos project, sections of the motorway were covered, in November 2019, took into account the specifications Park has a Fire Safety Team, of which most members segment, while a key focus of its Real Estate Developwhere possible (e.g. in Vrilissia and West Ymittos Avenue). of the ELOT 1439: 2013 standard. The company will have been trained at the facilities of the Fire Academy. ment segment is the upgrade of the residential environThe aim of these works is to embed the motorway with proceed with the certification of the expansion of the Furthermore, Smart Park’s Safety Team carries out ment, the protection of free spaces and the creation and the environment and urban landscape. Moreover, in Park in accordance with the standard, with the aim to every 3 months General Evacuation Drills, in which redevelopment of recreational areas. order to prevent the negative effects in incidents of include all the facilities of the park within the scope of employees who work at the park’s stores participate. extreme weather, extensive flood control works and certification. The Group, continuing its significant trajectory, impleconsistent tree planting were carried out on the slopes In a survey conducted in 2019, mented high quality projects, including Line 2 of the of the motorway. In the context of the park’s communal areas maintenance, with the participation of 1,024 Athens Metro, the Acropolis Museum, the Rion-Antirrion in addition to regular works, the periodic inspection visitors and employees of the Bridge, etc. The aim of the projects is to improve the In the Real Estate Development segment, Smart Park, certificates of all lifting equipment (lifts, escalators and Smart Park, the average quality of life of people and local communities in the which is ranked among the most important projects of stairs) used both by visitors and employees of the Smart response in regard to the areas it operates in, with the aim of protecting and the Group, is the largest open retail park in Greece, with Park, are renewed annually according to the Law. feeling of safety within the enhancing the urban environment. a total area of 53,000 m2. (with 5.5 million visitors in premises of the park was 9.16 2019). Aside from being an outdoor shopping park, it is Additionally, the Smart Park playground, which is on a scale from 1 to 10. The construction of all projects is carried out according also a significant entertainment hub for the area, with accessible to all to visitors, is certified according to ELOT to the latest standards, applicable environmental legislaa playground, enclosed ball pen, restaurants, outdoor EN 1176:2008 and ELOT EN 1177:2008 standards. tion and approved environmental terms. cinema and a natural landscape that has 24,000 m2 of green space. ENSURING CONSTRUCTION SAFETY The safety of all construction facilities throughout their • Results of the respective audits are evaluated, and NOISE MANAGEMENT construction and maintenance is ensured through the appropriate corrective actions are implemented systematic application of the relevant requirements, where required. One of the topics of concern for the local community is with mobile noise measurement units. Based on the which are outlined in their respective contractual noise pollution. Group companies in the Concessions measurements, 918 meters of noise barriers were inagreements as well as in the national and international • Inspections are carried out by experienced and segment control the noise level along the length of stalled, covering a total area of 1,827 m2. Overall, 21 km control standards concerning the construction facilities. specialised personnel. the motorways through permanent and mobile noise of noise barriers as well as motorway embankments The effective management of requirements is achieved measuring stations, according to the current legislation have been installed, throughout the 18-year operation by establishing appropriate inspection procedures, • Experienced and reliable external associates are and contractual obligations. Employees working in the of the motorway. integrating them into the Quality Management Systems used to carry out inspections that require specialised Concession segment use company vehicles and and allocating appropriate resources (staff, equipment, knowledge and/or means, who guarantee the integrity machinery on the motorways they are responsible for, Respectively, MOREAS monitors road traffic noise materials, external associates, etc.) to ensure their of the process and the results of the inspections in accordance with the Operations and Maintenance indicators on an annual basis. Any requests of homeeffective implementation. In this regard, it is ensured performed. Manuals and environmentally-friendly driving principles, owners near the motorway are examined and evaluated that: focusing on reducing pollution and noise. by the Public sector’s competent Authorities. MOREAS • Materials and products are utilised, only if in compliupdates monitoring procedures following relevant guide• Potential risks pertaining to the safety and integrity ance with the basic requirements (legislation, safety The company ATTIKES DIADROMES measures noise lines and directions from the competent Authorities. In of the construction facilities are identified and approand health, etc.). The requirements are justified by levels through special measuring devices located at 8 2019, 17 road traffic noise measurements were carried priate risk avoidance and/or mitigation plans are the documentation provided from the respective points along the motorway of ATTIKI ODOS. In cases out in a total of 17 approved locations along the motorimplemented. manufacturers/suppliers (e.g. performance statewhere noise levels are too high, ATTIKI ODOS installs way. Since the start of the operation of the concession ments, lab results, etc.). noise barriers, following the approval of the Greek State. project, in 2008, there have been no recorded incidents • Appropriate control procedures and programmes are In 2019, 126 24-hour measurements were carried out where established noise limits have been exceeded. developed to ensure that inspections are performed Control Procedures are regularly evaluated (and approat pre-determined intervals and standard inspection priately adjusted) to ensure that the relevant standards steps are followed. and requirements are covered. 110 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 SOCIETY 111 For projects in the Construction segment that are which fail to comply with the EEC noise certifications Hence, the selection of materials and products used for Construction segment collaborates with technical compaimplemented near settlements and within residential (CE marking), the project is pre-determined and carried out according nies, suppliers of concrete reinforcement materials, areas, traffic regulations are monitored, and vibration to these criteria. Suppliers/subcontractors are similarly subcontractors specialising in earthworks, electromeand noise measurements are carried out. Each project • systematic maintenance, regular inspection and selected through open market research, with request for chanical projects – installations, metal constructions, follows the procedures of the certified Environmental noise measurement of the mobile equipment and the product specifications and proposals of at least 3 different reinforced concrete, fuels, cement products, lifts, alumiManagement System and the approved environmental equipment that is not part of the constructions sites, suppliers/subcontractors. From the offers received, the nium constructions, etc. Respectively, the companies in terms. In cases the project is located near settlements in order to ensure the compliance with the permitted final selection takes into account the quality of the prothe Concession segment collaborate with maintenance or residential areas, the noise generated by construction noise levels. posal and the cost of the services, as well as the delivery/ contractors, software and maintenance companies for activity is monitored and the appropriate noise reduction/ response time. Toll and Traffic systems, companies specialising in reprevention measures are taken. Indicatively, in the • installation of noise barriers in areas where there is mittance, security and statement printing and mailing AKTOR “Base Line of Thessaloniki Metro” and “Kalamaria construction site noise, especially in residential areas, The companies of the Group may use various suppliers services, as well as suppliers of electrical materials and Extension” projects in 2019, 82 24-hour and 55 4-hour and depending on their differing needs. Indicatively, the road safety equipment, etc. noise measurements were performed. 7 1-hour incidents were recorded where established noise limits had been • refrain from conducting disrupting/noisy works exceeded, out of which only 1 was due to project work. during communal quiet hours. OPTIMISATION OF SUPPLY MANAGEMENT More specifically, and in accordance with the requirements In case of complaints received from the local community, of the AKTOR Environmental Management System, the disturbances are inspected and assessed by carrying In 2019, the Procurement Division was created with the Moreover, in 2019, ELLAKTOR Group proceeded with the following noise prevention measures are implemented: out additional noise measurements and any necessary aim of centrally managing the supply chain at Group following: maintenance works. level. The Procurement Division cooperates with the • measurement of noise level, occurring from construcother Divisions of the Group as well as with the Procure• Developed a draft plan regarding the approval tion machinery and construction-site vehicles moving In 2019, there were no significant complaints from the ment Departments of specific companies and projects, processes “Purchase Requests – Request for inside and outside of the sites, local community pertaining to issues with noise levels, in order to monitor and serve the needs of the particular Proposal – Controlled Purchase Protocol (CPP), however there were verbal complaints that were each companies. The Division is responsible for purchases CPP Approval – Order” and a platform to record all • use of new anti-noise technology and construction dealt with on the spot by the project’s respective that comprise of more than one company/joint venture supplies of materials and services in the Group's ERP equipment, while also prohibiting the use of machinery, Environmental Officers and engineers. and/or project of the Group, seeking to reduce costs, system (in progress). based on the economies of scale. The Group's Supply Chain Policy, which will set out the new systemic flow • Developed an Inventory Control and Coding of of supplies, is expected to be approved in 2020. Materials and Services Department within the Procurement Division of the Group (in progress). 5.2 SUPPLY CHAIN PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES TO PARTNERS OF THE GROUP The Group, in cooperation with its suppliers, aims to fully meet the needs of its projects and operations and to achieve the highest quality of its final projects, products The Group urges its suppliers and partners to act responSince 2018, HELECTOR, has been carrying out due sibly and requests that they comply with its Code of diligence procedures for its partners through the and services. At the same time, the Group focuses on supporting local suppliers where Conduct. In 2019, there were no incidents or issues completion of relevant surveys and by informing them possible, thus strengthening the local economy. In 2019, the Group’s companies regarding human rights violations by the approved on the respective compliance documents of the Group suppliers working with the Group. and the company. The procedures are carried out in operating in Greece acquired 93% of their supplies from local suppliers. accordance with the implemented ISO 37001:2016 AntiATTIKI ODOS and ATTIKES DIADROMES have developed Corruption Management System and its Anti-Bribery a Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines extensively Policy. At the same time, the partners (suppliers, subSUPPLY MANAGEMENT the ethical principles and values that their partners/ contractors, etc.) with financial contracts valued over suppliers must adhere to. The Code sets out the basic € 60,000 declare either with a separate document or According to the existing procedures and practices in Depending on the activities of the Group, some procurerequirements that the companies expect to be met by with a specific term within the existing contract, that regard to supply management, procurements are carried ments may be subject to the specific terms that are their suppliers of materials/equipment and services, as they have received these documents as posted on the out individually per company and/or project, based on outlined in the contractual agreements. For ATTIKI ODOS well as by their subcontractors, regarding responsible Group's website and are bound to refrain from any action pre-determined specifications and market research and and ATTIKES DIADROMES, the motorway’s Operation conduct in the performance of their contractual that constitutes a breach of the principles disclosed. on the accessibility of local suppliers. For procurements and Maintenance Contract is part of the Concession obligations with respect to the counterpart, the society Any potential breach gives the company the right to above € 100,000, the supplier must be approved according Agreement with the Greek State. The specifications of and the environment. terminate the contract. to the Group's compliance criteria. the materials predominantly used in the motorway’s operation and maintenance are outlined in the concession contract. 112 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 SOCIETY 113 5.3 COMMUNICATING WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES A key concern of the Group throughout its operations is building relationships of • Road safety: The Group develops programmes for • Culture: The Group utilises its experience and the education and awareness of children and adults available resources, to support cultural programmes trust, solidarity and mutual respect with the local communities in which it operates. on road safety issues, while also supporting animal and initiatives (such as restorations/preservation of welfare organisations, to treat and reduce the number buildings of cultural importance and archaeological of stray animals, simultaneously protecting them and work) that support and stimulate the local economy. Regarding the activities of the Group’s Renewable Energy Respectively, in projects of the Real Estate Development reducing road accidents involving animals. Sources segment, where environmental licensing and segment, the Group proceeds with the planning and All actions that the Group will henceforth support at a public consultation of environmental impact assessments implementation of the projects following consultation national and local level should be complaisant with the is required for each project, the company proceeds with with the local community and taking into account its 5 focus areas above. informing the regional councils and committees, municineeds and expectations. pal and community councils and services, as well as institutionalised environmental bodies and organisations. In 2019, the company KANTZA EMPORIKI signed a The observations and concerns of local authorities and memorandum of cooperation with the Municipality of Strategic Pillars of Sustainable Development Society regulatory bodies are taken into account when designing Pallini in the context of the development of the embleprojects (see Biodiversity section). During the construcmatic Cambas Park, which combines the preservation tion phase of the projects, a manager is appointed to of the historic Camba winery in Pallini with the modern YOUNG PEOPLE / ROAD SAFETY oversee the direct communication with the local development of a mixed-use complex. EDUCATION • Education and road safety community. awareness of adults and • Support and participation in educational and training children initiatives, aiming to disseminate expertise • Support of animal welfare organisations for caring and • Participation/organisation of treating of stray animals 5.4 CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY recruiting events INFRASTRUCTURE CULTURE The Group and its companies maintain open communication with local communities • Improvement of infrastructure • Restoration/maintenance of and implement programmes, focusing on the support of social groups in need through at a local level buildings initiatives that improve local infrastructure, foster the cultural and social development • Donations in kind • Supporting work in the field of the local community, promote recycling, raise awareness and provide training on of Archeology road safety issues, while at the same time raise awareness amongst employees. • Support in cases of emergency • Support of cultural initiatives that strengthen the local In the beginning of 2020, taking into account the needs • Infrastructure: The Group leverages on its experieconomy of local communities and the opportunities provided by ence and available resources to help improve infrathe expertise and resources available, the Group estabstructure at the local level and thus improve the lished a new social contribution strategy, with 5 focus residents' quality of life in the areas where it operates. ENVIRONMENT areas: • Promoting of Recycling • Environment: The Group utilises its experience and • Young people / Education: The Group seeks opportuavailable resources to promote recycling, energy • Promotion of small-scale RES nities that enables it to share its experience and expesaving, the use of small-scale renewable energy rtise with young people, so that they can effectively sources and the protection of biodiversity in the • Promoting of energy saving integrate this knowledge into their student and areas where it operates. academic life, as well as in their future job search. • Protection of Biodiversity 114 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 SOCIETY 115 INITIATIVES SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Group companies develop their social contribution Some of the programmes and initiatives implemented Renewable Energy Sources segment Construction segment initiatives depending on their segment of operations as by the Group's companies in 2019 are indicated below. well as on the needs of the local and the wider commuInitiatives supported by the companies in the RenewThe companies which operate in the Construction nity in the areas where they operate. able Energy segment in 2019, focused on improving the segment, support local communities, listen to their infrastructure of the local communities, in which wind needs and manage their requests. In cases of severe farms are being constructed or operated in, and include weather, or when needed they provide emergency amongst other things the following: assistance such as snow removal, road repairs, flood Concessions segment Environment segment prevention and fire protection, while also providing • In the Municipality of Kozani, the Group undertook routine maintenance and improvement of existing infraThe actions and programmes implemented by ATTIKI The actions and programmes implemented by the the expenditure of asphalting 6 km of local roads, 4 structure. Upon the completion of local projects, it is ODOS and ATTIKES DIADROMES have focused for more Group's companies, which are active in the Environmentechnical projects related to rainwater management, common practice for the companies to donate equipthan 10 years on the awareness and education of children, tal segment, focus on strengthening the infrastructure the supply of aggregates as well as the improvement ment, helping local bodies to cover their needs. young people and adults in road safety issues. of the areas in which they operate as well as educating and cleaning of municipal roads and streams. Indicatively, in 2019: and raising awareness on environmental protection Indicatively, in 2019, the following were some of the issues, with an emphasis on recycling. • In the Municipality of Voio, Kozani, the Group underactivities implemented by AKTOR, in response to the • The programme Commuting Safely was attended took the expenditure of asphalting a 7 km provincial requests and needs from local bodies for the improveby 3,718 students from 43 schools. This programme In this context, in 2019, HELECTOR: road, repairing the Galatini primary school, building a ment and upgrading of infrastructure, as well as the was created in collaboration with the Road Safety retaining wall at the Monastery of Agios Athanasios support in cases of emergencies: Institute Panos Mylonas in 2009 and was addressed • Responded to the needs of the Municipality of Athens Eratyra, as well as sealing rainwater tanks in the to primary school students. by covering the expenditure and execution of all the local community of Eratina. • Donation of office equipment to 4 primary schools construction works for the reconstruction of Omonia and 14 public services in the Region of Eastern • The e-learning version of the Open Eyes on the Square; a significant landmark for the Municipality • In the Municipality of Zitsa, Ioannina, the Group underMacedonia and Thrace, including the Primary School Road programme received the approval from the and its inhabitants. took the expenditure of asphalting 1.3 km of roads of Maistro and Thrylori, the Museum of Natural Ministry of Education’s Institute of Educational Policy and the construction of 1 km of sidewalks. History of Alexandroupolis and the Topeiros Police in December 2019. It launched at a pilot-scale in 5 • Delivered the first indoor sports centre to the Department. public and 2 private schools, showcasing great results community of Tagarades in the Municipality of Thermi. In addition, funds were donated to support the work of and expecting to reach an attendance of around 2,500 The sports centre houses the trainings of the local over 30 local organisations such as the Federation of • Renovation work (painting of walls, ceilings and children per quarter. basketball and volleyball teams. The building is Pogoni Brotherhoods in Ioannina, the Pistamata Society railings, plumbing repairs, etc.) in 36 prison wards, energy efficient and meets the latest environmental in Laconia, the Grevena Swimming Pool, the Kozani offices, stairwells, public areas, accommodation areas • The first pilot initiatives on road safety were carried standards (thermally insulated building shell, thermal Ephorate of Antiquities, the Youth Center of Epirus, the of police officers, detention centres and reception out at the Hellenic Children's Museum by ATTIKI insulation window frames and an inverter air-con Ioannina Fire Department, the Messolonghi Police areas at the Tavros Inmate Transport Centre. ODOS and ATTIKES DIADROMES, with the participaditioning system). In addition, it has a special fire Department, the Veria Road Traffic Police, the Holy tion of 261 children, ages 6-12 years, and around safety, fire detection, and fire extinguishing system, Metropolis of Alexandroupolis, etc. • Collection, fragmentation, transport and disposal of 4,000 visitors (families with children from 3-12 years as well as energy efficient LED lighting. materials and waste, produced from tree trunks and old). other flammable materials, at a new approved location. • Initiated a cooperation with the Municipality of The materials and waste were previously deposited Also, the companies ATTIKI ODOS and ATTIKES DIARafina Pikermi, to launch a door-to-door pilot at a private space leased by the municipality of Rafina, DROMES strengthen their relationships with the neighprogramme for collecting biowaste and recyclable after the 2018 fire in Mati Attica, presenting a hazard bouring municipalities through repair works of school materials in Proteas area. The programme is to the residents of the area. buildings, the programmes focusing on raising expected to benefit approximately 200 households. awareness and education of children regarding road • Repair and upgrade of the building that houses the safety issues, and their support in cases of emergencies community public medical clinic of the Municipality (such as floods and earthquakes). of Moschato. • Restoration of the fire extinguishing network at the Kallithea Marina, in Attica. • Traffic regulation and blocking of a traffic lane, ensuring the protection of the road and passing vehicles, due to a dilapidated building on a road at the Municipality of Piraeus , after the 5.1 R earthquake (epicentre in Parnitha mountain) in July 2019. 116 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 SOCIETY 117 EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING It should be noted that in 2019, the local communities in • Approximately 57% is allocated to first-degree Local The Group's employees actively participate in voluntary since 2004, which all the employees of the Group and which the Group's wind farms operate received the RES Authorities, of the regions where each wind farm and social solidarity events held annually. More specificaltheir relatives have access to, if needed. Several times compensatory fee, equivalent to 3% of the total sales of interconnection projects are located (approximately ly, in 2019: the Blood Bank has responded to nationwide calls for electricity (before VAT). The total amount of € 2,472,320, € 1,400,816). blood donations to contribute to the needs of society. equivalent to the aforementioned 3% of relevant sales, • 30 employees of ATTIKI ODOS and ATTIKES Every year, participation in the blood donation programme is divided as follows: • Approximately 10% is attributed to the Green Fund DIADROMES created / purchased 93 festive candles, is significantly high and employees are able to participate (approximately € 247,232). worth € 1,700, for children of ELEPAP for Easter. They up to 3 times a year. • Approximately 33% of this amount is allocated to also collected food and hygiene supplies, which were residential consumers of the local community where It is noted that the companies of the Group prioritise hiring distributed to families in need, which are supported Additionally, within HELECTOR, an association of each wind farm is located, through the electricity employees from the local communities in which they by ELEPAP. employee blood donors has been created at the supplier (approximately € 824,000). operate in. Indicatively, it is stated that 33% of the employmechanical recycling and composting factory (EMAK). ees in the Environment segment, 36% of employees from • At the Head Offices of ELLAKTOR Group, a Christmas The association of volunteer blood donors operates in AKTOR and its joint ventures and 96% of MOREAS’ employand Easter Bazaar was organised in collaboration collaboration with Evangelismos Hospital. The hospital’s ees are from local communities. with the organisation Make-a-Wish Greece , where mobile unit visits the factory’s premises twice a year. a total of € 2,563 was raised to meet the needs of the organisation. All Group companies that implement voluntary blood donation initiatives, offer to blood donors one day of SUPPORTING NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS Regarding voluntary blood donation, ATTIKI ODOS and additional leave for each participation in a voluntary ATTIKES DIADROMES have been operating a Blood Bank blood donation event, both as an incentive and a reward. At the same time, the Group and its companies financially • AKTOR supported the EBEC engineering competition support credible and recognised non-profit organisations, organised by the students of National Technical social establishments (e.g. orphanages), institutions and University of Athens (NTUA). More than 80 students local associations (e.g. sports clubs, choirs and cultural from all NTUA faculties took part in the competition. centres), while also sponsor educational events, placing The competition was organised for another year by 2019 Blood Donation Data for the Group an emphasis on sharing their knowledge and expertise. BEST Athens, which was set up by the University’s Indicatively for 2019, the following are reported: students. AKTOR, in addition to financial support, capitalised on its credibility and expertise and contri• Since 2016, the companies of the Group (ELLAKTOR, buted to the evaluation of the competing teams and AKTOR, HELECTOR, ATTIKI ODOS, ATTIKES DIADROthe competition’s final results. Blood donors MES and REDS) have undertaken the entire expenditure of the preparatory stage of fulfilling the wishes Among the organisations supported by the Group and 278 of children (ages 3-18) that are suffering from severe its companies in 2019, are the Pediatric Trauma Care illnesses, through the “Make-a-Wish Greece” organiAssociation, the Open Arms Hug – Friends of Social sation. In 2019, 264 children’s wishes were fulfilled Paediatrics and Medicine” Association, the parent’s Blood donations through the support of the Group’s companies. Association of the Argyroupoli public school for deaf and hearing-impaired children, the “Paidi Kai Dimourgia” 5 • For the second consecutive year, AKTOR, supported organisation, the “Emfasis Foundation” non-profit the Prolepsis Institute and specifically the Food Aid organisation, the Lofos Kyrillou Cultural Society, the and Promotion of Healthy Nutrition Programme – DIAZOMA Association, the Hellenic Mathematical Blood Units DIATROFI, which offers free nutritional and healthy meals to students in public primary and secondary Society, the National Nursery School in Kallithea, etc. 544 schools in socially and economically vulnerable areas of the country. The company's support provided 3,000 healthy meals for the daily nourishment of 38 students Blood Units used by Group employees at the 76th Kindergarten of Athens for the 2018-2019 school year. 125 * *Not including HELECTOR 118 119 6. 120 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 APPENDIX 121 6.1 REPORT METHODOLOGY 6.2 GRI STANDARDS TABLE The purpose of the Sustainable Development Report is to inform stakeholders fully The GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), have been taken into account and comprehensively about the sustainable development activities of ELLAKTOR in the preparation of this Report. Group in 2019. In conjunction with the disclosure of the Group's actions over the past year, this Report presents the Group’s new business strategy for sustainable The 2019 Sustainability Report has been drafted in The 2016 edition of the standards is used for all indicadevelopment. accordance with the core option of the GRI Standards. tors, except for 303 and 403, for which the 2018 edition has been used. The Group's Sustainable Development Division is responThe data for 2019 cover more activities than the data of sible for collecting the data of the Report. the respective reports for previous years. For this reason, GRI it was not possible to include comparisons of data with Standards Disclosure Sections / Additional Comments The 2019 Sustainable Development Report refers to the previous years and the Report presents numerical data reporting period from 01.01.2019 to 31.12.2019 and encomsolely for 2019. GRI 101 Foundation passes the companies of the Group based in Greece, in which the Group has a majority stake and/or exercises The present Sustainable Development Report has been GRI 102 General Disclosures management. The financial results presented refer to drafted in accordance with the core option of the Global Organisational Profile the overall operation of the Group, inside and outside Reporting Initiative guidelines (GRI Standards) and its of Greece. four basic principles (stakeholder inclusiveness, sustain102-1 Name of the organisation ELLAKTOR S.A. is the parent company ability context, materiality, and completeness). Additional of the ELLAKTOR Group. Regarding the aggregate data that is presented in the standards that have been used for the preparation of the Environment chapter, please note that: Report include the GRI Supplements for the Electric 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Report Page: 12-23 Utilities Sector and for the Construction and Real Estate and services • Data for the company TOMI are not included. Sector, the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact and the new ESG Reporting Guide of the Athens Stock 102-3 Location of headquarters Ermou 25, 145 64 Kifisia • The data for the company AKTOR represent only 70% Exchange. of its operations. 102-4 Location of operations Report Page: 13 In order to identify the most material topics for the • The data regarding AKTOR’s joint ventures are sustainable development of the Group, the results of the 102-5 Ownership and legal form Engineering, Holding and Services aggregate and do not correspond to the share of the materiality analysis conducted in the beginning of 2020 Societe Anonyme company in the joint ventures. were utilised. 102-6 Markets served Report Page: 12-23 • The data for the company REDS include only the The Report was prepared in collaboration with KKS common areas of the Smart Park and not the areas Advisors. 102-7 Scale of the organisation Report Page: 12-13, 106-107 that are rented out. For any clarifications regarding the Sustainable Develop102-8 Information on employees and Report Page: 62-65 • The data for the company HELECTOR have been ment Report for 2019, please contact: other workers calculated taking into account the company’s share in its subsidiaries, with the exception of the data in Nafsika Zevgoli 102-9 Supply chain Report Page: 110-111 the Contribution to the Circular Economy section, Group Sustainable Development Manager where the total activity of the waste management Tel.: +30 2108185059 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation Report Page: 14-24 facilities is presented. E-mail: sustainability@ellaktor.com and its supply chain Ermou 25, Nea Kifisia 145 64 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Report Page: 34-35, 48-51, 54-57, 80-81, 84-85, 87-88, 100-101, 107-110 122 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 APPENDIX 123 GRI GRI Standards Disclosure Sections / Additional Comments Standards Disclosure Sections / Additional Comments 102-12 External initiatives Report Page: 24-25, 34-35 102-48 Restatements of information Any restatements (where they exist) are noted with comments within the 102-13 Membership of associations Report Page: 24-25 text and/or with footnotes. Report Page: 120 Strategy 102-49 Significant changes in reporting Any significant changes 102-14 Statement from senior Report Page: 6-7 (where they exist) are noted with decision-maker comments within the text and/or with footnotes. Report Page: 120 Ethics and Integrity 102-50 Reporting period Report Page: 120 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Report Page: 48-57 and norms of behaviour 102-51 Date of most recent report June 2019 Governance 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-18 Governance structure Report Page: 48-49 102-53 Contact point for questions Report Page: 120 regarding the report Stakeholder Engagement 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Report Page: 120 with the GRI Standards 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Report Page: 37 102-55 GRI content index Report Page: 121-128 102-41 Percentage of employees All employees are covered by the covered by Collective Bargaining National Collective Bargaining 102-56 External assurance The Organisation has not received any Agreements Agreement. external assurance on the content of the report. 102-42 Identifying and selecting Report Page: 37-39 stakeholders Topic – Specific Disclosures – Material Topics 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Report Page: 37-39 Creation and distribution of economic value engagement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic The material topic impacts all of the 102-44 Key topics and concerns Report Page: 38-39, 112 and its boundary Group's core business activities and raised by stakeholders has the potential to affect shareholders, 103-2 The management approach and investors and bondholders, banks and Reporting Practice its components financial institutions, employees, suppliers, partners, and subcontractors, 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Annual Financial Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach as well as local communities in which financial statements (pg. 174 – 184) it operates. Report Page: 120 Report Page: 106-110 102-46 Defining report content and Report Page: 120, 123-126 201-1 Direct economic value generated Report Page: 106 topic Boundaries and distributed 102-47 List of material topics Report Page: 31-33 124 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 APPENDIX 125 GRI GRI Standards Disclosure Sections / Additional Comments Standards Disclosure Sections / Additional Comments Ensuring regulatory compliance and business ethics 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Report Page: 71-72 and incident investigation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and The material topic impacts all of the its Boundary Group's core business activities and 403-3 Occupational health services Report Page: 71-72 has the potential to affect shareholders, 103-2 The management approach and its investors and bondholders, banks and 403-5 Worker training on occupational health Report Page: 75-76 components financial institutions, employees, and and safety state and regulatory authorities. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Report page: 48-53 403-6 Promotion of worker health Report Page: 70 205-2 Communication and training about Report Page: 52 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Report Page: 71-72, 75-76 anti-corruption policies and procedures health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Report Page: 51 actions taken 403-9 Work-related injuries Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related lost time injury: 0.094 Rate of high-consequence work-related Creating high-quality jobs (full-time, for highand/or low-skilled workers, with satisfactory injuries: 0.094 salaries) The above indicators were calculated by every 1 million working hours. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The material topic impacts all of the Total working hours: 10,588,589 Boundary Group's core business activities and Report Page: 73-74 has the potential to affect employees. 103-2 The management approach and its Report Page: 62-71 components Contributing to the greater availability and reliability of renewable energy sources, while reducing and offsetting greenhouse gas emissions and other gaseous pollutants (e.g. NOx, SOx, VOCs) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The material topic has an overall impact 401-1 New employee hires and employee Report Page: 66 Boundary on the operation of the Group, while turnover through its activity in the field of RES it 103-2 The management approach and its components contributes to the increase of the 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Report Page: 70-71 availability and reliability of RES. The that are not provided to temporary or 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach topic has the potential to affect customers, part-time employees shareholders, investors and bondholders, state and regulatory authorities, local 401-3 Parental leave Report Page: 70 communities and local government, and the wider community. Report Page: 80-84, 87-100 Ensuring the health, safety and welfare of employees (including contractors and subcontractors) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and The material topic impacts all of the Strengthening innovation and digital transformation its Boundary Group's core business activities and has the potential to affect employees 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The material topic impacts all of the 103-2 The management approach and its components and subcontractors. Boundary Group's core business activities and Report Page: 70-76 has the potential to affect employees, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-2 The management approach and its customers, suppliers, partners, components subcontractors and users. 403-1 Occupational health and safety Report Page: 55, 71 Report Page: 58-59 management system 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 126 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 APPENDIX 127 GRI GRI Standards Disclosure Sections / Additional Comments Standards Disclosure Sections / Additional Comments Ensuring business continuity and preparedness for managing emergencies 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Report Page: 92 emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The material topic has a significant Boundary impact on the Group's core business 305-4 GHG emissions intensity The GHG emissions per turnover activities and has the potential to affect amounted to 0.08 kg CO2 eq./€. 103-2 The management approach and its all stakeholders. components Report Page: 54-57 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides Report Page: 92-93 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach (SOx), and other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste Topic – Specific Disclosures – Other Topics Market Presence 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Report Page: 86-87, 96-100 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired Report Page: 63 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Report Page: 87 from the local community Training and Education Procurement Practices 404-1 Average hours of training per year Report Page: 67 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Report Page: 110 per employee 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee Report Page: 66-67 Energy skills and transition assistance programs 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Report Page: 89 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Report Page: 69 302-3 Energy intensity Report Page: 89 regular performance and career development reviews Water and Effluents Diversity and Equal Opportunity 303-3 Water withdrawal Report Page: 95 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Report Page: 50, 64-65 Biodiversity and employees 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, Report Page: 102-103 Non-discrimination or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and In 2019, no incidents of discrimination areas corrective actions taken were reported. 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Report Page: 102 conservation list species with habitats Human Rights Assessment in areas affected by operations 412-3 Significant investment agreements The purchase of 75% of Urban Solid and contracts that include human Recycling S.A., was one the most Emissions rights clauses or that underwent important investments of the Group human rights screening for 2019, with an acquisition price of 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Report Page: 92 € 4,275,000. The acquisition agreement includes terms on human rights issues. 128 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 APPENDIX 129 GRI 6.3 ATHENS STOCK EXCHANGE ESG REPORTING GUIDE Standards Disclosure Sections / Additional Comments TABLE Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Report Page: 112 The table below shows the metrics of the ESG Reporting Guide of the Athens Stock impact assessments, and development programmes Exchange with the corresponding contents of the Report. Public policy ATHEX ESG Metrics 415-1 Political contributions In 2019, no monetary or in-kind donations were made to political ATHEX parties. Metric ID* Metric Title Section / Comments Marketing and Labeling Environmental 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning In 2019, there were no incidents of C-E1 Scope 1 emissions Report page: 92 marketing communications non-compliance with marketing communications for the Group's C-E2 Scope 2 emissions Report page: 92 companies. C-E3 Energy consumption within Report page: 89 Customer Privacy the organisation 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Report Page: 53 A-E2 Climate change risks and Report page: 80-81, 84-85, 87-88 breaches of customer privacy and opportunities losses of customer data SS-E4 Water management Report page: 95-96 Social C-S1 Female employees Report page: 64 C-S2 Female employees in management Report page: 65 positions C-S3 Turnover rates Report page: 66 C-S4 Employee training Report page: 67 C-S6 Collective bargaining agreements All employees are covered by the National Collective Bargaining Agreement. C-S7 Supplier assessment Report page: 111 A-S1 Stakeholder engagement Report page: 37-39 A-S2 Employee training expenditure Report page: 67 A-S3 Gender pay gap The gender pay gap for the Group is 23% in favour of men. 130 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2019 APPENDIX 131 ATHEX 6.4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE Metric ID* Metric Title Section / Comments A-S5 Sustainable product revenue Report page: 107 The table below shows the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact with SS-S6 Health and safety performance Accident frequency rate: 1.34 the corresponding contents of the Report. Accident frequency rate) = (Total number of lost time injuries / Total hours worked) x 200,000. Accident severity rate: 30.32 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Accident severity rate = (Total calendar days lost due to accidents / Total hours worked) x 200,000. UNGC Principles Section / Comments Report page: 73-74 Human Rights Governance Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Report page: 69-70 C-G1 Sustainability oversight Report page: 50-51 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights C-G2 Business ethics policy Report page: 51 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are Report page: 69-70 not complicit in human rights abuses C-G3 Data security policy Report page: 53 Labour A-G1 Business model Report page: 28-29 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Report page: 69-70 association and the effective recognition of the right to A-G2 Materiality Report page: 31-33 collective bargaining A-G3 ESG targets Report page: 40-44 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination Report page: 69-70 of all forms of forced and compulsory labour SS-G1 Business ethics violations Report page: 51 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective Report page: 69-70 abolition of child labour *Metric ID’s that begin with C refer to core metrics, with A refer to advanced metrics Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination Report page: 69-70 and with SS refer to sector-specific metrics. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Report page: 87-100 approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to Report page: 87-100 promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development Report page: 80-87 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Report page: 52 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 25, ERMOU STR., 145 64 NEA KIFISSIA
