2019-2020 DGB Financial Group Sustainability Report Shaping Better Future DGB Seeks Sustainable Value of Finance ABOUT THIS REPORT DGB FINANCIAL GROUP CORPORATE CULTURE SLOGAN This logo depicts our will promising “With a mindset such that I’M the ower of DGB Financial Group who takes Challenge against difficult business environment, puts in full Effort in our position, we can transform a risk into an Opportunity” The symbol of DGB Financial Group’s sustainability report is a fourleaf clover, each leaf representing one of four core values: ethics and corporate culture, sustainable finance, social contribution and environmental management. This represents DGB Financial Group’s goal of building a happier and healthier future through balanced growth. The blue bird symbolizes an ethical corporate culture taking flight. DGB Financial Group strives to create a workplace where all employees and stakeholders can find happiness through a balance of work and life. The seed stands for sustainable finance developed together with local communities. We do our best to offer finance that is caring, like planting the seeds of a local economy that will grow and be nurtured. The flower signifies our pledge to contribute by serving and sharing. DGB Financial Group promotes the blooming of local culture, the arts, education and sports. The budding sprout signifies the emphasis we place on conservation and environmental management. Caring for the environment will ensure that future generations can enjoy a cleaner and greener world. DGB Financial Group Homepage DGB Financial Group www.dgbfg.co.kr DGB Daegu Bank www.dgb.co.kr Hi Investment & Securities www.hi-ib.com DGB Life Insurance www.dgbfnlife.com DGB Capital www.dgbcap.co.kr DGB Asset Management www.dgbam.com DGB U-Pay www.dgbupay.com DGB Data System www.dgbds.co.kr DGB Credit Information www.dgbci.co.kr About This Report Overview First published in 2006 by Daegu Bank, this sustainability report has been issued as the group level since the founding of DGB Financial Group in 2011. This report is DGB Financial Group’s 14th sustainability report. DGB Financial Group is reporting issues that have a significant impact on stakeholders, and DGB Financial Group’s performance in the economic, social, and environment sector through the sustainability report published every year. This report is constituted based on major issues confirmed as a result of communicating with internal and external stakeholders, and has contained the various opinions of internal and external stakeholders, and shared the sustainable management vision pursued by the group, and has reflected the will to continuously strengthen the practical aspect. Reporting Period This report contains the major performance of DGB Financial Group from ABOUT THIS REPORT January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019, and for quantitative performance, we have enabled you to identify the progress by including more than three years of data. In case of some qualitative performance, it is reporting details up to the first half of 2020. Reporting Scope This report is reporting the sustainable management activities and performance of DGB Financial Group and 8 affiliates* including Hi Investment & Securities incorporated into DGB Financial Group in 2018. For quantitative performance having differing reporting scope, we have separately indicated the relevant scope. * DGB Daegu Bank, Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, DGB Asset Management, DGB U-PAY, DGB Data System, DGB Credit Information Reporting Guidelines and Assurance This report was prepared in accordance with the Core Option of GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) Standards, and has applied ISO26000, the Ten Principles of UNGC and UN SDGs. In order to ensure objectivity and reliability of the report, it has received third party assurance review from Lloyd Register according to the international assurance standard, AA1000AS(2008) standard. The results of this verification can be found on the Third Party Assurance within the report. Questions and Comments The report is published in both Korean and English, and you can view or download the report through DGB Financial Group homepage (www.dgbfg.co.kr). If you have inquiries or suggestions in relation to the report, please contact the following. DGB Financial Group, DGB Research Institute Address: Oksan-ro 111, Buk-gu, Daegu Metropolitan City Tel: +82-53-740-7971 / Fax: +82-53-740-7997 E-mail: sustainability@dgbfn.com Sustainability Performance Governance 66 Environment 70 Society 72 2019 -2020 DGB Financial Group Special Page _ Climate-related Financial 82 Disclosures (TCFD) Sustainability Report Special Page _ UNEP FI Principles for Responsible 84 Banking (PRB) Contents Management's Discussion & Analysis Diagnosis and Analysis of 87 Financial Management Performance Diagnosis and Analysis of 92 Non-Financial Management Performance CEO Message 02 Independent Auditors’ Report Independent Auditors’ Report 104 DGB Financial Group Profile Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 106 DGB Financial Group Overview 04 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive 107 Affiliates 06 Income 2019 DGB Financial Group 14 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 109 Sustainable Management Highlights Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 113 Focus Areas Trustworthy Finance for Customers 18 Appendix Transparent DGB, All-Right Finance 28 Third-Party Assurance Statement 208 Future Finance Creating Value 34 Third-Party Verification Statement of 210 Sustainable Responsible Finance 42 Greenhouse Gas Emission DGB Financial Group’s Response to 48 GRI Content Index 211 COVID-19 Crisis TCFD/CDP Index 213 PRB Index 213 Sustainability Overview UNGC Index 214 Sustainable Management Strategy 54 Sustainability Management Initiatives 214 Special Page _ DGB's Commitment to UN SDGs 56 Stakeholder Engagement 58 Sustainability Expert Meeting 60 Materiality Analysis Process and Results 62 CEO MESSAGE Kim Tae-oh Chairman, DGB Financial Group 02 2019-2020 Sustainability Report First, in order to establish an exemplary and transparent governance structure and management succession system, we will strengthen the independence and specialties of the Thank you, DGB Financial Group stakeholders, board of directors and proceed with core talent fostering for your steadfast interest and support. programs. Especially in case of Daegu Bank, the program to foster the next bank president have been adopted for the first time in the Korean financial industry, and the next Last year, DGB Financial Group achieved high asset growth bank president will be appointed through this program in with significant performances in various areas, thanks 2020. DGB Financial Group seeks to strengthen its ESG (Ento the continued support from stakeholders despite of vironmental, Social, and Governance) management base adverse internal and external environments such as low through establishing these management succession progrowth, low interest rates and the U.S.-China trade dispute. cesses and improving governance structure. In order to establish the Group as a Digital Global Banking Second, we will also step up efforts to enter a larger market Group, we have introduced new mobile apps, ‘IM Bank’ beyond being a financial institution representing a region. and ‘IM Shop’ so that we can provide more convenient and Entering year 2020, Cambodia DGB Specialized Bank, an diverse services to our customers, and we have sought to overseas affiliate of DGB Daegu Bank, achieved the result of diversify our customer contact points through opening obtaining preliminary approval for converting to a commer‘DIGNITY’ hybrid branch(Branch with Branch) and digital cial bank. We aim to expand our global network through branches. Also, we established a new sales organization these efforts to expand our overseas market base and to called PRM (Professional Relationship Management) folocalize our operations. cused on expanding new markets, including the Seoul metropolitan area. In the global business, we endeavored Third, in order to actively respond to the changing trend of to strengthen our business base as a comprehensive filow interest rates and the un-tact (contactless service) era, nancial group by securing a bridgehead for establishing we will diversify our group portfolio by actively fostering the ASEAN financial belt linking China, Vietnam and Laos non-banking affiliates, while strengthening the group's synthrough establishing local affiliates of MFI (Microfinance ergistic operations such as expanding investment banking Institution) in Myanmar and Cambodia. (IB) and wealth management (WM) operations utilizing the advantage of the comprehensive financial group. In addition, we actively promoted ethical management by systematically operating an anti-corruption management Fourth, we will further strengthen warm and inclusive fisystem under the slogan “ALL-Right DGB” to strengthen nance that creates social value through active financial the foundation of the group's sustainable growth. To resupport and diverse social contribution activities for local spond to the global agenda of climate change, we worked communities and customers who are under very difficult hard to actively accept the proposal of the Task Force on circumstances due to the spread of COVID-19, social disClimate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and actively tancing, economic recession and export decrease, etc. participated in sustainability initiatives such as the UN's DGB Financial Group has been committed to the UN Global Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) and Women's Compact (UNGC) core principles of human rights, labor, enEmpowerment Principles (WEPs). vironment and anti-corruption. We will continue to take on With Act Now, Beyond DGB as our management goal in new challenges through more genuine communication and 2020, we will make the following efforts to create sustainstakeholder-based win-win management. able value for the group: Stakeholders, thank you once again for your constant trust and support. We will do our best to open a new future together with you. Thank you. DGB Financial Group 03 DGB Financial Group Profile DGB Financial Group Overview DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group has solidly grown into a comprehensive financial group with 8 subsidiaries since 2011 : Overview DGB Daegu Bank, Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, DGB Asset Management, DGB U-PAY, DGB Data System, DGB Credit Information based on the trust of our customers and shareholders. We will take a leap to become a global comprehensive financial group reaching out into the world beyond Korea through maximizing synergy between subsidiaries, leading digital finance, and unifying the group. DGB Financial Group History Oct. 1967 Oct. 2010 Apr. 2012 Oct. 2016 DGB Daegu Bank Kardnet founded as Establishment of DGB Incorporation of founded as Korea’s first subsidiary Data System subsidiary DGB Asset regional bank Management May 2011 Mar. 2013 Jul. 2000 DGB Financial Group M&A between Kardnhet Oct. 2018 DGB Credit Information established and –UPayment Acquisition of established Hi Investment & Securities Jan. 2012 Jan. 2015 Incorporation of Incorporation of subsidiary DGB Capital subsidiary DGB Life Insurance Overseas Network of DGB Financial Group China DGB Daegu Bank Shanghai branch (China) Myanmar Laos DGB Daegu Bank Myanmar DGB Microfinance DGB Capital Laos (DGB Lao Leasing Co., Ltd.) Myanmar Co., Ltd DGB Capital Myanmar Representative Office Vietnam Cambodia DGB Daegu Bank Ho Chi Minh office (Vietnam) DGB Daegu Bank Cambodia (DGB Specialized Bank) DGB Capital Cambodia Cam Capital Plc. * As of June 2020. Business Performance of DGB Financial Group No. of Customers1) / No. of Domestic & Overseas No. of Employees No. of Online Customers1) Branches / No. of Countries 4,813 people 4.33 million people / 293 branches / 2.39 million people 5 countries Total Asset Sales Credit Rating 72,397.7 billion Won 4,968.8 billion Won AAA Domestic (Korea Ratings Corporation) Operating Profit Current Net Income A2Overseas (Moody’s, DGB Daegu Bank) 432.2 billion Won 327.4 billion Won 1) Total of DGB Daegu Bank and Hi Investment & Securities performance 04 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group is adopting communication, accomplishment, and human resource as its 3 major manVision and Strategy agement policy under the management vision, “Best Partner Building the Future Together”. In 2020, the group intends to focus on challenges and adventure in order to create a new foundation for earnings. We are strengthening the foundation as a reliable partner by establishing an exemplary governance structure. We will work hard so our challenge in digital finance and in the global market reaps successful outcomes. Vision The Best Partner, Working on the Future Together. DGB Financial Group is preparing to set sail toward another 50 new years. Management philosophy Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with Community Management vision Best Partner Building the Future Together DGB Get Best Management policy DGB be One Growth Engine Trusted Partners The Best Communication Accomplishment Human Resource Establishing responsible Synergy enhancement Fostering financial experts management among subsidiaries Raise labor productivity ONE DGB culture settlement Digital finance Level up Innovative human resource Expansion of Communication network Systemic risk management management Core Values DGB CORE VALUE Service Passion Honesty A warm company that promotes A dynamic company that creates A company that builds solid trust a culture of communication among new values based on creative thinking based on honesty and ethics and serves employees and serves customers and ownership as a model for customers, communities and the local community and even finance 2020 Management Strategy ACT Now, Beyond DGB Speedy decision-making and execution for a better future New revenue base Core competitiveness Management efficiency Trusted finance 〮 Global business 〮 Core business capacity 〮 Radical reform 〮 Precision management 〮 Digital operation 〮 Business competitiveness 〮 Synergy 〮 Responsible management 〮 Develop new business 〮 Risk management 〮 TOP ace innovation 〮 Group integration DGB Financial Group 05 DGB Financial Group Profile Affiliates Global Exemplary Bank Practicing Sustainable Management Under the management philosophy of “Sharing dreams and prosperity with community,” DGB Daegu Bank has provided local residents with the best financial services for over 50 years, and has served as a foundation for regional development. Daegu Bank integrated economic profitability, environmental soundness, and social responsibility to pursue long term growth in order to establish itself as the ‘World’s DGB Daegu Bank aims to Top 100 Bank aiming to become a centennial Bank’. be reborn as a world We will secure management transparency through precision management, overcome limitations in class exemplary bank growth through future management, and actively practice communicative management aiming to create a first class corporate culture. contributing to regional development. Date of establishment October 7, 1967 Address 2310, Dalgubeoldae-ro, Suseong-gu, Daegu Phone number 1566-5050, 1588-5050 Homepage www.dgb.co.kr Main business Deposits, loans, foreign exchange, financial products (investment funds, bancassurance), asset management service, online banking Number of Branches 2019 245 2018* 249 Total Asset(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 634,367 2018 590,298* Current Net Income(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 2,823 2018 2,348 * Data reported in previous year corrected 2020 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Strengthen internal stability: Beyond Extraordinary to Soaring KEY PROFIT INNOVATION Secure new growth engine Profit oriented, Balanced growth Strengthen innovative competitiveness · Vitalize sales in Seoul · Profit creation, reinforced metropolitan area · Respond to digital innovation in internal stability · Customer-centered future · Advance profit structure marketing system · Internalize core value · Maximize management · Enhance competitiveness to · Enhance brand value efficiency global bank level 06 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Trusted Investment Partner, Hi Investment & Securities Hi Investment & Securities began as Jeil Investment Trust and grew as a trusted financial Investment company, and was incorporated as a member of DGB Financial Group in October 2018. Based on a foundation of solid growth in the investment banking sector, we have been continuously improving our performance. In addition, with 31 years of experience in the asset management sector, we are working hard to provide our customers with the best investment solutions. Hi Investment & Securities Hi Investment & Securities has seen the opportunity for a new leap forward, opening the era of 1 trillion will provide competitive won in shareholder’s equity. Based on replenished capital, we will actively respond to changes in exterinvestment solution and nal environment and lay a firm business foundation to take a leap to become the TOP 10 company in the financial investment industry. fulfill social responsibility. Date of establishment October 28, 1989 Address Seoul | 61, Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul (Yeouido-dong, Hi Investment & Securities building) Busan | 121, Oncheonjang-ro, Dongrae-gu, Busan (Oncheon-dong) Phone number 1588-7171 Homepage www.hi-ib.com Main business Investment trading, Investment brokerage service, discretionary investment, investment advisory service, trust business (monetary) Number of Branches1) 2019 27 2018 29 Total Asset(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 77,233 2018 60,880 Current Net Income(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 849 2018 434 2) 1) Corporate business department (1 branch, Seoul) not included 2) Data reported in previous year corrected 2020 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Expand ground work to take a leap toward becoming a TOP 10 financial investment company Accelerating WM Stabilizing PF Strengthen IB business expansion business change business revenue Trading business · Branch restructuring & · Acquire lead manager · ECM Business expansion · Sales & Trading operation innovation mandate · Corporate bond and liquidation base expansion · Revenue · synergy expansion business expansion · Vitalization diversification · Management of · Actively promote new business of product · Expand digitalization systemic risk in parallel · Create synergy with subsidiaries management DGB Financial Group 07 A Trusted Life Partner, DGB Life Insurance DGB Life Insurance has developed and grown with the Korean life insurance industry over the past 30 years. Since we joined DGB Financial Group in January 2015, we have continued to grow steadily. In the spirit of the group’s management philosophy of “Sharing dreams and prosperity with community,” all employees practice ‘FC-ship’ which is a unique action plan of DGB Life Insurance. We offer the true value DGB Life Insurance of insurance and customer care, and through sharing and innovation, we are striving to become a trustcontributes to the local ed Life Partner. community through various social contribution Date of establishment February 22, 1988 activities for the socially Address Seoul | 125, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul (Da-dong 85) vulnerable group to fulfill Busan | 14, 361 beon-gil, Jungangdae-ro, Dong-gu, Busan city (Sujeong-dong) our philosophy of sharing. Phone number 1588-4770 Homepage www.dgbfnlife.com Main business Insurance product sales (guarantee, endowment, pension, variable), asset management services, insurance policy loans, etc. Number of Branches 2019 5 2018* 38 Total Asset(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 62,921 2018 61,480 Current Net Income(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 89 2018 -24 * Data reported in previous year corrected 2020 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Establish sustainable profit base by selection and concentration Select and Developing Establish Maximize concentrate future growth stable revenue organizational focusing on engine base capacity values 08 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB Capital Growing Together with Customers DGB Capital joined DGB Financial Group family in January 2012 as a specialized credit finance business. We are stepping up to become a reliable financial company that customers can trust. Through secure financing and thorough risk management, we pursue growth that balances profitability and stability. By creating a strong synergy with our affiliates, we provide top-notch credit finance serDGB Capital is leading the vices that match the diverse needs of our customers. way to the future based on the love and trust of our customers. Date of establishment September 14, 2009 Address 8th fl, 125, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul (Da-dong 85) Phone number 1566-0050 Homepage www.dgbcap.co.kr Business scope Facilities lease, installment finance, new technology project finance, rental business Business sectors Machinery finance, automobile finance, personal finance, corporate finance, investment finance, rental, etc. Number of Branches 2019 12 2018 12 Total Asset(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 31,052 2018 27,621 Current Net Income(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 276 2018 224 2020 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Sustainable and Profitable Growth Business Innovation of Digital & Global competitiveness focus corporate culture · Portfolio weight strategy · Secure competitiveness of · Improve work · Digital: cement internal base sales channel environment and process within D.T. · Develop/expand new market/ · Expand consensus, · Global: create new source of new product motivation overseas revenue · Strengthen risk management capacity DGB Financial Group 09 The Company that Works Together with the Customer, DGB Asset Management The asset management market seeks management efficiency, stable cash flow and management income, using various data for efficient investment and grafting scientific technology, and expanding investment to various assets from existing traditional assets in response to market changes. DGB Asset We will become Management will come one step closer as a partner to our customers who have supported and encouran asset management aged us up to now, by actively responding to such market change and preparing investment products company that earns with market competitiveness. customers’ trust based All executives and staff of DGB Asset Management will work hard to further cement your trust and affection by exercising all capacities with high sense of ethics in every moment. on the ethical awareness and the highest level of competence. Date of establishment March 3, 2000 Address 14th fl, Kyobo Securities building, 97, Uisadangdae-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul Phone number 02-707-4200 Homepage www.dgbam.com Main business Collective investment, discretionary investment, investment advisory service Total Asset(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 394 2018 390 Current Net Income(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 37 2018 64 2020 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Securing Growth Engines for Superior General Asset Management Companies ① Crisis response ② Future response ③ Strengthen synergy Expand products with superior · Product portfolio diversification competitiveness · Diversification of customers and ·E  xpand synergy in · Enlargement and stabilization expansion of sales channel discretionary investment of products · Secure competitiveness for ·R  etail synergy · Secure new corporate alternative investment division customers 10 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Anytime, Anywhere, Be With Onepass, DGB U-pay DGB U-pay has created electronic payment system for everyday life. We provide safe and convenient service for micro payments, access control and security based on transportation infrastructure such as buses, urban railway and taxis. In addition, we donate unused traffic card advance payment to the local community together with Daegu city and Daegu city community chest, continuously contributing to enDGB U-pay will strive hancing customers’ welfare and social sharing. for the convenient use DGB U-pay will keep providing convenient services to all customers using our electronic payment sysof all citizens and become tem, and as a company fulfilling social responsibilities, we will do our best to bring more joy to local communities. a company that fulfills social responsibilities. Date of establishment December 27, 1999 Address 9th fl, Dongil building, 2503, Dalgubeoldae-ro, Suseong-gu, Daegu (Beomeo-dong) Phone number 080-427-2342 Homepage www.dgbupay.com Main business Issuance and management of prepaid electronic payment service, electronic payment settlement agency services Total Asset(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 427 2018 364 Current Net Income(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 12 2018 2 2020 Objectives and Implementation Strategies DGB U-Pay Turning Point Strengthen balanced Create new revenue Enhance efficiency Realize core value growth and sales · Maximize overseas · Vitalize taxi card market payment · Improve HR evaluation payment business revenue · Establish platform system · Stabilize public · Maximize cargo vehicle business base · Achieve organizational transportation business payment business operation efficiency base revenue DGB Financial Group 11 Smart Work, Smart IT! DGB Data System DGB Data System is a company specializing in IT established for the purpose of providing quality IT services to customers such as information system development, IT integration operation, IT consulting, IT training, etc. Through dedication and creativity, DGB Data System promises to reward our customers by developing DGB Data System newly the best IT service based on IT specialized personnel and various development experiences, and we creates the dream and promise to become a company contributing to the development of the regional IT industry. future value of customers through IT which leads the 4th industrial age. Date of establishment April 9, 2012 Address 70, Palgong-ro 53 gil, Dong-gu, Daegu (Bongmu-dong) Phone number 053-718-1400 Homepage www.dgbds.co.kr Main business Development, operation & maintenance of information system, IT consulting Total Asset(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 119 2018 106 Current Net Income(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 8 2018 4 2020 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Take a new leap for creation of future value! Strengthen digital Expand internal and Strengthen competitiveness new business External business · Expand business scope · Expand digital new business within group · Business Competitiveness · Strengthen new business/ · Expand and stabilize · Organizational R&D organization external business competitiveness · Expand new technology · Group’s global strategic · HR competitiveness capacity response 12 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Building a Credit Society with a Winning Partner, DGB Credit Information DGB Credit Information specializes in the collection of non-performing loans, including financial institution bonds, commercial bonds, and civil debts. We also conduct credit investigations and provide civil affairs agency. Under DGB Financial Group’s management philosophy of “Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with ComDGB Credit Information munity,” everyone at DGB Credit Information is doing his best for the customer’s fortunes and future, will strive to become and for the establishment of a credit society. We promise to provide the best service, to put customer a company trusted by satisfaction and fairness first, and to take the lead in the development of the local community. customers and the market through heart-warming Date of establishment July 5, 2000 financial activities that leads the way in Address 4th fl, 183, Dalseo-ro, Seo-gu, Daegu (Bisan-dong) establishing a credit Phone number 053-573-7700 society. Homepage www.dgbci.co.kr Main business Credit collection business, credit investigation business, lease inspection business, civil affairs agency business Total Asset(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 51 2018 50 Current Net Income(unit: 100 mil. Won) 2019 1.6 2018 2 2020 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Selection and concentration based on realizability Strengthen new revenue & Expand synergy & Achieve Enhance efficiency Business capacity appropriate growth · Organization restructuring (establish external business · Establish notice system · Promote site survey business dept., new business dept.) on credit collection scope expansion · Strengthen external business entrust order · Explore new business through and expand sales · Improve outsourcing process industry benchmarking · Realize precision management · Enhance work efficiency in · Expand synergy with and credit collection management division subsidiaries · Promote realizable corporate culture DGB Financial Group 13 DGB Financial Group Profile 2019 DGB Financial Group Sustainable Management Highlights Highlight 1. Fintech Startup Support Center ‘DGB FIUM LAB’ opened DGB Financial Group remodeled the entire fifth floor of DGB Daegu Bank's second head office into a space for creating a startup ecosystem and selected startups among fintech small hidden champions. ‘DGB FIUM LAB’ is a prefix of ‘F’ from Fintech and ‘I’ from Innovation meaning ‘blossoming of Fintech Innovation’ to lead digital finance in the fourth industrial era. Through DGB FIUM LAB, DGB Financial Group will faithfully play the role of a cornerstone that contributes to the growth of domestic fintech firms as unicorns by supporting start-ups with work spaces, consulting, acceleration programs, etc. Highlight 3. Expanding Southeast Asian markets based on the glocalization strategy DGB Capital is steadily strengthening its foundation in the Indochina Peninsula by acquiring Cambodia's MFI in 2020 following the establishment of Laos' DGB Lao Leasing (DLLC) in 2016, and opening a representative office to enter Myanmar's NBFI(Lease Finance). DGB Daegu Bank has also been strengthening its competitiveness by creating synergy with DGB Capital such as obtaining preliminary approval to convert a Cambodian special bank acquired in 2018 to a commercial bank in April 2020, establishing Highlight 5. Highlight 2. MFI in Myanmar in 2019, and expanding its netDGB Data System wins awards work in Vietnam. for Job Creation and Discrimination Mobile Channel Innovation, DGB Financial Group is planning to create stable Improvement and Best Practices launching IMBank and IM# app overseas revenues and to secure future growth for a restructuring of NCS-based HR DGB Daegu Bank has implemented mobile System engines by leading the global market through channel innovation to build a powerful One strengthened management independence of DGB Data System was recognized of its efApp and living finance platform for establishing local branches and digital finance specialized forts to create stable jobs for young people, a base for digital transformation. IM Bank, IM for local customers. improve cases of in-company inequality, Shop, and Mobile Web Banking were launched and introduce a human resource utilizain September 2019 after eight months of detion system. DGB Data System won the velopment to minimize excessive installation Minister of Employment and Labor Award of apps or programs and to connect channels for achievements such as systemizing the organically to provide user-centered services. curriculum using NCS and adopting blind DGB Financial Group will continue to expand recruitment and won the Daegu Metropolits partnership business based on customer itan City Mayor Award for contribution to needs and increase utilization of all affiliates to promoting youth employment in Daegu provide DGB's differentiated services based on and Gyeongbuk Province. In addition, the the above digital financial platform. company was selected for an award as an excellent workplace without discrimination, with the efforts to hire full-time young workHighlight 4. ers, reduce temporary positions contracted without fixed term, and convert dispatched DGB Asset Management converting to comprehensive Asset Management Company employees to regular employee. DGB Data DGB Asset Management received approval to switch to a comprehensive asset management comSystem, as the representative financial IT pany from the Financial Services Commission by meeting requirements for stable management company in the region, plans to continue to performance and track records in financial investment. By converting to a comprehensive asset manexert efforts to recruit talent in a fair manner agement company, DGB Asset Management can now launch new products in alternative investment and utilize human resources in a highly effiareas, including real estate, mixed and special assets, in addition to existing traditional assets such as cient manner to support happy workplaces stocks and bonds. DGB Financial Group expects to enhance the competitiveness of the comprehenfor both the community and its employees. sive financial group through revenue diversification and various synergetic effects due to the conversion to a comprehensive asset management company. 14 2019-2020 Sustainability Report promote positive awareness on the virtuHighlight 9. ous cycle of social responsibility activities Selected as the leading company and social economic enterprises through for UNGC (UN Global Compact) 'The Beginning 2020' and support the valResponsible Finance (LEAD member) ue realization of social economy startups. DGB Financial Group was selected as the only Responsible Finance Leading Company in the financial sector at the 2019 UNGC Korea LeadHighlight 8. ers Summit. The summit is a conference that Signed WEPs(Women’s Empowerment deals with corporate sustainability issues in Principles) the international community based on the ten Highlight 6. DGB Financial Group signed the Women's major principles such as human rights, labor, Empowerment Principles (WEPs) in 2019 environment and anti-corruption, and the UN DGB Social Contribution Foundation wins and expressed its willingness to implement Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). DGB the '14th Kyunghyang Financial Education the principles to promote gender equality Financial Group has been a leading player in Awards' and women's competency in its managesustainable management in the financial secThe DGB Social Contribution Foundation won ment strategy and other aspects. The princitor, including its participation as a signatory to the Financial Services Commission Chairman ple of strengthening women's competency the Principles for Responsible Banking, which Award, the highest award in the 'Kyunghyang is an initiative jointly launched in 2010 by was established in September 2019 under the Financial Education Awards' group category, in the United Nations Global Compact (UNleadership of the United Nations Environment recognition of its contribution to developing varNGC) and the United Nations Women's OrProgram Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), and ious financial education programs and providing ganization (UN Women), which consists of the selection this time as the leading financial hands-on experience education for the financialseven principles calling for gender equality company was the result of recognition on such ly vulnerable. DGB Financial Group continues and strengthening of women's competitiveefforts. to endeavor to make it easier for young people ness in workplaces and communities. DGB as well as financially vulnerable people such as Financial Group plans to actively participate seniors, multi-cultural families and the disabled in the Target Gender Equity (TGE) program, to access finance through customized financial which provides detailed action plans for the education programs. In the future, we plan to implementation of the principle of strengthprovide comprehensive financial education in ening women's competency in 2020 and connection with not only banking but also digistrive to strengthen women's leadership in tal payments, securities, and insurance. the organization. Highlight 10. Winning of the Global Sustainable Management Index (DJSI) for 11 consecutive years DGB Financial Group was the only regional financial holding company included in Highlight 7. the Asia-Pacific Index and the Korea Index of Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), ‘The Beginning 2020’ event held to select developed and evaluated by the U.S. S&P social economic enterprises Dow Jones Index and Robeco Sam in SwitDGB Financial Group, along with Daegu Metzerland for 10 and 11 consecutive years, reropolitan City and the Korea Social Enterprise spectively. The Asia-Pacific Index is selected Promotion Agency, held the crowdfunding among the top 600 companies in Asia, and competition ‘The Beginning 2020’ for social ecothe Korea Index is selected from among the nomic startups. In this competition, which has top 200 companies in Korea, with 30 combeen held for the second time since last year, Art panies included in DJSI Asia-Pacific and 40 & Hug Co., Ltd. (supporting youth in crisis) and companies in DJSI Korea. DGB Financial Dawn Meal Table (preventing the problem of Group will continue to strengthen its susthe elderly living alone from dying alone) were tainable management and take a leap as selected as winners from screening regional a digital global banking group that can acstartups. DGB Financial Group will continue to company the future of its customers. DGB Financial Group 15 PART 2 FOCUS AREAS DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 16 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 18 27 / Trustworthy Finance for Customers 28 33 / Transparent DGB, All -Right Finance 34 41 / Future Finance Creating Value 42 47 / Sustainable & Responsible Finance 48 51 / DGB Financial Group’s Response to COVID-19 Crisis DGB Financial Group 17 FOCUS AREAS 01 01 Trustworthy Finance for Customers > Importance Since the satisfaction and trust of cusCase of customer's personal tomers have a direct impact on corporate information leakage performance, they are the most important factors for the sustainable management of DGB Financial Group. Information security Zero issues have recently increased due to the 2019 Customer Satisfaction Index expansion of contactless services going digital. Therefore, DGB Financial Group considers supporting rational and fair > Key Performance Indicator •N o case of customer's personal informa98.3% financial transactions as a top priority by tion leakage thinking from the customers’ perspective •A chieved customer satisfaction index of and providing sufficient information to 98.3% in 2019 customers. > Future Plan > Management Method DGB Financial Group will continue to DGB Financial Group is realizing customstrengthen consumer protection and IT er satisfaction management according security programs for safe financial transto the “Financial Consumer Protection actions as security risks increase and the Guideline” so that consumer’s rights can importance of information protection be protected and their complaints and becomes more important. In the future, damages are minimized. We protect cuswe will continue to operate channels that tomer information and actively respond to communicate with customers by listening customer needs by establishing financial to the voices of customers, and we will consumer protection system and integracontinue to develop differentiated service tion system. Furthermore, we continue that meets the needs of customers by reto strengthen our customer satisfying inforcing internal capacity and improving activities and communication activities in accessibility to financial services. By doing order to respond to diversified financial so, we will work hard to achieve a customconsumer needs. Especially, as digitalizaer satisfaction score more than 98 points tion of financial transactions accelerates, in 2020. we continue to improve the accessibility to financial services for our customers who may be neglected. 18 18 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB Financial Group is exerting various efforts to prevent unnecessary damage to financial consumers by setting up financial consumer protection system and providing financial information. In addition, recognizing that information Trustworthy Finance for security management is one of the most important factors for securing the trust of our customers, the information security system is Customers continuously strengthened at the group level. Transparent DGB, employees, designating a counter for consumer All-Right Finance protection, organizing a Consumer Protection Day each month, and initiating support groups for civil complaints. These are some of the practical ways in Protection of Consumers’ Rights and which we protect our consumers. Interests Other affiliates of DGB Financial Group also have set up a dedicated organization and have strengthFuture Finance Creating Financial Consumer Protection System ened management to respond to enhanced conValue Internally, DGB Daegu Bank protects consumers sumer protection system and to prevent accidents through a stage-by-stage consumer protection syssuch as incomplete sales, etc. tem for each financial product. Our system protects consumers by following rules and regulations from Hi Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. has established the product development stage to sales. the Consumer Protection department under the supervision of a compliance officer. The Chief ConAlso, to rectify practices seen as illogical or cumbersumer Officer (CCO) establishes the procedures some, we are implementing an improvement sysSustainable & and standards necessary for financial consumer tem called VOC (Voice of the Customer). Out other protection and oversees the management and suefforts include operating the 'Chamsori Advisory pervision of systems for each stage of the financial Panel,' a group made up of our customers, holding Responsible Finance product sales, and financial consumer education, internal campaigns and soliciting ideas from our etc. Furthermore, we are operating the Financial Consumer Protection Council to be able to adjust the issue of financial consumer protection from a company-wide perspective through consultation DGB Daegu Bank's Consumer Protection Structure Financial Consumer Protection Customer DGB Financial Group’s Council Response to COVID-19 Crisis Branches and Head Office (Consumer protection PIC) Supreme decision-making body for Financial Consumer Consumer Protection Protection Department Chaired by Chief Consumer Officer (CCO) Chief Consumer Officer /Executive Vice President (CCO) President DGB Financial Group 19 between related departments. The results its top priority management task, and designatderived through the council are to be reported ed the consumer protection department as the to the board of directors, and we are doing our dedicated organization for financial consumer best so that improvements are reported to the protection, so that the stages from the develrelevant departments to ensure that the comopment of insurance product to payment of pany's financial consumer protection system insurance shall proceed under prior discussion works well. with the consumer protection department. Moreover, in order to immediately respond to DGB Capital has been strengthening its Finanthe complaints of financial consumers, we will cial Consumer Protection system by forming a introduce and operate the 'financial consumer Consumer Protection system department as a protection Amber system.' We will systematicaldedicated organization and appointing the Chief ly prepare the company regulations within DGB Consumer Officer (CCO) of Financial Consumer Life Insurance in accordance with the intent of Protection. It is striving to operate systems and the Financial Consumer Protection Act, which is procedures to prevent accidents by operating scheduled to be enforced in 2021. the Financial Consumer Protection Council. Starting in 2020, DGB Life Insurance appointed a 'Chief Consumer Officer (CCO)' at its executive level (executive managing director), and strengthened financial consumer protection as DGB Daegu Bank’s Procedure for Protection of Consumers’ Rights and Interests STEP 1. ❶ Prior consultation procedure Product · When establishing new product development and marketing policies, product development development internal regulations on financial consumer production and checklist related process to product and service development are adopted and inspected. · Prior consultation with the department dedicated to comprehensive supervision of financial consumer protection · If it is deemed that there is a problem with the financial consumer protection, the relevant department should request stopping the release and marketing of a new product and to submit an improvement plan, etc. ❷ Reflecting opinions and complaints from the financial consumer · Reflect consumers' complaints and suggestions when planning product development (complaint cases, VOC suggestions, happy calls, DGB Chamsori Advisory Group, etc.) STEP 2. ❶ The five principles that sales personnel should comply with are adopted in Product sales internal regulations on financial consumer protection in product sales process (Incomplete 1) Principle of good faith; 2) principle of banning abuse of authority; sales prevented) 3) principle of conformity; 4) principle of the obligation to explain important contents; 5) principle of information protection ❷ Separate sales rules necessary in product recommendation to vulnerable financial consumers, such as senior citizens, are adopted ❸ Periodical inspection is implemented on the management of qualified sales staff list and effectiveness of sales qualification of such staff STEP 3. ❶ Check the accuracy of the financial consumer’s understanding of purchase Follow-up details and financial products, and whether the sales process is observed by the management sales personnel. process · Operation of systems such as happy calls, self-mystery shopping, on-site inspection of internal control, and various education system to prevent a recurrence, etc. 20 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Financial Consumer Protection Idea Contest from Customers DGB Daegu Bank held an idea contest in which all customers can express their opinions on Bank business practices, points to improve on, telecommunication financial fraud (voice phishing) prevention Trustworthy Finance for measures, and other areas on which improvements are deemed necessary from the perspective of customers. Selecting Customers ideas from 50 customers, along with the 'Barrier Free Zone Operation Proposal for branches in regions with a high population of the elderly and the disabled', which won first place from evaluating its improvement effect and practicality. The DGB Financial Group has set up work which won first place will be used as a dedicated organization a differentiated method of financial conTransparent DGB, and has strengthened management sumer activities to support social finance. to respond to enhanced All-Right Finance consumer protection system and to prevent accidents such as incomplete sales, etc. Future Finance Creating Integrated System for Consumer Financial Consumer Protection Protection Activities Value DGB Daegu Bank has established and is running Consumer Protection ABC News Letter an 'Integrated System for Consumer Protection' to protect consumers’ rights and interests. It DGB Daegu Bank publishes a monthly magazine enables one-stop handling of consumer protecwith information for financial consumers called tion-related issues by reflecting consumer voices Consumer Protection ABC News Letter. It proSustainable & in the development of financial products, envides updates on finance-related law, financial suring that sufficient explanation is given in the tips, and cases of financial crimes and ways to prevent them. Through each branch, we are asResponsible Finance sales process, and providing follow-up customer service. Through alerts, the system prevents sitsisting in preventing financial loss by providing uations that could lead to civil complaints, which knowledge suited to all groups, including youth, enables us to make sure our customers are satisstudents, and adults. fied. Strengthened Prevention of DGB Capital has established a financial conTelecommunication Financial Fraud DGB Financial Group’s sumer protection system and has prepared and DGB Daegu Bank is exerting various efforts to operated a process that reflects the voices of prevent Voice Phishing. We have also implementcustomers from the product planning developed the distribution of voice phishing information Response to COVID-19 Crisis ment stage. From the stage of the financial prodat shopping events for traditional markets during uct development, we have prepared the product the national holidays and sending out SMS text development rules through prior discussion messages to customers to prevent customers' between the development department and the damage. We have also launched a campaign to consumer protection department, and at the raise awareness by installing voice phishing presales stage, we operate with a system that can vention advertisements on the Daegu City urban use the sales rules to protect consumers from railway line 3 with the help of the Daegu Metroany financial damage. politan Police Agency. Furthermore, in order to encourage active participation of internal staff, we continue to implement steady updates of the phone fraud business manual, periodic distribution of accident prevention and damage cases to DGB Financial Group 21 branches, and rewarding excellent staff who prevented phone fraud damage. Hi Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. is conducting monitoring activities on abnormal transactions for safe financial transactions of customers, and during 2019, the company was able to detect 15 fraudulent transactions in advance and prevent Detected fraudulent damage to customers worth a total of 77,164,341 won. transactions in advance at Hi investment & Information Provided for Financial Consumers’ Securities Co., Ltd. in 2019 Rights and Interests Protection DGB Capital informs customers of the fact that they can re15 cases quest the right to demand a rate cut and the withdrawal of the lending contract through providing guidance with website Prevented financial loss on posting and product manual, and regularly makes efforts abnormal transaction to vitalize by on-site inspection and modifying by-laws. As at Hi investment & Securities a method of scamming such as voice phishing and farming Co., Ltd. in 2019 evolve intelligently and damage continues to occur, we provide guidance to customers on the actual cases, damage About 77 prevention and response methods, precautions for personal information protection in everyday life through our homepmillion Won age, and we regularly distribute voice phishing warning notifications through each media to prevent fraud under the guise of lending. Information Security and Personal Information Protection DGB Financial Group Information Security Governance DGB Financial Group is strengthening the stability of the security system by forming a discussion body composed of the head of the department of information security to prevent information security risks across the group, and to share and discuss information security status and solutions, and by establishing a strategy that measures and responds to internal and external security-related risk factors. Security Management & Operation System for Computer Security System Fault Secure financial Security Backup & Cyber Countercomputer Measures Recovery Security measures network safety 1 Fault Countermeasures 2 Security Measures 3 Backup & Recovery 4 Cyber Security · Establish 2 stage emergency · Physical security · Strengthen security setting of · Real time automatic backup system measures security system backup system · Establish a dualized system · Managerial security · Prevent computer system · Remote Business for the entire system measures disturbance Recovery System (BRS) · Operate fault management · Technical security · Prevent customer information · Automatic switchover to system measures leakage and damage backup system 22 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Information Security System and Strategy DGB Daegu Bank clearly defines the roles and responsibilities for information protection and is providing safe customer services through the continuous system and system improvement in preparation for any infringement or leakage of customer information and important internal information. In addition, we are constantly engaged in activities for immediately responding to the changes in the financial industry due to digital financial innovation and for supporting Trustworthy Finance for changes in digital innovation and reinforcing finanCustomers Information security system is periodically inspected cial security. for security management of computer resources. The information protection department performs Every month, information security inspection day is not only IT information protection affairs to prevent adopted to conduct self-inspection of information any electronic infringement but also plays the role of protection and provide information security traina control tower on all information protection affairs ings. Compliance to about customer information including tasks for managing customer information provision and use between affiliates is managed and such as personal information and credit information. supervised through a regular inspection. FurtherTransparent DGB, Through these, we have secured expertise, objectivmore, annual analysis and assessment are conductity, and independence of information security work. ed on vulnerabilities of the homepage and electronic All-Right Finance Furthermore, chief information protection officer finance infrastructure. And the ability to respond to and personal information protection officer are cyber-attacks is strengthened through phishing and appointed as an executive position, and all departsmishing training for executives and staff members, ment or branch heads are designated as personal information security cyber training, and annual traininformation protection officer, and one officer at 4th ing for dealing with infringement incidents, etc. or higher grade is designated as the staff in charge of personal information protection, to ensure complete Future Finance Creating protection of information at all departments and Value branch offices. DGB Financial Group’s Activities on Information Security and Personal Information Protection DGB Internal staff · Regular inspection on compliance with customer information protection related laws and internal regulations Daegu Bank management · Strengthening of education course such as the implementation of training related to systemic customer information management and protection, etc. Sustainable & · Minimizing authorization scope for viewing customer information (by department or branch, by task, by operator Responsible Finance or position), etc. Establishment of · User control on a portable storage device for PCs technical security · Regular search and deletion of personal information through the personal information search system · Mandatory encryption of documents stored in PCs · Strengthened authorization process when sending outgoing mail · Masking processed for personal information included in printouts · Checking personal information when sending fax, etc. DGB Financial Group’s IT system control · Control of access to the customer information database · Control of access to network through firewall system and intrusion protection system · External hacking and information leakage prevented by separation of intranet and Internet access network Response to COVID-19 Crisis · Regular inspection on vulnerable points of the system, etc. DGB Life Enhancement of · Customized education conducted on target groups comprised of information protection staff by department or Insurance executives and staff branch and non-participants to phishing & smishing response training, etc. members’ sense · Regular self-inspection and improvement for information leakage prevention, etc. of security Managerial protec· Regular inspection on compliance with personal (credit) information protection related laws and internal regulations. tion control · Regular inspection on the adequacy of authority for personal (credit) information query and destruction & separated storage · Strengthening of monitoring and justification process for excessive inquirer of personal (credit) information · Regulars inspection on fiduciary for personal (credit) information processing and system, etc. Technical protection · PC security solution operation for safe use of PCs (PC security, document encryption, personal information search control and deletion, security USB, screen capture prevention, mail authorization, etc.) · Information protection system operated for hacking prevention and network control (firewall/prevention system, network/server/DB access control, etc.) DGB Financial Group 23 Number of Processed VOC Cases in 2019 2,470 cases Improving Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction in 2019 DGB Financial Group recognizes customer satis(Satisfied customer) faction as a top business strategy and is striving to enhance it. By listening to to the voices of our customers, we are able to provide various services they 98.3 % want. We aim to implement customer satisfaction management through a diverse range of systems and initiatives. Communication with Customers DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel To better listen to our customers and improve our management process, DGB Daegu Bank has set up a customer group called DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel. They seek out and inform the company about practices and systems that are illogical, cumbersome or outdated from the customer’s point of view. Customer Communication Channel Customers on the Chamsori Advisory Panel express their opinions about new financial products in development, suggest ideas for new services and help • DGB Chamsori Advisory Group DGB monitor our branches, among other roles. Daegu • Customers satisfaction survey Bank • Consumer protection report (‘Warm companion’) • CEO forum Voice of Customers (VOC) Processing Status (Unit: Case) • Honorary branch head meeting • Excellent SME management invitational meeting Classification 2017 2018 2019 Complaint 76 62 88 Issue 318 317 258 Hi • Loyal customers meeting (twice per year) Complement 748 818 698 Investment • Retirement pension subscription customers & Securities meeting (twice on average per month) Other 689 769 1,426 Co., Ltd. • Homepage HTS customized screen Total 1,831 1,966 2,470 • Voice of customers (VOC) DGB Life Insurance • Operation of Kakao channel • Operation of mobile customer desk DGB • VIP customer invitation event Capital • Electronic civil complaint counter 24 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction Trainings On-site Training Branch staff receive 1 on 1 coaching training tailored to improve each branch’s 46 sessions weak points (46 branches, 411 staff members completed the course) Group training Training to improve staff mindset and call responses to increase internal and 19 sessions external customers’ satisfaction (547 staff members completed the course of which group training was conducted 6 times at head office departments, Trustworthy Finance for 6 times at CS manager training, 2 times at regional headquarters, etc.) New Employee Training on the customer service manual, role-playing, workplace etiquette, Training 9 sessions situational response drills, etc. was conducted 9 times External business partTraining supported for spreading CS know-how to major trade counterparts and Customers ner training 10 times strengthening of inter-company ties (8 business partners, 830 staff members completed the course) Improving Customer Satisfaction customer satisfaction, we are running various training activities such as on-site training on Transparent DGB, Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Training staff members and customers, group training, Survey DGB Daegu Bank is conducting an array of etc. In 2019, the Investment Solution Team of All-Right Finance Every year, DGB Daegu Bank on-going training activitiessuch as on-site Hi Investment & Securities held a total of 68 conducts monthly phone surtraining, group training for customer satisfacseminars on market outlook and investment veys on customer satisfaction tion. strategy to staff members and customers of and perform on-site monitorHi Investment & Securities and DGB Daegu ing to improve service quality DGB Total Care Service Bank. Future Finance Creating and raise customer satisfacDGB Life practices customer-centered mantion through Nice Credit Inforagement through the operation of 'DGB Total Financial Service Accessibility mation (NICE D&R). Through Value Care Service' whereby an FC (Financial ConDGB Financial Group is working hard to enour constant effort to impress sultant) is responsible for explaining policies hance the convenience of its customers by customers, we have recorded of the insurance a customer is subscribed to linking up with companywide digital innovacustomer satisfaction level of and guiding them through financial planning. tion for expanding financial service access. 98.3% in 2019. FCs visit their customers to explain the covWe are enhancing accessibility to financial erage of their subscribed insurance and help services through expanding benefits of conthem claim insurance monies by checking actactless channel products such as Internet cident or disease details. During the visit, FCs banking, mobile banking, IMBank as well as Sustainable & provide additional services such as updating operating non-business hour services such Responsible Finance customer information, designing life after reas opening on holidays and self-counter. In tirement and financial consulting in order to particular, all systems and products are being enhance the satisfaction level of customers. improved to make the service easier to use regardless of the customer’s age or disability. Higher Returns for Customers The highest customer satisfaction comes DGB Financial Group’s from a return on investment. Hi Investment & Securities reflects those returns in quarterly evaluation of its branches. Furthermore, for Response to COVID-19 Crisis Customers Satisfaction (Unit: %) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Customers satisfaction 92.8 93.2 98.3 (Satisfied customers) DGB Self-Service Kiosks DGB Financial Group 25 Support Service to the Financially Vulnerable DGB Daegu Bank has established the infrastructure to facilitate easy financial counseling, transactions, and filing of civil complaints for the financially vulnerable such as senior citizens and disabled customers. Launch of Online Insurance DGB Self-Service Kiosks DGB Life Insurance will open an onDGB Daegu Bank has set up the first ‘DGB line customer service channel in the Self-Service Kiosk’ at Dongdaegu station to second half of 2020 that allows cusenhance customers’ convenience. As a Branchtomers to subscribe directly through urday (1 pm-6 pm). Seongseo Operating Office in-Branch, it offers both self-service and teller PC or mobile phone in order to near Seongseo Industrial Complex is provides services. Video consultation, using bio-authenmaximize customers' convenience currency exchange and remittance services on tication, enables customers to conduct 90% of and interest in line with the rapidly Sundays (10 a.m. to 4 p.m.) for foreign workers banking transactions without the need for staff changing digital era. We will focus who cannot visit the bank on weekdays. In addiassistance. Furthermore, customers can use the on our capacity to enhance customtion, through the mobile branch on the highway bank teller service everyday regardless of busier satisfaction so that customers rest area during the holidays, the inconvenience ness hours by bio-certification or video counselcan meet the needs of the times of customers was resolved and various events ing (from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekdays, 12 p.m. by easily subscribing to insurance were held to make the customers’ journey home to 6 p.m. on weekends and holidays), which through simple contactless transacmore pleasant. greatly improves convenience for office workers tion avoiding the hassle of meeting who cannot visit during weekdays. Starting with DGB Quick Service an FC in person while reducing sales 5 branches in 2017, DGB Self-Service Kiosks fees to reduce the insurance premiis expanding its operation to 15 branches(16 DGB Quick service enables customers to make um and to provide the experience of units) as of the end of 2019. In 2020, we plan and receive payments using a simple six-digit maximized coverage to customers. to add more kiosks that are tailored to each password. This is Korea’s first transfer service Online insurance is designed to take branch to make them even more efficient and to accept simple passwords as digital signainto account the environmental imspecialized. tures. Customers signed up for digital finance pact so that all documents are proservices can use the service by downloading cessed under paperless procedure. Holiday Operations the iMBank or DGB SmartBank app on a smartphone registered under their own name. DGB DGB Daegu Bank is strengthening the accessiFinancial Group will continue to strengthen bility for customers unable to visit a branch on accessibility through a wide range of electronic weekdays through opening on holidays. Our finance services. branch office at Homeplus Seongseo provides the same financial service like weekdays on SatDGB Daegu Bank’s Service to the Financially Vulnerable Service Description Happiness sharing counter service Dedicated desk and dedicated staff designated for the elderly & disabled customers 〮 Dedicated desk: 245 branches 〮 Dedicated personnel: 245 people 〮 Base branch: Voice OTP for visually impaired person furnished at 8 branches by province Call taxi reservation service Supporting elderly & disabled customers returning home 〮 Base branch: 10 places by province Customized service by type of Voice eye, braille card, ATM screen zoom-in, ATM earphone function, braille security card, voice OTP, disability braille civil complaint filing, phone banking voice recognition service(1661-5200), wheelchair accessible ATM machine, amenities for the disabled (ramp, wheelchair lift, etc.), Internet banking, smart banking chatting consulting service for a person with language disorder and the hearing-impaired, etc. 26 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Our Impact Story 1. Double-layer, Triple-layer Locking Device for the Protection of Customer’s Asset As the financial services become more complex and digital environment evolves, voice phishing frauds are constantly increasing as it targets customers' precious assets. DGB Financial Group has prepared various voice phishing prevention plans on the system and business process to provide double and triple locking devices for damages that are difficult for customers to prevent with just the precautions from the customer side. Voice phishing prevention-dedicated team monitors the transactions suspected as voice phishing in real time, and cooperates with the branch and staff at other banks to determine whether such transaction is a fraud or not and provide notification to customers. The branch desk conducts double checking if any transaction is suspected as using a bank account under a fake name by implementing authorization by an officer. Furthermore, we have set up a cooperation system with Daegu City Police Office, and Financial Supervisory Service Daegu City branch to promptly report a suspicious transaction and check whether it is a fraud or not. In addition, public advertisements on voice phishing are continuously shown through various channels such as Daegu Bank customer lounge, Moving Bank, ATM machines, and banking app, etc. The voice phishing prevention activities of DGB Financial Group have helped protect 2.74 billion won worth of customer assets by detecting 306 incidents in advance in 2019 and will further strengthen damage prevention through upgradCase of Preventing Damage from Voice Phishing ing the illegal app blocking function and monitoring system scheduled for 2020. 1 On the morning of January 3, 2019, customer A (aged 43) was contacted by a scammer impersonating K Bank's OOO team head and was engaged in loan consulting. He said, We can also provide a refinancing loan. How much money can you repay? If you can repay 15 million won, you can refinance at an annual interest rate of 4.2%. To apply for our loans, you can install our Bank app and repay the existing loan according to the instructions.’ Cus2 Customer A later called the H Capital call center, which he tomer A who urgently needed money due to the difficulty had been already transacting with to repay the existing in business, received guidance, installed the K Bank app, loans, and was instructed to repay existing loans into the and applied for loans. account of B who is the staff in charge at the judicial scrivener over the phone. As fake app was installed, the call to the call center was actually connected to the fraudster. Without knowing this, customer A was suspicious of depositing money into an account under a personal name, but because it was the information received from the call 4 The staff in charge of the financial consumer protection center, Customer A sent the money to the account that was department checked with the remitting bank and found informed as the account for repaying the existing loan. out that customer A deposited the money due to a loan scam. Withholding of withdrawal was registered on the account and reported to the staff in charge at the branch. The staff at the branch immediately reported this to the police, and the dispatched police persuaded customer 3 About 10 minutes after 15 million won was deposited into DGB DaeB to confess that she did as instructed since she thought gu Bank account of Customer B, customer B visited Buksam Branch she was accumulating a bank account transaction record and asked for cash withdrawal of 9 million won in cash. When asked for loan qualifications. Thanks to the careful attention about the purpose and source of the cash withdrawal at such a of the branch staff and quick confirmation of damage young age, customer B replied that her uncle had transferred the through coordination with the head office manager, it money as funds for business because her husband was having a prevented customer A from incurring damage, and custough time with his business. Since customer B's account had been tomer B was prevented from being involved in a voice used only for a small sum of money, and the uncle had a different phishing withdrawal. family name from customer B and the monies were deposited in Boeun, Chungbuk Province, the staff in charge at DGB Daegu Bank asked the staff in charge of voice phishing in the bank's financial consumer control department to verify. DGB Financial Group 27 27 FOCUS AREAS 02 Zero cases of corruption and legal violations All employees completed anti-corruption education 02 Transparent DGB, All-Right Finance > Importance cial Group will practice ethical management A company’s ethical management standards and anti-corruption management at a global are an important criterion that determines its standard level. reputation. In recent years, many local firms have faced intense demands from society > Key Performance Indicator that they meet global ethical management • Zero cases of corruption and legal violations standards. Especially in the financial industry, •A ll employees completed anti-corruption a high level of ethical awareness and a strong education management system are required throughout the organization including executives and staff > Future Plan members. In this regard, DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group has established a group strives to establish a trust relationship with ethical management strategy and improvecustomers through preemptive response. ment plan based on the results of 2019 ethical management level self-diagnosis and corrup> Management Method tion risk assessment. Accordingly, we hope that DGB Financial Group has launched its ethical 2020 will be the first year in practicing effective management brand, 'ALL-Right DGB' and reethical management and revivifying it into formed its ethical management system to esthe corporate value. We will implement the tablish a company-wide ethical management systems for group ethical management and culture. To this end, we promoted diverse ethicustomized ethical management programs to cal management practice program to establish implement a more effective ethical manageethical management system and internalize ment that can be actually felt by executives, the culture across the entire organization. And staff members, and customers. for the first time as a financial group in Korea, we obtained a certification on anti-corruption management system (ISO37001). DGB Finan28 28 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Enhancing Ethical Management code of conduct' as specific action guidelines System to be practiced and observed by executives and staff members when carrying out duties. Action DGB Financial Group will focus on establishing guidelines require executives and staff members a corporate culture that values ethical manageto immediately report violations to the compliment above all to become a trusted DGB that ance officer, and to consult with the compliance practices sustainable management with clean officer in advance if they are not sure whether Trustworthy Finance for and upright management. We declared the first something is a violation or not. In addition, we ethical management brand in the industry and have implemented ‘13 Group Ethical Managereceived the first certification of anti-corruption Customers ment Practice Programs’, a specific action plan management system (ISO37001) among finanfor group ethical management, and are pushing cial holding companies in Korea, and are expandfor integrated and systematic ethical manageing corruption prevention management system ment as 'group ethical management grand prize to all affiliated entities. systems' so that all subsidiaries can continue to ALL-Right DGB is instilled practice and act on them. with 'all executives Ethical Management System and staff members of DGB, DGB Financial Group has announced its deterEthical Management Brand where everything is upright’ Transparent DGB, commitment. mination to establish ethical management inter‘ALL-Right DGB’ nally and externally through the drafting of an DGB Financial Group declared the ethical manAll-Right Finance ethics charter and code of conduct. In addition, agement brand, 'ALL-Right DGB' for the first we provided and shared ' Guidelines on ethics time in the industry as part of a system reform to establish transparent and sound ethical management. ALL-Right DGB is instilled with 'all executives and staff members' commitment to Future Finance Creating DGB where everything is upright' which will play a centripetal role for the group’s ethical management practices. The brand logo is constantly reflecting its commitment to ethical management Value by being imprinted everywhere from the subsidiary CEO's office to business cards of executives and staff members. Sustainable & Responsible Finance Timeline for Promoting Ethical Management Oct. 4, 2018 Dec. 18. 2018 Jan. 3, 2019 Jan. 29, 2019 Announcement of plan DGB Financial Holdings Production of ethical Enforcement of Group to advance ethical received an certification management brand ethical management grand DGB Financial Group’s management (Group ethical (ISO37001) for antipromotion video award system management master plan) corruption management Jan. 4, 2019 May 2, 2019 Oct. 12, 2018 Dec. 26, 2018 Production of group ethical Published monthly ALLResponse to COVID-19 Crisis Public idea contest for DGB Launched a campaign management promotional Right DGB (Group ethical Financial Group’s ethical to implement ethical plaque management newsletter) management management practices Jan. 18, 2019 Dec. 24, 2019 within the Group in 2019 Nov. 28, 2018 Advanced ethical Selected 2019 Group ethical Announcement of new Dec. 27, 2018 management leadership management grand award employment contracts for Announcement of ethical program Jan. 2, 2020 executives outlining ethical management brand Jan. 18, 2019 Group ethical management job responsibilities “ALL-Right DGB” Start of ethical grand award ceremony Nov. 28, 2018 Dec. 28, 2018 management brand usage [Holding co.] Setting of Electronic signature of on employee business Group’s ethical management the Group’s 2019 ethics cards vision charter DGB Financial Group 29 DGB Financial Group obtained Anti-corruption Management System ISO37001 certification ISO37001 Operation status of DGB Daegu Bank internal control system 302,163times conduct rigorous screening procedures such ISO 37001 Anti-corruption as analysis on corruption risks, adopting reguOperation status of Management System lations, monitoring, and improving measures, Hi Investment & Securities etc. ISO37001 certification means that DGB DGB Financial Group became the first domesinternal control system in 2019 Financial Group's efforts to revamp and reform tic financial holding company to obtain a cerits organization have resulted in a global level 10,688 times tification of Anti-corruption Management System (ISO37001) in December 2018. ISO37001 of corruption prevention process in relation to blocking corruption risks. In 2019, we planned anti-corruption management system is an an ethical management practice program so international standard officially established by that all affiliates can have a system that meets the International Standardization Organization ISO37001 level, and expanded it to the entire (ISO) for an organization’s ethical managegroup. In particular, we exerted efforts so that ment, corruption prevention, internal control, the ethical management system would create and compliance with laws/regulations. DGB Fia practical effect on the entire group by adding nancial Group formed a TF team for ISO37001 an ethical management item in the affiliates’ certification and worked with experts to CEO performance assessment. . DGB Daegu Bank Internal Control System Enhancing Ethical (Number of Audits Performed) (Unit: times) Consciousness and Spreading the Culture Classification 2017 2018 2019 DGB Financial Group is conducting continuous Total 286,672 294,789 302,163 education and promotion to induce executives Normal audit 1,541 1,707 1,827 and staff members’ active participation in the General audit 221 218 239 practice of ethical management and to draw Special audit 18 14 13 sympathy from the management. We are Regular audit1) 284,892 292,850 300,084 endeavoring to achieve consensus from both executives and staff members on the message Since regular audit items are determined by concerns about accidents and changes in regulations, there are that only good companies that practice ethical 1)  discrepancies in the number of cases by year. management can gain trust from consumers and run a sustainable business, and internalize Hi Investment & Securities Internal Control System such message into the corporate culture. DGB (Number of Audits Performed) (Unit: times) Financial Group is spreading the company’s Classification 2017 2018 2019 ethical management policy including anti-corruption to all affiliates and partners of each Total 7,515 8,445 10,688 affiliate. Normal audit 2,743 3,009 3,011 General audit 21 31 21 Special audit 16 10 9 Regular audit2) 4,735 5,395 7,647 2) Continuous monitoring, online auditing to prevent financial accidents 30 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Expanding Ethical Management Leaders in Ethical Management The Ethical Management Leader is the leader Ethical Management Grand Prize of each department and branch that impleSince 2019, we organized Ethical Management ments the ethical management policies of the Grand Prize every year for all DGB Financial group and each subsidiary, and is responsible Group affiliates. Group Ethical Management for the dissemination of ethical management Grand Prize is introduced to vitalize the group's systems and the reporting of activities. They Education for Board of ethical management practice program by Directors Trustworthy Finance for are expected to be the centerpiece of the monitoring the action program and rewarding group's implementation of ethical managethe subsidiary that achieves the highest perWe are operating an education ment, and we look forward to the perforprogram for the board of direcCustomers formance. This system was planned with the mance of the leaders in 2020. direction of promoting group ethical managetors according to the internal govment, and the evaluation criteria have been ernance standard. The company Ethical Management Education established considering the circumstance produced and provided materials and size of affiliates. The ethical management Ethical Management Education and to enhance the understanding award selection procedure is supervised by the Training of the internal control of the fiethical management award candidate selecnancial company and provided Ethical management education is mandatory such materials to the board of tion committee comprised of the compliance for all executives and staff members including Transparent DGB, department head of the holding company, audirectors. In February 2019, we the management. In addition, we are going conducted board of directors dit department head, and the head of the Fubeyond the existing knowledge delivery eduAll-Right Finance ture Strategy Department to secure objectivity training on the understanding of cation, and are conducting cyber education or through a fair and strict screening. Through the money laundering prevention group education. group ethical management award system, we systems and recent trends, and in are looking forward to encouraging affiliates to Training on Money Laundry Prevention October 2019, all members of the form a consensus and practice ethical manageboard of directors completed the Mandatory education and training for moneymoney laundering prevention Future Finance Creating ment and improve group executives and staff laundering prevention is implemented at members’ sense of ethics and compliance. cyber training course. least once a year. We make every executive and staff member conduct monthly self-monValue Year-round Campaigns to itoring with respect to corporate policy to Adopt Ethical Management ensure that he/she is not directly or indirectly Each year, we select a theme for the practice of involved in any financial accidents or crimes. ethical management and each subsidiary runs The department dedicated to preventing an autonomous campaign. In 2019, we have money laundering within each company planned and opened our own detailed action explores the latest sanction trends and Through the group ethical Sustainable & program for each company that corresponds money-laundering prevention issues and fremanagement award system, we to the theme, Distinct sense of ethics! Strong quently shares such issues with all executives encourage affiliates to and staff members. form a consensus and practice Ethical Practice! Proud Clean DGB! In 2020, we ethical management and Responsible Finance will continue our campaign under the theme, improve group executives and Your integrity is the competitive edge of DGB. staff members’ sense of ethics and Each year, the ethical management practice compliance. theme is selected through a public idea contest from executives and staff members. DGB Financial Group’s Response to COVID-19 Crisis Monthly ALL-Right DGB Since May 2019, we have been publishing the ethical management newsletter that can be accessed by all staff members of the group. By preparing the 'Ethical Code Practice Guidelines by Cases' section, ethical code practice guidelines were easily explained in cases that executives and staff members face while performing daily duties. In addition, in the legal study section which covers the latest legal issues, in-house lawyers provide explanations on legal issues to support the law-abiding spirit and duties of executives and staff members. DGB Financial Group 31 regulations, including the principle of anonymity of any whistle-blower and newly established a report form to enhance the convenience of reporting, and expanded the reporting channels* such as establishment of an anonymous report channel on websites of DGB Financial Holding and each affiliates. Furthermore, more DGB Financial Group than twice a year, we provide guidance on the promotes ethical manwhistle-blower system to all executives and agement practices from staff members and distribute Q&A related to the all of its employees and system so that staff members can easily access executives. We will take and use the system with confidence. the initiative in respecting Practicing Ethical Management * Reporting channel: homepage of DGB financial holding social values, abiding by and each affiliate, red whistle, DGB mobile office, mail, laws and regulations, and Corruption Risk Improvement Strategy dedicated phone, E-mail, computer system establishing a fair financial established order In order to identify the internalization level of Ethical Employment Contracts for DGB Financial Group's ethical management and Executives to measure potential corruption risk of DGB FiThe new employment contracts with our exnancial Group, autonomous diagnosis and corecutives obligate them to perform their jobs ruption risk assessment were conducted. With ethically to ensure that the top management participation from the entire staff of the financial sets a good example for others. Accordingly, all holding company, we have identified the matexecutives of DGB Financial Group signs a conters to improve on in ethical management and tract prohibiting them from engaging in acts of corruption risk and established the core strategy corruption, such as bribe-taking, influence-pedof ethical management and its improvement dling, and carry out strict responsibilities. plan. In 2020, we will strive for practical ethical management such as internal stabilization of the group's internal control system and establishment of the group's money laundering protection internal control system according to the strategy. Operation of Whistle-Blower System In case any executive or staff member recognizes any information about any actions that violate corporate ethics and harm the public interest, DGB Financial Group is obliged to report them, and each company has adopted and operates regulations that protect the whistle-blower and ensure confidentiality. In order to vitalize the system in 2019, the group revised the 32 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Our Impact Story 2. Sound Finance, Transparent Management Finance is the business operated based on credit, and thorough internal and external supervision and checks becomes its foundation. DGB Financial Group has recognized the importance of a fair process and customers' trust through problems raised within the group in the past and has carried out innovation focused on governance structure and system reform using these as an opportunity for change and development. DGB Financial Group announced that the holding company chairman and the bank president positions Finance Specialized CEO, Bank President Nurturing and will be temporarily operated as a concurrent office Succession Program in order to effectively deal with the 2019 manageDGB Daegu Bank has conducted the bank president nurturing and ment crisis and quickly recover customers’ trust and succession program to elect the next president. The Bank president stabilize the organization. In addition, ultimately to nurturing and succession program targets current executives of the reinforce the division of duties and mutual control holding company and the bank. Starting with the 1 on 1 interview function by separating holding company chairman with the chairman, the first stage of the nurturing program will be and the bank president positions, DGB promised to conducted in the order of the process of selecting and promoting the nurture a good succeeding bank president during the strategic tasks that the candidate will pursue throughout the year; concurrent office period. In this regard, we have pre1 on 1 coaching training by the candidate; DGB Potential Academy pared a transparent and fair human resource manwhere DGB's management tasks are understood and implemenagement system and a high potential (HIPO) program tation strategies are discussed; and the assessment program for to nurture key talents, and to nurture the next bank 360-degree feedback and in-depth personality test. Internal and expresident who will be respectable both internally ternal experts related to the topic of discussion will participate so that and externally, we have made efforts to develop an in-depth discussion would be performed in each process. The second efficient and reasonable bank president nurturing phase of the selection process that the final candidate group must go program. As a result of these efforts, the final three through is composed of OJT at financial subsidiaries; global capacity candidates for the position of DGB Daegu Bank presidevelopment process; and DGB CEO Academy which provides 1 on dent have been decided at the group executive candi1 mentoring with experts in major fields to broaden the perspectives date recommendation committee at the end of 2019. as a CEO and to balance capacity development; DGB management The final candidate for the next bank president will be session in the form of a meeting to share the group's management appointed in the second half of 2020. issues and to come up with means of resolution; and the candidate AC program in the form of personal in-depth interview and mutual debate by subject, etc. With the announcement of future vision and business plan as the last procedure, the final candidate for the president of the bank will be selected DGB Financial Group is planning to make the bank president nurturing program as the most exemplary CEO incubation and succession procedure in the financial sector by continuously innovating and recording the bank president nurturing program. Through these efforts, we will contribute to restoring the sound checks and balances in the governance structure and further advance the structure of the financial industry. DGB Financial Group 33 33 FOCUS AREAS 03 03 Future Finance Creating Value > Importance A recent financial paradigm shift is quickly changing the financial environment. With the development of IT technology, Market Share in Daegu city & the boundaries of the financial industry > Future Plan Gyeongbuk province (loan) are expanding, creating an environment DGB Financial Group will continue to where new competitors enter the market and traditional financial core capacity is pursue the integration of the group and 25.5% strengthen the expertise in each field and not sufficient to lead a business. We bewill continue to integrate the differentiatMarket Share in lieve that it is important to implement Big ed business method and internal stability Daegu city & Gyeongbuk province Data and other new technologies to keep (deposit) management system. While we expand the business growing while uncovering new growth engines to actively prepare for our business network nationwide, we will create performance in overseas expansion. 37.2% the future. By quickly responding to next-generation BIS ratio financial services based on IT technology development, we will become the com12.32% > Management Method DGB Financial Group focuses on high-qualprehensive financial group that leads the ity growth by actively responding to the way in the future financial market. ROA / ROE changing financial environment such as expanding domestic and overseas business networks, providing comprehensive 0.47 / 7.27% services, and management of internal organizations, etc. At the group level, we have established a digital finance and global advancement strategy, and are looking for ways to create a group integration synergy and new growth engine. > Key Performance Indicator • Market Share in Daegu city & Gyeongbuk province (loan) 25.5% • Market Share in Daegu city & Gyeongbuk province (deposit) 37.2% • BIS ratio 12.32% • ROA/ROE 0.47%/7.27% 34 34 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB Financial Group opened five DIGNITY branches including one Business Scope Expansion in Daejeon, three in Daegu City, With the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securigroup control tower function of the holding and one in Seoul for expanding ties in 2018, DGB Financial Group has emerged company. Furthermore, as a hub brand that synergy between bank and secuas a comprehensive financial group with a total brings together premium services provided by rities. Through this BWB(Branch of eight affiliates. By maximizing synergy effect the comprehensive group, we selected 'DIGNIwith Branch), various financial between affiliates, the Group will strengthen TY' including PB services to be used in overall investment services and DGB's sales channels by expanding external business marketing. 'DIGNITY' means providing a dignidifferentiated asset manageTrustworthy Finance for and marketing at the bank teller window. By fied financial life to create greater pride beside ment services are provided to Customers securing new sources of revenue, we will diverthe customers. customers. In the future, we will sify our internal portfolio, which we plan to use utilize the Bank-Securities branch to achieve sustainable results. channel in the group to establish a nationwide branch in the Strengthening Group Business Synergy branch network, focusing on the In 2018, DGB Financial Group has completed province which has an excellent the business line covering all sectors including customer group base or a high bank, securities, and Insurance for the first demand for comprehensive fiTransparent DGB, time as a regional financial group. In 2019 as nancial services. All-Right Finance the first year of the comprehensive group, we established DGB synergy strategy division to create synergies between subsidiaries and reorganized the organization to strengthen the DIGNITY Future Finance Creating Expanding Business Network in the In addition, in order to reinforce the personal Value metropolitan area finance business network in the Seoul Metropolitan area, the Seoul Metropolitan Area Retail To overcome the regional limitations and make Loan center was established to provide a footthe group take a leap to become a national hold for targeting the metropolitan area along bank, we are expanding business networks with corporate finance through PRM. in the Seoul metropolitan area. To achieve this objective, we have purchased Daewoo DGB Capital has newly established a PRM synSustainable & Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering building to ergy center under the department of synergy serve as a bridgehead to move into the metrofinance to enhance synergy at the group level. Responsible Finance politan area, and DGB Life Insurance and DGB The PRM organization of DGB Capital runs Capital have moved into this building. By 2020, individual deals or collaborates with the PRM DGB Financial Group aims to gather all the aforganization of DGB Daegu Bank to reinforce filiates scattered throughout downtown Seoul synergy in a business capacity. to one location to strengthen the Group's comExpansion of Business Scope DGB Financial Group’s petitiveness. Since the stable management performance To expand the Group’s business foundation in and management experience of DGB Asset the metropolitan area and vitalize its business Response to COVID-19 Crisis Management was recognized, in February in the Seoul metropolitan area, DGB Daegu 2020, the company switched over to a comBank has established a new metropolitan PRM prehensive asset management company and headquarters, and hired a retired head of a Professional Relationship Manager established a global solution team within the financial organization branch with a rich busiDGB Daegu Bank formed PRM alternative investment division. As a result, DGB ness network, and formed PRM (Professional organization as a mobile business asset management has expanded the investRelationship Manager) organization as a mobile organization for the first time in the ment field into domestic and overseas alternafinancial industry. business organization for the first time in the tive assets such as real estates and mixed assets financial industry. and has secured the foothold for DGB Financial The PRM is in the form of a mobile branch not Group to become a global financial group. tied to any branches or province but instead visits small and medium-sized companies to conduct financial consulting and business. DGB Financial Group 35 DGB Capital opened the Global Loan center in Seoul in 2019 to expand its business network and improve customer convenience. In order to support foreign workers' early settlement and stabilization of livelihood in Korea, the Global Loan Center provides credit loan products for foreign workers who are employed on a non-professional employment (E-9) visa for the first time in the non-bank lending industry. In particular, we put efforts to ensure that consultation, business support, and follow-up management identical to the Loan center function in Korea can be provided to foreigners without inconvenience by hiring foreign nationals of each country and assigning them to the desk to help foreign workers who have difficulty with access for anyone who wants to use the API of DGB consultation in Korean. Financial Group. We are uncovering excellent fintech services by opening an office in Gangnam, Seoul, Strengthening Competitiveness in where start-ups are concentrated, to promote rapid Digital Finance development and alliance with fintech ventures. Digital The Digital Finance related deregulation and an Transformation open-door policy for financial transaction conveIn 2020, services that customers and local residents can feel in earnest will be released. First, when In order to preemptively respond nience and strengthening of benefits have made to market changes, DGB digital-based business competition with fintech functions such as using/charging/refunding the ReFinancial Group has newly firms and Internet Bank inevitable to DGB. Therefore, gional Love Gift Certificate released by Daegu City established a digital innovation DGB Financial Group redefined the existing business are implemented on mobile phones in IM# applicaheadquarters. Marking structures to a digital based structure and is pushing tions, more users will conveniently use them to play 2019 as the first year of Digital for Digital Transformation, which focuses on fundaa central role in boosting the regional economy. Transformation, the Group is Public transportation will also be used conveniently preparing a foundation mental changes in companies such as organization, of great transformation for rapid process, business model, and corporate culture. in the future through the mobile one pass released execution and innovation. by DGB U-pay. Digital Transformation Strategy Digital Business requires speed. In this regard, the Group Digital Innovation division which oversees the Digital Transformation Strategy digital innovation of the entire group was newly established. And the organization was restructured so BEST Digital Bank that the Chief Digital Innovation Officer (CDIO) serves as Daegu Bank IMBANK division head at the same Establish foundation of Digital Transformation time, and any strategy can be established and implemented quickly and simultaneously. Furthermore, in order to implement Digital Innovation, Group Digital Department Head Council decides important digital Strengthen Improve organizational Contactless channel business, and actual Digital Business is being implecompetitiveness in digital culture on long-term converted to profit source/ mented through group Digital Innovation TFT which points of contact/ perspectives/ Acquire wider is mainly comprised of hands-on workers. Recreate data-centered Prepare groundwork for customer base value fostering internal talent Promotion of partnership with excellent corporations leading market technology and openness are Strengthen digital based Digital marketing Enhance digital capacity also important areas of digital transformation. The business innovation of staffs group's open API platform for innovative fintech development and partnership was established to open · Establish DGB mobile · Enhance competitiveness · Promote fostering of data integrated platform in contactless product analysis specialist · Establish Big Data · Secure differentiation of · Upgrade Vision program platform digital contents · Vitalize digital capacity · Launch corporate · Vitalize business activities enhancement system banking upgrade project of contactless channel 36 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Mobile Channel Integration Platform DGB Financial Group promoted the development of a mobile channel integration platform for enhanced convenience of the user through mutual organic linkage among mobile channels and expanded synTrustworthy Finance for ergy among subsidiaries. DGB Daegu Bank has developed 'IMBank' as a powerful One App by integrating the existing 3 mobile channels of smart banking, Customers IMBank, and mobile web. Its feature is that it was IMBank IM# made to minimize the installation of Apps to avoid excessive amounts of apps or program installation and enable organic connection of 3 channels to provide user-oriented services. We also significantly ry, mobile traffic cards, biometric age measurement, improved contactless real-name certification and hospital reservation, and provision of university stufinancial product subscription processes, enhancing dent communities, etc. accessibility to first-time transaction customers and Transparent DGB, In January 2019, Hi Investment & Securities core target customers in their 20s and 30s. launched the new concept mobile trading system All-Right Finance IM# is the shopping mall of financial products con(MTS), Hi-M. Hi-M, which was made with the wish to necting affiliates of DGB Financial Group. For the be the customer’s ‘power(Korean: Him) of investfirst time in the financial industry, to have a win-win ment,’ focused on enhancing the convenience of relationship with local small business owners, we customers by applying contactless account opening, provide a service where business owners directly fingerprint authentication and simple certification Future Finance Creating register photos, menus, addresses, contacts, counumber login, simple transfers without the need for pons, etc. of his/her store, promote them for free, a digital certificate, all with an easy-to-use, minimaland receive sales analysis. Moreover, by partnering ist design. Value with real estate, education, and healthcare related DGB Life Insurance opened the mobile platform FinTech companies, customers can utilize services service after 8 months of development. The service throughout their lives such as real estate price inquiconsists of mobile business system (M-Smart), a mobile counter for customers, electronic document delivery service, and monitoring of completion of sales. Unlike traditional electronic subscription method, since all processes of DGB Life Insurance's Sustainable & mobile platform was developed exclusively for Responsible Finance smartphones, and is compatible with the users' smartphone. Thus, customers can proceed with 100% of the mobile process from insurance subscription to payment without paper. DGB Financial Group’s Response to COVID-19 Crisis Big Data Infrastructure Established DGB Daegu Bank has established a companywide strategy for using Big Data and established a platform in order to preemptively respond to limitless competition based on data. By combining accumulated internal and external data and analyzing it from various angles, we are strengthening our competitiveness through developing financial products and services that meet the needs of customers. In addition, by signing an MOU with Samsung SDS, we are planning to jointly operate a working group related to Digital Technologies and explore Big Data financial platform and artificial intelligence-based new business. DGB Daegu Bank will continue to push for Big Data expansion strategy after establishing its Big Data infrastructure and internalizing the technology by this year and advancing the analysis system and seeking diverse types of utilization by 2022. DGB Financial Group 37 Extension of Digital Education is sold to subscribers of SK Telecom through Finnq app, has been developed to activate conOpen API Infrastructure DGB Daegu Bank is hosting the DGB Cyber Digtactless channels and create new customers. Established ital Academy for all executives and staff mem'DGB X Finnq Emergency Fund Loan', which is bers as part of nurturing talent for Digital Global DGB Daegu Bank established Open also a simplified loan that is applied through Bank since 2019. Education is conducted in the API Infrastructure for the purpose the Finnq app, allows users to immediately inform of a 10-session online training including of providing rapid support for quire the loan limit and interest rate by mobile new IT technologies and coding, aimed to enDigital Financial services, efficient certification of identity 24 hours a day, 7 days hance understanding of digital finance and the development of collaborative busia week, and the transaction can be contracted problem-solving ability for executives and staff ness models with external parties, with a fingerprint certificate without separate members. We encourage executives and staff securing confidence in providing public certification when a loan agreement is members to obtain SW coding qualification, financial information, and systemic executed. This product is designed to maximize and we plan to expand education to utilization management of services provided the convenience of customers and targets other methods and introduction cases by technology by other companies. In addition, we financial app users with its differentiated comsuch as artificial intelligence, Big Data, etc. developed inquiry, transfer, virtual petitiveness. account, certification API (10 types) Open Innovation on Digital Finance and Toss-linked loan API (6 types) Fintech Startup Support together, and from April 1, 2020, with DGB Daegu Bank is continuously looking for DGB Financial Group opened DGB FIUM LAB, participation in 'DGB Stham Stham innovation that can create synergy by convergthe first fintech startup support center in the Easy Loan' service on Toss app's ing the special capacity of fintech ventures and regional finance industry. Fium Lab is the syn'Find loans suitable for me' service, non-financial industrial expertise. As a repreonym of F (Fintech) and I (Innovation) and Um we have opened customer services. sentative example, in 2019, we have signed a (blossom in Korean) hence meaning Fintech DGB Daegu Bank's open API infrabusiness cooperation agreement with Finnq, a innovation blossoms (Fium). DGB Financial structure has been developed to be financial platform, and SK Telecom to vitalize Group remodeled the whole 5th floor of DGB connected to the group integration digital finance. We plan to create synergy by Daegu Bank's 2nd head office targeting the API among DGB financial groups, sharing corporate know-how and ideas related creation of a startup ecosystem and had four and external fintech companies can to digital finance, and by cooperation for finstartup companies move in through selection. apply for service by DGB Financial tech technology development and marketing Through the Fium Lab, DGB Financial Group Group's portal. vitalization, and explore differentiated finanhas declared the commitment to Digital Innocial services and products as well as platform vation and cooperation with fintech venture, marketing. 'T high 5 installment savings', which and we look forward to becoming a beautiful companion leading digital finance in the 4th industrial age. DGB Fium Lab DGB Financial Group opened DGB FIUM LAB, the first fintech startup support center in the regional finance industry. 38 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Myanmar Laos Cambodia Vietnam Global Market Expansion Trustworthy Finance for DGB Financial Group would go beyond the region to take a leap as a global corporation in order to secure sustainable competitiveness. Customers Therefore, we have adopted the global entry strategy of ‘Glocalization (globalization while promoting local characteristics)’ and ‘Digital transformation (Digitizing existing offline networks).’ By enhancing the independence of foreign branches and implementing a specialized digital finance service to match the needs of local customers, DGB Financial Group will impleTransparent DGB, ment a unique strategy to grow into a company Acquisition of Cambodian that leads the global market. All-Right Finance Micro Finance Specialized Expedited Localization of Cambodian Institution (MFI) Entry into Myanmar, the Land of DGB SB (Specialized Bank) Opportunity DGB SB acquired in January 2018 was the first DGB Capital signed a share purchase and sale agreement in July DGB Daegu Bank obtained a local MFI license overseas local subsidiary since the foundation from Myanmar government in July 2019 and esof the DGB Daegu Bank. DGB SB achieved a Future Finance Creating 2019 and completed all subsequent procedures related to domestic tablished micro finance institution (MFI) named total of $ 220 million in assets and $ 9.77 million and overseas permits and licenses. DGB Microfinance Myanmar in November in net profit in 2019. Currently, the delinquency Value On January 30, 2020, Cambodian 2019. Myanmar is the region expected to show rate seems to be very low due to the focus on MFI (Micro Finance Institution) was speedy economic growth based on abundant real estate collateral loans with a competitive acquired. The MFI is a local branch labor and natural resources with very high fpostatus as the No. 1 local special bank specializin the Cambodian capital that has tential growth of financial sector in the future. ing in loans. Entering April 2020, we obtained been engaged in secured micro-loan Especially, micro finance by MFI financial instipreliminary approval for conversion to a comfocused business since 2015, and tution is recognized by local residents as a kind mercial bank from the local financial authority. we are planning to expand the busiof common peoples’ finance and demands for We are planning to strengthen the growth ness centered around Phnom Penh, loans are huge. We plan to penetrate the regionfoundation in Cambodia by opening additional Sustainable & the Cambodian capital. Especially, al cities with a few financial institutions at first branches for expansion of business areas and Responsible Finance as the first native CEO of a Korean to secure profitability, and then expand support by introducing advanced financial techniques owned financial institution (Ros to local common peoples’ finance and increase such as launching the introduction of next-genThearith) was elected, he is expected the finance penetration rate. eration banking systems, etc to accelerate localization in Cambodian operation. And synergy effect Laos DGB Lao Leasing (DLLC) is anticipated with DGB SB (SpecialContinues Growth DGB Financial Group’s ized Bank) which entered Cambodia DLLC (DGB Lao Leasing Co., Ltd), which was earlier. established in December 2016 by DGB Capital in Laos, grew as the representative foreign lease Response to COVID-19 Crisis finance company in Laos, achieving a total of $52 million in total asset and $917,000 in net profit for the current term as of December 2019. DLLC is stengthening credit screening and bond management, which are the core competencies in the financial industry. By collecting and analyzing the types of transactions made, and using the basic data of existing customers, we are currently developing a screening system exclusively for Laos. Through cooperation with Cambodian CAM Capital DGB Financial Group 39 지도로 바꾸기? Expansion of Vietnam Financial Network DGB Daegu Bank entered into a business agreement with Vietcombank which is one of the major banks of Vietnam, on cooperation, market trend information exchange, staff exchange training, etc. in July 2019. Vietnam is the largest trade partner of Korea among ASEAN countries, and 3rd export destination and Korea’s 5 major investee countries. DGB Daegu Bank submitted an application for approval on establishing the Vietnam Ho Chi Minh branch in 2016. This cooperative agreement is anticipated not local l bond management companies, we have (NBFI) business. NBFI is a non-Bank financing only to support the approval of Ho also been sending employees of DLLC to those business that has not yet been opened to Chi Minh branch but also to bring companies to acquire necessary skills for local foreign capital. DGB Capital is preparing to essubstantial performance as the bond management. We trust that our active tablish a representative office to preemptively groundwork to expand Korea-Vietefforts in localization, taken to strengthen our respond to Myanmar policy changes and purnam financial exchange and precore capabilities, will raise DLLC’s continuous sue the opportunity for dominating the NBFI pare the groundwork for win-win growth potential, and DLLC is conducting globmarket in advance. To this end, in March 2019, growth. al volunteer activities such as delivering relief DGB Capital has completed the acceptance donations related to the accident at the southreport with the Financial Supervisory Service eastern auxiliary dam in Laos and supporting to set up an overseas office in Myanmar, and baseball coach, Lee Man-soo who is engaged opened its representative office in May 2020. in activities for spreading baseball in Laos. FurThe drive to enter the Myanmar NBFI is for thermore, in 2020, DLLC is preparing to launch DGB Capital to secure future growth engines a new product that will reduce the financial by expanding our overseas network, and we Global Market burden in using financial service to the local are confident this will contribute to the develExpansion people in Laos and enhance their convenience opment of DGB Financial Group‘s 'Indochina DGB Financial Group would go in using financial products. With the synergy of Peninsula Financial Belt' which extends to beyond the region to take a leap as a parent companies, DGB Capital and DGB Daegu Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. global corporation in order to secure Bank, DLLC will focus on its core competencies, sustainable competitiveness cooperate with diverse partners, develop new markets and new businesses, and do everything we can to prepare for future growth.. Entering the Myanmar NBFI Business by Opening a Local Representative Office Based on the experience of successful entry of the Laos DLLC and the Cambodian Cam Capital, DGB Capital is preparing to enter Myanmar's Non-Banking Financial Institution 40 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Our Impact Story 3. One Step Closer to Our Customers, Digital Finance completed the placement of Biological ATM at the branches and will also expand to all branches of Daegu Bank including Gyeongbuk province in 2020. DGB Financial Group endeavors to enhance customVisible ARS Service for the ers’ convenience in financial transactions utilizing Financially Vulnerable digital financial technologies that evolve day by day. For busy modern people who cannot visit bank As more and more smartphones are disseminated, branches during business hours, we are developing from 2019, we have upgraded the existing phone not only smartphone App but also expanding DGB banking service to provide 'visible ARS' service. self-counter (Digital kiosk) and ATM installation This service provides the main menu in the form of which are easily accessible. voice and screen at the same time and eliminated the inconvenience of having to listen to the voice Thorough Security and Convenient Use, instructions to the end before selecting services in Biological ATM case of the existing voice ARS. Not only for consumTo address both financial accessibility and security ers who have difficulty in recognizing the voice, but issues, DGB Daegu Bank is expanding its biological this service also gives general consumers the adATM service, which introduces biometric functions. vantage of being able to process business quickly Among biometric information, palm veins are charand accurately. In particular, it is expected that the acterized by a person’s unique characteristics and financially vulnerable will be able to conveniently cannot be stolen or replicated, and its certification utilize the financial service as this service lowers accuracy is high. Customers who want to use the barriers for senior customers and the hearing-imbiological ATM service must register the biological inpaired who were unable to use the smartphone formation at the branch desk or the DGB self-counter application such as IMBank. (Digital kiosk), and this system is ready for immediate use after registration. Furthermore, to prevent any leakage of biological information, the bank and Korea Financial Telecommunications and Clearings Institute disperses, stores, and manages information, which further reinforces banking stability. We have DGB Financial Group 41 41 FOCUS AREAS 04 04 Sustainable & Responsible Finance > Importance Globally, the demand for responsible business is increasing to respond to climate change and sustainable development. Especially, as the financial industry plays a key role in the economic system, stakeholders are demanding the industry to consider the effect of business activities upon society and environment. For the financial industry, it is important to secure competitiveness within the global market in order to fulfill social responsibility and prevent DGB cyber green branch sales account unexpected risks and to develop products and services that contribute to sustainability. 3,166 DGB cyber green branch > Management Method > Key Performance Indicator sales amount DGB Financial Group develops, and sells public interest type financial product for • DGB cyber green branch sales account 3,166 3,255 win-win growth with community; common • DGB cyber green branch sales million Won peoples’ financial product that supports amount 3,225 million Won the financially excluded in economic Small & medium • Small & medium business loan difficulty; and a green financial product business loan amount amount 25 trillion Won suitable for the financial group superior in environment management, and promotes • Small & medium business loan ratio 63% 25 trillion Won various activities such as social responsibil> Future Plan Small & medium business ity Investment activities, support products DGB Financial Group puts the local comloan ratio and programs for small & medium busimunity and co-prosperity first. We will fulfill nesses, and small business owners, etc. social finance by actively implementing 63 % social responsibilities as the representative regional bank and by further expanding our embracing financial support for small business owners in the region who are suffering from the economic recession. 42 42 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Inclusive Finance DGB Financial Group is fulfilling its social responsibilities through promoting sustainable finance that pursues harmony and mutual growth. For this purpose, we are offering products and various support Trustworthy Finance for tailored to the common people, and putting into Customers practice our management philosophy of ‘Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with Community'. Credit Recovery Support for the Financially Expansion of Inclusive Finance Support Vulnerable to Support 'COVID-19' Damage For four months from March 2019 to the end of DGB Daegu Bank is expanding common peoJune, DGB Daegu Bank has operated the 'DGB New ple's financial support for those who suffered Transparent DGB, Start Credit Recovery Support Program' for the from COVID-19 in 2020 among Daegu City and Sharing Dreams financially vulnerable. This program was impleAll-Right Finance Gyeongbuk region customers. We have expanded and Prosperity with mented for the purpose of granting an opportunity financial support within a total limit of 200 billion Community of recovery by debt adjustment to the financially Won and are simultaneously applying downward vulnerable in the region with economic difficulties, adjustment on interest rates for some products. DGB Financial Group is fulfilling applying the highest level of debt reduction rate. its social responsibilities When receiving common peoples’ financial loan through promoting sustainable Especially reflecting the various characteristics of applications, we expanded contactless mobile finance that pursues harmony and customers who are delinquent in repayment for Future Finance Creating App application so that customers do not need mutual growth. long-term loans, we applied a flexible reduction to submit documents and visit a branch. In adrate between 40 to 90%, along with various benedition, for customers who cannot visit a branch Value fits for reducing the burden of repayment such as among victims of 'COVID-19', the term of the loan 5-year installment programs and incentives for onis extended by contactless procedure. DGB Daegu time repayment. Bank will fulfill the responsibility as the region's representative company to overcome difficulties with our customers who feel uncomfortable with their financial life due to COVID-19 by implementing various support for regional customers. Sustainable & Major Products for Inclusive Finance Responsible Finance Classification 2017 2018 2019 Total number Total amount Total number Total amount Total number Total amount of accounts supported of accounts supported of accounts supported (unit) (KRW 100 mil) (unit) (KRW 100 mil) (unit) (KRW 100 mil) DGB Seeds of New Hope Loans 21,180 1,305 22,428 1,328 20,549 1,158 DGB Financial Group’s DGB Conversion Loans 827 641) 510 431) 375 38 Special Guarantee Loans for SMEs in 1,660 157 1,491 135 1,524 160 North Gyeongsang Province Response to COVID-19 Crisis Sunshine Loans for University Students 1,254 33 1,593 40 1,339 30 Agreement Warranty of Jointly Support Startups 15 38 15 37 11 24 Special Guarantee for Restarting after Startup Failure 2 1 9 3 21 6 Special Guarantee for Restructuring and Job Support 1,260 303 1,102 221 954 147 Special Guarantee for Stabilization of Small Business 1,466 284 1,273 209 1,088 149 Special Guarantee for Hope Share of Small Business 788 170 678 144 561 118 DGB Bridge Loan with Mid-Interest 234 24 343 31 326 23 DGB Smart & Secure Mid-range Interest Rate Loan 555 29 1,280 94 1,952 182 Workers e-Start Loan 518 17 528 17 501 19 Haetsal Loan 172) 400 32 DGB Safety Net Loan3) 53 19 55 16 1) Data reported in previous year corrected due to reporting standard amendment (based on balance) 2) 2019 new product 3) 2018 new product DGB Financial Group 43 Technology Financing DGB Daegu Bank offers low-interest technology financing loans for small and medium-sized enterprises with high growth potential and technological capacities. ‘DGB Tech Biz Loan’ offer low-interest, high-limit credit lines to outstanding SMEs and maintain close mutual cooperation with these firms and at the same time, enter into new transaction agreement. DGB Financial Group continues to verify and renew these technology financing products to ensure that they stay competitive. Selected as Specialized Institution for Technology Commercialization DGB Daegu Bank has been designated as a specialized institution for technology commercialization by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. As the first financial company to be designated as such, DGB Daegu Bank offers tech-related consulting services for business clients, who use them to attain specialized technology and market competitiveness Major Technology Finance Product (Unit: million Won) Classification 2017 2018 2019 DGB Tech Biz loan 1,311,744 1,371,079 1,246,866 Green Finance Technology type startup 63,058 44,491 42,311 DGB Financial Group supports eco-friendly management company Bank of Korea of local companies by acknowledging eco-friendly comaggregate credit ceiling system panies and incentivize with financial support and provides financial services and products taking account of their environmental impact. DGB Daegu Bank has signed an agreement with Daegu city government to support an initiative to widen the distribution of electric cars, by providing low-interest loans in the 3% range for electric vehicle buyers, installing charging stations at bank branches, and purchasing electric cars for company use. First Place in Technology DGB Cyber Green Branch Finance Evaluation by the Financial Services Commission DGB Daegu Bank operates ‘DGB cyber green branch’ which specializes in environmental protection. DGB cyber DGB Daegu Bank was selected as the green branch deals with various deposit and loan prodmost superior bank among small ucts such as eco-friendly products: Green Deposits, Green banks, according to the result of Health Installment Savings, DGB Green Loans, and DGB ‘2019 first half/second half Banking Green Cards to raise environmental awareness among technology finance performance customers. DGB Daegu Bank’s Green Card accrues evaluation’ by the Financial Services eco-friendly mileage, and its Green Deposits offer prime Commission. This evaluation reflects rates for account holders who engage in eco-friendly acnot only quantitative evaluation tivities. Some revenues from these products are allocated such as technology finance loan size to a fund that supports environmental protection efforts but also qualitative evaluation such in the region. as manpower, organization, risk management, etc. DGB Daegu Bank has received high praise in loan size, DGB Cyber Green Branch qualitative composition, support capacity, etc. Classification 2017 2018 2019 Sales account(number) 3,298 3,242 3,166 Sales amount(million Won) 2,711 3,186 3,225 44 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Green Financial Product Sales Classification 2017 2018 2019 Total number Total amount Total number Total amount Total number Total amount of accounts (million Won) of accounts (million Won) of accounts (million Won) (unit) (unit) (unit) Installment Eco-friendly Green 34 42 24 30 14 17 Trustworthy Finance for Green Health 440 3,103 428 2,889 375 2,686 Dokdo Savings 171 590 27,663 19,767 1,592 6,336 Customers In My Hands 16,317 64,389 18,481 70,962 14,313 55,227 e-U Savings 10,427 47,248 14,922 72,318 11,225 71,490 I-M Savings 2,503 3,276 7,502 25,564 6,033 26,736 Financial Eco-friendly Green 31 355 18 250 23 311 Technique Dokdo Savings 282 3,694 26,471 492,409 25,962 509,988 In My Hands 14,345 286,146 14,766 261,012 15,538 274,877 e-U Deposits 6,077 110,925 8,379 147,973 15,235 291,136 Transparent DGB, I-M Deposits 2,419 29,820 8,754 172,562 10,294 216,874 All-Right Finance Financing for Social Responsibility DGB Financial Group offers a variety of financial products to promotes socially responsible finance, such Future Finance Creating as Social Responsible Investment(SRI) funds. DGB Value Daegu Bank's 'Future Asset Love Sharing ETF Fund' is a patented product that exempts 0.5% management fee of sales amount to establish a public interest fund through love sharing bank account dedicated to donation, and makes donations under the name of customers. In the future, we will continue to build a model that creates shared value to induce positive social changes and enhance our business perforSustainable & mance as a socially responsible financial company. Responsible Finance Support for SMEs Public Service Fund Product Cooperation Agreement: DGB Daegu Bank (Unit: million Won) DGB Daegu Bank-Korea Credit Guarantee Fund Korea Technology Finance Classification 2017 2018 2019 Corporation DGB Financial Group’s Midas Responsible Investment Equity 69 84 173 In March 2019, DGB Daegu Bank signed an agreeInvestment Trust ment with the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund(KODIT) Mirae Asset Love Sharing ETF 558 450 417 Response to COVID-19 Crisis and the Korea Technology Finance Corporation(KOEquity Investment Trust TEC) to provide guarantees for small businesses inWoori G Active SRI Securities 47 53 63 cluding those that create jobs. DGB Daegu Bank will sub-Investment Trust1) provide a special contribution of 2.6 billion Won to Korea Credit Guarantee Fund and Korea Technology Finance Corporation, and support loans based on the Hi Investment & Securities Co., Ltd (Unit: million Won (based on balance)) 36 billion won worth of guarantees issued by them. Classification 2017 2018 2019 DGB Daegu Bank, as the representative regional comWoori G Active SRI Securities 430 319 283 pany, plans to further expand financial support to sub-Investment Trust(stock)2) jobcreating firms, socio-economic companies, and the self-employed through this agreement VI Social Responsible Investment 11,928 8,510 7,692 Securities Investment Trust(stock)2) 1) Fund name changed 2) Based on valuation amount at the end of relevant year DGB Financial Group 45 DGB Daegu Bank’s Efforts to Coexist with Regional SMEs Contribution of 5 billion Won to Daegu Credit Guarantee Foundation, 3 billion Won to Gyeongbuk Credit Guarantee Foundation Korea Expressway Corporation & Gyeongbuk Province Win-Win fund of 30 billion Won created Cooperation Win-Win fund contributed by POSCO, Hwashin 50 billion Won created Loan interest support for regional SMEs experiencing difficulties in management Automotive part industry classified as normal, financial support limit increased by 244 billion Won 12 trillion 400 billion Won size loan maturity deferred by 1 year for SMB manufacturing industry and livelihood retail (food) industry Inclusive Finance SMEs Corporate Management Consulting Center operated to contribute to Support Sector 1st Place for competitiveness strengthening of SMEs 2 Consecutive Years Technology finance incentive provided, dedicated product DGB Daegu Bank won the first ‘DGB TECH-BIZ loan’ management prize in small & medium business support sector, at the 2019 Inclusive Finance Financial Consumer Projection financial fraud eradication contributor prize award ceremony. Following 2018, the bank’s contriWin-Win Fund Contribution Support to Small Business Owners bution to vitalizing relationship type DGB Daegu Bank contributes funds to Win-Win Consulting Bringing Excitement to Small finance was well appreciated, as funds through cooperative arrangements with Business Owners the bank actively discovered promrelated institutions to support SMEs and small DGB Daegu Bank provides in-depth consulting to ising small & medium businesses, business owners. Along the Korea Highway Corsmall business owners who trade with branches loan support to small & medium poration, and Gyeongbuk Province, 30 billion so that they can reinforce their competitiveness businesses, and private businesses, Won Small & Medium Business Win-Win Fund through improving management. The target especially coexisting with businesswas created. With Korea Gas Corporation, 20 bilcustomers are small business owners engaged in es, etc. DGB Daegu Bank, as a bank lion Won fund, and with POSCO and Hwashin, 50 food, lodging, and wholesale or retail industries, specializing in supporting small & billion Won funds were created so that regional selected by the recommendation of branches. medium businesses, has steadily corporations would not suffer from fund shortSuch consulting is comprised of management increased loans to small & medium age. With Daegu City and Daegu Credit Guarandiagnoses such as marketing, business district & businesses to support the small & tee Foundation, we entered the ‘Financial Supmedium businesses in Daegu city location analysis, to branch management knowport Agreement for coexistence by Automotive how such as patents, professional knowledge and Gyeongbuk province experiParts manufacturer', to help with management regarding laws and taxes, and franchises. The encing difficulties in financing, with stabilization of regional auto parts companies consulting fee is fully subsidized by DGB Daegu a total asset to small & medium and contribute to the development of the reBank, and if the loan is required for the implebusiness loan balance percentage gional economy. This cooperative agreement mentation of the consultation result, the preferof 45.4% in 2019. provides a special contribution of 20 billion Won ential interest rate is provided as an incentive. to address the financial difficulties of the Daegu city 2nd and 3rd tier automotive parts compaFinancial Support for Recovery of Small nies and provides preferential interest rates. The Businesses & Small Business Owners 63% DGB Daegu Bank will fulfill its commitment to stabilize the management of small & medium businesses and small businesses, which are exDGB Daegu Bank has signed 'Gyeongbuk small business & small business owner recovery SEM Loan Ratio periencing difficulties in management, through support business agreement' with Gyeongbuk DGB Daegu Group will fulfill social efforts such as low interest rate loan support by Credit Guarantee Foundation. This is a business finance by actively implementing Win-Win Fund, and will further contribute to the agreement designed to provide business opporsocial responsibilities as the vitalization of the regional economy. tunities to small businesses and small business representative regional bank. owners who have experienced business failures through special financial support, and restore the management ecosystem and vitalize the reSmall & Medium Enterprise Loans gional economy. In addition to 2019 special loan support with Gyeongbuk Credit Guarantee FounClassification 2017 2018 2019 dation, DGB Daegu Bank supports 45 billion Won SME Loans(trillion Won) 22.0 22.0 25 guaranteed loans to small & medium businesses SME Loan Ratio(%) 64.5 63 63 and small business owners within the region. 46 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Our Impact Story 4 Regional Economy Revitalized by Providing Regional Companies with Consulting Service DGB Corporate Management Consulting Center is providing an optimal management consulting service to reinforce competitiveness and enhance the core value of Daegu City and Gyeongbuk regional corporations. Especially, based on the rich information on regional companies accumulated by DGB Daegu Bank for 53 years, the center provides solutions suitable for regional small & medium businesses and provides the merit to be linked to the government’s corporate support policy business as well as the bank’s business finance support. In 2019, we are working hard in many aspects to vitalize the regional economy through a business Eco-friendly Electric Car Manufacturer, a Propellant for High Growth! agreement with the Human Resources Development Service of Korea, Daegu-Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation Foundation, and Kyungpook National University 1 G corporation is a research company located in Technopark for the continuous growth and strengthDaegu City, which was established in December ening of global competitiveness of regional compa2012 for the domestic supply of eco-friendly electric cars. The company has completed 15 models nies, and establishment of successful startup base for up to the present through active R&D investstartup companies. Furthermore, in response to the ment for eco-friendly electric cars (two-wheeler/ central government’s policy of vitalizing social finance, three-wheeler/four-wheeler) for various purposes we grow with the socially alienated by providing free such as passenger, transportation, agricultural, consulting to Daegu self-supporting companies opand leisure vehicles. erated by the beneficiary of national basic livelihood or low-income class in the form of a joint business through a business agreement with the Daegu City 2 G corporation, with strength in a research capacity, self-support center, and by supporting free education completed the development of various eco-friendly on management capacity reinforcement. electric car models, but there was no mid to long-term In the future, DGB Corporate Management Consulting strategy to promote commercialization in earnest. So, the company was in a situation where financing Center will fulfill its social responsibility by actively was required for the expansion of production plants. supporting Daegu City/Gyeongbuk regional corporaAnd they needed to secure sales channels by product tions to sustain growth, to enhance their value through model. global competitiveness reinforcement, and supporting social corporations and self-supporting corporations so that they can stably establish themselves as main agents of economic activity. 3 DGB Corporate Management Consulting Center provided a three-fold step-by-step consulting service using government support business. In the first stage, the specific implementa4 As a result of the consulting, G corporation succeeded in tion roadmap for mid to long-term growth was established raising 6 billion won in total, with the commercialization through the commercialization and marketing strategy set and marketing promotion plan and implementation up consultation. In the second stage, the center developed roadmap. Funds have been used to expand production the corporate IR data for financing and investment attracplants, and the expanded production volume is leading tion and supported about 6 billion Won worth of loans in to new sales through newly expanded business channels. collaboration with DGB Daegu Bank branch. As the last stage, we have successfully established a pool for marketing market and explored the market channel for product sales by collecting business channel information, etc. 5 G corporation's sales scale was about 500 million Won before consulting and rapidly grew from 3.2 billion Won after the first consulting to 7 billion Won after the second and third consulting. DGB Financial Group 47 47 FOCUS AREAS 05 The COVID-19 Pandemic situation declared by the World Health Organization (WHO) on March 12, 2020 forced the 05 DGB Financial Group’s world to face a change that was never experienced before. The prolonged Response to COVID-19 crisis has changed much of our daily lives and has a significant impact on our industrial structure. In the finanCOVID-19 Crisis cial environment, financial risks such as distressed loans and falling profitability have also increased, and it is feared that the crisis will start from the vulnerable groups such as small businesses and Relieving Difficulties in the small and medium-sized enterprises and Local Community spread to all economic players. On the other hand, the fourth industrial revoInclusive Finance for People with Disaster lution, including the expansion of conVulnerability tactless transactions and the integration with Big Data and artificial intelligence In order to prevent infectious diseases, all citizens (AI), has accelerated, requiring stronger are enduring tough times in the year 2020 by practicfinancial innovation and presenting the ing strict social distancing for a long period of time. potential opportunities such as expandInevitably shrinking economic activities make it difing digital financial operations. DGB ficult for small and medium enterprises to circulate Financial Group is preparing to respond funds, and some neighbors have been hit harder by to changes in the financial environment disaster with small businesses and the working class triggered by COVID-19 from the perspecthreatened in their livelihood. DGB Financial Group tive of sustainable management. We will prepared various financial support programs to overpursue business model changes through come the disaster with neighbors in desperate need. digital innovation so as to create opportunities for new growth, while we pracOperation of DGB Field Support Group tice inclusive finance that will support DGB Financial Group operates a 'field support group' the hardship of the financially vulnerable comprised of financial experts from each affiliate to and the local community. provide comprehensive financial services such as prompt financial support to companies in Daegu and North Gyeongsang Province, which are suffering from the COVID-19 crisis. The Field Support Group consists of five members, including Synergy Business Division of DGB Financial Holding Company, credit screening 48 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Livelihood Stabilization officer and corporate consulting specialist of DGB Funds supported Daegu Bank, Research & IB specialist at Hi InvestDGB Daegu Bank is providing fiment & Securities and corporate lending specialist nancial support to the financialTrustworthy Finance for at DGB Capital, to provide financial support, interly vulnerable, including Seeds of est rate reduction, extension of deadline, provision as a part of the government's Ultra-low interest new hope loans, sunshine loan of industry information, corporate bond issuance, rate 12 trillion won financial stimulus package 17, Stham Stham easy loans, Customers IPO-related financial consulting, corporate loan program, and operates a comprehensive consultand Emergency fund loans to and leasing, and installment finance, etc. ing team for COVID-19 victims, supporting prompt the extent not exceeding 200 borrower screening through on-site visits. We are billion won to COVID-19 victim also making efforts to reduce the financial burden Special Financial Support to customers and customers residof small business owners and small and medium Small Business Owners and SMEs ing in Daegu and North Gyeongenterprises by extending to maturity of loans due sang Province who have difficulDGB Daegu Bank has supported normalization of for repayment, deferring interest for six months, ty living with wage or business Transparent DGB, companies with direct and indirect damage from deciding to permit installment payment or oneincome. Since COVID-19 victims COVID-19 through special loans up to 100 billion time payment on deferred interest. are not able to visit bank All-Right Finance won since February 2020 when confirmed cases of branches, we are trying to take COVID-19 spiked in Daegu and North Gyeongsang Infrastructure Support for Disaster good care of the customer's Province. In areas without confirmed cases of Recovery hardship such as extending the COVID-19, we expanded the scope of small busiIn addition to financial support, DGB Financial lending period without face-tonesses to be supported such as lodging and restauGroup is providing human and physical resources face consultation. rant businesses, arts, sports and leisure-related to quickly overcome the disastrous situation in Future Finance Creating services, education services, wholesale and retail businesses, health and social welfare services, etc. Daegu and North Gyeongsang Province. Since Since early April, we are operating a 100 billion won early March, DGB Daegu Bank has provided the Value inclusive finance special support program for small training center located in Chilgok-gun as a treatand medium enterprises affected by the crisis. This ment center where patients with mild symptoms can stay under the care of the medical staff. We are 2,000 program targets customer companies dealing with Daegu Bank as the main bank with 50% or more of also sending manpower to organizations that are billion Won corporate borrowings from Daegu Bank, focusing overwhelmed by heavy support workload from on manufacturing industries that are suffering COVID-19 to help them quickly proceed with work. DGB Daegu Bank is expanding from increased uncertainties, subject to limit of 50 We have sent manpower to Daegu and North financial support for common million won per borrowing company. In addition, Gyeongsang Credit Guarantee Foundation to propeople within a total limit of Sustainable & 200 billion Won. DGB Daegu Bank sells special loan products with vide guidance to customers and to screen various ultra-low interest of 1.5% for small business owners documents, and also sent personnel to 139 adResponsible Finance ministrative welfare centers in Daegu Metropolitan City for the distribution of prepaid cards and gift cards. Besides this, all branches of DGB Daegu Bank are receiving applications for the payment of emergency living funds for COVID-19 in Daegu DGB Financial Group’s Metropolitan City. Response to COVID-19 Crisis DGB Financial Group executives decided to return 20% to 40% of their monthly salary from April to July to share the pain of the local residents. The returned salary will be used to support small and medium enterprises, small business owners, and the locally vulnerable people who are suffering from COVID-19. The labor union donated about 100 million won, which was funded by voluntary donations and 1% deduction from salaries of employees. DGB Financial Group 49 Internal Measure and Preparation for The shape of our lives after the COVID-19 crisis is the Future to Overcome COVID-19 expected to change significantly. Changes in the financial market will also accelerate, including the BPR As the spread of COVID-19 caused temporary business environment. DGB Daegu Bank plans to (Business Process shut down of some of our branches, and there fully rebuild its Business Process Reengineering Reengineering) were concerns about a decrease in the number (BPR) system to automate business processes of visiting customers and a decrease in customand secure digital competitiveness in preparation DGB Daegu Bank plans to fully rebuild its Business Process er sales, we implemented various measures for future changes in the business environment. Reengineering (BPR) system throughout the bank. In response to the tempoThe BPR system is the fundamental redesign of to automate business rary closure of some branches, we designated business processes to improve key areas such as processes and secure digital and operated the secondary and third alternative cost, quality, service speed, etc. DGB Daegu Bank competitiveness in preparation branches, and implemented various business for future changes in will focus on electronic document processing, methods related to lending and deposit taking standardization of follow-up business processes, the business environment. business and customer support according to and increased application of Robotics Process the crisis response manual of each department. Automation (RPA) to respond to future business We also implemented measures to promote environments that are expected to expand contactless channel business such as training of contactless services. We expect this project to consultants, strengthening customer response create a flexible organization and infrastructure through contactless channels, marketing of onto effectively respond to changing labor patterns line product services, and establishing an online so that we would be able to provide fast and difplatform for financially supporting COVID-19. ferentiated customer services and strengthen our We also actively promoted efforts to respond to corporate competitiveness. COVID-19 in the organization including disinfection of branch premises, temporary telecommuting, employees’ mandatory wearing of masks at work, management of personal hygiene, and social distancing, etc. 50 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 2020 Anticipated Scenario (NIM) 2% ● WORST ● NORMAL ● BEST The Establishment of Management Plan in Response to Crisis Trustworthy Finance for ● Scenario-based Stress Test ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Customers ● ● ● ● DGB Daegu Bank conducted a stress test to derive ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● systemic response measures assuming an eco● ● ● ● ● ● ● nomic crisis caused by prolonged COVID-19 crisis. Although the global economies are struggling to cope with the crisis by putting forward preempJan Jun Dec tive financial policies, the economic downturn is expected to accelerate due to the simultaneous Note: Estimated scenarios are prepared as of March 2020 impact to both the financial market and the real Transparent DGB, economy. Within Korea, consumer sentiment is expected to deteriorate, and self-employed people All-Right Finance are expected to suffer distress. In particular, the risk-weighted assets, the increase rate is analyzed worsening economy of the export industry is exhigh in the oil, chemical, shipbuilding, and shippected to exert a greater economic blow to Daegu ping industries, while the loss amount is greatly and North Gyeongsang Province, as the slump in increasing in the wholesale and retail industries major industries such as automobiles, machinery, Action Plan for Crisis Response Future Finance Creating steel and textiles intensifies. DGB Daegu Bank analyzed the impact to the bank Based on the stress tests, DGB Daegu Bank drew Value based on the macroeconomic variable scenarios detailed action plans and roadmaps, including in the first and second year after the outbreak of risk management, streamlining management efCOVID-19. Changes in assets and capital are exficiency, and customer management, and divided pected along with the possibility of expanded risks the tasks and roles for each department. We are such as decrease in normal loans and increased also checking corporate asset status in overseas provisioning. In the case of the equity ratio, the markets such as China, Vietnam, Myanmar, and risk of ratio shrinkage is increased as it is expected Cambodia and strengthening asset soundness to fall more than 1% in the first year and slightly management. Sustainable & greater in the second year. For expected losses, it Responsible Finance is estimated that the increasing rate is high in automobiles and construction, and the loss amount is larger in real estate and leasing. In case of Direction of Crisis Response Direction Contents DGB Financial Group’s Enhancing risk ·M  onitoring lending and deposit taking interest rates and Response to COVID-19 Crisis management adjusting interest rate flexibly ·P  romotion of marketing plan in response to COVID-19 (vitalization of contactless channels, differentiation of merchantability, channel convenience, etc.) ·P  lan for applying flexible field-oriented branch performance evaluation, etc. Streamlining the ·S  treamlining the operational efficiency of the headquarters operational efficiency ·P  ursuing maximized productivity of human resources management ·R  eview of measures to reduce sales & management costs and overheads, etc. Strengthening ·E  xpanding contactless channel sales and pursuing customer management strengthening multifarious customer relationships DGB Financial Group 51 PART 3 SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 52 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 54 55 / Sustainable Management Strategy Special Page 56 57 / DGB's Commitment to UN SDGs 58 59 / Stakeholder Engagement 60 61 / Sustainability Expert Meeting 62 63 / Materiality Analysis Process and Results DGB Financial Group 53 Sustainability Overview Sustainable Management Strategy Direction DGB Financial Group has established 5 strategic diand the group's vision, 'Best Partner Building the Future of Sustainable rections and 10 strategic tasks by linking the group's Together'. DGB Financial Group draws up specific immanagement policy with sustainable management plementation tasks for each of the top 10 strategic tasks Management strategy in order to realize the management philosophy and promotes continuous practice through establishing Strategy of 'Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with Community' goals and performance indicators. Direction of Sustainable Management Strategy MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with community MANAGEMENT Best Partner Building the Future Together VISION MANAGEMENT POLICY Communication Accomplishment Human Resource Establishment of Proper Escalating group synergy Nurturing financial experts and Responsible Management Digital Finance Level-up Activating Proactive Organization Dynamic DGB Embodiment Systematic Risk Management Noticeable Innovation Challenge Communication Network Expansion SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT STRATEGY ❶ Sustainable Performance Continue to grow business networks in Daegu / Gyeongbuk and other regions R&D enhancement Future-Oriented to respond to market changes Strategic ❷ Sound Governance Management Independence and transparency of the Board of Directors / Enhancement of the Sustainable Management Committee operation ❸ Creating Customer Value Customer Improvement of stakeholder’s accessibility / Prevention of financial accidents through IT Satisfaction security enhancement / Education program operation for sustainable consumption Management ❹ Sustainable Finance Sustainable development and sale of socially responsible financial products ❺ Human Resource Development and Support Enhancement Reinforcement of talent nurturing system / Fair performance evaluation and compensation system of Organizational ❻ Employee Satisfaction Management Competence Establishment of human rights management system Pursuit of work and life balance ❼ Crisis and Change Management Establishment of integrated risk management system Risk Compliance with the Codes of Conduct and enhancement of ethical management Management ❽ Enhancement of Environmental Management Efficient use of resources and response to climate change / Spread eco-friendly culture and awareness of environment ❾ Win-Win Partnerships Laying the foundation for shared growth with business partners / Creating Shared Supports for partners’ CSR education and competence enhancement Value ❿ Community Engagement and Development Community-tailored social contribution activities / Social contribution programs that reflect the characteristics of financial industry 54 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Sustainable DGB Financial Group organized and operates the susGroup’s economic, environmental, and social issues, Management tainable management committee in which the chairman and establishes the detailed strategy and promotes of the Group serves as the chair of the committee. The implementation program through practice councils of 4 Initiatives sustainable management committee is in charge of the sectors (sustainable finance, ethical corporate culture, group’s sustainable management related major decisocial contribution, environmental management counsion-making, endeavoring to develop and improve the cil). Important issues related to sustainable managegroup’s sustainable management through monitoring ment derived by the working council are reviewed by the effects and performance of economic & environmental & council chairman and reported to the sustainable mansocial activities. agement committee, the highest governance body, and are subject to final review & authorization procedure by The sustainable management practice council is orgathe Chair (DGB Financial Group chairman). nized and operated under the sustainable management committee. The sustainable management practice council is convened twice a year to identify effects and opportunity, and crisis factor related to DGB Financial Sustainable Management Committee of DGB Financial Group Sustainable Management Committee Chair: Group chairman Sustainable Finance Council Sustainable Management Working Council Ethical Corporate Chair: Director of DGB Research Institute Culture Council (Director of Holding Company) Working Group: Green Finance Group Social Contribution Council Environmental Management Council DGB Hi Investment DGB Life DGB Asset DGB Data DGB Credit DGB Capital DGB U-PAY Daegu Bank & Securities Insurance Management System Information Sustainable Date Details Organization Management 2019.10.18 Awarded the Korean Sustainability Conference’s Korean Standards Association Achievements “Korean Reader’s Choice Award (KRCA) for 6 consecutive years 2019.10.22 Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Korea list for S&P Dow Jones Indices/ Robeco 11 consecutive years and the Asia-Pacific list for 10 consecutive years SAM/Korea Productivity Center 2019.10.24 Selected as UNGC(UN global compact) UNGC Korean Association 「Responsible finance leading corporation (LEAD member)」 2019.12.12 DGB social contribution foundation, Awarded Financial Kyunghyang Newspaper/ Committee Chairman’s Prize at ‘The 14th Kyunghyang Financial Financial Supervisory Service/ Education Grand Prize’ Credit Counseling & Recovery Service 2019.12.31 DGB Daegu Bank won the first prize at the Inclusive Finance Financial Financial Supervisory Service Consumer Protection financial fraud eradication contributor award ceremony in 2019. DGB Financial Group 55 SPECIAL PAGE DGB's Commitment to UN SDGs DGB Financial Group 193 countries around the world adopted 17 Sustainable dignified life for all. DGB Financial Group is managing 5 and UN SDGs Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 specific targets, sustainable management strategies in connection with as the joint target for international sustainable develSDGs targets and specific targets and wants to resolve opment in September 2015. SDGs are international the social problems surrounding DGB Financial Group society's commitments that all of the government, and contribute to the successful achievement of the UN corporations, and civil society must fulfill together to SDGs 2030 Goal. end poverty on earth and create an opportunity for a Custome r sat isfa ctio y n ma cit na apa ge lc m en na t tio 4.4 12.6 za Ensure inclusive and Ensure sustainable Stre equitable quality education consumption and production ngt he and promote lifelong learning patterns nin opportunities for all go fo rg an i 5.1, 5.5 10.4 Achieve gender equality Reduce income inequality and empower all women within and among countries and girls n of shared value Creatio DGB Financial Group and UN SDGs 7.A 9.3 Build resilient Ensure access to affordable, infrastructure, promote reliable, sustainable and inclusive and sustainable modern energy for all. industrialization, and foster innovation. 13.1, 13.3 8.3, 8.10 Take urgent action to combat Promote sustained, inclusive man climate change and its impacts and sustainable economic Risk by regulating emissions and growth, full and productive ag em promoting developments in employment and decent en renewable energy. work for all. t t en gem na ma ategy str Future 56 56 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB's Strategy and Performance DGB Strategy Our Approach Performance Future Strategy To vitalize economic activities in Daegu KPIs 2018 2019 Management City/Gyeongbuk region, we continue to develop financial products and services Job created by nurturing social 24 26 for all, including small business owners, corporation (persons) college students, startup companies, failed Technology finance (million Won) 1,415,570 1,289,177 startup companies, job-creating companies, SMEs loan (trillion Won) 22.0 25 technology startup companies, etc. Decent work and economic Inclusive Finance (100 mil. Won) 2,321 2,102 growth Customer Satisfaction We are promoting financial product sales KPIs 2018 2019 Management and consumption activities that guarantee a better life for the future generation by Green finance product sales 1,265,736 1,455,678 supporting the green finance preferring (million Won) fund for regional companies that endeavor SRI fund product sales 587 653 to minimize the negative effects on the (million Won) Responsible production and environment. consumption Enhancement of We provide fair and good quality education KPIs 2018 2019 Organizational opportunities to not only the socially vulnerable Competence such as the disabled, multicultural family but Youth scholarship business (persons) 181 237 also future generations of the local community Youth mentoring business (persons) 60 66 in primary, middle and high schools, and continue investment for ability enhancement Women’s ratio among 43.7% 43.9% of executives and staff members. In addition, total staff members we adopted the principle of no sexual Female manager ratio 21.8% 22.9% Quality education/ Gender equality discrimination in recruitment, performance evaluation, promotion, etc. Risk Management Through eco-friendly project financing, we KPIs 2018 2019 promote clean energy investment such as waste energy and wind power generation Renewable energy usage (TJ) 0.19 0.30 and participate in global initiatives such as Greenhouse gas emissions 22,396 24,549* TCFD and SBTi to minimize climate risk and (Total, tCO2e) strengthen climate action. Affordable and clean energy / Eco-friendly project financing 68,355 63,035 Climate action disbursement (million Won) Creation of Shared We are promoting group-wide Digital KPIs 2018 2019 Value Innovation to provide financial services that are not limited by time and space. We are Number of online customers 240 239 expanding contactless channel products (10,000 persons) such as Internet banking and mobile Fintech investment amount 2,346 5,036 banking, and continue to invest to secure (million Won) fintech technologies. Furthermore, we are Patent application (cases) 10 11 Industry, innovation, contributing to preventing financial damage andinfrastructure / Finance & economy education to 47,932 65,905 to the financially excluded in the region Reduced inequalities the financially excluded (persons) and mitigate inequality through education on finance and economy to the financially vulnerable comprised of the disabled, multicultural families, and senior citizens. * Expanded scope of the reporting, refer to page 99 of this report for details. DGB Financial Group 57 57 Sustainability Overview Stakeholder Engagement Selection and DGB Financial Group classified stakeholders into 3 business partner, government and related institution, Classification of groups: core stakeholders, strategic stakeholders, and etc. as core and strategic stakeholders group. DGB Finanother stakeholders according to the level of legal & financial Group established a healthy trust relationship with Stakeholders cial & operational responsibility and effects thereof of stakeholders by identifying the needs by stakeholders the classification standard on stakeholders suggested by group by actively responding and sharing them focusing ISO 26000, and defined executives and staff members, on genuine communication with stakeholders and their shareholders and investors, customers, local community, participation activities. Mapping and Grouping on Stakeholders In case DGB Core stakeholders | Executives and staff Financial Group is exposed members, shareholders and investors, Other to legal, financial, and stakeholders customers operational responsibility Strategic stakeholders | Business partner, labor union, local community strategic strategic stakeholders stakeholders Other(Environmental) stakeholders | Government, local community and related core stakeholders institution, the socially disadvantaged such as Other Other temporary employees, NPO, media stakeholders stakeholders strategic In case of affecting stakeholders DGB Financial Group’s In case of being affected by performance DGB Financial Group’s operation Communication Stakeholders Communication Channels (regular) Issue of Interest DGB’s Response Channels Employees 〮 Intranet 〮 Encourage horizontal corporate culture/ 〮 Operate DGB Young Frontier (incl. labor union) 〮 Employee Satisfaction Survey communication 〮H  old face-to-face talks with 〮 Labor-Management Meeting and 〮 Working environment/ president of the bank Conference welfare benefits 〮 Execute “SMART Leisure-Tech” 〮 Vice-manager Meeting 〮 Develop and strengthen capabilities campaign 〮 CEO meeting 〮 Fair assessment and compensation Stakeholders and 〮 DGB Financial Group Website (DGB IR) 〮 Improve profitability/dividend policy 〮 Expand entry into global markets Investors 〮 Board of directors 〮 Sustainable growth/risk management 〮 Provide management transparency, 〮 General meeting of shareholders 〮 Secure management assessment results and IR data 〮 IR activities transparency(greater disclosure) 〮 Practice sound governance Customers 〮 Website 〮 Quality and safety management of 〮 Operate DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel 〮 Customers panel products and services 〮 Appoint 1 CS manager per branch (‘DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel’ ) 〮 Customer information protection 〮 Operate during weekends/ holidays 〮 Customers Satisfaction Survey 〮 Resolve complaints 〮 Customer Protection Report (‘Caring 〮 Strengthen communication with Companion’) / 〮 C  EO forum customers 〮 Honorary Branch Manager Meeting 〮 Superior Small & Medium Business CEO Meeting Partner 〮 Website 〮 Win-win cooperation/mutual growth 〮 Hosting DGB Financial Group business Companies 〮 Business Partners Meeting 〮 Fair trade partners’ win-win meeting 〮 Provide management consulting service for business partners Local 〮 Website 〮 Expand social contribution 〮 Operate DGB Companion Volunteer Communities/ 〮 DGB Daegu Bank Social Contribution 〮 Create jobs and boost investment Corps NGO Activity Report 〮 Operate Bluebird Senior 〮 Continuously strengthen the 〮 DGB Companion Corps/DGB Economic communication Happy Work program Education Corps 〮 Hold NIE Energy Diary Contest 〮 Love Your Hometown Campaign 〮 Operate Dream Tree Educational 〮 Dream Education Project group Foundation 〮 DGB University Student Supporters Central/ Local 〮 Website 〮 Compliance with laws and regulations 〮 Compliance with code of ethics Government 〮 Government-Funded Research Project 〮 Tax payments/policy cooperation 〮 Education on Improper Solicitation and and related 〮 Hearing & Conference Graft Act 〮 Public-private cooperative partnership Organizations 〮 Interview and Survey 58 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Interview In order to practice sustainable management, DGB institution, local community, investor, and others. The with stakeholders Financial Group have conducted interviews to gather stakeholders’ opinions identified through the interview the opinions of our stakeholders, including customers, are used to establish a sustainable management strategy employees, labor union, business partners, related for the DGB Financial Group. Customer Business Partner “ I've been doing business with DGB Daegu Bank for a long time “ Daekyung TMS is a business partner that sends personnel since I started my business. Daegu Bank is the pride of the local to Daegu Bank. I work at the bank with pride because welfare community through contributions such as building DGB Daegu benefits and education at Daegu Bank are also provided to Bank Park, the home stadium of Daegu FC. As the local people employees of business partners who work together. Recently, are very loyal to the bank, we look forward to seeing DGB get customers' familiarity with DGB seems to be receding due to the along with the citizens in the future. We hope the bank will condisappearance of the guest room for the neighborhood due to tinue to exert efforts to reduce costs through efficient operation the reduction of Daegu Bank branches, and as the younger genand to gain an edge in competition with major metropolitan eration moves to metropolitan banks. It will be helpful to pour banks in terms of loans and interest rates for the working class.” efforts such as considering the accessibility of loyal customers in their 40s or older when transacting through contactless chanMr. Jeon Chung-gi / DGB Daegu Bank Preferred Customer nels, and providing cultural spaces for teenagers and people in their 20s in terms of social contribution.” Local Community Hwang Hae-soo / Daekyung TMS Manager “ Daegu is concerned about the environment and health, especially as local residents can experience problems such as Related Institution heatwave and air quality. I think DGB Financial Group has a role to play in leading the local community as a symbolic company “ The Korea Institute of Environmental Industry and Technolin Daegu. We look forward to the bank actively supporting civic ogy provides enVinance (environment+ finance) system to activities such as the campaign to promote the use of bicycles promote green financial activities of financial institutions. The such as bicycle mileage by integrating the health and environsystem was developed at the request of the financial sector and mental issues of local residents into products.” was designed to help financial institutions provide financial Jung Hyeon-Su / Daegu Sustainable Development Council benefits to eco-friendly companies. DGB Financial Group plays Chairman a pivotal role in supporting small and medium-sized businesses in the community. If DGB Financial Group encourages the practice of environmental management to small and medium Labor Union businesses by providing incentives using the enVinance system, it will be of great help in solving environmental problems.” “ DGB Financial Group members' high sense of unity, loyalty, Bae A-yeong / Korea Institute of Environmental Industry pride, unity, and ability to overcome crises, and immersion and Technology Researcher are the greatest competitive edge. In the future, we should strengthen the cooperation and trust between labor and management with a 'human-centered management' that considers Investor job security within the changes in the financial industry such as digitalization, etc. In addition, we need to actively participate “ Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) means considering in the process of financial policy-making, voice our voices, and the company's environmental, social and governance (ESG) focus on business diversification internally to strengthen the performance as an investment standard, and has become a foundation for future growth and enhance corporate value in global trend owing to the policy of the public pension funds the long term.” and the increase in long-term investment. This is based on the Kim Jeong-won / The Korean Federation of Financial Industry perception that ESG elements are helpful to the company's Workers, Daegu Bank branch, Union Leader competitiveness and are further linked to return on investment. Recently, domestic financial institutions have increased their interest in ESG due to not only market trends but also domestic Executives & Staff Members policy support. I hope DGB Financial Group strengthen the management of ESG element that can affect brand reputation “ I think a good company, long-lasting company, and reputaand further promote responsible investment in order to gain ble company brings happiness to stakeholders. DGB Financial competitiveness in the market.” Group can achieve sustainable management only when the Hwang Woo-taek / Korea Investment Trust Management group faithfully fulfills its social responsibility to provide liquidity Company Manager to low-income families and small and medium-sized companies, and pursues diversification of profits in line with the rapid pace of changes in the financial paradigm. I look forward to the group growing steadily with a balance of profitability and soundness.” Woo Sang-ho / DGB Financial Holdings Deputy General Manger DGB Financial Group 59 Sustainability Overview Sustainability Expert Meeting DGB Financial Group held ‘2020 DGB Financial Group’s agement activities. The specialist meeting validated the Sustainability Expert Meeting’ which is composed of materiality analysis results and collected feedback on the experts in economics, society, and the environment to past reports as well as various opinions on the direction share the domestic and international sustainable manDGB Financial Group should take regarding sustainable agement trends surrounding the financial market and management in the future. to discuss the direction of the Group's sustainable manInformation Disclosure “ Recently, there is a trend of different levels of interest from generation to generation and Effective on sustainable management issues. For Millennial generation and Z generation, the environmental issue is always at the top of the list. According to this year's materiality analyCommunication with sis result, the priority of the environmental issue was discovered to be low, and there is a Stakeholders need to check the balance by age in the stakeholder pool. By expanding communication with future generations and identifying the area of interest, the direction should be set so that DGB Financial Group can be sustainable in the future. Sustainable management requires identifying and reporting on the impact of business activities on society and the environment. In order to effectively communicate the impact, it is also a good idea to organize storytelling in reports that can be easily understood by stakeholders in addition to the results and data-oriented information disclosure. ” Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, researcher Kim Jae-eun “ Disclosure of sustainable management information is purposed to monitor its strategy and performance, and to this end, important indicators are set, and target, as well as progress is disclosed. In case of environment-related data, DGB Financial Group’s report generally shows a good picture of target versus target performance, but in a social aspect, the target is inadequate. For the purpose of clear communication on the fact that DGB Financial Group has identified ESG1) opportunity factors and is managing risks, we ask DGB to elaborate further on the detailed target and performance, and pay more attention to linking it to the improvement plan. ” Sustainability Management Foundation center head Park Joo-won “ The environmental issue to which financial institutions are required to respond is regarded as the propagation of green finance rather than the internal reduction performance of greenhouse gas emissions. In the report, contents such as green finance-related strategy and directionality, risk management, the discovery of opportunity element, development of product, and service should be disclosed. As DGB Financial Group revealed its commitment to green finance such as signing UNEP FI2)’s Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), I suggest DGB to faithfully disclose related information and progress status. ” Korea Corporate Governance Service, researcher Oh Deok-gyo “ As a sustainable management report must contain multiple contents altogether, there is a concern that readability and information quality would be reduced. Centered around global corporations, recently, there are often cases where the separate report is composed by issue. It is necessary to consider publishing two reports, comprised of a sustainable management report focused on key information and a separate report on details. ” UNGC Network Korea department head Lee Eun-gyeong 1) Environment, Society, Governance 2) UN Environmental Program Finance Initiative 60 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Date & Time February 6, 2020, 3 PM Place Seoul DGB Financial Center Participants Institute for Industrial Policy Studies researcher Kim Jae-eun, Sustainability Management Foundation center head Park Joo-won, Korea Corporate Governance Service researcher Oh Deok-gyo, UNGC Network Korea department head Lee Eun-gyeong, Korea Sustainability Investing Forum secretary-general Lee Jong-oh Sustainable “ As the government implements policy support to social corporations and social inManagement Trend novation, current interest is highly centered on public institutions. In this regard, even DGB Financial Group’s social contribution activities need to be rechecked from the perand Proposal for a spective of social innovation. It is necessary to first define the problems which the local Direction community is facing, and verify the problems that can be resolved by the key capacities of DGB Financial Group in connection to practical performance. It means that can cooperate with social corporations in the problem solving process is pursued, the creation of even a greater social value would be achievable. Furthermore, the strategies and policies implemented at the group level should ultimately be prepared by each affiliate. To achieve this, education on affiliates’ sustainable management capacity reinforcement must be considered. ” Sustainability Management Foundation center head Park Joo-won “ Since the UN announced Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP)3), efforts to implement UNGP have been generalized in global corporations. UNGP is the only international standard related to human rights and is the foundation of human rights management. In the financial industry, violation of human rights related to a consumer’s personal information protection may become a sensitive issue. There is a need to specifically practice UNGP based human rights management such as evaluating human rights risk by stakeholders and setting up an improvement plan. ” Korea Corporate Governance Service, researcher Oh Deok-gyo “ Response to gender equality issue is recently required such as amendment of domestic Capital Market Act and strengthened demands for diversity in organizing the board of directors. The percentage of female staff members in DGB Daegu Bank amounts to 40%, but in comparison to such numbers, there is a lack of attention. Already city banks are responding to the gender equality issue using the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family‘s gender balance embracing growth partnership autonomous agreement or Bloomberg’s gender equality index, etc. There is a need for overall review and management of gender equality policy and performance such as concrete policy support, supporting measures for females within the local community in addition to the management of female manager ratio. ” UNGC Network Korea department head Lee Eun-gyeong “ Through movements such as National Pension’s subscription to stewardship code, and acquisition of a shareholding in financial institutions, exercising of shareholders’ rights are expected to be strengthened. The means for effectively responding to the constant exercising of shareholder’s rights such as requests for talks, letters, exercising of voting rights must be prepared, and this would be one of the measures that can prevent ESG risk. Furthermore, requests for asset soundness information related to climate change from financial regulatory bodies such as the Bank of Korea or the Financial Supervisory Service are expected to be strengthened. Preemptive response to these environmental changes are required through TCFD4) participation and target management, etc. ” Korea Sustainability Investing Forum secretary-general Lee Jong-oh 3) United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 4) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure DGB Financial Group 61 Sustainability Overview Materiality Assessment Process and Results Materiality DGB Financial Group has conducted a materiality hensive evaluation of the stakeholders' interest level Assessment Process assessment taking into consideration factors recomand business effects through online and offline surveys mended by ISO 26000 and GRI Standards, which inupon internal & external stakeholders. Finally, in order clude sustainability context, materiality, completeness, to enhance the completeness and effectiveness of imand stakeholder inclusiveness. To identify the Group’s portance evaluation, we collected the opinions of exterkey sustainable management issues, we have carried nal specialists in the sustainable management field and out analysis of international standards, benchmarking reviewed the materiality and impact by an issue with of leading-companies in sustainable management, methe internal person in charge. dia research, etc., and selected a total of 16 issue pools. The priority of the issue was determined by a compreSTEP 1. ❶ Media analysis · 2,952 articles related to DGB Financial Group analyzed from Material issue selection Jan. 1, 2019 to Dec. 15, 2019. (Identification) ❷ International standard and industry material issue research · GRI1), SASB2), Robeco SAM industry material issue analysis · Global and domestic financial institution material issue benchmarking STEP 2. ❸ Stakeholders’ interest level · Analysis by major stakeholders such as customers, business partners, Prioritization / local community, etc. Materiality assessment · 827 responses through online & offline survey ❹ Business impact · Impact upon DGB Financial Group management activities are evaluated from the perspective of internal executives and staff members · 245 responses through online & offline survey STEP 3. ❺ External specialist review · Review of issues by sustainable management experts Validation ❻ Final selection after internal review · Review by DGB Financial Holding Company Research Institute 1) Global Reporting Initiative 2) Sustainability Accounting Standard Board 62 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Materiality After a comprehensive consideration of stakeholders’ sustainable financial product, etc., have been selected Assessment Result interest and business impacts and review by experts, 10 as material issues following the preliminary year report, issues out of 16 results were chosen as material issues. issues related to financial institutions' reliability such as The sustainable management activities and perforresponsible financial product, service operation, secumance of DGB Financial Group related to each issue are rity, risk management, etc. were newly selected due to shown transparently throughout this report. some financial institutions' incomplete sales situation reported recently in the media. While issues such as competitiveness reinforcement in digital finance, customers satisfaction service issue, and Materiality Assessment Result ❶ Cybersecurity enhancement and personal information protection ← Stakeholders’ interest ❷ Ethical management such as corruption prevention and internal control enhancement ❸ Digital financial competitiveness improvement ❹O peration of risk management system that enables agile response to rapidly changing financial environment ❺ Establish a transparent and sound governance structure ❻ Continuous customer attraction through customer satisfaction service ❼ Establish a sustainable business strategy ❽A chieve stable management performance centered around 〮 Securing of talent and executives and staff profitability and soundness members’ capacity enhancement ❾ Responsible management of financial product and service 〮 Stakeholders human rights protection ❿R isk response due to climate change and discovery of opportunity element 〮 Respect to diversity of executives and staff members and provision of equal opportunity 〮 Contribution activities to the local community using core capacity of the financial industry 〮 Providing financial service easily accessible by the financially vulnerable (inclusive finance) 〮 Operation of eco-friendly place of business Business impact → Issue Sustainable management strategy Ranking change Reporting Page connection from prior year threshold ❶ Cybersecurity enhancement and personal Customers satisfaction management: new internal/ 22~23 information protection creation of customer value external ❷ Ethical management such as corruption preRisk management: rise internal/ 28~33 vention and internal control enhancement risk and change management external ❸ Digital financial competitiveness Future strategy management: fall internal 36~38 improvement creation of sustainable performance ❹ Operation of risk management system that Risk management: new internal 68~69 enables agile response to rapidly changing risk and change management financial environment ❺ Establish a transparent and sound Future strategy management: new internal 66~68 governance structure sound governance ❻ Continuous customer attraction through Customers satisfaction management: fall internal/ 18~22 customer satisfaction service creation of customer value external ❼ Establish a sustainable business strategy Future strategy management: even internal 54~55 creation of sustainable performance ❽ Achieve stable management performa nce Future strategy management: fall internal 89~93 centered around profitability and soundness creation of sustainable performance ❾R  esponsible management of financial Customers satisfaction management: new internal 42~47 product and service sustainable finance ❿ Risk response due to climate change and Risk management: enhancement of new internal 82~83 discovery of opportunity element environmental management DGB Financial Group 63 PART 4 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 64 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 66 69 / Governance 70 71 / Environment 72 81 / Society Special Page 82 83 / Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Special Page 84 85 / UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) DGB Financial Group 65 Sustainability Performance Governance Independence of Board of Directors Number of Board Meeting Held (Unit: Times) The decision-making DGB Financial Group is committed to implement2017 2018 2019 structure in corporate ing transparent management and rational decision 10 16 13 management can be making by establishing sound governance. Espeidentified through cially, six of seven board members are independent governance structure and directors, reinforcing supervi­sory function as the Board Meeting Attendance (Unit: %) risk management process. fundamental mandate of the board of directors. In addition we ensure expertise in decision-making 2017 2018 2019 The capacity to quickly process by nominating specialists of various fields 100 95.6 100 detect changes in external such as finance, management, accounting, law, IT, environment and operate HR, etc. as our independent directors. the company in the proper Board meetings are divided into regular and direction is essential for Composition and Operation of Board of non-regular meetings, and majority attendance the long term survival of a Directors and majority approval of the attending directors company. DGB Financial are needed to pass board resolutions. Below the DGB Financial Group's board of directors is the Group is constantly board level, there are also seven committees, group's highest decision-making body, consisting striving to strengthen which are being operated independently and of one executive director and six independent diits competitiveness by transparently. rectors. In order to facilitate the smooth operation establishing a sound of the board of directors and appropriate execution Diversity and expertise in the governance structure and of the roles and responsibilities required by law and composition of the Board systematically managing internal regulations, we have appointed the chairTo ensure the expertise and independence of our risks. man of the board of directors from independent board members, DGB Financial Group is permadirectors every year since 2018, and composed six nently running Independent Director Candidate out of seven board of directors as independent diRecommendation Committee , which is made rectors verified of their independence. Composition of Board of Directors Division Name Sex Age Tenure Background Executive Kim, male 66 2018.05.31-2021 CEO, DGB Financial Group director Tae-oh (regular shareholders’ meeting) Fmr. CEO, Hana HSBC Life Insurance IndeKwon, male 64 2020.03.26 ~ 2022.03.26 Non-standing advisor, Law firm Yulchon pendent Hyeok-se Fmr. 8th Governor, Financial Supervisory Service directors (chairman) Fmr. Vice-Chairman, Financial Services Commission Cho, male 66 2019.03.28 ~ 2021.03.28 Auditor, Shinhung Co., Ltd. Sun-ho Fmr. Statutory Auditor and Advisory Committee Member, Hana Bank Fmr. Secretary-General of Credit Counseling and Recovery Service, Financial Supervisory Service Lee, Dam male 60 2018.03.23 ~ 2022.03.26 Representative Lawyer, A&K Partners Fmr. Judge, Daegu District Court Fmr. President, Daegu Bar Association Lee, male 58 2020.03.26 ~ 2022.03.26 Fmr. Vice-Chairman in charge of business, Seong-dong Public Officials Benefit Association Fmr. Executive Managing Director of Asset Management, Heungkuk Life Insurance Fmr. CEO, Heungkuk Asset Management Lee, male 58 2019.03.28 ~ 2021.03.28 Executive of Human Resources, Oracle Korea Sangyeop Fmr. Director of Human Resources, CBRE Korea Fmr. Director of Human Resources (Vice President), Hewlett-Packard Korea Lee, male 57 2019.03.28 ~ 2021.03.28 Vice President, Korean Accounting Association Jin-bok Chairman, Daegu Regional Institute of Certified Public Accountants Fmr. Professional Standards Committee Member, National Court Administration 66 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Internal Committees Committee Name Composition Primary Roles Remuneration Chair : Lee Dam Decisions related to compensation changes, Committee Members : Lee Seong-dong, Lee Jin-bok employee pay, etc. Risk Management Chair: Kwon Hyeok-se Establish base risk management policy and strategy to Committee Members : Lee Sang-yeop, Lee Seong-dong maintain Group’s management soundness and stability Audit Committee Chair : Cho Sun-ho Carry out audits of company and affiliates’ business and Members : Lee Dam, Lee Jin-bok assets, and subsequent review and resolution Group Executive Candidate Chair : Kwon Hyeok-se Tasks related to affiliate CEO candidate Recommendation Committee Members : Cho Sun-ho, Lee Sang-yeop, Kim Tae-oh recommendations CEO Candidate Recommendation Chair : Kwon Hyeok-se Tasks related to CEO candidate recommendations Committee Members : Cho Sun-ho, Lee Dam, Lee Sangyeop, Lee Seong-dong, Lee Jin-bok Independent Director Candidate Chair : Lee Dam Tasks related to independent directors Recommendation Members : Lee Sang-yeop, Lee Seong-dong, Lee Jin-bok candidate recommendations Tasks related to independent directors Chair : Cho Sun-ho Tasks related to audit committee member candidate recommendations Members : Kwon Hyeok-se, Lee Dam, Lee Sang-yeop, recommendations Lee Seong-dong, Lee Jin-bok up of 4 independent directors. The Group also runs an Indecommittee in consideration with the man­agement perforpendent Director Preliminary Candidate Recommendation mance and the term of service in office. System, giving voting rights at the shareholders’ general In case of short-term performance bonus and long-term permeeting to shareholders who have held at least one share. In formance compensation, 40% is paid in cash. The balance addition, to ensure the expertise and diversity of the board, is paid deferred in payment by equal distribution for 3 years the members have been chosen from a number of fields such in translation to stock and then linked to the share price as as finance, accounting/financial, legal, IT/digital, HR/risk, etc. of the base date. Transparency in compensation payment is so that they are not concentrated on a particular background reinforced by the policy adopted to claw back performance and occupation. Independent directors are appointed after compensation in case of personal negligence in business or review by the Independent Director Candidate Recommendadeterioration in management performance. In case of a standtion Committee according to relevant laws such as the Act on ing director with two concurrent offices (chairman), compenCorporate Governance of Financial Companies, Commercial sation is paid in advance by the originally affiliated company, Law, and Articles of Incorporation. The appointed indepenand is subsequently settled according to business sharing ratio dent directors should have sufficient expertise or knowledge between two affiliates. The highest compensation in 2019 was in a relevant field without discrimination based on gender, 6.35 times the mean value of all executives and staff members. race or ethnicity, nationality or cultural background. Evaluation on Board of Directors Performance Evaluation and Compensation on Board of Directors Executive Director The director's compensation is paid by classifying the compensation into basic and performance incentives (short-term Quantitative assessment Qualitative assessment performance-based bonus, long-term performance based cash compensation) within the amount authorized by the Independent Director general meeting of shareholders. The short-term performance bonus is determined by the Remuneration committee External Assessment according to the performance evaluation results set by the management performance evaluation and compensation Level of contribution Level of Expertise standard. The long-term performance based cash compenFaithfulness Actual activity hours vs. plan sation is determined by long-term evaluation remuneration Board Operation & Appointment of Independent Directors Remuneration Committee General Shareholders’ Risk Management Committee Meeting Audit Committee Group Executive Candidate Report Appointment Recommendation Committee Independent Director Report Recommendation CEO Candidate Board Meeting Candidate Recommendation Recommendation Committee Committee Advice and Independent Director Candidate Report Supervision Recommendation Committee Report Audit Committee Member Candidate Management Audit Recommendation Committee DGB Financial Group 67 Shareholder Status (Unit: %) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Foreign shareholder ratio 60.80 65.01 52.9 Largest shareholder in 4.83 2.48 2.43 overseas The Oakmark International The Oakmark International The Oakmark International Small Cap Fund Small Cap Fund Small Cap Fund Domestic Shareholder ratio 39.20 34.99 47.10 Largest domestic shareholder 6.95 Samsung Life Insurance 6.95 Samsung Life Insurance 6.09 National Pension Service Shareholder Composition Risk Management System Number of shares issued by DGB Financial Group is Classification and Definition of Risk 169,145,833 shares as of December 31, 2019. The largest shareholder is National Pension Service with 6.09%. The DGB Financial Group classifies risks into primary risk (credit, largest foreign shareholder is the Oakmark International market, operation, credit concentration, interest rate, insurSmall Cap Fund with 2.43%. ance risk) and general risk (liquidity, strategy, reputation, other risk) for management. Risk Management DGB Financial Group is proceeding with systemic risk Emerging Risk management to minimize any damage by preemptively DGB Financial Group defined the risks that can have long responding to various financial environmental change, term effects on the group's management as an emerging risk and financial and non-financial risks such as the econoand implements activities to manage such risks. Especially, my, climate change, social issues, etc. In 2019, we are prethe group selected and manages 'Digital risk' and 'informaparing to identify and manage ESG risk along with signing tion disclosure according to TCFD recommendations’ as a UNEP FI’s Principles of Responsible Banking (PRB) and major emerging risk. participa­ting in Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Classification and Definition of Risk Primary risk Credit risk This means the risk that can occur due to default of transaction counterpart or nonperformance of agreement, and includes residual risk, liquidity risk and credit risk by country occurring in relation to overseas sector Market risk Risks occurring due to adverse change in market price elements such as interest rate, stock price, FX rate, etc. Operation risk This means the risk of loss that can occur due to inappropriate or wrong internal procedure, or manpower and system or external events, including legal risk Credit concentration 'Single or a few large exposure' or common risk elements inherent with possible Risk loss that can deteriorate the company’s soundness as part of the risk occurring due to exposure to debtor group whose default ratio is affected by credit risk (industry, security, province, etc.) etc. Interest rate risk The risk of net asset value or net interest profit, etc. decreasing due to interest rate maturity mismatch of funds and adverse change in market interest rate Insurance risk This means the risk of loss occurrence due to unexpected increase in loss ratio, and is defined as reinsurance risks comprised of insurance premium risk from unexpected loss occurrence due to excess of loss incurred over expected insurance premium, improper calculation of risk reinsurance premium, or bankruptcy of reinsurer, etc. General risk Liquidity risk Funding Liquidity Risk as the risk of non-capacity to make current or future payment on time, and Market Liquidity Risk as the risk of loss from securitization procedure of asset due to price fall caused by insufficient market transaction amount or market collapse) Strategic risk Risk of loss occurring due to inappropriate management decision-making, lack of responses to business environment change, etc. Reputational risk Risk of loss incurring due to deterioration of internal and external public sentiment caused by financial depression, financial accident, social criticism, etc. Other risk Potential of causing risk to the company such as residual risk, office risk, etc. 68 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Emerging Risk Classification Risk explanation Effects of risk upon business Risk mitigation method Digital risk Digitalization of finance, and 〮 Contactless channel: KYC 〮 Money laundering risk management enhancement: the use of advanced IT (know your customers), increase of AML reinforced customers verification systems impletechnologies increases (money laundering prevention) related risk mented on contactless channel financial transacthe complex digital risk of 〮 Open API: more difficulty in information tions, and prompt response to money laundering financial companies management, financial fraud prevention issue due to new IT technologies development 〮 Increased potential of product/service 〮 Risk governance structure supplementation: internal complexity: intentional/non-intentional control system and decision making/reporting sysincomplete/unfair sales tem, etc. supplemented 〮 Securing product/service safety: technologies investment and specialized personnel allocation Information It is required to disclose the 〮 Reinforced demand from overseas investor 〮 Establishment of climate change response strategy disclosure financial information related and regulatory bodies and preparation of risk management process according to TCFD to climate change and to have 〮 Increase in physical cost and transitional 〮 Establishment of climate change related indicator recommendations a strategy according to TCFD cost and systemic management recommendations Major Activities of Risk Management Committee in 2019 Integrated Risk Management System Classification Date Major contents DGB Financial Group operates the integrated risk management system for efficient risk management by each sub1st Feb. 11, 2019 Establishment and operation of Group’s integrated crisis situation analysis and securitization exposure sidiary and group-level comprehensive risk management. risk weighted asset calculation system (draft) Through establishing the integrated risk management sys2nd Mar. 28, 2019 Risk management committee chairman elected tem, data from subsidiaries were unified and the risk status analysis and monitoring tool was provided from various per3rd May. 8, 2019 Group integration crisis situation analysis result in 2nd half of 2018 spectives. At the same time, the group has secured the acces4th May. 23, 2019 Grandson company sale related SPA signed sibility of the subsidiaries' risk manager to support them for their own risk management and monitoring. 5th Jul. 15, 2019 Share purchase and sale agreement (SPA) signed 6th Aug. 13, 2019 Comprehensive risk management status reported f or Jun, 2019 Risk Management Process 7th Nov. 12, 2019 Group integration crisis situation analysis result Primary risk management Board of Directors for first half of 2019 8th Dec. 23, 2019 Basic plan for Group’s risk management in 2020 (draft) Credit risk Market risk Risk Management Committee Operation risk Risk Management System and Organization Credit Concentration Risk DGB Financial Group promotes the balance between risk Insurance risk Risk Management Council and probability of all business activities and is trying to maintain the risk level within the risk propensity that the group can endure for sustainable growth of profit base. Improvement of Risk Management System To this end, the group is operating the Risk Management Committee, which is the highest decision-making body Response to Global and Domestic Regulation for risk management on overall risk management issues DGB Daegu Bank has established the Basel III interest rate comprised of recognition of group risk, validation, manrisk system to respond to Basel committee interest rate risk agement, etc. The risk management committee is held regulation (IRRBB). By introducing Basel, a global standard, quarterly to establish the basic policy and strategy of risk we have secured an advanced interest rate risk management management, implements regular inspection on determisystem to enhance the crisis response capacity for market nation of the risk level and allowance limits as well as risk environment change. Also, following the development of status. credit risk management system completed in 2019, we have The Risk Management Committee is operating the Risk received an authorization from the Financial Supervisory SerManagement Council under its wing for the efficient vice to change to the credit risk basic internal ratings-based execution of the risk management business. The Risk (IRB) approach. In the future, we will continue to raise the Management Council manages risk related details of the overall credit risk management level of DGB Financial Group group and measures and manages the risk of the strategic by promoting authorization on DGB Holding Company's badecision-making within the group. sic internal rating-based approach and continuously enhancing credit risk management manpower and expertise. DGB Financial Group 69 Sustainability Performance Environment Green Management Greenhouse Gas Inventory Management Environmental issue is DGB Financial Group has recognized that the sysSystem and Reporting becoming more serious temic environment management is linked to the DGB Financial Group established the greenhouse due to climate change financial performance and strives to minimize the gas inventory system and systematically manages from global warming, and effect on the environment. We have established a the greenhouse gas emission, and secures objecwaste and fine dust from management strategy in consideration of the risk tivity and confidence in reporting the amount of an increase of production and opportunity according to systemic and physenergy saving and emission quantities through ical changes due to the change of environment, third-party external verification every year. and consumption. To and we practice green management through guarantee a sustainable life various activities to minimize the environmental Green Management Activities and for future generations, the effects generated by the management activities Performance current generation needs process. to enhance environmental DGB Daegu Bank installed solar power generation facilities in Banyawol and Gyeongju Branch in awareness and change Minimization of Environmental Effect 2008. It has also operated geothermal systems their behavior. DGB Operation of Environment Management with solar power generation facilities in its second Financial Group is seeking System head office since 2016. The head office located in ways to contribute to Suseong-dong, Daegu City, has been remodeled DGB Financial Group established a system that solving environmental in consideration of its sustainability by improvallows all management activities to consider the issues through financial ing energy efficiency and applying water-saving environmental effects. DGB Daegu Bank obtained products and services, certification on environment management system facilities. In recognition of efforts such as reusing and at the same time, is construction wastes and using eco-friendly mate(ISO14001) in 2011. Since obtaining the first green working hard to minimize rials in the course of the construction procedure, management system (GMS: KSI7001/7002) certifithe bank also received superior rating for green environmental impact from cation within the financial industry, the group has building certification, 1+ grade for building energy its operation and spread maintained the environment management system efficiency, and gold grade for LEED certification*. environmental awareness conforming to international standards through In addition, the bank encourages the purchase of to the local community. regular examination and renewal examination. eco-friendly items when purchasing goods, and According to the environment management sysexpanded green purchases and strengthened tem and green management system review results green purchasing training according to the Green in May 2020, no nonconformities were found. The Purchasing Guidelines. group received 24 recommendations, including strengthening of prevention area, when the effect * Leader in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) of environmental performance improvement accertification: Eco-friendly Building Certification Systems by tivities was assessed. U.S. Green Building Committee Greenhouse Gas Inventory Control System Head in Charge of Climate Change Responses (Chairman of Sustainable Management Committee: CEO) Head in Charge of Operation Working Level (Director of Green Finance Corps) (Green Finance Corps) Emission Calculation Activity Data Collection Activity Data Gathering Inventory Management (Each Affiliate / (Each Affiliate) (Each Affiliate) (Each Affiliate) DGB Research Institute) 70 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Building a Paperless Office Environment College Students’ Environmental Volunteer Activities DGB Financial Group is trying to reduce paper usage by replacing paper bills sent to customers with Since DGB Social Contribution Foundation organized e-mail. DGB Daegu Bank established paperless envi'With-U' college student volunteer it has carried out ronment, completing tablet branch (ODS: Out Door activities to expand environmental awareness in Sales) and desk electronic document (PPR: Paperthe local community. The With You volunteer group less Processing Reengineering) system in 2019 by opened its booth at the 2019 Earth Day Citizens' Life applying it to all branches to secure Digital CompetFestival hosted by Daegu City to hold events such as itiveness. Tablet branch is a system in which a bank environment quiz for citizens, and instilled awareness staff directly visits customers with tablets capable of the seriousness of pollution to elementary, middle of financial transactions, and provides one-on-one and high school students by conducting environment financial product consultation. Desk electronic doceducation. In addition, we held a 'CSR Talk Concert' ument is a system for preparing contents and letting and held debates with regional college students uncustomers sign electronic documents produced by der the theme of sustainable corporate management. tablet PCs replacing paper documents such as various application forms to be filled by customers at The 11th NIE Energy Journal Contest the desk. In order to apply the desk electronic docDGB Financial Group holds 'NIE (Newspaper in Eduument system at all branches, the group conducted cation) Energy Journal Contest' for nationwide eledigitalization simultaneously and installed wide mentary, middle and high schools every year to familmonitors, small scanners, and seal scanners along iarize the youth to practice eco-friendly lifestyle. The with reinforced corporate LTE-based tablet PCs, and contest started in 2009 and has been held 11 times. carried out digitalization of 100 transactions and In 2019, a total of 52 award winners were selected 183 kinds of paper documents. Through these efincluding the award by the Minister of Environment, forts, DGB Daegu Bank plans to enhance customer after a rigorous screening by external professional convenience and reduce the environmental effects judges with more than 2,000 Nationwide student apgenerated by business processes. plicants. Enhancing Environmental Awareness Environmental Conservation Activities in Propagation of Environment Culture Local Communities In order to respond to the climate change issue DGB Daegu Bank is engaging in various activities for that is becoming serious due to global warming, preserving the environment of the local community. we need to raise the environmental awareness of In 2019, a total of more than 1,000 executives and the current generation and future generation and staff members actively practiced environment preschange their behavior. DGB Financial Group spreads ervation activities such as tree planting involving environmental culture to not only the internal exall citizens, seed ball distribution events on Arbor ecutives and staff members but also the external day, eradicating introduced species that destroy the stakeholders by conducting various programs and ecosystem, sponsoring ecological learning field trip, education. and maintenance of Shincheon riverside loved by residents, etc. Also, the Dokdo Visit Group, which is comprised of executives & staff members and local Annual Green Management related Education residents, continues to promote the ecological resto(Unit: Hours) ration project for world’s rarest species of Ulleungdo Island turk’s cap lily every year. 2017 2018 2019 500 500 500 In addition, we have created and manage a forest for preventing desertification in Mongolia's Mungenmorit Province since 2009. In 2014, we published a Environmental Education for Executives white book titled 'DGB’s Creation of Forest Preventand Staff Members ing Desertification' and follow-up management of DGB Financial Group implements expanded operthe forest, and are engaged in a variety of activities ation of the education on green management and for local students, such as scholarships, winter clothgreen finance to internal executives and staff meming donation, and well provided to solve drinking bers, and conducts education to greenhouse gas water. inventory system users and the green management system internal auditors, etc. DGB Financial Group 71 Sustainability Performance Society Win-Win Partnerships DGB Financial Group’s Basic Principle on A company has a social Win-Win Partner Management DGB Financial Group aims to coexist with business responsibility to create a partners based on fair and transparent transac01 Strengthen win-win partnership win-win relationship with tions. For joint growth with the business partners, various stakeholders as the group recognizes that listening to the business 02 Establish transparency of transaction a member of the society. partners' voice through communication activities 03 Fair price compensation The company should is important, and is engaging in regular communi04 Zero unfair trade practice invest in employees who cation activities. We are listening to major business partners' suggestions and proposals by conduct05 Strengthen eco-friendly management activities will lead the future of ing regular business partner meeting every year, the company, and grow and are conducting sustainable management together with business Business Partners Satisfaction Survey training to promote sustainable management partners through fair and awareness and capacity enhancement. DGB Financial Group conducts business partner transparent transaction, satisfaction survey every year to improve transand contribute to vitalizing Meetings with Business Partners actional relationship with business partners. the local economy and The questionnaires are categorized into general DGB Financial Group conducts business partner solving the problems of matters, contract criteria and procedures (written satisfaction survey every year to improve transagreement, payment means, due date of paythe local community. DGB actional relationship with business partners. ment), compensation system, and determination Financial Group is working The questionnaires are categorized into general for win-win growth, etc. The 2019 business partner hard to grow together matters, contract criteria and procedures (written satisfaction level survey showed that the overall with stakeholders by agreement, payment means, due date of paysatisfaction level was slightly lower with raising constantly exploring ways ment), compensation system, and determinaissue of the need for efforts to improve collection to maximize social values. tion for win-win growth, etc. The 2019 business of various opinions and mutual communication partner satisfaction level survey showed that the aspect. overall satisfaction level was slightly lower with the mentioning of the need for efforts to improve Human Resource Management collection of various opinions and mutual communication aspect. DGB Financial Group recognizes that securing talented workforce in the financial industry directly determines the competitive position of the group. Number of Meeting with Business Partners Classification 2017 2018 2019 Suggestions 1 1 1 by business Strengthen communication Sustainable management Expand win-win partners through place of mutual information education to working-level staff management by active sharing such asmeetings of business partners opinion gathering DGB Financial 1 1 1 Group proposal Efforts to provide various Efforts to provide various Efforts to enhance information helpful to business information helpful to business communication channel partner management partner management with business partners Action result Execution of one suggestion Execution of one suggestion Execution of one suggestion Subcontractors’ Satisfaction Level by Sector Classification 2017 2018 2019 General matters 98 98 90 Contract criteria and procedures 95 98 93 Compensation system 95 95 90 Determination for win-win growth 100 100 93 72 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB Financial Group’s Concept of Human Resource DGB Financial Group’s Future DGB Financial Group seeks those with human touch, honesty, and challenging spirit CORE PASSION COMPETENCY SERVICE INTEGRITY Service mind/Professionalism/Sense Understanding of principles/Integrity Pride/Insight/Creativity/Challenging of duty/Team work/Strong will to and trust/sense of vocation spirit (open mind) achieve goals CONCEPT OF RESPECT INTEGRITY PASSION HUMAN RESOURCE Human resources who respect Human resources with a strong Human resources with creativity, people and contribute to local sense of responsibility, virtuous positive mindset, and a challenging communities and customers and reliable spirit STATEMENT Human resource who can create new value based on respect and integrity We strive for capacity enhancement and job security by DGB Financial Group has recruited all newcomers as recruiting superior employees and providing various edregular employees in order to participate in solving the ucation conditions through a fair recruiting procedure. problem of contract employees and job security, which At the same time, we are increasing motivation through emerged as a social issue, and the transition of the exability-based fair evaluation and compensation. The isting contract employees to regular employees is also group pursues happy corporate culture for executives being carried out continuously. and staff members and promotes the reduction of labor time and use of holidays for this purpose. Programs for Fair Evaluation and Compensation boosting the group's morale are promoted, and efforts DGB Financial Group is conducting business evaluation are being made for the expansion of the welfare system. based on individual's ability and performance, and implements multi-faceted evaluation to diversify the Securing Human Resource evaluators in order to secure fairness and objectivity of DGB Financial Group’s Concept of the evaluation procedure. The business evaluation is Human Resource conducted in a way linked to target management (MBO) and key performance indicator (KPI) to reflect the charThe concept of human resource at DGB Financial Group acteristics of each division and business branch, and the is 'Talent creating new value based on service and comprehensive evaluation result is reflected in promohonesty'. We pursue the talent who respects people tion, annual salary, performance incentive, job placeand serves the community and customers with human ment, etc. In addition, we ensure the feedback on the touch, honest talent with a strong sense of responsibilstrength and weakness of an individual derived from the ity and trust, and the talent who thinks creatively, acts evaluation results lead to long term self-development independently, and takes on a challenge. and performance creation within the organization. Fair Recruitment and Job Security Development of Human Resource DGB Financial Group pursues employment without disDeveloping Practical Digital Human Resources crimination based on gender, educational background, age, and major. DGB Daegu Bank has overhauled the DGB Financial Group reinforced education for exexisting recruitment method in order to ensure transecutives and staff members, so that they would be parency and fairness in the new staffing process. The equipped with a competitive edge in the fast-changing final interview is conducted under participation by an financial market environment, while individual execexternal interviewer, and the entire interview process utive and staff member develops new capacity and is conducted under the participation of the Audit and increase employment stability. DGB Daegu Bank plans Compliance departments assigned to the interview site to nurture working-level digital human resources acto raise the transparency of the recruiting process. Also, cording to the strategic directions comprised of digital DGB Financial Group 73 Training Hours of DGB Daegu Bank Classification 2017 2018 2019 Training hours per person(hours) 68 80 80.03 Training expense per person(1,000 Won) 925 1,000 1,125 DGB Daegu Bank capacity enhancement (Digital Banker), spreading of Corporate Culture Innovation Training hours per person global mind (Global Banker), and the comprehensive (Unit: hours) consulting capacity enhancement (Universal Banker). Corporate Culture Innovation Program Digital Financial Education will be implemented by intro80.03 DGB Financial Group is trying to promote self-esteem ducing training process in 6 key areas including Big Data, of executives and staff members and to stimulate labor artificial intelligence, blockchain, cloud, digital marketmotivation by spreading the first class corporate culture ing, digital financial business, and by systemizing them that they want to work for. To this end, the group is by level. Furthermore, the group has implemented the promoting corporate culture innovation and preparing DGB Daegu Bank global advanced finance overseas training for the first various programs for balance between work and life for Training expense per person time and is planning to expand the basis of global inexecutives and staff members, creating an environment (Unit: 1,000 Won) sight. New employees are nurturing through mentoring where executives and staff members can work in pleasystem for one year, and Career Development Program sure and vigor. Especially various joint businesses within (CDP) in each field is continuously operated. Especially 1,125 DGB financial group are promoted such as human in order to enhance the learning effectiveness and edexchanges between affiliates, IT integration, joint utiliucation accessibility to executives and staff members, zation of resources, communication, social contribution the group is creating self-directed learning culture by activities, etc. to eliminate unnecessary practices in the introducing the mobile platform, BaZle (meaning ‘enjoy whole group and to settle down healthy ONE DGB corlearning’ in Korean). The mobile platform, which is deporate culture. signed to keep pace with the latest learning trend, is running financial courses such as job training, professional Creation of Horizontal and Vibrant Work certificate preparation class as well as non-financial Atmosphere courses (IT, foreign language) through demand survey from executives and staff members. DGB Daegu Bank and Hi Investment & Securities hold a casual day every Friday to improve business efficiency. DGB HIPO Program DGB Daegu Bank's branch staff members are working without neckties while head office departments having DGB Financial Group has established the group core no contact with customers are on duty in free attire (suit/ group manpower nurturing program (DGB HIPO Procasual). The executives and department or branch heads gram) with the company-wide consensus that the are working hard to create a flexible work environment leadership pipeline should be established around core by taking the initiative in free dress code such as not manpower in order to successfully lead the group's wearing neckties and wearing practical jackets. Hi Investachievement of vision in core business. HIPO stands for ment & Securities is exerting efforts to spread creative High Potential. The HIPO Program is Manpower nurturorganizational culture and create an unconstrained work ing Systems to select and nurturing the core manpower environment by allowing casual attires if there is no cusof the group systemically and fairly. The manpower tomer solicitation and outside meeting. selected through this program pass through systemic nurturing processes such as strategy care development DGB Daegu Bank will phase out the female staffs' uni(CDP) management, challenging task and project perform from December 2019 and allow casual attires, comformance, and various training etc., to grow as the best pletely deserting uniforms from May 2020. This is a decileader of the financial industry. sion that resolves the discriminating elements that have been steadily criticized by forcing only a certain level of Empowerment of Female Executives and Staff female staff to wear uniforms, but also reflects the trend Members of the times in which horizontal and creative corporate culture is pursued as time passes by. We have collected DGB Financial Group signed the 2019 UNGC's WEPs, the opinions on the discontinuance of uniforms and (Women's Empowerment Principals) and participate in adoption of free attires by conducting a survey on all the 2020 UNGC TGE (Target Gender Equality Program) staffs including branches. for active implementation. This is a plan to identify the gender equality status of the group through the program, and ultimately draw an implementation task that can raise the weight of female executives and reinforce the frame leadership. 74 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Corporate Culture Program Classification Program Contents Healthy Our commitment Our commitment reflecting management target (upon commencement of various event and education) corporate Core value catchphrase Core value catchphrase operated to internalize DGB behavior promise culture Movement for fulfilling my promise Nurturing independent and innovative talent by establishing purpose awareness suitable for a position with myself and implementation culture Department or branch innovation day Pursues sympathisable change with operation of innovative theme practicable on site Site advice on innovation Establishment of desirable corporate culture by practice improvement for organizational change and actually felt collection of opinions from site Site advice on innovation actually felt Promotion of upright and sound corporate culture & self-management practice method Work & Life Balance Strengthens organization vitality and enhances labor productivity by establishing labor environment with a balance between labor and life Eoullim program Overthrows department’s selfishness with communication and sympathy and establishes corporate culture of cooperation Corporate Making open headquarter of Unites headquarter into one by inter-departments communication and recovery of trust culture of communication communication Change experience program Strengthens innovative mind from new perspectives through trip for benchmarking leading company & KMA Insight Forum Change innovation consensus meeting Holds staff debate session for creating consensus on organization change Operation of young adult frontier Expresses site focused opinion, presents creative ideas, and promotes dynamic corporate culture activities Operation of change Operation of change innovation leader selection to promote efficient change innovation activities innovation organization CEO communication Pursues organizational change and improvement through meeting with CEO and gathering honest program tuk & tok opinions from the field Department or branch innovation Publishes guide for promoting innovative mind and business capacity of leaders management guide Creative Vitalization of knowledge Vitalizes knowledge management such as regular business proposal/ corporate management selection of best experiential intellectual, etc. culture DGB research club Realizes research club with creative theme providing substantial help DGB reading management Practices management of reading for creating self-directed learning culture DGB Insight season 1 Satisfies intellectual curiosity in various areas through lectures containing unique insight Business manual reorganization Realizes personal knowledge as organizational asset through reorganization of operational manual, business manual Corporate Culture Index Support for Employees' Happiness DGB Financial Group is assessing the Corporate Culture DGB Family Happiness Center Index (DCI), which is a quantitative indicator, to conDGB Financial Group is operating various systems to imtinuously manage and upgrade the corporate culture. prove quality of life and business situation levels based Diagnostic evaluation of the corporate culture index is on work-life balance in order to enhance executives and composed of in detail criteria such as vision, belief, restaff members' satisfaction level. spect, process, pride, fun, communication, cooperation, immersion, and overall satisfaction level. The index is The DGB Family Happiness Center, which was estabconverted from positive responses of the survey. In adlished as part of the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), dition, all evaluation criteria are analyzed according to operates a program that provides expert consulting to subgroup of employees such as gender, position, region, not only the staff member but also to their immediate and years of employment. The corporate cultural index family members. Senior staff, who has obtained a proof each affiliates is conducted every other year, and used fessional certificate, provides job-related coaching and as data to check the performance and improvement of consulting on difficulties, health, law, tax, and financial the corporate culture innovation program along with technology, and will also conduct consulting on the vargathering opinions from executives and staff members. ious problems in family life, such as marital clinic, child Corporate Cultural Index of 2019 ● Hi Investment & Securities ● DGB Capital Comprehensive evaluation ● DGB Asset Management ● DGB Life Insurance index ● DGB Daegu Bank Overall satisfaction level DGB Financial Group 75 Family-Oriented Programs of DGB Daegu Bank Classification Details Family Day 〮 Strengthening of family relationship by expanding time spent with family members 〮 Leaving work on time (Wednesday, Friday) encouraged twice a week SMART Relaxation 〮 Establish a culture where employees are free to take vacations at any time Campaign 〮 3 unconditional principles (Unconditional application for leave, approval of leave, and enjoyment of leave) Number of Children under Care at DGB Child Dream 10 AM Clock-in Times for 〮 Compatibility support between job & family and enhancement of Parents staff duty satisfaction level Daycare Center 〮 10 AM attendance system implemented for 2 months(March and April) to parents (Unit: persons) with children attending elementary school Automatic PC Shutdown 〮 Adjustment of working hours (log in after 8:40 AM/mandatory log out at 6 PM) 147 Childcare Center in 〮 Operation of 2 DGB Child Dream daycare centers – Suseong-gu (Center #1)/ workplace Dalseo-gu (Center #2) Flexible Work Hours for 〮 Overtime work banned for pregnant staff Pregnant Workers 〮 Prohibition of night shift and holiday work for employees who haven’t passed 1 year 147 since giving birth 〮 Limitation of overtime work for employees within 1 year after childbirth 129 (Overtime work exceeding 2 hours per day, 6 hours per week, 150 hours per year) 108 〮 Pregnant staffs are entitled to 2 hours work reduction per day application Family-Oriented Programs of Hi Investment & Securities Classification Details PC ON/OFF System and 〮 Working hour adjusted (8 AM PC ON / 5 PM PC OFF) Operation of Flexible Work 〮 Executives and staff members’ business productivity enhanced and quality of life System improved through implementation of flexible work system Flexible Work Hours for 〮 Overtime/night shift/holiday work banned to pregnant worker Pregnant Workers 〮 Overtime work minimized for staff within 1 year after childbirth (Overtime work exceeding 2 hours per day, 6 hours per week, 150 hours per year banned) care, and parent support, which will lead executive Healthcare of Employees 2017 2018 2019 and staff members to lead a happy life with their DGB Daegu Bank is supporting executives and staff family and at the workplace. The DGB family happimembers through health care services to ensure ness center can be used in various methods such as that they work healthily. Through the 'Visiting DGB Family Homepage consulting, photo consultHealth-Care' program, we are conducting health ing, and face-to-face counseling, etc. diagnosis and consultation to executives and staff In addition, through a variety of programs such as members, and also conducting regular stress diaghealing concerts, we are enhancing the satisfaction nosis. Especially, we promoted the enhancement of level of executives and staff members. As a result of executives and staff members' health through ' metDGB's efforts to create a happy workplace, the 2019 abolic syndrome' and 'immune up' programs where DGB Family Happiness Center hosted four particithe bank donates a certain amount staff achieves a patory programs and achieved 296 users. target after setting up a target related to health. Expansion of Family-Oriented Culture Long Term Incentive Systems DGB Financial Group is enhancing the organizaDGB Financial Holdings and DGB Daegu Bank are tional vitality and expanding family-affinity culture operating long term incentive systems to improve through the creation of diverse programs for workexecutives and staff members' satisfaction level life balance. and encourage the labor. For long term workers with more than 20 years' service domestic and Healthcare Programs for Employees Classification Beneficiary Contents Metabolic Employees with high blood pressure, Body fat management and diet therapy syndrome high blood sugar, and triglyceride levels Enhancement Employees with a low level of white Immunity Enhancement Program of Immunity blood cells On-Demand any department or branch that requested 〮 Blood pressure, blood sugar and body composition Health-Care consultation and target branches for measurement service provided. each month 〮 Test of sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves(serotonin) 〮 Staff and staffs' family health consulting is provided 76 2019-2020 Sustainability Report overseas experience training program is provided. Major Activities of DGB Human Rights Ethical Also performance linked payment when achieving Center profit target and performance, contributes to re01 Counseling on human rights and ducing turnover rate by inducing achievement mosexual harassment/abuse tivation of executives and staff members and pro02 Management of human rights related tasks for moting devotion to the company. The continuity of the heads of every branch office business through long term service increases the 03 Appointment and management of staff for human rights counseling Education Hours per person efficiency in business, ultimately helping enhance 04 Human rightsrelated tasks (monitoring, prevention (Unit: hours) satisfaction level of executives and staff members. activities, reporting, counseling, etc.) 05 human right violation reporting, consulting, aid, etc. Human Rights Effect Management Support to Global Human Rights Door-to-door Counseling System Declaration The DGB Human Rights Ethical Center is conductDGB Financial Group supports the global human ing a 'traveling counselor' system where the center 7 rights declarations such as the domestic labor staff visits the nationwide branches and directly framework act, the UN Universal Declarations of communicates with executives and staff members 6 Human Rights, and the ban on child labor by the on the difficulties at work. Through this system, acInternational Labor Organization (ILO), etc. The cessibility of the report is enhanced and the inforgroup declared that we will faithfully address the mant's anonymity is being protected at pre-procesocial responsibilities of human right and labor dure to consulting by adopting a 1 on 1 interview 4 by subscription to UN Global Compact (UNGC). In method. The consultation result is reflected on addition, in order to promote substantial activities, the human rights protection activity plan through the group established DGB Human Rights Ethical analysis. Traveling counselor system aims to visit Center for the first time among general corporaall branches every other year. tions, to conduct executives and staff members' human rights protection activities. Strengthening Expertise of Human Rights Managers DGB Human Rights Ethical Center DGB Human Rights Ethical Center conducted expertise strengthening activities in order to sysIn order to break down the wrong practices in the group, DGB Daegu Bank established the DGB tematize counseling and human rights-related 2017 20182019 tasks. Human rights managers have acquired tutor human right center under the direct control of the Bank president in 2017. In 2019, the bank integratqualification for sexual harassment prevention ed the management supervision function with education and reinforced related capabilities by * Branch education other than cyber the corporate ethical center in a restructuring to attending education courses provided by spetraining included reinforce supervision in 2019. The DGB Human cialized institutions such as Korea Management Rights Ethical Center is conducting activities to Association, etc. We will continue have the person protect human rights of executives and staff memin charge of human rights to complete specialized bers substantially, such as reporting human rights educational courses, and plan to expand specialviolations, counseling, damage relief, etc. ized education to the management and managers to strengthen human right management within Human Rights Ethical Center the organization. Organizational Chart Human Rights Education Bank president DGB Human Rights Ethical Center implements human right education to all executives and staff Compliance officer members to enhance awareness on human rights and to induce change in behavior. The center implemented education upon harassment within job Compliance DGB Human Rights place, which is a significant element on corporate department Ethical Center culture as well as a social issue, composed with diDoor-to-door Counseling System Classification 20171) 2018 2019 Business branch(number of branches) 23 83 135 Number of staffs reached(person) 196 821 1386 1) For 2017, sum of the Aug.~Dec. DGB Financial Group 77 rect cases, and implemented judicial online educations Also in March 2020, to help the people in Daegu City/ comprised ofwork place sexual harassment prevention Gyeongbuk Province, the municipality, hospital offieducation and education for improving awareness on cials, etc., who suffered from 'COVID-19', executives and the disabled. staff members voluntarily raised donations from 'one percent of the salary', and 100 million won was donated Labor-Management Relations to Daegu city. DGB Financial Group is pursuing mutual growth based Participation in the Local Community on sound relations between management and labor. We will continue to listen to the voices of our members As a member of the local community, DGB Financial through various communication channels and try to Group strives to faithfully fulfill its role in creating social continue the win-win labor-management relations to values, such as solving social problems. We are promotsolidify the mutual trust relationship. ing long-term and consistent social contribution activities through the Social Contribution Foundation, and we are Strengthening Labor-Management continuously expanding our scope of activities abroad. Communications 1 DGB Social Contribution Foundation Based on harmonious communication, DGB Financial Group has established cooperative labor-management In 2011, DGB Financial Group established the first comrelations. DGB Daegu Bank is operating regular laprehensive social welfare foundation in the financial bor-management council, and in the case of significant sector, operating based on the group's funds and 1% of change in business, the group shares such information the salaries of executives and employees. The DGB Soin advance with the labor union to enhance their undercial Contribution Foundation aims for community-oristanding on such issue and proceed with discussion. In ented social contribution activities that local residents addition, we have recently shared and received feedcan directly experience, beyond simple sponsorship, back on our management status and core promotion and promotes comprehensive social contribution activities through management status explanation sesprojects in six areas, including social welfare projects, 2 sion every quarter. culture/art/sports projects, environment/global projects, education/ scholarship projects, social enterprise Social Contribution Activities of Labor Union incorporation and sponsorship projects, and DGB volunteer service projects etc. In particular, for professional Since 2006, DGB Daegu Bank executives and staff memsocial contribution projects, all 6 staff members have bers have been practicing sharing by voluntary participaobtained social worker qualification certificates. tion every year, and since 2013, 1% of their salaries have been shared. The funds raised through this program are Bluebird Senior Support Program used for social activities to support regional neighbors in In order to support silver jobs in the age in which peoneed through Green Umbrella Children's Foundation ple live up to 100 years, we are the first company to 01 Social Wellare Foundation and Daegu Council ono Social Welfare, every year. promote job creation and welfare promotion project in Fund Support Through the 2019 Green Umbrella Children's Founthe financial sector for senior citizens. The Bluebird Se02 Korean Language School in dation, we supported Gyeongbuk Province Children's nior Happy Workplace, which opened in 2012, and the Saigon, Vietnam Center program, overseas culture experience by multiBluebird 100-year-old people’s GREEN Business Group cultural families, residential environment improvement, which was established in 2017, recruit senior citizens Daegu city regional manpower nurturing support, seato provide free sterilization and disinfection services for son's holiday sharing, school uniform, heating expense toys at infant care facilities in the region. The Bluebird sup­port, and sponsored 200 million Won. Following last Senior Happy Workplace has served more than 800 fayear, we expanded the support scope of the socially discilities over the past eight years and contributed to job advantaged class through the Daegu Council on Social creation for 120 senior citizens. The Bluebird 100-yearWelfare, and donated 50 million won for the Hope famold people’s GREEN Business Group is a project for ily trip support for the disabled, and air cleaner support providing disinfection and quarantine training for seto residential facility for the disabled. Social Contribution of DGB Daegu Bank Labor Union (Unit: million Won) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Sponsoring children from low income families in Daegu city/Gyeongbuk Province Support for developing regional human resources 235 250 255 Daegu city facilities for the disabled 78 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Performances of DGB Social Contribution Foundation 1 Classification Classification 2017 2018 2019 Dream tree educational Job creation (persons) 1) 9 9 11 project group Income (million Won) 210 170 378 Bluebird Senior Happy Job creation (persons) 15 15 15 Workplace Income (million Won) 51 30 40 Financial education Education target (persons(annual)) 30,671 47,932 65,905 Social input amount (million Won) 50 75 110 Mentoring project Mentee (persons) 58 60 66 1) Social input amount (million Won) Means job creation through nurturing social companies 91 100 170 120 The Bluebird Senior Happy Workplace has served more than 800 facilities over nior citizens aged 65 or older and for disinfecting services, and facility construction are carried out the past eight years and contributed to job creation for 120 senior citizens. childcare facilities and social welfare facilities. The every year, focusing on Southeast Asia, where the group is realizing social values such as prevention group's overseas operations are active. of infectious diseases in advance and creation of DLLC, the local subsidiary of DGB Capital in Laos, jobs for senior citizens. carried out various activities such as delivering Bluebird Dream Community Center for relief donations related to the accident of the Laos Children South-east auxiliary dam in 2018, and supporting baseball with coach Lee Man-soo in 2019, who DGB Social Contribution Foundation opened and is promoting baseball games in Laos. In Ho Chi 2 is operating the Bluebird Dream Community CenMinh, Vietnam, activities were conducted such ter for Children, the first child welfare facility in the as repairing vulnerable residential facilities for financial sector, since March 21, 2012. TheBluebird low-income people with disabilities, supporting Dream Community Center for Children helps to household appliances, and visiting education and prevent children from low-income families in the physical education programs at the local middle region from being neglected after-school and schools, etc. Especially, the group is expanding supports the healthy growth and development of the space of civilian exchange and cooperation, children. such as a friendship baseball competition between parties related to Korean baseball and the Global Volunteer Activities Laos national team, and a concert titled Greater 3 Love the Closer You Are in Vietnam, and plans DGB Financial Group is carrying out global social to promote culture spreading activities such as contribution activities by expanding its social conK-Pop to enhance friendliness of DGB Financial tribution activities overseas for global sustainable Group in the future. management heading towards the world beyond the region. In 2017, for the first time, DGB Global Volunteer Corps was formed with With-U college student volunteer group and executives and employees of group affiliates. Various volunteer activities such as cultural and sports events, education 01 The Bluebird Senior Happy Workplace Major Activities of DGB Global Volunteer Corps 02 DGB Global Volunteer Corps's Cultural Performance in Vietnam Classification 2017 2018 2019 03 DGB Global Volunteer Corps's Vietnam House Repair Region Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam Vientiane, Laos Vientiane, Laos Vientiane, Laos Participants 53 persons 60 persons 75 persons Service activities Concert, meal service, Education service, Education service, donation delivery performance baseball performance baseball renovation of school, stadium sponsorship(Laos) stadium sponsorship(Laos) education service Others Laos stadium construction sponsorship and friendly match DGB Financial Group 79 Nurturing Local Talent clerk, barista, pâtissier, news anchor, flight attendant, etc. to help them build a healthy occupational view. With-U TRIGLE Mentoring DGB Social Contribution Foundation has been conductDGB Scholarship Cultural Foundation ing a mentoring program to support the children raised DGB Financial Group promotes the sustainable growth by grandparents and children and the youth in vulnerof the local community through scholarship support able groups in the region for their studies and proper and diverse programs for students who are the future growth since 2012. DGB Financial Group employees and of the local community. Founded in 1990, DGB Daecollege student volunteers, the Daegu City Family Engu Bank's Scholarship Cultural Foundation supports trustment Support Center, and the children and youth scholarships for high school and university freshmen to affiliated to Daegu City's each Welfare Department form concentrate on their studies in order to nurture talent a one-on-one-on-one triangle affiliation, and continin the region. In addition, the Foundation also provides uously supports children in all areas necessary such development funds to local schools so that more opas children's life, health, education, and culture until portunities for seminars, academic conferences, and they reach adulthood. Executives and employees share cultural events could be provided at each school. various activities such as health checkups and cultural experience, including pocket money support and scholEducation for the Financially Excluded arships for teenagers, while With-U college student volunteer members provide learning support and share DGB Financial Group is carrying out educational activin various time for emotional sharing. ities related to finance, sharing healthy economic life and talent for financing and economy. 'DGB Finance Dream Tree Educational Foundation & Economy Education Center' provides education on financial knowledge and healthy spending habits to The Dream Tree Educational Foundation was estabchildren and teenagers who are the future financial lished in February 2012 by contribution from DGB consumers. In addition, 'With-U Financial Education Financial Group and DGB Daegu Bank, and obtained soVolunteer Group,' consisting of employees in the center cial enterprise certification for the first time in the bankand local university students, conduct annual finaning sector in June 2014. The Dream Tree Educational cial and economic education to local residents. DGB Foundation supports children and teenagers to grow up Social Contribution Foundation won the Best Prize with healthy dreams and hopes for the future through at the 14th Kyunghyang Financial Education Awards, various programs such as career education, experienco-hosted by Kyunghyang Shinmun and Financial Sutial learning, and counseling. In addition, ‘Dream Tree pervisory Service, in recognition of its contribution for Career Experience center’ is a program that supports developing various financial education programs and children and teenagers in the region to explore their conducting an experiential education for the financialcareer paths and occupation by searching for individly vulnerable. ual talents. This program also provides various career exploration opportunities on occupations such as bank With-U TRIANGLE Mentoring Project Classification Contents Learning mentoring College students attending local universities form one-on-one relationship with teenagers/ children and guide them in insufficient studies in addition to school class to help teenagers/ children improve their grades. Pocket money support DGB Financial Group employees form one-on-one relationship with children/teenagers, and provide monthly regular pocket money to support emotional development and instill proper economic financial sense. Cultural experience By providing opportunities for cultural experiences which are seldom available to children and teenagers, support is given so they can learn healthy cultural life. Operation of DGB Daegu Bank Scholarship Cultural Foundation Classification 2017 2018 2019 High school Number of beneficiary (persons) 94 94 118 Amount (million Won) 147 146 148 University Number of beneficiary (persons) 88 87 119 Amount (million Won) 215 206 233 80 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Financial Education Program Classification Contents 1 company 1 school financial A DGB Daegu Bank branch and a nearby school have formed a partnership and a education professional instructor visits the classroom to provide students with education on common sense in basic financial transactions and sound financial lifestyle Bank day By utilizing the model bank facility, occupational experience of a bank clerk such as opening a bank account and experiencing using a safe is carried out, along with play type financial education. Financial Job Go! A customized program centered on consumers that provides career education Financial camp and play-type financial education using mobile stores by visiting areas where financial and career education facilities are weak 9988 Financial Finantory (Finance-History) An experiential program that combines local modern history with financial Classroom education Gumdong, let’s play An experience program in which history and finance is combined for middle and high school students' financial clubs, such as financial board games and a tour of the Bank Experience Center. Other education for the Operation of 'visiting financial classroom' for senior high school graduates, financially vulnerable '9988 Financial classroom' for senior citizens, 'Ga Na Da Financial classroom' for multi-cultural families, and education for disabled people, etc. Financial Education Indicators Classification 2017 2018 2019 1 company 1 school Number of schools (unit) 79 108 99 financial education Number of education (times) 123 215 192 DGB’s internal participants Number of participants (persons) 8,832 17,768 13,422 to financial education1) DGB instructor pool (persons) 156 149 169 Specialized instructor (persons) 5 5 9 Fentoring2) (persons) 30 40 35 With-U (persons) 20 24 28 1) Career and job experience, bank day, Gumdong, let’s play, Visiting financial classroom, 9988 financial classroom, Ga Na Da financial classroom, Finantory, etc. included 2) DGB financial education volunteer group (Finance Mentoring) '9988 Financial Classroom' for Seniors Experience Center which is a model bank facility with the same structure and environment as a The DGB Financial Group is conducting the finanbank, a module type program is operated in which cial education program for the local senior citizens learning and review is cycled as a game such as uswith the Daegu Metropolitan City Senior Welfare ing banks and experiencing the use of ATMs. In the Center Association. '9988 Financial Classroom', future, 9988 Financial Classroom programs will be which contains the meaning, 'lively until the age of further diversified to online and offline channels 99', is a program for senior citizens who can expeand expanded to reach senior clubs and senior citrience relative difficulties and are excluded from izens' employment support centers, to minimize the rapidly digitalizing financial environment. psychological and physical distance felt by the Instructors specializing in financial education financially vulnerable in using financial services. personally visit a welfare center for senior citizens and run the program. The program divides up the education course into the senior citizens participating in social activities and the senior citizens participating in labor activities, so that educational contents may be selected according to the level of the senior citizens. Using DGB Dream Tree Career DGB Financial Group 81 SPECIAL PAGE Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD Implementation of DGB Financial Group’s TCFD Implementation DGB Financial Group Direction and Task (2020~2025) Since 2018, DGB Financial Group has been participating Classification Implementation direction as a member of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and supports TCFD's recommendations. Governance Introduce the agenda to secure support from the board of directors in consideration of importance of TCFD is a task force created by the Financial Stability climate change response and necessity of TCFD implementation. Committee (FSB) at the request of the G20, which recommends analysis on financial effects from climate Strategy Establish cooperation system through joint research change scenario and transparent disclosure of contents and information sharing for response to climate crisis related to 1) governance 2) strategy 3) risk management with stakeholders such as customers, partners, 4) metrics & targets setting to financial institutions. regional research institutes, etc. DGB Financial Group organized the TFT for TCFD imRisk management Establish infrastructure to perform climate risk opportunity analysis, and expand risk mitigation and plementation centered around the 2019 DGB Financial opportunity factor based on analysis result. Holding Company, including the eight affiliates’ Strategy Planning Team and Risk Management Team and Metrics & targets Set quantitative target and introduce performance proceeded with a workshop, and derived DGB Financial evaluation process for corporate value system, Group's implementation direction and implementation implementation and evaluation required for climate change and climate finance tasks in consideration of the implementation path proposed by TCFD . Starting with systemic reporting classified as a separate report related to climate change annexed to this sustainStrategy ability report, DGB Financial Group plans to gradually DGB Financial Group establishes a management stratestrengthen climate related response system such as gy considering the risk and opportunity of systemic and strengthening of financial information disclosure rephysical changes. In March 2008, DGB established and sponse, internalization of financial risk system, etc. promoted the ‘DGB STOP CO2 Plan’ which was the first among domestic financial institutions, and is working Governance hard to minimize climate effects through financial prodThe Sustainable Management Committee of DGB Fiucts and services such as green product sales, cyber nancial Group is in charge of climate-related decision green branch operation, and supporting eco-friendly making. The environment management council within companies, etc. We are planning to expand the final the sustainable management committee prepares the products and services considering climate through the program for identification, setting detailed strategy and collaboration system established through joint research implementation of climate change risk and opportuniand information sharing with stakeholders such as ty. Major agendas are reported to the chairman of the customers, partner companies, and regional research Sustainable Management Committee (group CEO), the institutes. highest governing body for final review and authorization, after a review by the council chairman (Holding Company managing director) 82 82 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 4 Major Core Scopes of TCFD Governance Strategy Implementation task(2020~2025) Risk ˙Install highest decision-making body for climate change management ˙Introduce and report companywide committee agenda ˙Designation of department dedicated to climate risk by subsidiary Metrics & ˙Development of climate research cooperation and targets reduction project ˙Management of climate information supply network and client ˙Establish external stakeholders’ cooperation system ˙Establish climate risk and opportunity management system ˙Enhance climate financial information disclosure ● Governance The organization’s governance response system around climate-related risks and opportunities ˙Establish climate risk based climate financial strategy ● Strategy The actual and potential impacts ˙Establish target and performance management system of climate-related risks and ˙Establish climate financial business definition and R&R opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning ● Risk The processes used by the management organization to identify, assess, Risk Management and manage climate-related risks DGB Financial Group established the green manage● Metrics & The metrics and targets used to ment system (GMS) to regularly identify and validate the targets assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and enterprise-wide climate change risk. The group manages opportunities company-wide risks through the operation of the risk management committee which is the highest decision-making body, and operates the risk management council for effective implementation of risk management affairs to manage risk related details. The climate risk was selected and managed as 2018 Emerging Risk. The group plans to establish climate risk analysis infrastructure and strengthen the management system in the future. Metrics & targets DGB Financial Group is participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as signatory organization every year since 2007. The group's data is managed considering the metrics required by CDP, such as energy use, greenhouse gas emission and greenhouse gas intensity, etc. In the future, the group plans to further enhance the target and performance management system such as climate financial strategy established based on these data. * TCFD implementation of DGB Financial Group is also disclosed in a progress report in detail and can be found at the link below. : http://www.dgbfg.co.kr/sm05.fg DGB Financial Group 83 83 SPECIAL PAGE UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) principle 2 principle 1 IMPACT & TARGET ALIGNMENT SETTING PRB 6 major principles Principles for responsible PRINCIPLE 1 banking We will align our business strategy principle 3 to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s CLIENTS & CUSTOMERS goals, as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and principle 4 regional frameworks. STAKEHOLDERS PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 4 We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative We will proactively and responsibly impacts on, and managing the risks to, consult, engage and partner with relepeople and environment resulting from vant stakeholders to achieve society’s our activities, products and services. To goals. this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most significant PRINCIPLE 5 impacts. We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective govPRINCIPLE 3 ernance and a culture of responsible We will work responsibly with our banking. clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable PRINCIPLE 6 economic activities that create shared We will periodically review our indiprosperity for current and future genervidual and collective implementation ations. of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals. 84 84 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Introduction to Principles for PRB is composed of 6 major principles. DGB Responsible Banking (PRB) Financial group, practicing leadership in sustainable management, will comply PRB 6 Principles for Responsible Banking is the internamajor principles and report conducting status tional convention defining the role and responof requirements by each principle faithfully by sibility of financial industry, for conducting Paris annual self-diagnosis report. Climate Convention and UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). DGB Financial group parDGB Financial Group’s Plan and ticipated in development of sustainable society Roadmap to Participate in the Principles for co-prosperity of future generations, commitfor Responsible Banking (PRB) ting active conducts in September 2019. principle 5 DGB Financial group closely analyzed the requirements by PRB 6 major principle and diagMajor Contents GOVERNANCE & nosed internal status, in order to plan participaCULTURE ˙Presentation of global principle to expand tion in principles for responsible banking. Based the positive impacts of finance on the on this diagnosis, we established the proceedsociety and environment and to contribute ing direction for PRB, derived detailed tasks to mitigation of negative impacts ˙Providing practiceable guideline to connect and implementation direction on 12 detailed business strategy with social goals tasks, hence the implementation base for DGB ( Paris Climate Convention, UN SDGs) Financial group’s PRB has been in place. On 12 implementation tasks, priority was assessed in principle 6 consideration of their importance and feasibility Progress Status in practice, and implementation roadmap by TRANSPARENCY & ACCOUNTABILITY ˙UNEP FI PRB adoption promoted in task timeline was established. DGB Financial March 2018 group will participate in PRB with responsibility ˙UNEP FI PRB announced in September 2018 based on such roadmap, actively participating ˙UN General Assembly ratified PRB finally in in conducting and achieving Paris Climate ConSeptember 2019 vention and UN SDGs . ˙132 banks including DGB Financial group executed commitment to PRB in September 2019 Conducting direction and tasks of DGB Financial group on Principle for responsible banking (PRB) (2020~2025) Category implementation direction implementation tasks (2020~2025) Establishing integrated ˙Review of business model and strategy from global ˙[short-term] Analysis on social and environmental influence management strategy sustainability, and selecting DGB’s emphasized area ˙[mid-term] Setting integrated directionality ˙Performance indicator selected for strategy execution ˙[mid-term] Setting goal and KPI and monitoring on goal achievement Establishment of ˙Clarifying functions and responsibilities of the board of ˙[short-term] Establishing highest level decision making and execution system on directors and the management reporting system governance and risk ˙Policy, process, R&R established for substantial ˙[mid-term] Strategy execution organization and process established management execution of strategy ˙[long-term] Integrated risk management system established ˙Response to and managing internal and external social/environmentally integrated risks Expanding recognition ˙Executives and staffs educated on changes in ˙[short-term] Executives and staffs educated on sustainability by executives requirements from external environment/demands ˙[short-term] Campaign conducted on expanding recognition by and staffs, and from stakeholders executives and staffs internalization within ˙Exploring incentivization factors for executives and ˙[long-term] Strategic goal connected to compensation and incentives organizational culture staffs to internalize goal achievement Reinforcing ˙Partnership pursued with external stakeholders ˙[mid-term] Solutions recommending customer sustainability cooperation with ˙Incentive provided to customers through product, developed Core stakeholders service, advice, platform ˙[long-term] C ooperation system with external stakeholders established ˙Resources mobilized to transparent and ˙[long-term] Efficient information disclosure system established comprehensive information disclosure * PRB implementation of DGB Financial Group is also disclosed in a progress report in detail and can be found at the link below. : http://www.dgbfg.co.kr/sm05.fg DGB Financial Group 85 85 PART 5 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS Diagnosis and Analysis of Financial Management Performance 87 Diagnosis and Analysis of Non-Financial Management Performance 92 86 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Diagnosis and Analysis of Financial Management Performance DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group was established on May 17, 2011, in Buk-gu, Daegu city, as a financial holding company, with capital of KRW 670.3 billion transferred through stocks in Daegu Bank, Kardnet Corporation, and DGB Credit Information Corporation. DGB Financial Group was listed on the Korea Exchange on June 7, 2011. Since then, the Group has incorporated subsidiaries including DGB Capital in January 2012 and DGB Data System in April 2012. Kardnet later withdrew as a subsidiary, at which point DGB U-Pay was incorporated in March 2013. DGB Life Insurance was incorporated in January 2015, followed in October 2016 by the acquisition of DGB Asset Management and Hi Investment & Securities in October 2018. These latter acquisitions helped strengthen the Group’s non-banking business and diversify revenue sources. By December 2018, DGB Financial Group had grown into a comprehensive financial group with eight subsidiaries. We are achieving quantitative growth, but also qualitative growth under the philosophy of Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with Community, and the vision of Best Partner Building the Future Together In 2019, DGB Financial Group steadily strengthened their growth base for the future with synergy effects from the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities despite hard conditions such as low growth of the economy and low interest rates, and achieved the performance of total assets up 11.5% year-on-year to 72 trillion 397.7 billion won and net profit recorded 327.4 billion won. (unit: KRW bil.) Group DGB DGB Hi InvestDGB DGB DGB DGB DGB DBG Consolidation Total Financial Daegu ment & Life Capital Asset U-Pay Data Credit adjustments Holding Bank Securities Insurance Management System Information Company Gross Operating Income(A) 1,551.1 99.4 1,129.3 275.4 77.1 94.7 11.3 4.7 1.9 1.1 -143.8 (Interest Income) 1,411.0 -16.0 1,139.6 68.5 147.2 90.5 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 -19.5 (Non-Interest Income) 140.1 115.4 -10.3 206.9 -70.1 4.2 10.9 4.6 1.8 1.0 -124.3 Administrative Expenses(B) 950.2 19.5 625.3 197.9 74.4 33.0 6.6 4.1 1.2 0.9 -12.7 Provisions(C) 168.6 135.8 5.3 0.8 26.8 -0.1 Operating Income (A-B-C) 432.3 79.9 368.2 72.2 1.9 34.9 4.7 0.6 0.7 0.2 -131.0 Non-operating Income 6.3 -0.4 -12.4 6.3 7.6 1.0 1.6 0.1 2.5 Total Net Income 363.0 79.4 282.3 84.9 8.9 27.6 3.7 1.2 0.8 0.1 -125.9 Non-controlling interests 35.6 Controlling net interests 327.4 Total assets 72,397.7 3,672.3 55,215.4 7,723.3 6,292.1 3,104.8 39.4 42.7 11.7 5.1 -3,709.1 (*) The above financial information was prepared in accordance with the consolidated financial statements classification of the holding company The ROA and ROE of DGB Financial Group in 2019 were 0.47% and 7.27% respectively, down slightly from the previous year. However, despite the recent economic downturn, the NPL ratio, which is an indicator of asset soundness, improved to 0.89% year-on-year thanks to the effect of preemptive and active risk management, and its credit rating also maintained a stable level with AAA credit ratings from domestic rating agencies and A2 from Moody's. In 2019, the BIS equity ratio, an indicator of asset soundness, decreased slightly from the previous year to 12.32% due to an increase in risk-weighted assets (a 9.6% increase from the previous year), but it still remains higher than the industrial average. The dividend propensity in 2019 was 21.2%, 5.2% higher than 16.0% in the previous year. Indicator Account % ROA 0.47 Profitability ROE 7.27 CIR 61.26 NPL ratio 0.89 Asset Quality Delinquency Rate 0.74 Capital Adequacy Ratio (Basel III) 12.32 Capital Adequacy Tier I CAR 10.92 Denomination Dividend Rate 8.2 Dividend Payout 21.2 Dividend propensity Credit Ratings NICE Investor Service, Korea Ratings(*) AAA Moodys(**) A2 (*) Consolidated basis **Overseas credit rating corresponds to DGB Daegu Bank DGB Financial Group 87 87 DGB Daegu Bank I. Management Performance The interest income of DGB Daegu Bank was KRW 1 trillion 751.5 billion, an increase of 2.0% from the previous year. Net interest income was KRW 1 trillion 139.7 billion decreased by 2.0% from the previous year but is maintained at a stable level thanks to stabilized deposit cost ratio and lending yield. In addition, the net interest margin was 2.07%, down by 0.19%p from the previous year due to the impact of low interest rate condition. Interest-earning assets amounted to 46.776 trillion won, increased by 4.5% from the previous year, but net interest spread decreased by 0.24%p from the previous year. There was a decrease of net interest margin of DGB Daegu Bank, which is sensitive to changes in market interest rates due to the relatively high proportion of short-term rate linked loans. Net Interest Income & Net Interest Margin (NIM) (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2019 2018 Amount (%, %p) Interest revenue 1,751.5 1,716.5 35.0 2.0% Cash & due from banks 5.7 5.2 0.5 9.6% Financial assets 153.5 165.9 -12.4 -7.5% Loans 1,589 1,541.2 47.8 3.1% Others 3.3 4.2 -0.9 -21.4% Interest expenses 611.8 553.6 58.2 10.5% Deposits 489.2 430.1 59.1 13.7% Borrowings 58.1 57.1 1.0 1.8% Bonds 53 58.2 -5.2 -8.9% Others 11.5 8.2 3.3 40.2% Net interest income 1,139.7 1,162.9 -23.2 -2.0% Net interest Margin (NIM) 2.07% 2.26% -0.19%p NIS 2.43% 2.67% -0.24%p (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2019 2018 Amount (%, %p) Average lending rate 3.81% 3.97% -0.16%p Average deposit rate 1.38% 1.30% 0.08%p Net interest-bearing assets 46,776.4 44,778.8 1,997.6 4.5% DGB Daegu Bank’s net interest margin in 2019 decreased to 2.07% from 2.26% in Net Interest Margin 2018, marking a 0.19%p drop due to continuous economic downturn and global low interest policy. However, given the high level of loan growth due to changes in the 2.26% 2.22% 2.21% local economy and high sensitivity to interest fluctuation, DGB Daegu Bank plans to maintain stability through aggressive spread management in 2020. 2.15% 2.07% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Non-interest income in 2019 increased by 51.6% from the previous year to KRW -10.4 billion. Securities related income increased greatly thanks to the impact of strong stock market, and income from commission, foreign exchange transactions and derivatives increased slightly, but as decrease in gain on disposition of loans set off the increase in non-interest income, total non-interest income increased by KRW 11.1 billion from the previous year. 88 88 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Non-Interest Income (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2019 2018 Amount (%, %p) Non-Interest Income -10.4 -21.5 11.1 51.6% Commission income 86.4 76.3 10.1 13.2% Gain on securities 43.2 8.8 34.4 390.9% Gain on foreign currency transactions & derivatives products 18.8 16 2.8 17.5% Gain on disposition of loans -44.9 -11.9 -33 -277.30% Other operating expenses -113.9 -110.7 -3.2 -2.90% In 2019, sales and administrative expenses stood at KRW 625.3 billion, down 5.2% year-on-year, resulting in the sales and administrative expenses ratio to decline from 57.8% to 55.4%. This decline can be seen as a gradual improvement in management efficiency. Particularly during the current period, overall depreciations and taxes and dues increased from previous year by 36.7% due to the effect of utilization asset amortization increased by adoption of lease accounting, but retirement benefits and personnel expenses decreased by 61.7%, 2.5%, respectively from the previous year. DGB Daegu Bank continuously strives to strengthen its network and reform organizational operations to improve business efficiency and productivity Selling and Administrative Expenses (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2019 2018 Amount (%, %p) Sales and administrative expenses 625.3 659.6 -34.3 -5.2% Salaries and employee benefits 311.2 319.3 -8.1 -2.5% Overall depreciations and taxes and dues 96.1 70.3 25.8 36.7% Retirement allowances 32.9 85.8 -52.9 -61.7% Pure costs of goods 185.1 184.2 0.9 0.5% Cost-income ratio 55.4% 57.8% -2.4%p DGB Daegu Bank’s operating income in 2019, before provisioning, was KRW 503.9 billion, up 4.6% year-on-year from KRW 481.8 billion. Although non-interest income increased, total operating income decreased by 1.1% compared to KRW 1 trillion 141.4 billion of the previous year as interest income decreased from previous year due to effect of low interest conditions. The effect of reduction in sales and administrative expenses due to improvement in management efficiency offset the decrease in total operating income. As a result, operating income in 2019 increased to KRW 368.2 billion up by KRW 46.6 billion from the previous year. Operating income ■ Pre-provisioning operating income (Unit: KRW bil.) ■ Total operating income YoY Change 1129.2 1141.4 2019 2018 Amount (%) Pre-provisioning operating income 503.9 481.8 22.1 4.6% Total operating income 1,129.2 1,141.4 -12.2 -1.1% Sales and administrative expenses 625.3 659.6 -34.3 -5.2% 503.9 481.8 Total provision 135.7 160.2 -24.5 -15.3% Operating income 368.2 321.6 46.6 14.5% 2019 2018 II. Financial Status As of the end of 2019, total assets stood at KRW 55 trillion 215.4 billion, up by 10.9% from the previous year. Asset growth was driven by an increase in won-denominated loans (up by 14.0% to KRW 42 trillion 401 billion) and balanced growth between corporate and household loans. Despite the continued economic recession and growing uncertainty in the domestic and international financial markets, DGB Daegu Bank has achieved an increase in asset size for five consecutive years thanks to the strengthening of its region-based business network and the success of its management strategy that prioritizes customer as the highest value. DGB Financial Group 89 89 Assets (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2019 2018 Amount (%) Assets 55,215.4 49,785.3 5,430.1 10.9% Cash and due from banks 2,094.8 1,969.5 125.3 6.4% Securities 8,042.2 8,325.8 -283.6 -3.4% Estimated fair value of loans 40.2 36.4 3.8 10.4% Amortized cost of loans 42,362.5 37,210.1 5,152.4 13.8% Fixed assets 701.2 679.3 30.9 4.5% Other assets 1,965.5 1,564.2 401.3 25.7% DGB Daegu Bank’s Won-denominated loan amounted to KRW 39 trillion 407.6 billion in 2019, marking an increase of KRW 3 trillion 941.6 billion from a year earlier at KRW 35 trillion 466 billion. Corporate loans in 2019 amounted to KRW 27 trillion 133.7 billion, contributing to stable export support for local businesses and the development of the domestic economy according to management philosophy of Win-win growth with the local community, and accounted for the biggest portion of total loan receivable interest at 68.9%. In addition, household loans, which accounted for 28.8% of total loans receivable, increased by KRW 1 trillion 366.7 billion year-onyear to reach KRW 11 trillion 358 billion. Public loans and others with relatively low credit risk amounted to KRW 915.9 billion, up by 22.6% from the previous year. Loans (Unit: KRW bil.) ■ Corporate loans 68.9% YoY Change ■ Household loans 28.8% 2019 2018 Amount (%) ■ Public and other loans 2.3% Loans in KRW 39,407.6 35,466.0 3,941.6 11.1% Corporate loans 27,133.7 24,727.6 2,406.1 9.7% Household loans 11,358.0 9,991.3 1,366.7 13.7% Cost-income ratio 915.9 747.1 168.8 22.6% DGB Daegu Bank’s total liabilities in 2019 amounted to KRW 50 trillion 798 billion, increasing by KRW 5 trillion 172.7 billion from the KRW 45 trillion 625.3 billion, showing 11.3% growth from the previous period. Low-cost deposits increased by 10.8% from the previous year to KRW 42 trillion 495.2 billion, however, high-cost debentures decreased by 1.1% from the previous year to KRW 1 trillion 978.9 billion. DGB Daegu Bank’s debt growth, due to a rise in low-cost deposits and others, resulted in an appropriate adjustment in asset growth in 2019. Liability Structure (Unit: KRW bil.) ■ Deposits 83.7% YoY Change ■ Debentures 3.9% 2019 2018 Amount (%) ■ Others 12.4% Total liabilities 50,798.0 45,625.3 5,172.7 11.3% Deposits 42,495.2 38,345.4 4,149.8 10.8% Debentures 1,978.9 2,001.5 -22.6 -1.1% Others 6,323.9 5,278.4 1,045.5 19.8% Core deposits free to deposit and withdraw increased from KRW 14 trillion 757.1 billion in 2018 to KRW 15 trillion 355.7 billion in 2019, up by 4.1% due to DGB Daegu Bank’s aggressive marketing and increase in customer trust. Total deposits also reached KRW 45 trillion 962.6 billion, an increase by 5.2% from the previous year. The contribution rate of core deposits compared to total deposits recorded 33.4%, a decrease of 0.4%p from previous period. Core deposits (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2019 2018 Amount (%, %p) Core deposits(A) 15,355.7 14,757.1 598.60 4.1% Total deposits (in KRW) ((B) 38,333.8 36,540.8 1,793.00 4.9% % of core deposits (A/B) 40.1% 40.4% -0.3%p (*) Total deposits (C) 45,962.6 43,680.2 2,282.40 5.2% Ratio of core deposits (A/C) 33.4% 33.8% -0.4%p (*)Total deposits = KRW-denominated deposits + CD + RP + notes receivable + financial bonds + money trusts 90 90 2019-2020 Sustainability Report The loan size below standard of DGB Daegu Bank in 2019 was KRW 297.4 billion, down by KRW 36.1 billion from the previous year, and the NPL ratio was 0.73%, down by 0.17%p from the 0.9% recorded in 2018. DGB Daegu Bank keeps its NPL ratio below optimum level by using preemptive risk management through the continuous refunding and selling of distressed debts. Asset Quality (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2019 2018 Amount (%, %p) Total credit 40,847.1 36,948.9 3,898.2 10.6% Normal 40,279.5 36,316.7 3,962.8 10.9% Precautionary 270.2 298.7 -28.5 -9.5% Substandard 189.3 223.5 -34.2 -15.3% Doubtful 44.7 52.1 -7.4 -14.2% Estimated loss 63.4 57.9 5.5 9.5% NPL ratio (%) 0.73% 0.90% -0.17%p Delinquency rate (%) 0.50% 0.60% -0.10%p DGB Daegu Bank's NPL ratio began to decline in 2016 thanks to preemptive risk asNPL Ratio set management and active crisis management. The rate fell from 1.23% in 2015 to 1.19% in 2016. As the result of focusing on managing risk assets in the face of rising 1.23% 1.19% household debt and external conditions of industrial restructuring, the NPL ratio has 0.90% 0.82% remained below 1% for three consecutive years. 0.73% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, DGB Daegu Bank recorded KRW 4 trillion 518.7 billion in capital, up by 210.7 billion won from 2018. Tier 2 capital increased by KRW 38.1 billion from the previous year, and Tier 1 capital increased by KRW 172.6 billion to KRW 4 trillion 41.1 billion, driving the overall increase in total capital. Despite the increase in Tier 1 capital due to the expansion of DGB Daegu Bank's expanded operating power and improvement of profitability thanks to management efficiency, the BIS equity capital ratio in 2019 decreased slightly due to the increase in risk-weighted assets within the growth of total assets, but BIS ratio still shows stability, exceeding 10.5% guideline suggested by the BIS. Capital Adequacy (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2019 2018 Amount (%, %p) Total capital 4,518.7 4,308.0 210.7 4.9% Tier I capital 4,041.1 3,868.5 172.6 4.5% Tier II capital 477.6 439.5 38.1 8.7% Risk-weighted Assets 31,334.9 28,571.8 2,763.1 9.7% Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 14.42% 15.08% -0.66%p Tier I CAR (%) 12.90% 13.54% -0.64%p Tier II CAR (%) 1.52% 1.54% -0.02%p Tax strategy 1. Regulatory compliance ・DGB Financial Group actively enhances its knowledge level in response to the rapidly changing business environment and consequent revision of the tax law in order to comply with the tax law in reporting and paying taxes. ・Not only the domestic tax law, but overseas tax laws are observed faithfully by the Group's subsidiaries in the relevant country. Relevant laws and regulations in inter-country transactions are observed, and the duty of documenting in accordance with the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Action Plan (BEPS action plan) is faithfully performed. 2. Tax risk management ・We minimize tax risks by using external experts to make accurate reports and payments in relation to regular tax returns. ・We strive to maximize shareholders' profits through systematic tax management, electronic report utilization, and installment payment procedures when paying and reporting taxes. ・We manage tax issues in advance through communication with taxation authorities. 3. Disclosure of tax information ・DGB Financial Group disclose corporate tax related information on Financial Supervisory Service's electronic disclosure system (http://dart.fss.or.kr) the details of the relationship between accounting profit and corporate tax expense at the notes to its financial statements. DGB Financial Group 91 91 Diagnosis and Analysis of Non-Financial Management Performance Human capital DGB Financial Group* has a total of 4,608 employees working as of the end of 2019. By gender, males are 2,584 people, females 2,024 people, and by employment type, regular employees are 3,894 people, and contract workers 699 people, and by age, people in their 40s take up the most percentage. * Among affiliates of DGB Financial Group, the data of 5 affiliates comprised of DGB Daegu Bank, Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, and DGB Asset Management is reported. And the number of personnel at five affiliates of DGB Financial Group takes up around 96% of total number of personnel. In case the reporting scope is different, the scope is marked separately. DGB Financial Group Employees unit 2017 2018 2019 Total persons 4,486 4,424 4,608 DGB Daegu Bank persons 3,186 3,091 3,246 Hi Investment & Securities persons 786 781 814 Total number of employees DGB Life Insurance persons 289 277 241 DGB Capital persons 187 235 260 DGB Asset Management persons 38 40 47 Executives 1) persons 90 85 108 Employees Staff members persons 4,396 4,339 4,500 Male persons 2,574 2,492 2,584 Gender Female persons 1,912 1,932 2,024 Regular employees persons 3,873 3,995 3,894 Employment Type Contract employees persons 596 415 699 Ratio of contract employees % 13 9 15 Under 20 persons 2 21 24 20s persons 728 719 718 Age 30s persons 1,396 1,409 1,424 40s persons 1,540 1,536 1,533 50s and above persons 820 739 903 National Patriots persons 217 205 205 Others Disabled persons 46 46 49 Migrant worker persons 23 20 21 1) Executive : Grade 1 or higher, in case of DGB Capital, managing director or higher DGB Financial Group places priority on ability without discrimination based on gender or nationality in terms of recruitment and promotion of executives and staff members. In 2019, 461 employees were recruited as newcomers, with 286 employees leaving the company DGB Financial Group New Employment & Retirement unit 2017 2018 2019 Male persons 297 151 283 Female persons 139 88 178 New employment Total persons 436 239 461 Ratio % 9.7 5.4 10.0 Male persons 260 272 200 Female persons 104 93 86 Retirement Total persons 364 365 286 Ratio % 8.1 8.3 6.2 Unit Under 20 20s 30s 40s Over 50 2019 New employment persons 22 189 99 43 106 2019 Retirement persons 0 52 65 48 121 92 92 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB Financial Group Safety & Health (OHS)1) unit 2017 2018 2019 Number of industrial disaster cases cases 1 Industrial disaster ratio % 0.01 DGB Daegu Bank Days of absence due to industrial disaster days 14 Absence ratio % 0.3 Hi Investment & Securities2) Number of industrial disaster cases cases DGB Life Insurance2) Number of industrial disaster cases cases DGB Capital2) Number of industrial disaster cases cases DGB Asset Management2) Number of industrial disaster cases cases 1) Disaster data of business partner employees working in the office, and branches of each affiliate of DGB Financial Group included 2) Disaster rate and absenteeism rate are zero as no industrial accidents occurred in three years. The female staff rate of DGB Financial Group was 43.9% in 2019, and there is no difference in the basic level and total compensation between male and female employees in compensation policy. DGB Financial Group Female Employee Index unit 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of female employees % 42.6 43.7 43.9 Percentage of female managers % 20.2 21.8 22.9 Female ratio among lower management positions1) % 34.7 37.3 37.5 Female ratio among higher management positions2) % 5.8 7.1 9.2 1) Lower management positions: manager or higher 2) Higher management position: deputy branch head/department (branch) head (Hi Investment & Securities)/deputy general manager (Capital) or higher DGB Financial Group actively encourages and recommends use of maternity leave and parental leave to female staff members, and strives to prevent the career path interruption of female executives and staff members due to pregnancy, childbirth and childcare by increasing the maximum quota of DGB Child Dream Daycare Centers which are the daycare centers in workplace of DGB Daegu Bank. Maternity Leave & Return to Work Rate unit 2017 2018 2019 Total persons 141 123 127 Number of employees in maternity leave Male persons Female persons 141 123 127 Total persons 124 112 134 Number of employees returning from maternity Male persons 1 leave during relevant year Female persons 123 112 134 Total persons 116 124 112 Number of 12 months’ service after return from Male persons 1 maternity leave in previous year Female persons 116 123 112 DGB Daegu Bank Total % 87.9 95.5 105.5 Return ratio1) Male % Female % 87.2 91.1 105.5 Total % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Ratio of employees who work for more than Male % 100.0 12months after maternity leave3) Female % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Number of employees who retired after Total persons 13 5 4 maternity leave3) Number of childcare personnel at persons 108 129 147 DGB Child Dream Daycare Centers DGB Financial Group 93 93 unit 2017 2018 2019 Total persons 16 8 20 Number of employees in maternity leave Male persons 1 1 3 Female persons 15 7 17 total persons 14 11 10 Number of employees returning from maternity male persons 2 leave during relevant year female persons 14 11 8 total persons 15 13 11 Number of 12 month service after returning from male persons Hi Investment & maternity leave in previous year Securities female persons 15 13 11 total % 87.5 84.6 50.0 Return ratio1) male % 66.7 female % 93.3 157.1 47.1 total % 100.0 92.9 100.0 Ratio of employees who work for more than male % 12months after maternity leave2) female % 100.0 92.9 100.0 Number of employees who retired after total persons 1 1 maternity leave3) 1) Number of employees returning after maternity leave / number of employees in maternity leave during relevant year 2) Number of employees in 12 months’ service after returning from maternity leave during relevant year / number of employees returning after maternity leave during previous reporting period 3) Number of employees who retired within 12 months after return DGB Financial Group is committed to the satisfaction level of the executives and staff members. As a part of this effort, we are recommending the enhancement of communication between labor and management and labor union activities. Currently, among affiliates, there are labor unions in Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, and DGB U-pay. In case of an affiliate that has signed a collective bargaining agreement with the labor union, the agreement applies to all employees, and even if there is no collective bargaining agreement, labor-management council is operated according to the law and its operation results are applied to all employees. Furthermore, in case there is a change in company operation, it is notified according to related laws and regulations such as Labor Standards Act. Labor Union Participation Status unit 2017 2018 2019 Total number of employees persons 3,254 3,091 3,246 Number of union-eligible employees persons 2,190 2,095 2,117 DGB Daegu Bank Number of labor union members persons 2,190 2,095 2,117 Total union participation rate % 67.3 67.8 65.2 Participation rate among eligible employees % 100 100 100.0 Total number of employees persons 755 756 784 Number of union-eligible employees persons 669 668 690 Hi Investment & Number of labor union members persons 431 426 421 Securities Total union participation rate % 57 56 53.7 Participation rate among eligible employees % 64 64 61 Total number of employees persons 289 277 241 Number of union-eligible employees persons 192 177 170 DGB Life Insurance Number of labor union members persons 192 177 170 Total union participation rate % 66.4 63.9 70.5 Participation rate among eligible employees % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Total number of employees persons 187 235 260 Number of union-eligible employees persons 132 155 165 DGB Capital Number of labor union members persons 98 90 97 Total union participation rate % 52.4 38.3 37.3 Participation rate among eligible employees % 74.2 58.1 58.8 Total number of employees persons 32 37 44 Number of union-eligible employees persons 21 20 22 DGB Upay Number of labor union members persons 20 19 21 Total union participation rate % 62.5 51.4 47.7 Participation rate among eligible employees % 95.2 95.0 95.5 94 94 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB Financial Group recognizes that the capacity of internal staff is the competitiveness of the company, and each affiliate continues to increase the investment in education to executives and staff members. DGB Financial Group Employee Education unit 2017 2018 2019 total hours 68 80 80 Average education hours per capita male hours 63 76 77 DGB Daegu Bank female hours 73 84 83 Average education expenses per capita KRW 1,000 925 1,000 1,125 total hours 10 8 7 Hi Investment & Average education hours per capita male hours 10 8 7 Securities female hours 10 8 7 Average education expenses per capita KRW 1,000 317 229 303 total hours 37 47 66 Average education hours per capita male hours 10 8 7 DGB Life Insurance female hours 10 8 7 Average education expenses per capita KRW 1,000 326 416 579 total hours 12 24 56 Average education hours per capita male hours 13 25 59 DGB Capital female hours 11 22 50 Average education expenses per capita KRW 1,000 175 291 619 DGB Financial Group is listening to the honest voices from various executives and staff members by preparing communication channels and especially since the establishment of the DGB human rights ethical center, the center visited the branches to conduct 1 on 1 consulting to hear vivid complaints from executives and staff members. DGB Daegu Bank Employee Grieving Handling unit 2017 2018 2019 Complaint processing accepted cases 84 84 20 Complaint processing completed cases 66 66 17 Complaint resolution ratio % 79 79 85 DGB Financial Group 95 95 Manufactured Capital DGB Financial Group is operating 293 branches as of the end of 2019, with 245 DGB Daegu Bank, 27 Hi Investment & Securities, 5 DGB Life Insurance, 12 DGB Capital, and one of each at DGB Asset Management, DGB U-pay, DGB Data System and DGB Credit Information. Due to development of digital technologies and contactless services, the number of branches is on the decline, but we will try to provide financial services that can be comfortably accessed by customers with continuous innovation. Number of Branches unit 2017 2018 2019 DGB Daegu Bank branch 253 249 245 Hi Investment & Securities1) branch 29 29 27 DGB Life Insurance branch 44 42 5 11 DGB Capital branch 12 12 (DLLC 1 unit included) DGB Asset Management branch 1 1 1 DGB U-pay branch 1 1 1 DGB Data System branch 1 1 1 DGB Credit Information branch 1 1 1 Total branch 312 336 293 1) Hi Investment & Securities was affiliated to DGB Financial Group in 2018. Instrument Status unit 2017 2018 2019 DGB self service Kiosk instrument 5 13 16 ATM instrument 1,778 1,707 1,645 DGB Daegu Bank1) Passbook printer instrument 163 161 152 Unmanned Bill Payment Machine instrument 265 262 256 Total instrument 2,211 2,143 2,069 Hi Investment & ATM instrument 9 9 9 Securities Total instrument 9 9 9 Number of Customers (ratio) unit 2017 2018 2019 20 and younger % 8.3 8.0 6.0 21~30 % 16.9 16.4 16.3 31~40 % 18.5 18.0 17.9 41~50 % 20.1 19.9 19.2 DGB Daegu Bank 51~60 % 17.7 18.0 18.4 61~70 % 10.2 10.9 12.0 71 and older % 8.3 8.8 10.1 Total % 100.0 100.0 100.0 20 and younger % 2.1 1.9 1.7 21~30 % 5.2 4.9 4.6 31~40 % 14.5 14.6 14.5 Hi Investment & 41~50 % 22.9 22.6 22.1 Securities 51~60 % 25.2 24.6 24.3 61~70 % 17.3 18.0 18.7 71 and older % 12.6 13.4 14.0 Total % 100.0 100.0 100.0 96 96 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Intellectual Capital DGB Financial Group actively responds to the fourth industrial revolution and at the same time, is promoting digital transformation redefining existing business structure based on digital to create sustainable performance. DGB Daegu Bank is actively engaged in digital innovation, including investment of 5,036 million won, which has more than doubled compared to the previous year, for its 2019 Fintech Business and computer facilities. DGB Daegu Bank’s Fintech Investment unit 2017 2018 2019 Investment in Fintech KRW million 2,712 2,346 5,036 DGB Financial Group is expanding its online customers interface in line with the changes in financial environment. Especially, enhancement of online service, which takes into account the convenience of customers, achieved the result of a steady rise in the number of middle-aged and elderly customers aged 50 or elder. Number of Online Customers (ratio) unit 2017 2018 2019 20 and younger % 2.8 2.7 2.6 21~30 % 20.5 19.7 19.4 30~40 % 26.0 25.1 23.1 41~50 % 23.7 23.3 23.3 DGB Daegu Bank 1) 51~60 % 16.7 17.9 18.7 61~70 % 7.4 8.1 9.2 71 and older % 2.8 3.1 3.6 Total % 100.0 100.0 100.0 20 and younger % 1.5 1.3 1.2 21~30 % 7.6 6.8 6.3 30~40 % 22.9 23.1 22.8 Hi Investment & 41~50 % 28.0 28.2 28.3 Securities2) 51~60 % 24.9 24.5 24.5 61~70 % 11.3 12.0 12.7 71 and older % 3.8 4.1 4.2 Total % 100.0 100.0 100.0 1) Based on Internet banking customers 2) Based on accounts on which HTS application was received by Dec 31 of the reporting period (excluding consolidated and closed accounts and corporate accounts), with 2017 and 2018 data minutely adjusted due to re-establishment of calculation standard DGB Daegu Bank registered 9 patents and applied for 11 patents. Through continuous development activities, we plan to lead the innovation of products and services and actively respond to the rapidly changing financial environment. DGB Daegu Bank’s Patent Registration (accumulated) unit 2017 2018 2019 Patent registration case 8 9 9 Patent application case 10 10 11 DGB Financial Group 97 97 Environmental Capital DGB Financial Group is conducting resource usage reduction activities and management activities for appropriate processing of wastes to pass down a sustainable environment to future generations. Through establishing paperless office environment, we are reducing the used amount of resources such as paper, and are carrying out environment education every year to emitters and processors for the appropriate processing of wastes. Water Usage1) unit 2017 2018 2019 2020(Target) 2021(Target) Water usage 2) 178,839 191,197 197,584 ton 191,0663) 189,1353) (Rain water) (735) (976) (4,865) 1) Scope of reporting: All affiliates of DGB Financial Group 2) Refers to municipal water usage. Total water usage is the sum of municipal water and rain water usage. 3) Excluding rain water Paper Usage1) unit 2017 2018 2019 2020(Target) 2021(Target) Paper usage ton 153.5 134.6 144.1 141.7 138.3 1) Scope of reporting: DGB Financial Holding Company, DGB Daegu Bank, Hi Investment & Securities Waste Management1) unit 2017 2018 2019 2020(Target) 2021(Target) Total ton 167.8 168.3 205.7 161.0 151.0 Non-hazardous Landfill ton 36.2 59.0 96.0 61.0 56.0 waste Recycling ton 131.6 109.3 109.7 100.0 95.0 Recycling rate % 78.4 64.9 53.3 62.1 62.9 1) Scope of reporting: DGB Financial Holding Company, DGB Daegu Bank, Hi Investment & Securities DGB Financial Group is working hard to increase the green product purchasing rate. Consequently, the group is promoting the purchase of green products with the green product purchase rate which is relatively high at 83.7% in 2016, 83.9% in 2017, 88.8% in 2018, and 85.5% in 2019. DGB Daegu Bank's Green Product Purchasing unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Purchasing KRW million 8,815 8,425 7,242 16,320 8,614 Green Product Purchasing KRW million 7,364 7,048 6,075 14,490 7,367 Green Product Purchasing Ratio % 83.5 83.7 83.9 88.8 85.5 98 98 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB financial group is making various efforts to minimize the environmental effects that occur during management activities. The group is actively carrying out energy saving activities such as introducing 'green touch program', a low carbon life practice program that minimizes carbon dioxide emission by reducing the electric consumption when computers are not used, and introducing geothermal system with solar generation facilities in the second head office in 2016. Even when remodeling head office no.1, the group was able to obtain ‘the effect of reducing 24% of annual energy cost, and 12% of CO2 emission’ with the design aiming to acquire eco-friendly certification at home and abroad. * Calculated in contrast to American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers Building Energy Standard (ASHRAE Std. 90.1-2007) Energy Usage1) unit 2016 2017 2018 20192) 2020(target) 2021(target) Non-renewable Direct TJ 39.4 41.3 40.9 63.6 63.2 62.4 energy 2) usage Indirect TJ 116.2 118.7 123.9 130.3 129.6 128.0 Renewable energy usage TJ 0.11 0.13 0.19 0.30 0.30 0.30 Total energy usage TJ 155.71 160.13 164.89 194.2 193.1 190.7 Standard (sales amount) KRW 100 mil 24,639 24,487 25,606 49,688 49,800 50,000 Energy intensity Intensity TJ/KRW 100 mil 0.006 0.007 0.006 0.004 0.004 0.004 1) Scope of reporting : 5 companies including DGB Financial Holding Company, DGB Daegu Bank, DGB UPay, DGB Data System, and DGB Credit Information were subject to reporting until 2018, but from 2019, they will be expanded to all affiliates of DGB Financial Group, including Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, and DGB Asset Management. (For the added four affiliates, only the headquarters will be reported in 2019.) 2) Fuel: gasoline, diesel, kerosene, LNG, LPG DGB Financial Group systemically manages the greenhouse gas emission by establishing the greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory system, and secures objectivity and confidence on energy reduction and emission reporting through a third-party external verification every year. The group will work hard to continuously reduce greenhouse gas by setting targets related to greenhouse gas and actively engaging in greenhouse gas reduction activities every year. Greenhouse Gas Emission1) Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020(target) 2021(target) Scope 1 tCO2e 2,684 2,674 2,625 3,835 3,783 3,763 Scope 2 tCO2e 15,046 15,369 16,041 16,871 16,644 16,374 GHG Emissions Scope 3 tCO2e 2,334 2,407 3,731 3,843 3,992 3,982 Total tCO2e 20,064 20,450 22,396 24,549 24,419 24,119 Standard(sales amount) KRW 100 mil 24,639 24,487 25,606 49,688 49,800 50,000 GHG Emissions Scope 1 tCO2e/KRW 100 mil 0.109 0.109 0.103 0.077 0.076 0.075 Intensity Scope 2 tCO2e/KRW 100 mil 0.611 0.628 0.626 0.340 0.334 0.327 Scope 3 tCO2e/KRW 100 mil 0.095 0.098 0.146 0.077 0.080 0.080 1) Scope of reporting : 5 companies including DGB Financial Holding Company, DGB Daegu Bank, DGB UPay, DGB Data System, and DGB Credit Information were subject to reporting until 2018, but from 2019, they will be expanded to all affiliates of DGB Financial Group, including Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, and DGB Asset Management. (For the added four affiliates, only the headquarters will be reported in 2019.) DGB Daegu Bank’s Environment Protection Activities unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of activities times 97 118 115 92 Number of participants persons 2,385 4,292 3,795 852 Investment amount in environment protection KRW million 35 38 115 11 DGB Financial Group 99 99 Since 2006, DGB Daegu Bank has reflected the trade counterparts' environment management level in the credit evaluation through the Corporate Lending Support Management System (TCRMS). This evaluation for spreading Eco-Friendly corporation and the negative screening in environmental sector is implemented on all corporate users of the credit evaluations system for corporate loan with additional points granted to corporations highly evaluated. DGB Daegu Bank's Environmental Management Assessment unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of firms subject to environmental management assessment number 18,021 20,429 20,560 21,286 Number of excluded from environmental management assessment number 358 432 427 454 Rate of environmental management assessment % 98.1 97.9 98 97.91 DGB Financial Group is converting existing paper bills to electronic media such as e-mail to reduce paper consumption. In 2019, electronic media billing rate of 44% was achieved through the Smart statement and Kakao statement introduced since 2017. Electronic Billing Status unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total number of bills sent cases 7,095,802 7,605,211 7,568,157 7,630,677 Number of email bills sent cases 2,245,081 2,298,864 2,069,332 1,853,549 Number of mobile bills sent cases 90,939 92,813 85,379 89,978 DGB Daegu Bank Number of smart bills sent cases 214,125 740,964 1,243,503 Number of kakao bills sent cases 16,256 147,388 171,937 Ratio of electronic bills % 32.9 34.5 40.2 44.0 Total number of bills sent cases 610,262 576,392 549,896 603,863 Hi Investment & Number of email bills sent cases 209,970 188,907 198,636 338,427 Securities Ratio of email bills % 34 33 36 56 DGB Daegu Bank's Eco-friendly Project Financing unit Investment period Commitment Expenditure Expenditure Amount (2018) (2019) Ulsan resource recovery facility private investment project KRW million Jun. 2009~Mar. 2024 20,171 13,465 11,645 Jeju Seogwipo Gasiri wind power generation project KRW million Aug. 2017~Aug. 2025 10,000 8,227 6,698 Daegu waste energy facility private investment project KRW million Sept. 2015~Jun. 2029 15,000 13,460 12,689 Pohang clean water love private investment trust KRW million Nov. 2014~Jun. 2031 8,230 5,210 4,955 Daegu innovation city cogeneration project KRW million Sept. 2015~Jun. 2029 30,000 27,993 27,048 100 100 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Social Capital DGB Financial Group is conducting activities to create social value as a member of the local community based on its management philosophy, Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with Community. Especially in consideration of the characteristics of the financial company, the group is conducting and planning strategic social contribution activities. In the future, DGB Financial Group will move beyond simple donation activities to resolve social issues and ultimately create social value. DGB Financial Group Social Contribution 2017 2018 2019 Support amount No. of Volunteers Support amount No. of Volunteers Support amount No. of Volunteers (KRW million) (persons) (KRW million) (persons) (KRW million) (persons) Local Communities and Public Welfare 12,025 11,118 17,412 10,017 5.129 4910 Culture, Arts and Sports 7,039 2,461 4,069 2,341 8.089 728 Education and Scholarship 5,209 644 4,106 547 7.690 218 Microcredit / Support Youth Startup Foundation by dormant deposit / 7,136 5,098 9.102 Credit Counseling and Recovery Service Environmental and Global 139 4,292 115 3,795 24 852 Total 31,548 18,515 30,800 16,700 30.034 6,708 * In accordance with Article 31 of National Political Fund Act, DGB Financial Group does not make any contributions or donations for political purpose. In addition, all of our social contributions and donations are transparently disclosed through related organizations and the annual report. Win-Win Growth unit 2017 2018 2019 Business consulting service Number of company 109 102 81 Pohang small hidden champion : 12 Pohang small hidden Pohang small hidden Comprehensive diagnosis for champion : 4 champion : 11 Pre-Star company : 6 Design innovation Design innovation Global small hidden corporation : 14 corporation : 17 champion : 3 Province star corporate : 6 Pre star corporation : 3 DGB Daegu Bank Comprehensive diagnosis for Star corporation : 7 Star corporation : 5 Activities Number of company Star company : 8 Small hidden champion in Global small hidden World class 300 : 9 materials, parts & champion : 4 Robot corporation equipment : 5 Relationship type and management consulting : 9 Relationship type and free : 14 Silarian participant : 10 free : 17 Others : 48 Relationship type and Others : 28 free : 17 Others : 35 Business consulting service Number of company 3 2 2 Hi Investment & Hyundai Heavy Industries Hyundai Heavy Industries Hyundai Heavy Industries Securities business partner : 2 business partner: 1 business partner: 1 Activities Number of company Hyundai Motors Hyundai Motors Hyundai Motors business business partner: 1 business partner: 1 partner: 1 DGB Financial Group is working hard for customer satisfaction, thinking that customer satisfaction is the best business strategy. 2018 year customers' satisfaction level recorded 98.3% thanks to active customer satisfaction activities such as Chamsori Advisory Group activities to listen to customers' opinion, CS education, consumer protection activities, etc. DGB Daegu Bank Customer Satisfaction Level unit 2017 2018 2019 Customers satisfaction level(satisfied customers) % 92.8 93.2 98.3 DGB Financial Group 101 101 ‘Voice of Customers’ Status unit 2017 2018 2019 Complaint cases 76 62 88 Pending question cases 318 317 258 DGB Daegu Bank Compliment cases 748 818 698 Others cases 689 769 1,426 Total cases 1,831 1,966 2,470 Complaint cases 33 14 22 Pending question cases Hi Investment & Securities Compliment cases 3 1 4 Others cases 6 6 8 Total cases 42 21 34 Complaint cases 52 24 38 Pending question cases 1 3 DGB Life Insurance Compliment cases 1 1 Others cases 1,173 923 918 Total cases 1,226 948 960 Protection of Customers’ Personal Information Unit 2017 2018 2019 Complaint raised by external party and proven cases internally within organization DGB Daegu Bank Complaint on violation of personal information cases 4 3 3 protection raised by regulatory institution Number of proven cases of customers’ data leakage, theft, loss cases Complaint raised by external party and proven cases internally within organization Hi Investment & Complaint on violation of personal information Securities cases protection raised by regulatory institution Number of proven cases of customers’ data leakage, theft, loss cases 47 Complaint raised by external party and proven cases internally within organization DGB Life Insurance Complaint on violation of personal information cases protection raised by regulatory institution Number of proven cases of customers’ data leakage, theft, loss cases Complaint raised by external party and proven cases internally within organization DGB Capital Complaint on violation of personal information cases protection raised by regulatory institution Number of proven cases of customers’ data leakage, theft, loss cases Legal and Regulatory Violation Unit 2017 2018 2019 Amount of major fines KRW 2,200,000 staff 2 cases, Hi Investment & Number of non-monetary sanctions cases staff 2 cases executive 5 cases, Securities institution 6 cases Number of litigation cases cases 5 3 6 (number of cases pending as of the end of year) Other DGB Financial Organizational violation of economic, 1) cases Group affiliates social major laws and regulations 1) Based on number of litigation cases pending 102 102 2019-2020 Sustainability Report PART 6 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Independent Auditors’ Report 104 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 106 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 109 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 113 DGB Financial Group 103 Independent Auditors’ Report Based on a report originally issued in Korean The Board of Directors and Shareholders DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd.: Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as at December 31, 2019 and 2018, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2019 and 2018, its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). Basis for Opinion We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing (KSAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in Republic of Korea, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. (1) Expected Credit loss allowance assessed on an individual basis – Evaluation of the estimated recoverable cash flows from collaterals The Group measures Expected Credit loss (ECL) allowance on an individual basis for individually significant corporate loans which have had significant increases in credit risk or have become impaired since initial recognition. Related to the ECL allowance assessed on an individual basis, we have identified the evaluation of the estimated recoverable cash flows from collaterals as a key audit matter, considering the possibility of errors, the level of involvement of management judgments and estimates, and the impact of risks. The primary procedures addressing above key audit matter include followings: 1. We gained an understanding and evaluated the processes and internal controls for estimating the recoverable cash flows from collaterals used by the Group to measure the ECL of loans subject to individual assessment. 2. We assessed whether the Group measured the collateral value reasonably, which is the basis for the estimated recoverable cash flows from collaterals. This includes a review of recent market prices and appraisals applied to the estimates of the collateral value. 3. We assessed the adequacy of recoverable cash flows estimated by the Group based on collateral value. (2) Expected Credit loss allowance assessed on a collective basis – Assessment of Risk Component factors The Group measures ECL collectively for loans that are not subject to individual assessment. We have identified the assessment of Risk Component factors (RC factors) as a key audit matter because a number of assumptions were applied and the management’s estimation and judgement were involved to determine RC factors used to measure ECL allowance subject to collective assessment. The primary procedures addressing above key audit matter include followings: 1. We gained an understanding and evaluated the processed and internal controls for estimating RC factors used by the Group to measure the ECL of loans subject to collective assessment. 2. We evaluated the appropriateness of the models to determine whether the Group estimated RC factors based on sufficient and reasonable historical data. 3. We assessed the reliability of the underlying data used in estimating RC factors. This includes an evaluation of the Group’s internal controls related to the underlying data. 4. We verified the accuracy of calculation of RC factors. Other matter The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with K-IFRS, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 104 2019-2020 Sustainability Report In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with KSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with KSAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is Yong-Ki Jeon. Seoul, Korea March 18, 2020 This report is effective as of March 18, 2020, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the timing of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. DGB Financial Group 105 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (In millions of won) Note December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Assets Cash and due from banks 5,38,41,43 ￦ 2,826,220 2,601,499 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 6,9,41,43 7,748,112 6,277,966 Derivative assets 13,41,43 97,923 55,256 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 7,9,12,41,43 4,181,307 4,032,620 Securities at amortized cost 8,9,12,41,43 7,340,887 7,846,106 Loans at amortized cost 11,12,41,43 46,587,076 40,826,951 Investments in associates 10 12,420 27,178 Property and equipment 14,45 790,527 741,912 Investment property 16 199,057 214,858 Intangible assets 15 185,534 199,753 Income tax receivable 1,996 12,962 Deferred tax assets 36 50,308 67,637 Other assets 12,17,41,43 2,376,355 2,008,843 Total assets ￦ 72,397,722 64,913,541 Liabilities Depository liabilities 18,41,43 ￦ 42,758,180 38,729,457 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,9,41,43 1,685,893 551,451 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 6,41,43 774,732 517,794 Derivative liabilities 13,41,43 141,456 109,501 Borrowings 19,38,41,43 7,043,400 6,442,359 Debt securities issued 19,38,41,43 5,590,032 5,303,840 Defined benefit obligations 21 26,933 35,061 Provisions 20,39 36,054 49,075 Liabilities under insurance contracts 22 5,639,466 5,552,734 Income tax payable 27,393 4,693 Deferred tax liabilities 36 238 2,032 Other liabilities 23,38,41,43 3,245,603 2,559,877 Total liabilities ￦ 66,969,380 59,857,874 Equity Total equity attributable to equity holders of DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. ￦ 4,617,003 4,336,940 Capital stock 1,24 845,729 845,729 Hybrid bonds 24 149,401 149,401 Capital surplus 24 1,562,451 1,560,909 Capital adjustments 24 (991) Accumulated other comprehensive loss 26 (64,101) (79,372) Retained earnings 25 2,123,523 1,861,264 Non-controlling interest 24 811,339 718,727 Total equity 5,428,342 5,055,667 Total liabilities and equity ￦ 72,397,722 64,913,541 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 106 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (In millions of won, except earnings per share) Note 2019 2018 Interest Income ￦ 2,194,309 2,026,095 Interest income on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 121,829 38,861 Interest income on financial instruments at fair value 68,958 66,323 through other comprehensive income Interest income on financial instruments at amortized cost 2,003,522 1,920,911 Interest expense 783,299 646,681 Net Interest Income 4,27 1,411,010 1,379,414 Fees and commission income 354,932 207,681 Fees and commission expense 83,110 77,061 Net fees and commission income 4,28 271,822 130,620 Insurance income 801,064 999,624 Insurance expenses 899,994 1,093,245 Net insurance loss 4,29 (98,930) (93,621) Profit before adjustment for overlay approach 189,971 58,368 Loss on adjustment for overlay approach 6 (14,039) (6,078) Net gain on financial assets at fair value through profit 4,30 175,932 52,290 Net gain(loss) on financial instruments designated at fair value 4,30 (91,769) 8,130 through profit or loss Net gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,31 30,071 9,862 Provision for credit loss 4,32 165,327 187,063 Net gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions 4 32,428 (13,494) General and administrative expenses 4,33 950,175 816,969 Other operating loss, net 4,34 (182,851) (135,759) Operating Profit 4 432,211 333,410 Non-operating net income 35 6,306 151,439 Net profit before income tax expense 438,517 484,849 Income tax expense 36 99,133 81,251 Net income from continuing operations 339,384 403,598 Net income from discontinued operations 23,525 Net income attributable to Equity holders of DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. 327,408 381,107 Net income attributable to non-controlling interest 35,501 22,491 Consolidated net income for the year ￦ 362,909 403,598 Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Gain on valuation of financial assets at fair value 25,495 32,363 through other comprehensive income Expected credit loss on financial assets at fair value (196) (213) through other comprehensive income Foreign currency translation adjustments for foreign operations 5,945 7,934 Loss on valuation of hedges of net investment in foreign operations (5,423) (7,149) Adjustments for overlay approach 10,590 4,632 Gain (loss) on valuation of cash flow hedges (1,646) 306 34,765 37,873 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. DGB Financial Group 107 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, Continued For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (In millions of won, except earnings per share) Note 2019 2018 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Gain (loss) on valuation of financial assets at fair value ￦ (2,036) 1,304 through other comprehensive income Credit risk adjustments on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 273 23 Factors for remeasurement of defined benefit obligation (16,598) (27,575) (18,361) (26,248) Consolidated other comprehensive income for the year 26 ￦ 16,404 11,625 Comprehensive income attributable to Equity holders of 343,784 392,864 DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. Comprehensive income attributable to on-controlling interests 35,529 22,359 Total consolidated comprehensive income ￦ 379,313 415,223 Basic and diluted earnings per share in won 37 ￦ 1,900 2,219 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 108 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (In millions of won) Accumulated Consolidated Consolidated other Noncapital capital comprehensive Retained controlling Total Capital stock Hybrid bond surplus adjustments loss earnings interest equity Balance at January 1, 2018 ￦ 845,729 1,560,891 (991) (91,129) 1,543,199 290,590 4,148,289 Issue of hybrid bonds 149,401 299,002 448,403 Hybrid bonds dividends (5,774) (20,917) (26,691) Consolidated net income 381,107 22,491 403,598 Annual dividend (57,510) (57,510) Gain (loss) on valuation of 33,545 122 33,667 financial assets at FVOCI Gain (loss) on disposal of 582 582 financial assets at FVOCI Gain (loss) from cash flow hedging 305 305 Profit on translation of overseas business 7,923 11 7,934 Net investment hedge in foreign operations (7,149) (7,149) Factors for remeasurement (27,306) (268) (27,574) defined benefit obligation Changes in credit risk on 19 3 22 financial liabilities at FVTPL Loss on expected credit of (212) (212) financial assets at FVOCI Effect of adjustment for overlay approach 4,632 4,632 Changes in scope of consolidation 18 (340) (55) (377) Changes due to business combination 127,748 127,748 Balance at December 31, 2018 ￦ 845,729 149,401 1,560,909 (991) (79,372) 1,861,264 718,727 5,055,667 Balance at January 1, 2019 ￦ 845,729 149,401 1,560,909 (991) (79,372) 1,861,264 718,727 5,055,667 Hybrid bonds dividends (5,960) (23,946) (29,906) Consolidated net income 327,408 35,501 362,909 Annual dividend (60,892) (60,892) Issue of hybrid bonds 99,717 99,717 Gain (loss) on valuation of 23,128 331 23,459 financial assets at FVOCI Gain (loss)on valuation of cash flow hedging (1,647) (1,647) Profit on translation of overseas business 5,950 (5) 5,945 Net investment hedge in foreign operations (5,423) (5,423) Factors for remeasurement (16,261) (336) (16,597) defined benefit obligation Changes in credit risk on 233 40 273 financial liabilities at FVTPL Loss on expected credit of (194) (2) (196) financial assets at FVOCI Gain on disposal of 1,335 1,335 equity instruments at FVOCI Effect of adjustment for overlay approach 10,590 10,590 Changes in scope of consolidation 1,542 991 (1,105) 368 (18,688) (16,892) Balance at December 31, 2019 ￦ 845,729 149,401 1,562,451 (64,101) 2,123,523 811,339 5,428,342 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. DGB Financial Group 109 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities (1) Consolidated net income ￦ 362,909 403,598 (2) Adjustment of profit and loss (1,054,422) (858,427) Income tax expense 106,302 81,251 Interest expense 783,925 646,681 Loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 35,650 44,039 Loss on valuation of financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 64,780 6,982 Adjustment for overlay approach 14,039 6,078 Loss on valuation of derivatives instruments held for trading 135,503 53,296 Recovery of credit risk adjustment allowance on derivatives instruments held for trading 45 138 Loss on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,247 441 Loss on fair value hedges 31 Loss on valuation of derivatives on hedge 47,230 35,090 Recovery of credit risk adjustment allowance on derivatives on hedge 1 Recovery of allowance for credit loss 165,328 187,063 Depreciation and amortization cost 111,771 69,804 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 9,005 2,121 Loss on investment property 281 1,188 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1 14 Impairment loss on intangible assets 3,005 13 Transfer of other provision 4,276 556 Defined benefit plans 45,670 34,162 Loss on foreign exchange transactions 220,894 288,079 Loss on repayment of issued bank debenture 1,597 Other operating expenses 125 2,959 Other non-operating expenses 279 Loss on equity method 213 4,414 Amortization expenses on deferred acquisition cost of new or renewal insurance contract 46,454 46,105 Contribution to insurance reserve 85,618 272,544 Interest income (2,197,279) (2,026,095) Dividend income (118,974) (3,788) Gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (137,686) (72,213) Gain on valuation of financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss (18,713) (16,235) Gain on valuation of derivatives instruments held for trading (97,092) (44,633) Recovery of credit risk adjustment allowance for derivatives held for trading (8) Gain on disposal of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (32,380) (7,154) Gain on fair value hedges (62) Gain on valuation of derivatives on hedge (20,321) (26,940) Gain on disposal of property and equipment (7,226) (463) Gain on disposal of intangible assets (28) (332) Gain on disposal of investment property (5,306) (509) Recovery of provision (958) (752) Gain on foreign exchange transaction (252,925) (274,585) Gain on financial assets at amortized cost (10,059) (4) Gain on equity method (1,960) (818) Gain on disposal of asset held for sale (27,277) Operating income (3,579) (7,209) Non-operating income (6,230) Gain on bargain purchase (161,344) 110 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2019 2018 (3) Changes in assets and liabilities ￦ (1,681,801) (561,893) Decrease (increase) in deposits (274,692) 116,463 Decrease (increase) in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (1,184,844) 536,847 Decrease in derivative financial assets 42,492 97,484 Increase in loan receivables at amortized cost (5,803,554) (689,223) Decrease (increase) in other assets (197,347) 53,337 Increase (decrease) in depository liabilities 4,104,394 (102,142) Decrease in derivatives financial liabilities held for trading (94,019) (91,380) Increase (decrease) in financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 1,137,941 (480,291) Increase in financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 211,221 4,205 Increase in securities under repurchase agreements 90,583 Decrease in post-employment benefit liabilities (75,193) (53,664) Increase in other liabilities 365,077 46,815 Decrease in provisions (3,860) (344) (4) Interest paid (751,824) (612,309) (5) Interest received 2,233,382 2,103,773 (6) Dividend received 4,009 3,768 (7) Income tax paid (71,115) (79,975) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities ￦ (958,862) 398,535 DGB Financial Group 111 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Continued For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Cash flows from investing activities Increase in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss ￦ (620,453) (528,262) Decrease in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 395,294 466,716 Increase in financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (5,537,580) (2,827,858) Decrease in financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 5,440,622 2,851,966 Increase in securities measured at amortized cost (1,062,121) (1,168,347) Decrease in securities measured at amortized cost 1,589,494 941,343 Acquisition of property and equipment (50,126) (255,227) Disposal of property and equipment 19,954 4,267 Acquisition of intangible Assets (28,782) (30,414) Disposal of intangible assets 380 3,065 Acquisition of investment property (146,331) Disposal of investment property 19,615 1,805 Cash inflows (outflows) from hedging activities (26,716) 3,763 Increase in deposit 5,660 783 Increase in other assets (923) Acquisition of investment in associates (1,898) (11,000) Disposal of investment in associates 9,513 12,275 Dividend of investment in associates 106 Acquisition of investment in subsidiary (425,651) Disposal of assets held for sale 91,820 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 244,676 (1,107,924) Cash flows from financing activities Increase (decrease) in borrowings 541,747 (621,861) Issuance of debentures 1,947,482 2,484,271 Repayment of debentures (1,787,000) (1,747,860) Increase (decrease) in import deposit 6,958 (216) Increase in trust account payable 156,891 2,484 Increase in fund account payable 65 169 Increase (decrease) in non-controlling interests 71,697 280,442 Repayment of lease liabilities (24,420) Issuance of hybrid bonds 149,401 Annual dividends paid (60,892) (57,510) Dividends paid to hybrid bonds holders (6,705) (5,029) Net cash provided by financing activities 845,823 484,291 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 131,637 (225,098) Beginning balance of cash and cash equivalents 733,052 954,117 Effects of changes in the exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents (279) 4,033 Ending balance of cash and cash equivalents (note 38) ￦ 864,410 733,052 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 112 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 1. Reporting Entity The DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd., the controlling company, and its subsidiaries (collectively the “Group”) are as follows. (1-1) Overview of the Group DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. (the Group) was established on May 17, 2011 by transferring shares from shareholders of Daegu Bank, Daegu Credit Information Corporation, and Cardnet Corporation for the purpose of controlling, managing, and providing financial services to subsidiaries or subsidiaries closely related to the financial business through ownership of stocks. As of December 31, 2019, the capital is ￦845,729 million and was listed on the Korea Exchange on June 7, 2011. (1-2) Subsidiaries As of December 31 2019, the consolidated financial information and shareholding status for the Group are as follows. (In millions of won, except share information) Number of Operating Net income Reporting Classification shares Ownership Net Asset income (loss) Location date Daegu Bank and subsidiaries 136,125,000 100% ￦ 4,417,351 2,665,201 282,302 Daegu 31-Dec Hi Investment & Securities and subsidiaries 342,437,628 85.32% 822,401 1,038,630 84,901 Busan 31-Dec DGB Life Insurance 34,741,343 100% 272,860 1,084,618 8,899 Busan 31-Dec DGB Capital and subsidiaries 26,200,000 100% 364,700 173,115 27,602 Seoul 31-Dec DGB Asset Management 2,200,000 100% 35,307 11,662 3,729 Seoul 31-Dec DGB U-pay 2,511,415 100% 13,343 16,575 1,160 Daegu 31-Dec DGB Credit Information 600,000 100% 4,899 1,930 162 Daegu 31-Dec DGB Data System 1,200,000 100% 10,694 19,839 797 Daegu 31-Dec DGB special investment in private property No.11 102,000 100% 99,859 86 3,044 Seoul 30-Apr /31-Oct Daegu Bank’s consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: Classification Ownership (%) Location Reporting date Business Type DGB Long-lived Corporation Focus Securities Investment Trust 89.80 South Korea 30-Sep Collective investment DGB ttok-ttok Short-term Bond Securities 71.60 South Korea 23-Feb Collective investment DGB ttok-ttok Dividend Securities Feeder 70.46 South Korea 18-Jun Collective investment DGB ttok-ttok Small-mid Cap Securities Feeder 53.10 South Korea 12-Nov Collective investment DGB Myungpum KRX 300 Index Securities 51.77 South Korea 30-Apr Collective investment DGB Specialized Bank Plc 100.00 Cambodia 31-Dec Specialized Bank DGB Microfinance Myanmar 100.00 Myanmar 30-Sept Microfinance Best DGB 1st co, Ltd(*1) South Korea Quarterly SPC Best DGB 2nd co, Ltd(*1) South Korea Jan/Apr/Jul/Oct SPC (*1) Although the Group does not own a share, the Group determines that it has control over the structured company in the light of the agreement and equity interest ratio. Hi investment and securities’ consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: Classification Ownership (%) Location Reporting date Business Type Collective investment Hyundai Ship Special Asset Investment Trust No. 2 100.00 Seoul 31-Dec & Securities Co Asset-Backed Kieunsen Kwangan 1st Co., Ltd. and 25 others(*1) Seoul 31-Dec securitization (*1) Although the Group does not own a share, the Group determines that it has control over the structured company in the light of the agreement and equity interest ratio. DGB Capital’s consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: Classification Ownership (%) Location Reporting date JB Woori Capital Money Receivable Trust 100.00 Seoul 31-Dec DGB Lao Leasing Co., Ltd 90.00 Laos 31-Dec DGB Financial Group 113 (1-3) Interests in unconsolidated structured entities The Group has been involved in structured entities through investments in asset-backed securities, project financing, beneficiary certificates, etc., and the main characteristics of those structured entities are as follows: Description Securitization vehicles are established to buy the assets from the originators and issue the asset-backed securities in order to facilitate the originators’ funding activities and enhance their financial soundness. Asset-backed securitization The Group is involved in the securitization vehicles by purchasing the asset-backed securities issued, or providing credit enhancement. Structured entities for project financing are established to raise funds and invest in a specific project such as M&A (Mergers and Acquisitions), BTL (Build-Transfer-Lease), project financing for companies in shipping industry, etc. As a method of financing large scale risk projects, investments are made in the business on the basis of economic feasibility of a particular project, not the credit or material collateral of the project implementer, and investors Project financing take profits from the project. Although there are entities that provide financial support such as funding, joint guarantees, and senior contributions prior to the consolidation entity’s uncertainty for structured financing, the group may be exposed to loss of principal or loan due to falling value of its investment stake in the event of failure to collect funds or suspension of the project due to planned schedule. The structure of investment trust and private equity fund is to invest funds in equity securities and distribute income among investors on the basis of a trust agreement. The Group is an investor of the investment trust Investment trust and private equity fund and private equity fund, and recognizes gain or loss on valuation and dividend income in proportion to the percentage of shareholding. The Group may recognize a loss in principal when the values of relevant trust and fund are decreased. Nature of related risk and scope of interests in unconsolidated structured entities The carrying amount of assets recognized by the Group in its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows (In millions of won) 2019 Asset-backed Investment trust securitization Project financing and private equity fund Total Total assets of unconsolidated structured entities ￦ 5,126,405 11,896,470 13,893,872 30,916,747 Book value in financial statements Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 171,702 42,752 995,942 1,210,396 Amortized cost measurement loan 73,000 1,149,093 1,222,093 Investments in associates 43,965 43,965 Total ￦ 5,371,107 13,088,315 14,933,779 33,393,201 (In millions of won) 2018 Asset-backed Investment trust securitization Project financing and private equity fund Total Total assets of unconsolidated structured entities ￦ 7,150,848 14,565,432 4,939,410 26,655,690 Book value in financial statements Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 225,729 23,054 808,395 1,057,178 Amortized cost measurement loan 171,054 1,858,351 2,029,405 Total ￦ 7,547,631 16,446,837 5,747,805 29,742,273 The Group’s maximum loss exposure to unconsolidated structured entities as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Asset-backed Investment trust securitization Project financing and private equity fund Total Investment assets ￦ 244,702 1,191,844 1,039,907 2,476,453 Purchase commitments 649,400 59,304 107,179 815,883 Credit granting 113,348 113,348 Total (*) ￦ 894,102 1,364,496 1,147,086 3,405,684 (*) T  he maximum loss exposure includes the amount of assets the Group has accounted for, and the amount of assets is the balance after deducting the amount of losses recognized by the Group. 114 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2018 Asset-backed Investment trust securitization Project financing and private equity fund Total Investment assets ￦ 396,783 1,881,405 808,395 3,086,583 Purchase commitments 616,400 60,000 130,257 806,657 Credit granting 305,784 305,784 Total (*) ￦ 1,013,183 2,247,189 938,652 4,199,024 (*) The maximum loss exposure includes the amount of assets the Group has accounted for, and the amount of assets is the balance after deducting the amount of losses recognized by the Group. 2. Basis of Preparation (2-1) Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”), as prescribed in the Article 5, Paragraph 1, and Subparagraph 1 of Act on External Audits of Corporations in the Republic of Korea. The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issuance by the Board of Directors on February 12, 2020, which will be submitted for approval to the shareholders at a meeting to be held on March 26, 2020. The Group’s financial statements were initially prepared in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1116 ‘Leases’. Significant changes in accounting policies are described in Note 2-5. (2-2) Basis of measurement The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the following material items in the consolidated statements of financial position: derivative financial instruments measured at fair value financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss measured at fair value financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss measured at other comprehensive income measured at fair value liabilities for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements measured at fair value liabilities for defined benefit plans recognized at the net of the total present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets (2-3) Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements of the parent and each subsidiary are prepared in functional currency of the respective operation. These consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean won, which is the Group’s functional currency and the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. (2-4) Use of estimates and judgments The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with K-IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. (a) Assumptions and estimation uncertainties Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within the next financial year are included in the following notes: Note 12 – Allowance Note 20 – Provisions Note 21 – Defined Benefit Obligations Note 22 – Insurance Contract Liabilities Note 36 – Income tax expense Note 39 – Commitments and Contingencies (b) Measurement of fair value The Group has established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. This includes a valuation team that has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements, including Level 3 fair values, and reports directly to the CFO. The valuation team regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the valuation team assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of K-IFRS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classified. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorized into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows. Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). DGB Financial Group 115 If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorized in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorized in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement. The Group recognizes transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. (2-5) Changes in accounting policy The Group initially applied K-IFRS No.1116 Leases and K-IFRS No.2123 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments from January 1, 2019. A number of other new standards are also effective from January 1, 2019 but they do not have a material effect on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Major impacts of initial application of Standards are as follows: (1) K-IFRS No.1116, ‘Leases’ Under the new standard, with implementation of a single lease model, the Group, as a lessee, is required to recognize a right-of-use asset representing the right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. The accounting model for lessor is similar to previous accounting policies. The Group applied K-IFRS No.1116 using the modified retrospective approach, under which the cumulative effect of initial application is recognized at January 1, 2019. Accordingly, the comparative information presented for 2018 is not restated – i.e., it is presented, as previously reported, under K-IFRS No.1017 and related interpretations. The details of the changes in accounting policies are disclosed below. Additionally, the disclosure requirements in K-IFRS No.1116 have not generally been applied to comparative information. a) Definition of a lease Previously, the Group determined at contract inception date whether an arrangement was or contained a lease under K-IFRS No.2014 Determining Whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. The Group now assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease based on the new definition of a lease explained in Note 3-13. The Group assessed whether a contract is or contains a lease at the commencement date of the lease contract on January 1, 2019 (initial application date). b) As a lessee The Group, as a lessee, leases assets including property, vehicles, fixtures, and etc. As a lessee, the Group previously classified leases as operating or finance leases based on its assessment of whether the lease transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership. Under K-IFRS No.1116, the Group recognizes right of use assets and lease liabilities for most leases. That is, most leases are on-balance sheet. The Group has elected not to separate non-lease components, and account for the lease and associated non-lease components as a single lease components as a single lease component. The Group applied the following practical expedients when applying K-IFRS No.1116 to leases previously classified as operating leases under K-IFRS No.1017. does not recognizing right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases of low-value assets; excluded initial direct cost from the measurement of right of use asset at the date of initial application; and used hindsight when determining the lease term c) Impact on the consolidated financial statements On transition to K-IFRS No.1116, the Group recognized additional right of use assets and lease liabilities. The impact on transition is summarized below: (In millions of won) January 1, 2019 Right-of-use assets presented in property and equipment ￦ 52,879 Prepaid expenses 3,170 Restoration liabilities related leasehold improvements 554 Lease liabilities 49,155 The details of K-IFRS No.1116 and K-IFRS No.1017 are presented in Note 3-13. When measuring lease liabilities for leases that were classified as operating leases, the Group discounted lease payments using its incremental borrowing rates at January 1, 2019, and the weighted-average rates applied is 2.07 ~ 4.87%. (In millions of won) January 1, 2019 Amount of operating lease commitments at December 31, 2018 ￦ 45,574 Amount discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at January 1, 2019 39,505 Add: adjustment due to differences in accounting for lease term, including extension and termination options 5,086 Add: additionally recognized lease contract options reasonably certain to be exercised as advertising contract 8,140 Recognition exemption for lease of low-value assets (532) Recognition exemption for leases with less than 12 months of lease term at adoption (3,044) Lease liabilities recognized at January 1, 2019 ￦ 49,155 (2) K-IFRS No. 2123, ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment ’ K-IFRS No.2123, ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment’ addresses the accounting for income taxes when tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of K-IFRS No.1012 of recognition and measurement requirements and specifically addresses the following: 116 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities How an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances The Group applied the K-IFRS No.2123, ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment ’ from January 1, 2019. However, The Group has applied retrospective method to recognize accumulated effect of initial application at the date of initial application according to the K-IFRS No.1008 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ . The application of K-IFRS No.2123 does not have a material impact on the accounting policy and the consolidated financial statements of the Group considering the analysis of the financial impact based on the current situation and information available as of January 1, 2019. 3. Significant Accounting Policies Significant accounting policies applied by the Group in the preparation of its financial statements in accordance with K-IFRS are as follows, and except for those explained in Note 2-5, the financial statements of the current and comparative periods are presented in the same accounting policies. (3-1) Operating segment The Group divides the segments based on internal reporting data periodically reviewed by the CEO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to evaluate the performance of the segment. As described in Note 4, there are six reportable segments, of which each is the strategic units of the Group. Strategic sales units provide different services and are operated separately because each unit has different skills and marketing strategies. (3-2) Basis of consolidation Business combinations Business combinations A business combination is accounted for by applying the acquisition method, unless it is a combination involving entities or business under common control. Also, the Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree as of the acquisition date as a proportionate share of the non-controlling interest among the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment, and any gain on a bargain purchase is recognized in profit or loss immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity instruments. Acquisition related costs are accounted for as expenses in the period in which the costs are incurred and the services are received, except issuance cost of debt instruments and equity instruments according to K-IFRS No.1032, 'Financial Instruments: Presentation ' and K-IFRS No.1109, 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement '. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognized in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financial instrument as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date and subsequent changed in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in profit or loss. If share-based payment awards (replacement awards) are required to be exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees (acquiree’s awards), then all or a portion of the amount of the acquirer’s replacement awards is included in measuring the consideration transferred in the business combination. This determination is based on the market-based measure of the replacement awards compared with the market-based measure of the acquiree’s awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to pre-combination service. Goodwill In the case of the sum of a consideration transferred at the date of acquisition and a non-controlling interest in the acquire or, in the case of a staged business combination, the total fair value of the acquiree's share of the acquiree held by the Group exceeds the identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the excess amount is recognized as goodwill. The additional acquisition of non-controlling interests is accounted for as a transaction between the shareholders and, as a result, no related goodwill is recognized. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases. Removal of internal transaction Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealized income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated. Unrealized gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Non-controlling interests (NCIs) NCIs are measured at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date. Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. Loss of control When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any related NCI and other components of equity.Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost. DGB Financial Group 117 Equity on investee under equity method The Group’s equity on investee under equity method comprise interests in associates and a joint venture. Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. Interests in associates and the joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. They are recognized initially at cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases. (3-3) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and are used by the Group in management of its short-term commitments. Generally equity investments are excluded from cash and cash equivalents. However, redeemable preference shares, for which the period from the acquisition to redemption is short, are classified as cash and cash equivalents. (3-4) Non-derivative financial assets (a) Initial measurement and recognition Financial instruments and financial liabilities are recognized only when the Group becomes a party to the financial instrument. Upon initial recognition, financial assets or financial liabilities are measured at their fair value plus, in the case of a financial assets or liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the assets’ or liabilities’ acquisition or issuance. (b) Financial asset: Subsequent measurement and classification At initial recognition, financial assets are classified as amortized cost, debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income, equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income or at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets are not reclassified after initial recognition, unless the Group has changed its business model to manage the financial assets, in which case all of the affected financial assets are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period after the change. Financial asset is measured at amortized cost if the following two conditions are met and is not designated as fair value through profit or loss. Under a business model that is intended to hold to receive cash flows on a contractual basis. In accordance with the contractual terms of the financial asset, there is a cash flow consisting solely of interest payments on principal and principal balance at a certain date. Debt instrument is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if the following two conditions are met and is not designated as fair value through profit or loss. The Group hold financial assets under a business model that is achieved through both receipt of contractual cash flows and sale of financial assets. Depending on the terms and conditions of the financial asset, there is a cash flow consisting solely of payment of the principal and interest at a certain date. Upon initial recognition of an equity instrument that is not held for short-term trading, the Group may disclose subsequent changes in the fair value of the investment asset in other comprehensive income. However, once selected, it cannot be canceled. This election is made on an investment-by-investment basis. Any financial asset not measured at amortized costs or fair value through other comprehensive income is measured at fair value through profit or loss. These financial assets include all derivative financial assets. In addition, if the designation of a financial asset eliminates or significantly reduces the recognition and measurement inconsistencies that may arise from the measurement of assets or liabilities on a different basis or recognition of gains or losses, a financial asset can be designated as fair value through profit or loss. However, once specified, it cannot be canceled. Business model assessment The Group assesses the purpose of the business model held at the portfolio level of financial assets because it best reflects how the business is managed and how information is provided to management. Such information considers the following: Accounting policies and objectives for the portfolio and the actual operation of these policies. These include whether management’s strategy focuses on earning contractual interest income, maintaining a particular interest rate profile, matching the duration of the financial assets to the duration of any related liabilities or expected cash outflows or realizing cash flows through the sale of the assets. To evaluate the performance of the financial assets held by the business model and to report the evaluation to key management personnel The risks that affect the performance of the business model (and the financial assets held in the business model) and the way in which they are managed The manner of compensation to management (e.g. compensation based on the fair value of the assets under management or contractual cash flows received) The forecasts of sales in the future and frequency, amount, timing and reasons for the sale of financial assets in the past For this purpose, a transaction that transfers a financial asset from a transaction that does not meet the removal requirements to a third party is not considered a sale. A financial asset portfolio that meets the definition of short-term trading or whose portfolio performance is measured on a fair value basis must be measured at fair value through profit or loss. Assessment of whether Contractual Cash Flows are Solely Consisted of Principal and Interest The principal is defined as the fair value at the initial recognition of the financial asset. Interest consists of consideration for the time value of money, consideration for the credit risk associated with the principal balance in a particular period, and other basic risk of lending and consideration for costs (e.g., liquidity risk and operating costs) as well as profit. When assessing whether a contractual cash flow consists solely of payments for principal and interest, the Group takes into account the terms and conditions of the relevant product. If a financial asset includes a contractual term that changes the timing or amount of a contractual cash flow, then the contractual terms must determine whether the contractual cash flows that may occur over the life of the financial instrument consist solely of principal payments. In assessing this, the Group considers the following: contractual conditions that change the amount or timing of cash flow terms that adjust contractual nominal interest rate, including variable interest rate characteristics 118 2019-2020 Sustainability Report early redemption characteristics and maturity extension characteristics the terms of the contract that limit the Group’s claims for cash flows arising from a specific asset (e.g. non-property features) If the early repayment amounts represent interest on principal and remnant principal that have not yet been outstanding and include reasonable additional compensation for the early termination of the contract, the early repayment characteristics are consistent with the conditions under which principal and interest are paid on a particular day. In addition, for financial assets acquired at significant discounts or premiums on the contractual face value, the early repayment amount represents the actual face value of the contract and the accrued interest on the contract (but outstanding) and if the fair value of characteristics of early repayment is insignificant at the time of initial recognition of the financial asset, the conditions are considered to be met. Subsequent measurement and gains or losses These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Net gain (loss) including any interest or dividend income, Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in profit or loss. Refer Note 3-5 for derivatives designated as hedging instruments. These assets are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Financial assets at amortized cost The amortized cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognized in profit or loss. These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income calculated using the effective interest Financial debt instruments at fair value through method, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Other net gains and other comprehensive income losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. On derecognition, gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit of loss. These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Dividends are recognized as income in profit or loss Financial equity instruments at fair value through unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment. Other net gains and losses other comprehensive income are recognized in other comprehensive income and are never reclassified to profit or loss. (c) De-recognition The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred financial assets, the Group continues to recognize the transferred financial assets and recognizes financial liabilities for the consideration received. (d) Offsetting The Group is only offsetting financial assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position if it currently has a legally enforceable right to the assets and liabilities recognized by the Group and intends to settle the liabilities at a net price or at the same time as the assets are realized. (3-5) Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting Derivative and Hedge accounting Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are generally recognized in profit or loss. The Group holds forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, currency swaps and other derivative contracts to manage interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. The Group designated derivatives as hedging instruments to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or firm commitments (a fair value hedge). At inception of designated heading relationships, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument(s) and hedged item(s), including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of a derivative hedging instrument designated as a fair value hedge are recognized in profit or loss, and the change in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk is also recognized in profit or loss. Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued when the group no longer designates the hedging relationship, when hedging instrument expires, sells, liquidates, exercised, or when the accounting requirements are no longer met. The carrying amount of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is amortized to profit or loss from the date where the hedge accounting is discontinued. The ineffective part in the change of the fair value of a derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. Cash flow hedge When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective part of the change in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedge reserve. The effective part of the change in the fair value of the derivative recognized in other comprehensive income is limited to the cumulative change in hedged item determined on the basis of its present value from the inception of the hedge. The ineffective part in the change of the fair value of a derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. The Group designates only changes in the fair value of the spot component of the forward exchange transaction as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge relationship. The 'forward point' of the component of forward exchange contracts is accounted separately as the hedge cost and recognized in the cost of hedging the equity. If the hedged transaction is subsequently recognized in non-financial assets, the accumulated hedge reserve and the cost of hedge are included directly in the initial cost of the non-financial asset when recognized. For other hedged transactions, the cumulative amount and the costs of hedges are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period or in the period in which the hedged expected future cash flows affect the profit or loss. If the hedge no longer meets the accounting requirements or the hedging instrument is sold, extinguished, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is phased out. If a non-financial item is a recognized hedge transaction, the cumulative amount of the hedge reserve and the cost of the hedge are left in the equity item until the non-financial item is initially recognized and included in the cost of the non-financial item. For cash flow hedges that are not eligible, the cash flow hedge reserve DGB Financial Group 119 and the cost of the hedge are reclassified to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment in the period in which the hedged future expected cash flows affect profit or loss. If the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, the accumulated cash flow hedge reserve and the cost of the hedge are reclassified immediately to profit or loss. Net Investment Hedge If a derivative or non-derivative financial liability is designated as a hedging instrument for a net investment in a foreign operation, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income in the case of a non-derivative instrument and foreign currency translation gain or loss is recognised in equity. The ineffective portions are recognised immediately in profit or loss. The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified to profit or loss as reclassification adjustment when disposing of foreign operations. Embedded Derivatives Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately if the host contract is not a financial asset and certain criteria are met. (3-6) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price (the fair value of the consideration given or received) unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets. If the valuation technique incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data, the difference between the transaction price and the fair value based on the valuation technique (day-one profit or loss) is not recognized in profit or loss upon initial recognition but deferred Deferred day-one profit or loss is recognized over the period between the trade date and the date when the variables are expected to become observable in the market, or over the life of the trade (whichever is shorter). (3-7) Impairment of financial assets The Group recognizes a loss allowance for expected credit losses in three phases for financial assets. Stage 1 : 12-month Expected credit losses Financial assets that have not experienced significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition and that are determined to have low credit risk at the end of the reporting period are recognized by measuring and recognizing expected credit losses due to default events on financial instruments that may occur within 12 months after the end of the reporting period. Stage 2 : Lifetime expected credit losses The lifetime expected credit losses are measured and recognized for financial assets that have not been creditimpaired but have significantly increased since initial recognition. Stage 3 : Lifetime expected credit losses If one or more impairment incidents have affected the estimated future cash flows of a financial asset, the financial asset is assessed to be credit-impaired. The Group measures and recognizes lifetime expected credit losses for credit-impaired financial assets and interest income by applying the effective interest rate to amortized cost. (a) Measurement of expected credit losses Expected credit losses are probability-weighted estimates of credit losses. Credit losses are measured at the present value of all cash shortfalls (i.e., the difference between all contractual cash flows payable under the contract and cash flows expected to be received). Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial asset. (b) Applicable timeline of expected credit losses Lifetime expected credit losses are resulting from all default events that may occur during the expected life of the financial instrument. The 12-month expected credit loss is the portion of expected credit loss that result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date (or a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument is less than 12 months). The longest period to consider when measuring expected credit losses is the longest contractual term for which the Group is exposed to credit risk. (c) Assessment of credit risk When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition and estimating expected credit losses, the Group considers information that is available, reasonable and supported without undue cost or effort. This includes quantitative and qualitative information and analysis based on the group's past experience, credit ratings, and forward-looking information, including forward-looking information. The Group uses internal and external credit, with past due dates to determine whether credit risk has increased significantly. The Group assumes that the credit risk of a financial asset increases significantly when the past due date exceeds 30 days. The Group considers credit risk to be low if the credit risk rating of a financial asset is at a level that is internationally understood as a 'investment grade'. (d) Default and impairment The Group considers a financial asset to be in default when: The borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group in full, without recourse by the Group to actions such as realizing security (if any is held); or The financial asset is more than 90 days past due. At the end of each reporting period, the Group assesses whether the financial asset is credit-impaired. If there is more than one event that adversely affects the estimated future cash flows of a financial asset, it is impaired. Evidence of impaired credit for financial assets includes the following observable information Significant financial difficulties of the issuer or borrower; Breach of contract, such as default or more than 90 days overdue The restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group on terms that the Group would not consider otherwise 120 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Borrowers are likely to go bankrupt or other financial restructuring becomes more likely Termination of active market for financial assets due to financial difficulties (e) Disclosure of allowance for expected credit loss Allowance for losses on financial asset measured at amortized cost is deducted from the carrying amount of the asset. Allowance for debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income is charged to profit or loss and recognized in other comprehensive income. (f) Write-off If there is no reasonable expectation of a full or partial recovery of the contractual cash flows of the financial asset, then the asset should be removed. This is usually the case when the group determines that the creditor does not have an income source or asset that will generate enough cash flows to repay the amount to which it is subject. However, financial assets that are derecognized may be subject to the collection of maturing amounts of the Group. (3-8) Property and equipment Property and equipment are initially measured at cost and after initial recognition, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property and equipment includes expenditures arising directly from the construction or acquisition of the asset, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. Subsequent to initial recognition, an item of property and equipment shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of property and equipment at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Property and equipment, except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives that appropriately reflect the pattern in which the asset’s future economic benefits are expected to be consumed. A component that is significant compared to the total cost of property and equipment is depreciated over its separate useful life. Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property and equipment and are recognized in profit or loss. Depreciation method and the estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets are as follows: Depreciation method Useful lives (years) Buildings Straight-line method 40 Leasehold improvements Straight-line method 5 Furniture, equipment and vehicles Straight-line method 5 Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted, if appropriate. The amendment is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. (3-9) Intangible assets Intangible assets are measured initially at cost and, subsequently, are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of intangible assets except for goodwill is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date that they are available for use. The residual value of intangible assets is zero. However, as there are no foreseeable limits to the periods over which club memberships are expected to be available for use, this intangible asset is determined as having indefinite useful lives and not amortized. The estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets are as follows: Useful lives (years) Computer software 4 Contributed acceptances 2-20 Usable and profitable donation assets 2-20 Amortization periods and the amortization methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. The useful lives of intangible assets that are not being amortized are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support indefinite useful life assessments for those assets. Changes are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates. (a) Research and development Expenditures on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Development expenditures are capitalized only if development costs can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable, and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset. Other development expenditures are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. (b) Subsequent expenditures Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when they increase the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.All other expenditures, including expenditures on internally generated goodwill and brands, are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. DGB Financial Group 121 (3-10) Borrowing costs The Group capitalizes borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognized in expense as incurred. A qualifying asset is an asset that requires a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale. Financial assets and assets that are ready for their intended use or sale when acquired are not qualifying assets. To the extent that the Group borrows funds specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the Group determines the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization as the actual borrowing costs incurred on that borrowing during the period less any investment income on the temporary investment of those borrowings. To the extent that the Group borrows funds generally and uses them for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the Group shall determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization by applying a capitalization rate to the expenditures on that asset. The capitalization rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the Group that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. The amount of borrowing costs that the Group capitalizes during a period shall not exceed the amount of borrowing costs incurred during that period. (3-11) Investment property Property held for the purpose of earning rentals or benefiting from capital appreciation is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost. Transaction costs are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, investment property is carried at depreciated cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of investment property at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Investment property except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 40 years as estimated useful lives. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting date and adjusted, if appropriate. The change is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. (3-12) Impairment of non-financial assets All non-financial assets, apart from assets arising from employee benefits, deferred tax assets and non-current assets classified as held for sale are reviewed at end of each reporting period for indications of asset impairment, and estimates the recoverable amount. However, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and not available are tested for impairment annually by comparing recoverable and carrying amounts, regardless of indications that the asset may be impaired. The recoverable amount is estimated either by individual asset or by the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs if the amount cannot be estimated. Recoverable amount is determined to be the larger of value in use and fair value less costs to sell. Value in use is estimated by discounting future cash flows that are expected to be generated by an asset or cash generating unit at an appropriate discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks of specialized assets that are not adjusted when estimating future cash flows. If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit falls short of its carrying amount, the asset is reduced and recognized immediately as profit or loss. The goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each cash-generating unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. The impairment loss on the cash-generating unit first reduces the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit and then the asset in proportion to the carrying amount of each other asset in the cash-generating unit. Impairment losses recognized for goodwill cannot be reversed in a subsequent period. At the end of each reporting period, the Group will review whether there are any indications that the impairment losses recognized in the past other than goodwill are no longer present or are reduced, and will only be reversed if there is a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount after the recognition of the immediately preceding impairment loss. The carrying amount increased by the reversal of an impairment loss shall not exceed the balance after depreciation or amortization of the carrying amount before the impairment loss was recognized previously. (3-13) Leases The Group applied K-IFRS No.1116 using modified retrospective approach. Therefore, the comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under K-IFRS No.1017 and K-IFRS No.2104. The details of accounting policies under K-IFRS No.1017 and K-IFRS No.2104 are disclosed separately. (a) Policy applicable from January 1, 2019 At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract transfers the identified right to use of an identified assets, the Group uses definition of a lease in K-IFRS No.1116. The policy is applied to contracts entered into, on or after January 1, 2019. As a lessee On transition to K-IFRS No.1116 Leases, the Group has elected to apply the practical expedient, which does not separate non-lease components, and account for lease and non-lease components as one-lease component. The Group recognizes a right of use assets and lease liabilities at the lease commencement date. Right of use assets are initially measured at cost, and those costs consist of estimates of the initial amount of the lease liability, adjusted for any lease payment made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset. Right of use asset is subsequently depreciated on a straight-line basis from the commencement of the lease to the end of the lease term. However, if the ownership of the underlying asset is transferred at the end of the lease term or the price of purchase option is reflected in the cost of the right of use asset, the asset is depreciated until the end of the useful life of the underlying asset on the same basis as the depreciation of the property and equipment. In addition, right of use assets may be reduced by impairment losses, or adjusted for certain remeasurement of the lease liability. Lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments not paid as of the commencement of the lease discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, but if the implicit interest rate cannot be readily determined, the Group uses incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. 122 2019-2020 Sustainability Report The Group determines its incremental borrowing rate by obtaining interest rates from various external financing sources and makes certain adjustments to reflect the terms of the lease and type of the asset leased. The lease payments included in the measurement of lease liability consist of the following items: Fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments); Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate (interest rate). Initially measured using an index or rate as at the commencement of the lease; Amount expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees; The exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise, lease payments in an optional renewal period if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise the extension option, and the penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably certain not to terminate early. The lease liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Lease liabilities are remeasured if there is any change in future lease payments due to the changes in the index or rate, change in the Group’s estimate of the amount expected to be paid under the residual value guarantee, change in assessment of whether exercise the option of purchase, extension or termination, or if there is a revised in-substance fixed lease. When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, in corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. The Group presented right of use assets under ‘property and equipment’, and presented lease liabilities under ‘other financial liabilities’ in the consolidated statement of financial position. Lease of low-value assets The Group has chosen a practical expedient that does not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases of low-value underlying assets, and recognizes the lease payment associated with these leases as expenses on a straight-line basis over the lease term. As a lessor At inception or on modification of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group allocates the contract consideration to each lease component based on its relative stand-alone price. The Group, as a lessor, assesses whether a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease at lease inception. To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards ownership of the underlying asset. If substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset are transferred to the lessee, the lease is classified as a finance lease; otherwise, the lease is classified as an operating lease. As part of this assessment, the Group considers whether the lease term represents a significant part of the economic useful life of the underlying asset. If the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sublease separately. In addition, the classification of a sublease is determined by the right of use asset arising from the head lease rather than the underlying asset. If the head lease corresponds to a short-term lease that applies the recognition exemption, the sublease is classified as an operating lease. If the contract contains both the lease component and the non-less components, the Group applies K-IFRS No.1115 to allocate the contract consideration. The Group applies derecognition and impairment requirements in K-IFRS No.1109 to the net investment in the lease. The Group further regularly reviews estimated unguaranteed residual value used to calculate the gross lease investment. The Group recognized lease payments received from the operating lease as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term as part of the 'other revenue'. The accounting policies applied for the comparatives by the Group as a lessor are not different from those in K-IFRS No.1116. (b) Policies applicable before January 1, 2019 For contracts entered into before January 1, 2019, the Group determined whether the commitment was a lease or contained a lease based on the assessment of the followings: whether a commitment can only be fulfilled if a particular asset is used whether the right of use asset is transferred according to the arrangement. The arrangement is considered as a transfer of right of use asset if one of the following conditions is met: · Buyer has the right or ability to operate the asset while obtaining or controlling more than an insignificant amount of output from the underlying asset · Buyer has the right or ability to control physical access to the asset while obtaining or controlling more than an insignificant amount of output from the underlying asset · Facts and circumstances indicated that it was remote, that other party would take more than an insignificant amount of output from the assets under the arrangement and the price per unit if output not equal to the current market price per unit of output As a lessee In the comparative period, as a lessee, the Group classified the lease as a finance lease, where substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset are transferred to the Group. For finance leases, lease assets were initially measured at the lower of their fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments. Minimum lease payments were the payments that the lessee was required to make over the lease term, excluding any contingent rent. Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset were accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies applicable to those assets. If a lease is classified as an operating lease, the Group did not recognized lease assets in the consolidated statement of financial position, and recognized the lease payment in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received were recognized as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. As a lessor As a lessor, the Group determined whether the lease was a finance lease or an operating lease at lease inception. To classify each lease, the Group made an overall assessment of whether the lease transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset. If substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset were transferred to the lessee, the lease was classified as a finance lease; otherwise, the lease was classified as an operating lease. As part of this assessment, the Group considered whether the lease term represented a significant part of the economic useful life of the underlying assets. DGB Financial Group 123 (3-14) Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale. In order to be classified as held for sale, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. The assets or disposal group that are classified as non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. The Group recognizes an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent write-down of an asset (or disposal group) to fair value less costs to sell, and a gain for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell, up to the cumulative impairment loss previously recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1036 ‘Impairment of Assets’. A non-current asset that is classified as held for sale or part of a disposal group classified as held for sale is not depreciated (or amortized). (3-15) Non-derivative financial liabilities The Group classifies financial liabilities other than derivative financial liabilities and financial guarantee contract liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabilities (depository liabilities, borrowings, etc.) and recognizes in the statement of financial position. (a) Financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss The Group may designate a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition if it is able to eliminate or significantly reduce any inconsistency in recognition or measurement resulting from measuring the asset or liability on different criteria, and if a group of financial instruments managed on a fair value basis are in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and their performance is evaluated. However, cancellation is inevitable when specified. Changes in fair value due to changes in the own credit risk of the financial liability designated at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in other comprehensive income. (b) Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss are measured after initial recognition, and changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss. (c) Other Financial Liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities other than financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are classified as other financial liabilities. At the date of initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at fair value minus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition. Subsequent to initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. (d) Derecognition of Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are derecognized in the statement of financial position only when they expire; contractual obligation is satisfied, cancelled or expired. The Group derecognizes the existing liability and recognizes the new financial liability at fair value on the basis of the new contract if the terms of the financial liability have changed and the cash flows have changed substantially. When a financial liability is derecognized, the difference between the carrying amount and the paid amount (including transferred non-cash assets or liabilities assumed) are recognized in profit or loss. (3-16) Fair value of financial instruments (a) Determination of fair value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value Financial instruments that are carried at fair value includes financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss and through other comprehensive income. The fair value of the financial instrument in which an active market exists was determined using the quoted market price in the active market. The fair value of financial instruments that do not have an active market was determined through valuation techniques. Evaluation techniques include how to use recent transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, referring to current fair values of substantially the same other financial instruments, how to discount cash flows and an option pricing model. The valuation technique was used when market participants generally used to determine the price of a financial instrument and provided that the valuation technique provided were reliable estimates of the actual market transaction price. When fair value is determined by valuation technique, it may be demonstrated by comparison with observable current market transactions of the same financial instrument or assessed on the basis of valuation techniques including only the variables. However, in determining fair value through valuation techniques, not all major inputs are always observable in the market and in such cases, fair value is determined using reasonable assumptions or estimates. (b) Classification and level of disclosure for fair value Fair value through profit or loss and other comprehensive income measurement financial instruments have different assessment methods, so the fair value level is defined according to the account subjects and attributes of the instruments system and the fair value level is assigned to each product. The fair value level classification criteria for each product are as follows; Level Description Level 1 Financial instruments are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. If there are no quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets, financial instruments classified as Level 2 have been valued using Level 2 models whose inputs are observable in an active market. Financial instruments are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data Level 3 (unobservable inputs). (c) Determination of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value Financial instruments that are not listed at fair value include deposits, amortized cost-measured loans, amortized cost-measuring financial assets, depository liabilities, borrowing liabilities, and other financial liabilities. These instruments are carried in the account at amortized acquisition cost. The fair value determination method for each product is as follows: 124 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Deposits and Loan measured at amortized cost The estimated fair value of deposits with maturity of six months or less is the carrying amount. The estimated fair value of non-impaired deposits and loan measured at amortized cost is the amount of the estimated future cash flows reflecting the credit risk discounted at the current market interest rate for individual assessments, and the collective valuation is the carrying amount of the loan receivable subtracted by the provision. Financial assets measured at amortized cost The fair value of financial assets measured at amortized cost uses either a market price or price disclosed by a broker/seller/public assessor. If the information is not available, estimates are made using the quoted market price for products with similar credit, maturity and yielded characteristics. (3-16) Fair value of financial instruments Deposit liabilities The carrying amounts of non-interest bearing deposit liabilities and deposit liabilities with no stated maturity or a residual maturity less than 6 months are assumed to be fair values. The estimated fair value of an interest bearing deposit liability is the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate (market rate) of a recently issued liability with the similar maturity. Borrowings The estimated fair value of the borrowings with a contractual maturity and a variable interest repayment period of less than six months is the carrying amount. The estimated process value of a borrower without a quoted market price in an active market is the amount of the future cash flows discounted to the present value using the interest rate on a new liability with a similar residual maturity. For borrowings, the won-dollar borrower will evaluate the carrying amount at estimated fair value and the carrying amount within six months of the foreign currency borrowings at estimated fair value. The total fair value of issued bonds is calculated based on the market price disclosed in the active market. For bonds that do not have a quoted market price in the active market, a DCF model is used based on the appropriate yield curve for the remaining period until maturity. (3-17) Employee benefits (a) Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are due to be settled within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during an accounting period, the Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service. (b) Other long-term employee benefits Other long-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are settled beyond 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service, and include the cost of training overseas which the Group grants to long-serving employees. The calculation method of the Group’s obligation is consistent with defined benefit plans. (c) Retirement benefits: defined contribution plans When an employee has rendered service to the Group during a period, the Group recognizes the contribution payable to a defined contribution plan in exchange for that service as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the contribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, the Group recognizes that excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the extent that the prepayment will lead to a reduction in future payments or a cash refund. (d) Retirement benefits: defined benefit plans The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognized asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognized immediately in OCI. The Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit liability (asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognized in profit or loss. When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognized immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognizes gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs. (e) Termination benefits Termination benefits are recognized as an expense when the Group is committed demonstrably, without realistic possibility of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to either terminate employment before the normal retirement date, or to provide termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancies are recognized as an expense if the Group has made an offer of voluntary redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted, and the number of acceptances can be estimated reliably. If benefits are payable more than 12 months after the reporting period, then they are discounted to their present value. (3-18) Provisions Provisions are a present obligation (legal or constructive obligation) that exist as a result of a past event, and is recognized when resources with economic benefits are likely to be exposed to satisfy and the amount required are reliably estimated. DGB Financial Group 125 The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to satisfy the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the unavoidable risks and uncertainties about the events and circumstances involved. When the time value effect of currency is important, the provision is assessed as the present value of the expenditure to satisfy the obligation. If a third party is expected to reimburse some or all of the expenses required to settle a provision, the entity recognizes the reimbursement amount and accounts for it as a separate asset only when it is almost certain that it will be reimbursed. The Group reviews the balance of the provision at the end of each reporting period and adjusts it to reflect the best estimate as of the end of the reporting period. In case it is no longer probable that resources embodied in economic benefits will be leaked for the purpose of the obligation, the related provisions are reversed. A provision shall be used only for expenditures for which the provision was originally recognized. A financial guarantee contract is a contract where issuer has to pay a specified amount to compensate for losses incurred by the holder due to the failure of a particular creditor to pay at the date of payment in accordance with the initial or modified terms of the debt instrument. Such financial guarantees are provided to banks, financial institutions and other institutions on behalf of the customer in order to guarantee loan receivables and other credit limits. Financial guarantees are initially measured at fair value (when they are provided) and are counted as liabilities, and since financial guarantee contracts are not traded in active markets, fair value is calculated through valuation techniques, and the fair value of financial guarantee is calculated by combining the present value of the fees received and to be received in the future. After initial recognition, the amount recognized is amortized to net income during the warranty period (recognized as a commission income amount) and measure at a large amount in each settlement period by comparing the following, and if the amount is large than the amount is added as a payment guarantee allowance. Provision loss determined in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109 ‘Financial Instruments ’ Accumulated of amortized cost deducted by amortized cost recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No.1115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers , in accordance with initial recognition amount (fair value)’ The increase in all liabilities related to financial guarantee is recognized as current expense as an account of the transfer of provisions. (3-19) Foreign currencies (a) Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency using the reporting date’s exchange rate. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognized in profit or loss, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available-for-sale equity instruments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognized in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. (b) Foreign operations If the presentation currency of the Group is different from a foreign operation’s functional currency, the financial statements of the foreign operation are translated into the presentation currency using the following methods: The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, whose functional currency is not the currency of a hyperinflationary economy, are translated to presentation currency at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to functional currency at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition of that foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation. Thus, they are expressed in the functional currency of the foreign operation and are translated with other assets and liabilities of foreign operation at the closing rate. When a foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant amount in the translation is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. On the partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant proportion of such cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interest. In any other partial disposal of a foreign operation, the relevant proportion is reclassified to profit or loss. (c) Conversion of net investment in Foreign operations Among monetary items to be received from or paid to a foreign operation, items unplanned to be settled in the foreseeable future and are unlikely to be settled are considered part of the net investment in foreign operations and are recognized in other comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements and are reclassified to profit or loss at the time of disposal of the related net investment. (3-20) Equity capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity and the incremental costs incurred directly related to capital transactions are deducted from equity in a net amount reflecting tax effects. When the Group repurchases its share capital, the amount of the consideration paid is recognized as a deduction from equity and classified as treasury shares. The profits or losses from the purchase, disposal, reissue, or retirement of treasury shares are not recognized as current profit or loss. If the Group acquires and retains treasury shares, the consideration paid or received is directly recognized in equity. (3-21) Share-based payment transactions The Group has granted shares or share options to its employees and other parties. For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the Group measures the goods or services acquired and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability. Until the liability is settled, the Group remeasures the fair value of the liability at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss for the period. 126 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (3-22) Recognition of revenue and expense The Group recognizes revenue by applying the five step revenue recognition model as below. 1. Contract identification -> 2. Identification of performance obligations -> 3. Calculation of transaction price -> 4. Allocation of transaction price to performance obligation -> 5. Recognition of revenue when performance obligation is satisfied (a) Interest income and expense Interest income and expense are recognized in profit or loss using the effective interest method. The effective interest method calculates the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and allocates interest income or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate exactly matches the present value of the future payment or receivable estimated during the expected life of the financial instrument with the total carrying amount of the financial asset or amortised cost of the financial liability. When calculating interest income or interest expense, the effective interest rate applies to the gross carrying amount of the asset (if the asset is not credit-impaired) or to the amortised cost of the liability. However, for financial assets that are subsequently credit-impaired since initial recognition, interest revenue is calculated using the effective interest rate at the amortised cost of the financial asset. If the asset is no longer considered as credit-impaired, the effective interest rate is applied to the gross carrying amount to calculate interest revenue. (b) Fees and commission The recognition of revenue for financial service fees depends on the purposes for which the fees are assessed and the basis of accounting for any associated financial instrument. Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument Such fees are generally treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate. Such fees may include compensation for activities such as evaluating the borrower’s financial condition, evaluating and recording guarantees, collateral and other security arrangements, preparing and processing documents, closing the transaction and the origination fees received on issuing financial liabilities. However, when the financial instrument is measured at fair value with the change in fair value recognized in profit or loss, the fees are recognized as revenue when the instrument is initially recognized. Fees earned as services are provided Fees and commission income, including investment management fees, sales commission, and account servicing fees, are recognized as the related services are provided. In addition, if a certain loan commitment is unlikely to be contracted and the loan commitment is not within the scope of K-IFRS No.1109, the commission fee is recognised as revenue over period of time. Fees that are earned on the execution of a significant action The fees that are earned on the execution of a significant act including commission on the allotment of shares or other securities to a client, placement fee for arranging a loan between a borrower and an investor and sales commission, are recognized as revenue when the significant act has been completed. (c) Dividends The Group recognizes dividend income when the shareholders' right to receive payment is established. (d) Insurance income The Group recognizes insurance income for the insurance premium paid of which the payment date arrived by the premium payment methods of the insurance contract; and recognizes advance receipts for the insurance premium paid of which the payment date has not arrived at the end of the reporting period. (3-23) Income taxes Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognized directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. (a) Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. The taxable profit is different from the accounting profit for the period since the taxable profit is calculated excluding the temporary differences, which will be taxable or deductible in determining taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods, and non-taxable or non-deductible items from the accounting profit. (b) Deferred tax The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred income tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. The Group recognizes a deferred tax liability for all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests in joint ventures, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The Group recognizes a deferred tax asset for all deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduces the carrying amount to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilized. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred income tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to offset the related current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. DGB Financial Group 127 Uncertainty over income tax treatments occurs from a tax ruling and litigation appealed from the Group and examination of taxation authority due to complexity of transaction or the difference on application of tax laws. It is recognized in income tax assets in case tax amounts were paid by taxation authority’s imposition but probability of refund is high, and it is recognized in income tax liabilities in case of tax amount predicted to be paid in the future by the examination of taxation authority under K-IFRS No.2123. (3-24) Accounting for trust accounts The Group accounts for trust accounts separately from its bank accounts under Article 114 of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act . In connection with this, the funds borrowed from the trust accounts are included in the trust accounts as borrowings from the trust accounts, and in accordance with the financial investment business regulations, the funds received from the trust accounts are managed with paying trust fees. (3-25) Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. (3-26) Acquisition costs In accordance with Article 31 of the Regulation on Accounting of Insurance Business and Article 3 of the Addendum to the Regulation , the Group amortizes actual policy acquisition costs (excluding the amount exceeding expected costs), which arose from a long-term contract over the life of the contract (up to seven years) using the straight-line method. If the difference is immaterial, the Group calculates amortization by subtracting the difference between premium reserves based on a net premium method and premium reserves based on a surrender value method from acquisition costs arose in the current year and deferred unamortized acquisition costs. On the other hand, the lesser of the actual or expected costs for a new contract entered into after April 1, 2004, is amortized over the life of the contract (up to seven years). The Group additionally amortizes the excess amount if unamortized acquisition costs are more than the difference between premium reserves based on a net premium method and premium reserves based on a surrender value method as of December 31, 2019. (3-27) Insurance and investment contracts-classification The Group classifies a contract under which one party (the insurer) accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder as an insurance contact. The Group assesses the significance of insurance risk contract by contract, considering the amounts payable if an insured event occurs, and the amounts payable if no insured event occurs. The Group classifies a contract that exposes the issuer to financial risk without significant insurance risk as an investment contract. Depending on whether an investment contract contains a discretionary participation feature or not, the accounting treatments of the investment contract is different. If there is the discretionary participation feature in the investment contract, it is treated as the same as insurance contracts, but if not, K-IFRS No.1109 ‘Financial Instruments ’ is applied. If the Group classifies as insurance contract, that contract maintains until all rights and obligations expire, and does not reclassify as an investment contract even if the insurance risk becomes immaterial during the term of the insurance contract. However, in the case of the investment contract, the Group reclassifies as an insurance contract if insurance risk turns significant after the first recognition. (3-28) Insurance contract liabilities (policy reserves) In accordance with the Supervision Regulation and related rules, the Group is required to maintain policy reserves for payment on future claims or refunds, and on dividends to participating policyholders. Such policy reserves are to be provided based on calculation methods approved by the Insurance Business Act of Korea, related laws and rules, and the Minister of Strategy and Finance of the Republic of Korea. (a) Premium reserve Premium reserve refers to an amount calculated by the net premium method for payment on future claims, which is the bigger amount between the one calculated based on standard interest rate and standard risk rate issued by the Financial Supervisory Service and the one calculated based on standard rates applied to premium calculation. If premium reserve results in an amount below zero, the Group records the premium reserve as zero. (b) Reserve for unearned premium Reserve for unearned premium refers to the amount of premium at the collection date as of or prior to the statement of financial position date, which will be realized in the subsequent periods. (c) Guarantee reserve In accordance with the Insurance Business Act and the Regulation on Supervision of Insurance Business, guarantee reserve refers to an amount calculated based on the standard method of measuring the guarantee reserve, which is the guarantee amount for payment on future claims up to a reasonable level in consideration of future estimated loss. (d) Reserve for outstanding claims As of the end of the reporting period, the Group reserves the following amount of payment that has yet to be paid, or is estimated for contracts for which the reason for payment has occurred as follows Individual estimated amount : The amount estimated by insurance accident reported to the group due to pending litigation (some payments are left after payment) Unreported Losses (IBNR, Incurred But Not Reported) : Estimated amount based on reasonable statistical methods considering the experience performance of the group Unclaimed expenses : Contracts that are not expired due to non-payment of insurance premiums, including the right to revive and reserve period Accrued insurance expenses : Amount that are not paid at fixed amount, such as insurance, refund, dividend, etc. 128 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (e) Reserve for participating policyholders’ dividends Excess Crediting Rate Reserve For dividend insurance (contract prior to October 1, 1997), if the scheduled interest rate is lower than the average interest rate of a one year time deposit in the current business year, the amount is reserved for the policyholder compensating for the difference. Mortality Dividend Reserve For valid dividend insurance contracts that have been maintained for more than one year, the amount is reserved for the compensation given for the difference between the planned death rate and the actual death rate applied to the insurance premium calculation standard. Interest Dividend Reserve The amount is reserved for the dividend covering the difference between the interest dividend base rate and scheduled interest rate for each insurance product for an insurance contract that has been maintained for more than one year. However, for contracts signed before October 1, 1997, the amount is reserved for the difference between the interest dividend base rate and the scheduled interest rate for each insurance product, including the interest rate guarantee rate as of the beginning of the business year. Long-term Duration Dividend Reserve The amount is reserved for dividend insurance contracts that have been maintained for more than six years, the amount of cancellation deducted by the net insurance premium reserve as of the end of previous term multiplied by the long-term duration dividend rate. (f) Dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation The Group first set aside reserve for loss from participating insurance from policyholders’ shares in accordance with the Enforcement Rules of the Insurance Business Act. Then the Group sets the estimated amount of dividend to the new policyholders for the next business year in the reserve for participating policyholders’ dividends and the remaining shares are set aside as the dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation by the total amount. Of the dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation that did not actually occur as of December 31, 2018, were added to the dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation, which were set aside by the total amount prior to the year ended December 31, 2019. Dividend for participating policyholders incurred as of December 31, 2018, in excess of the newly reserved dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation were deducted from the dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation (in the order of the policyholders’ shares calculated according to the Article 6-13, Paragraph 1 and shareholders’ interest), which were set aside by the total amount prior to the year ended December 31, 2019. Dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation reserved by the total amount will be used as sources of dividend for policyholders to individual policyholder within five years from the year ended December 31, 2019. (3-29) Liability adequacy test The Group assesses, at the end of each reporting period, whether its recognized insurance liabilities are adequate, using current estimates of future cash flows under its insurance contracts. If that assessment shows that the carrying amount of its insurance liabilities (less related deferred acquisition costs and related intangible assets) is inadequate in the light of the estimated future cash flows, the entire deficiency shall be recognized in net income. In accordance with K-IFRS No.1104 ‘Insurance Contact’ , the Group applies a liability adequacy test that meets specified minimum requirements. The minimum requirements are the following: The test considers current estimates of all contractual cash flows and related cash flows, such as claims handling costs, as well as cash flows resulting from embedded options and guarantees. If the test shows that the liability is inadequate, the entire deficiency is recognized in net income. (3-30) Reinsurance contracts The Group entered into reinsurance contracts with reinsurers to compensate them for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Group and shall not offset reinsurance assets against the related insurance liabilities or income or expense from reinsurance contracts against the expense or income from the related insurance contracts. Reinsurance assets are tested for impairment at least annually. If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group shall reduce its carrying amount accordingly and recognize that impairment loss in net income. A reinsurance asset is impaired if, and only if: There is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract; and The event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer. (3-31) Policyholders’ equity adjustment At the end of the reporting period, the Group assesses the face value of balance sheet of the gain or loss on valuation of available-for-sale securities, based on the investment balance distribution method, and the Group and its shareholders are classified as contractors and shareholders, accordingly. However, in the event of a loss in the evaluation of available-for-sale securities, the total amount of the contractor's profit dividend reserve and the contractor's dividend stabilization reserve are limited to the contractual equity adjustment. (3-32) Valuation of separate account assets and liabilities In accordance with the Article 108 of the Insurance Business Act and the Supervision Regulation of Insurance Business , all assets and liabilities related to retirement benefit insurance contracts are managed and accounted for separately as separate account assets and liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. According to the amended Article 4-1 of Supervision Regulation of Insurance Business, the Group presents receivables from and payables to the separate account as deduction from the separate account liabilities and the separate account assets, respectively. In addition, under Article 6-23 of Regulation on Supervision of Insurance, the Group does not present the income and expenses of the performance dividend special account (variable life insurance contract), and the income and expenses of the principal and interest guaranteed special account(retirement insurance contract) are totalized as subjects of special account income and expenses. DGB Financial Group 129 (3-33) New Standards and interpretation not yet adopted The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published but are not mandatory for the Group for annual periods beginning after January 1, 2019, and the Group has not early adopted them. (a) K-IFRS No.1001 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements ’, K-IFRS No.1008 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors ’ K-IFRS No.1001 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements ’, K-IFRS No.1008 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors ’, as amended on April 19, 2019, are applied from the following fiscal year after January 1, 2020. However, if the Group complies with all other amendments to the reference of Framework by International Accounting Standards at the same time, they may be applied. The Group applies K-IFRS No.1001 and K-IFRS No.1008 from the following fiscal year after January 1, 2020, either retrospectively to prior reporting periods presented in accordance with the above standards or retrospectively to recognizes the initial cumulative effect on the date of initial application. The Group determines that the financial impact of applying K-IFRS No. 1008 on the consolidated financial statements is not significant based on the current situation and information available as of December 31, 2019. (b) K-IFRS No.1103 ‘Business Combination ’ K-IFRS No.1103 ‘Business Combination ’, as amended on April 19, 2019, may be applied to business combinations or acquisition of assets from the beginning of the fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, 2020 The Group determines that the financial impact of applying K-IFRS No.1103 on the consolidated financial statements is not significant based on the current situation and information available as of December 31, 2019. 4. Operating Segments The Group has operating segments, which consist of banking division, securities division, life insurance division, loan division, asset management division, and others based on its services, and conducts performance evaluations by operating segments as well as by divisions within those operating segments. An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components, whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and assess its performance and for which discrete financial information is available. Its financial statements are consolidated based on similar economic characteristics of the service provided, and those are divided by six reportable segments by the importance of profit made. The six reportable segments are as follows: Description Business Area Banking Financial lending services to customers and depository services Securities Securities (including stocks) investment and operation Life Insurance Procurement and financial services for life insurance Loan Leasing, Installment loan, and FinTech Asset Management Trust Funds and Financial Investment Advisory Others Segments other than those above, including collection of bonds, and development and operation of software 130 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (a) Information about reportable segments as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Life Asset Consolidated Banking Securities Insurance Loan Management Subtotal Adjustment Amount Interest income ￦ 1,751,500 147,653 156,494 159,677 395 2,215,719 (21,410) 2,194,309 Interest Interest expense 611,851 79,128 9,282 69,140 25 769,426 13,873 783,299 Subtotal 1,139,649 68,525 147,212 90,537 370 1,446,293 (35,283) 1,411,010 Fees and commission income 140,336 195,773 8,467 4,927 10,950 360,453 (5,521) 354,932 Fees and Commissions expense 53,876 16,155 5,694 7,234 282 83,241 (131) 83,110 commissions Subtotal 86,460 179,618 2,773 (2,307) 10,668 277,212 (5,390) 271,822 Other operating income 773,367 695,204 919,657 8,513 317 2,397,058 22,516 2,419,574 Gain on life insurance 801,064 801,064 801,064 Gain on financial assets at fair 39,697 338,270 46,693 6,610 317 431,587 6,451 438,038 value through profit or loss Gain on financial assets designated at fair value 18,757 18,757 18,757 through profit or loss Gain on held-for-trading 469,518 332,308 801,826 698 802,524 derivatives Gain on financial assets at fair value through other 19,034 414 13,900 33,348 (30) 33,318 comprehensive income Gain on derivatives 9 20,313 20,322 (1) 20,321 instruments on hedge Gain on foreign 223,274 2,675 26,810 295 253,054 253,054 transactions Reversal for credit losses 6,029 2,649 15 8,693 (1,005) 7,688 Other operating gain 15,806 131 10,862 1,608 28,407 16,403 44,810 Other operating expenses 1,631,315 871,194 1,067,767 61,899 6,613 3,638,788 31,407 3,670,195 Other Loss on life insurance 914,919 914,919 (14,925) 899,994 operating Loss on financial assets at fair 15,499 224,395 8,488 1,080 24 249,486 249,486 value through profit or loss Loss on financial assets designated at fair value 99,966 99,966 10,560 110,526 through profit or loss Gain (Loss) on adjustments for 14,039 14,039 14,039 overlay approach Loss on held-for-trading 457,498 340,673 798,171 2,934 801,105 derivatives Loss on financial assets at fair value through other 168 3,078 3,246 1 3,247 comprehensive income Loss on derivatives 62 47,168 47,230 47,230 instruments on hedge Loss on foreign transactions 216,461 4 4,042 118 220,625 1 220,626 Provisions for credit losses 142,083 4,475 846 26,734 1 174,139 (1,124) 173,015 General and administrative 625,265 197,949 74,388 32,979 6,588 937,169 13,006 950,175 expense Other operating loss 174,447 3,564 799 988 179,798 20,954 200,752 Subtotal (857,948) (175,990) (148,110) (53,386) (6,296) (1,241,730) (8,891) (1,250,621) Operating income 368,161 72,153 1,875 34,844 4,742 481,775 (49,564) 432,211 Profit for the year 282,302 84,901 8,899 27,602 3,729 407,433 (44,524) 362,909 Controlling interest 327,408 Non-controlling interest 35,501 Total assets 55,215,375 7,723,324 6,292,087 3,104,766 39,379 72,374,931 22,792 72,397,723 Total liabilities ￦ 50,798,024 6,900,922 6,019,227 2,740,066 4,072 66,462,311 507,069 66,969,380 DGB Financial Group 131 (In millions of won) 2018 Life Asset Consolidated Banking Securities Insurance Loan Management Subtotal Adjustment Amount Interest income ￦ 1,716,606 36,914 160,589 145,663 394 2,060,166 (34,071) 2,026,095 Interest Interest expense 553,717 13,947 8,137 64,528 640,329 6,352 646,681 Subtotal 1,162,889 22,967 152,452 81,135 394 1,419,837 (40,423) 1,379,414 Fees and commission income 142,295 48,015 6,821 4,139 14,078 215,348 (7,667) 207,681 Fees and Commissions expense 65,976 9,298 2,599 6,629 330 84,832 (7,771) 77,061 commissions Subtotal 76,319 38,717 4,222 (2,490) 13,748 130,516 104 130,620 Other operating income 704,890 128,361 1,077,172 5,956 637 1,917,016 12,814 1,929,830 Gain on life insurance 999,624 999,624 999,624 Gain on financial assets at fair 36,496 71,944 27,395 5,580 637 142,052 (537) 141,515 value through profit or loss Gain on financial assets designated at fair value 16,250 16,250 16,250 through profit or loss Gain on held-for-trading 383,347 39,745 423,092 57 423,149 derivatives Gain on financial assets at fair value through other 6,109 6,176 12,285 (1,951) 10,334 comprehensive income Gain on foreign 257,814 48 16,615 108 274,585 274,585 transactions Reversal for credit losses 3,136 235 755 111 4,237 (26) 4,211 Other operating gain 17,988 139 26,607 157 44,891 15,271 60,162 Other operating expenses 1,622,527 176,054 1,242,360 54,668 6,517 3,102,126 4,328 3,106,454 Other Loss on life insurance 1,117,791 1,117,791 (24,546) 1,093,245 operating Loss on financial assets at fair 33,736 42,951 8,342 3,046 54 88,129 (2,726) 85,403 value through profit or loss Loss on financial assets designated at fair value 7,905 7,905 215 8,120 through profit or loss Gain (Loss) on adjustments for 6,078 6,078 6,078 overlay approach Loss on held-for-trading 348,178 72,114 420,292 601 420,893 derivatives Loss on financial assets at fair value through other 32 126 314 472 472 comprehensive income Loss on foreign transactions 276,436 2,116 9,388 140 288,080 (1) 288,079 Provisions for credit losses 163,462 5,205 71 22,842 5 191,585 (311) 191,274 General and administrative 659,559 45,619 64,544 27,591 6,458 803,771 13,198 816,969 expense Other operating loss 141,124 18 35,832 1,049 178,023 17,898 195,921 Subtotal (917,637) (47,693) (165,188) (48,712) (5,880) (1,185,110) 8,486 (1,176,624) Operating income 321,571 13,991 (8,514) 29,933 8,262 365,243 (31,833) 333,410 Profit for the year 234,825 11,223 (2,407) 22,392 6,431 272,464 131,134 403,598 Controlling interest 381,107 Non-controlling interest 22,491 Total assets 49,785,346 6,087,981 6,147,943 2,762,148 38,992 64,822,410 91,131 64,913,541 Total liabilities ￦ 45,625,353 5,331,555 5,909,797 2,454,863 5,433 59,327,001 530,872 59,857,873 132 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (b) Profit or loss on interest for each reporting segments from external customers and internal divisions as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Life Asset Consolidated Banking Securities Insurance Loan Management Subtotal Adjustment Amount Profit/loss on interest from external ￦ 1,136,930 68,525 147,211 96,309 136 1,449,111 (38,101) 1,411,010 Profit/loss on interest from internal 2,719 1 (5,772) 234 (2,818) 2,818 Total ￦ 1,139,649 68,525 147,212 90,537 370 1,446,293 (35,283) 1,411,010 (In millions of won) 2018 Life Asset Consolidated Banking Securities Insurance Loan Management Subtotal Adjustment Amount Profit/Loss on Interest From External ￦ 1,161,897 22,967 152,452 87,326 141 1,424,783 (45,369) 1,379,414 Profit/loss on interest from internal 992 (6,191) 253 (4,946) 4,946 Total ￦ 1,162,889 22,967 152,452 81,135 394 1,419,837 (40,423) 1,379,414 (c) Profit or loss on fees and commissions for each reporting segments from external customers and internal divisions as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Life Asset Consolidated Banking Securities Insurance Loan Management Subtotal Adjustment Amount Profit/Loss on fee and commission ￦ 83,267 179,618 2,969 (1,081) 9,534 274,307 (2,486) 271,821 From External Profit/Loss on Interest From Internal 3,193 (197) (1,226) 1,134 2,904 (2,904) Total ￦ 86,460 179,618 2,772 (2,307) 10,668 277,211 (5,390) 271,821 (In millions of won) 2018 Life Asset Consolidated Banking Securities Insurance Loan Management Subtotal Adjustment Amount Profit/Loss on fee and commission ￦ 72,209 38,717 4,424 (1,701) 10,916 124,565 6,055 130,620 From External Profit/Loss on fee and commission 4,110 (202) (789) 2,832 5,951 (5,951) From Internal Total ￦ 76,319 38,717 4,222 (2,490) 13,748 130,516 104 130,620 DGB Financial Group 133 5. Cash and Due from Banks (a) Cash and Due From Banks Cash and due from banks as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 437,379 424,761 The Bank of Korea 1,481,595 1,296,803 Commercial banks 401,540 274,431 Due from banks in won Others 202,816 358,340 Subtotal 2,085,951 1,929,574 The Bank of Korea 116,798 162,796 Commercial banks 53,590 71,938 Due from banks in foreign currencies Others 132,502 12,430 Subtotal 302,890 247,164 Total ￦ 2,826,220 2,601,499 (b) Restricted Due From Banks Restricted due from banks as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) Depository 2019 2018 Restrictions The Bank of Korea ￦ 1,481,595 1,296,803 Reserve Commercial banks 22,586 10,689 Collateral, Pledges, etc. Reserve deposits in won Enforcement Decree of the Investor deposit 176,246 286,580 financial investment service and capital market act Subtotal 1,680,427 1,594,072 Reserve in Foreign The Bank of Korea 19,260 24,702 Currencies Due from banks for Reserve deposits in foreign currencies Overseas Banks 56,384 79,978 legal fees and business Others 66,242 1,678 Collateral Subtotal 141,886 106,358 Total ￦ 1,822,313 1,700,430 134 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 6. Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (a) Details of Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Fair Value (Book Value) Fair Value (Book Value) Stocks ￦ 4,378 16,216 Equity securities Others 34,968 45,996 Subtotal 39,346 62,212 Government bonds 2,060,612 2,540,567 Financial bonds 2,340,443 853,572 Debentures 894,697 865,392 International bond 29,400 53,815 Debt securities Beneficiary certificate 1,123,664 709,186 Equity investment 138,558 82,503 Others 519,182 507,980 Subtotal 7,106,556 5,613,015 Private equity investment 44,265 47,271 Loans Others 4,983 Subtotal 49,248 47,271 Structured deposit (*) 103,469 119,142 Deposits Investor deposit 251,627 246,599 Subtotal 355,096 365,741 Equity-linked securities 197,866 189,727 Total ￦ 7,748,112 6,277,966 (*) The amount matures within 12 months is ￦3,125,000 million (￦1,316,254 million as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019, and the amount matures after 12 months is ￦4,385,900 million (￦4,709,773 million as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019. (b) Restricted Financial Assets Restricted financial assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Restrictions Investor deposit (trust) ￦ 251,627 246,599 Enforcement Decree of the Financial Investment Service Joint compensation fund 15,523 20,710 and Capital Market Act Total ￦ 267,150 267,309 (c) Details of Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Fair Value (Book Value) Fair Value (Book Value) Stock ￦ 25,952 32,154 Available-for-sale securities Government Bonds 1,579,710 380,879 Financial Bonds 80,231 138,418 Total ￦ 1,685,893 551,451 DGB Financial Group 135 (d) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Equity-linked securities ￦ 625,093 396,788 Derivatives-linked securities 137,209 120,582 Derivatives-linked securities valuation adjustments at the transaction date through profit or loss 12,430 424 Total ￦ 774,732 517,794 (e) Application of Overlay Approach The Group applies overlay approach in accordance with K-IFRS No.1104 when it first applies K-IFRS No.1109. Financial assets that overlay approach as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Deposits ￦ 88,556 104,410 Debt securities 646,540 561,853 Total ￦ 735,096 666,263 Regarding financial assets that overlay approach has been applied, reported amounts in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109 and those in accordance with K-IFRS No.1039 as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) K-IFRS No.1109 K-IFRS No.1039 Operating income Interest ￦ 8,071 8,080 Dividend 19,743 Gain on financial instruments 41,503 2,709 Operating expenses Loss on financial instruments (8,084) (3,081) Net income before adjustment 41,490 27,451 Adjustments for overlay approach (14,039) Net income after adjustment ￦ 27,451 27,451 Change in other comprehensive income resulting from reclassification of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Beginning balance ￦ (9,021) (13,654) Reclassification due to acquisition and valuation 12,649 6,529 Reclassification due to disposition 1,269 (539) Reclassification due to amortization 121 89 Income tax effect (3,449) (1,446) Ending balance ￦ 1,569 (9,021) 136 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 7. Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (a) Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Fair Value (Book Value) Fair Value (Book Value) Listed equity securities ￦ 591 645 Unlisted equity securities 48,634 68,080 Equity Securities Others 338 349 Subtotal 49,563 69,074 Government bonds 1,411,259 1,661,469 Financial bonds 1,554,938 1,123,754 Debt Securities Debentures 748,342 719,189 Securities in foreign currencies 417,205 459,134 Subtotal 4,131,744 3,963,546 Total ￦ 4,181,307 4,032,620 (*) The amount of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, excluding equity securities, matures within 12 months is ￦666,713 million (￦1,173,774 million won as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019, and the amount matures after 12 months is ￦3,465,031 million (￦2,789,772 million as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019. (b) Equity securities of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Book Value Book value Purpose of Acquisition Listed equity securities Kumho Industrial Co., Ltd ￦ 545 645 Debt for equity swap STX Heavy Industries Co., Ltd 46 Debt for equity swap Subtotal 591 645 Others Exco 2,885 2,878 Public Contribution BC Card 11,051 11,430 Strategic Contribution Korea Asset Management Corp. 1,570 1,570 Strategic Contribution Daegyeong Investment Corp. 4,760 4,373 Public Contribution Tauraus Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. 1,085 Strategic Contribution National Happiness Fund Co., Ltd. Redeemable preferred stocks 12,485 11,708 Retention Strategy Korea Trust Co., Ltd 7,550 6,351 Strategic Contribution K-Bank 5,887 12,200 Participation Korea Financial Investment Association 249 249 Others YesStock Inc. 291 291 Others Korea Exchange (*) 12,411 Others Korea Securities Financial Corporation (*) 863 Others Korea Money Brokerage Corp. 2,244 3,020 Others Subtotal 48,972 68,429 Total ￦ 49,563 69,074 (*) Excluded as the Group disposed Hi Asset Management and Hi Investment & Futures for the year ended December 31, 2019. DGB Financial Group 137 (c) Recognized dividend income from equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive income as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Disposed Equity Securities Retained Equity Securities Disposed Equity Securities Retained Equity Securities Listed Equity Securities ￦ 24 465 24 Unlisted Equity Securities 852 2,691 Total ￦ 876 465 2,715 (d) Lists of disposed financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and reasons of those are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Accumulated Gain(loss) on Fair Value at Disposition Valuation (*) Reason for Disposal AJIN P&P Co., Ltd. ￦ 652 55 Trade Tauraus Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. 2,997 (342) Trade Poong Lim Industrial Co., Ltd. 34 Trade KAMCO Hanmaum Finance (Preferred stock) 8 Redemption Total ￦ 3,691 (287) (In millions of won) 2018 Accumulated Gain(loss) on Fair Value at Disposition Valuation (*) Reason for Disposal KAMCO Hanmaum Finance (Preferred stock) ￦ 86 Redemption STX Engine Co., Ltd. 2,352 1,206 Trade Total ￦ 2,438 1,206 (*) Accumulated gain on valuation is replaced by retained earnings. (e) Securities Lending Transactions When consolidated group lends their securities, ownership of the securities transfers to borrower, but the Group gets the security back upon the expiration. As a result, most of related risks and rewards of the ownership of those securities are held by the Group, and the Group keeps recognizing all the events that happen in those securities lending transactions. The details of securities lending financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Book Value of Book Value of Transferable Assets Related Liabilities Government bonds ￦ 413,183 Financial assets at fair value through OCI Foreign currency bonds 69,878 Total ￦ 483,061 (In millions of won) 2018 Book Value of Book Value of Transferable Assets Related Liabilities Government bonds ￦ 20,752 Financial assets at fair value through OCI Foreign currency bonds 31,824 Total ￦ 52,576 138 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (f) Changes in total book value of financial assets (debt securities) at fair value through other comprehensive income as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 12-month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit-Impaired Total Beginning balance ￦ 3,963,546 3,963,546 Transfer to 12 month expected credit loss Transfer to life time expected credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss Acquisition of financial assets 5,509,301 5,509,301 Disposed financial assets (5,396,552) (5,396,552) Others (*2) 55,449 55,449 Ending balance ￦ 4,131,744 4,131,744 (In millions of won) 2018 12-month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit-Impaired Total Beginning balance (*1) ￦ 3,746,057 3,746,057 Transfer to 12 month expected credit loss Transfer to life time expected credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss Effect of change in scope of consolidation 178,985 178,985 Acquisition of financial assets 2,827,858 2,827,858 Disposed financial assets (2,772,315) (2,772,315) Others (*2) (17,039) (17,039) Ending balance ￦ 3,963,546 3,963,546 (*1) Reclassification and remeasurement effect of applying K-IFRS No. 1109 (*2) Include changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, etc. 8. Securities at Amortized Cost (a) Securities at amortized cost Securities at amortized cost as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Government bonds ￦ 4,550,398 4,932,173 Financial bonds 607,587 591,829 Debentures 1,597,679 1,881,054 Foreign currency bonds 585,735 441,378 Allowance for doubtful account (512) (328) Total ￦ 7,340,887 7,846,106 (*) The amount matures within 12 months is ￦1,488,397 million (￦1,137,816 million as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019, and the amount matures after 12 months is ￦5,853,003 million (￦6,708,618 million as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019. DGB Financial Group 139 (b) Transferred securities at amortized cost that are not derecognized Transferred securities at amortized cost that are not derecognized as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Securities at Amortized Cost Liabilities Book Value Book Value Allowance Book Value Fair Value Net Position Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreement (*) ￦ 964,688 973,208 (144) 862,031 862,245 110,963 Loaned Securities 41,104 46,912 (12) 46,912 (In millions of won) 2018 Securities at Amortized Cost Liabilities Book Value Book Value Allowance Book Value Fair Value Net Position Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreement (*) ￦ 929,648 931,131 (127) 774,873 774,952 156,179 Loaned Securities 97,946 99,112 (5) 99,112 (*) The Group transfers a contractual right which allows to take cash from transferred securities at amortized cost, but makes the agreement to repurchase the transferred assets with a preselected price after sale or the amount of selling price plus fixed return. (c) Profit (loss) from disposal of securities at amortized cost as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Face Value Book Value Gain (Loss) on Disposal Corporate bonds, etc. ￦ 176,976 187,035 10,059 (In millions of won) 2018 Face Value Book Value Gain (Loss) on Disposal Corporate bonds, etc. (*) ￦ 27,024 27,028 (4) (*) The Group disposed of the securities at amortized costs by exercising the debt securities issuer’s right of recourse for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. (d) Changes in total book value of securities at amortized cost as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 12-Month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit-Impaired Total Beginning balance ￦ 7,846,434 7,846,434 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss Acquisition of financial assets 1,062,121 1,062,121 Disposed financial assets (1,572,802) (1,572,802) Others (*1) 15,493 15,493 Changes in the scope of consolidation (*2) (9,847) (9,847) Ending balance ￦ 7,341,399 7,341,399 (*1) Include changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, depreciation of fair value, etc. . (*2) Scope of consolidation has been changed due to disposal of Hi Investment and Hi Investment & Futures for the year ended December 31, 2019. 140 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2018 12-Month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit-Impaired Total Beginning balance (*2) ￦ 7,623,361 7,623,361 Changes in the scope of 9,807 9,807 consolidation due to business combination Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss Acquisition of financial assets 1,168,347 1,168,347 Disposed financial assets (931,650) (931,650) Others (*1) (23,431) (23,431) Ending balance ￦ 7,846,434 7,846,434 (*1) Include changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, valuation, depreciation of fair value, purchase of stocks, etc. (*2) Restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. 9. Collateralized Securities Investment securities pledged to various institutions as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Face Value Collateralized Assets Reasons for providing collateral (Collateralized Value) Book Value Guarantees Bank of Korea borrowings ￦ 160,000 159,646 Korea Securities Depository Collateral on Bank of Korea payments 10,000 9,971 The Bank of Korea Securities at fair value through Margin call 10,000 10,181 Korea Securities Depository other comprehensive income Repurchase agreements transactions 122,997 164,813 Korea Securities Depository, etc. Subtotal 302,997 344,611 Collateral on Bank of Korea payments 255,000 254,098 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository The Bank of Korea, Collateral on Bank of Korea borrowings 175,000 175,152 Korea Securities Depository The Bank of Korea, Bank of Korea daylight overdraft 210,000 210,863 Korea Securities Depository NH Futures, Securities at amortized cost Derivatives transactions 24,656 24,263 Samsung Futures Inc. Margin call 90,000 94,160 Korea Securities Depository Bonds sold under repurchase The Bank of Korea, 964,892 964,688 agreements Korea Securities Depository Others 12,435 12,422 Korea Securities Depository Subtotal 1,731,983 1,735,646 Debts lending transactions and Financial assets at fair value derivative transactions margin, KB Securities, 4,516,407 4,805,934 through profit or loss Collateral for transaction under Korea Securities Depository repurchase agreements Total ￦ 6,551,387 6,886,191 DGB Financial Group 141 10. Investments in Associates (a) Ownership Ownership on associates as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Number of Shares Associates (*2) Relation Owned(in shares) Ownership Acquisition Cost Net Asset Value Book Value Daegu FC (*1)(*3) Associate 300,000 9.20% ￦ 516 6,558 604 PINE TREE II VC PRIVATE EQUITY FUND Associate 10 25.69% 1,898 7,212 1,853 Tribridge Capital Management Associate 958,000 23.93% 6,930 HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP Associate 7,133,667 47.86% 14,134 31,157 7,121 INVESTMENT COMPANY HI KOSDAQ Venture Securities Investment Trust (*1) Associate 3,000,000 43.58% 3,000 6,535 2,843 (In millions of won) 2018 Number of Shares Associates (*2) Relation Owned(in shares) Ownership Acquisition Cost Net Asset Value Book Value DGB Luxury KRX300 Index Securities Associate 5,000,000,000 30.08% ￦ 5,000 14,032 4,221 Investment Trust Daegu FC (*1)(*3) Associate 300,000 9.20% 516 5,106 470 Korea Omega Project No.2 Association Associate 10 20.00% 1,000 4,964 993 KoFC-Partners Pioneer Champ 2011-1st Associate 36 21.21% 2,800 10,188 2,161 Investment Fund HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 Associate 7,133,667 47.86% 14,134 32,559 7,792 SHIP INVESTMENT COMPANY Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-Advisor Securities Associate 2,042,970,380 39.65% 2,100 5,083 1,840 Investment Trust H Hi Global Dynamic Property Distribution Associate 5,006,647,974 31.96% 5,000 15,380 4,581 Investment Trust Hi Japan High-Dividends Focus Securities Associate 2,884,653,839 48.87% 2,900 5,773 3,089 Investment Trust Hi Korea Reunification Renaissance Associate 2,441,198,767 37.61% 2,400 5,971 2,031 Investment Trust Tribridge Capital Management Associate 958,000 23.93% 6,930 (*1) Associate’s acquisition cost and book value are the carrying amount under previous K-GAAP on the date of transition to K-IFRS. (*2) Although the Group has shares 20% or more, including beneficiary certificates, which are not included in the associate, companies that do not have significant influence are not classified as associates since collective investors are not bound by the Investment Advisory Committee, which provides services on investment decisions on disposal and collection of investment assets and investment decision of investment trusts. (*3) Interests in Daegu FC is less than 20%, but it was classified as an associate as the Group can exercise significant influence over Daegu FC through sharing of management. 142 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (b) Details of valuation on investments in associates Details of valuation in equity method on investments in associates and other changes as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Gains or Losses Beginning Dividend in on equity Associates balance Acquisition Disposal equity method method Others Ending Balance Daegu FC ￦ 470 134 604 DGB Luxury KRX 300 Index 4,221 (4,221) Korea Omega Project No.2 Association 993 (1,114) 121 KoFC-Partners Pioneer Champ 2011-1st 2,161 (166) (1,995) Investment (*1) HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP 7,792 (640) (31) 7,121 INVESTMENT COMPANY Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-Advisor Securities 1,840 354 (2,194) Investment Trust H (*2) Hi Global Dynamic Property Distribution 4,581 628 (5,209) Investment Trust (*2) Hi Japan High-Dividends Focus Securities 3,089 (2,819) 179 (449) Investment Trust (*1) Hi Korea Reunification Renaissance 2,031 119 (2,150) Investment Trust (*2) HI KOSDAQ Venture Securities Investment 2,735 108 2,843 Trust (*3) PINE TREE II VC PRIVATE EQUITY FUND 1,898 (45) 1,853 Total ￦ 27,178 4,633 (8,320) (640) 1,567 (11,997) 12,421 (*1) Reclassified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss as the Group lost significant influence. (*2) Excluded from investment in associates as the Group sold Hi Asset Management and Hi Investment & Futures for the year ended December 31, 2019. (*3) Reclassified as investment in associate from investment in subsidiary as the Group lost controls for the year ended December 31, 2019. (In millions of won) 2018 Changes Due to Gains or Losses Beginning Business Equity Method on Equity Associates balance Combination Acquisition Disposal Dividend Method Ending Balance Daegu FC ￦ 278 192 470 DGB Luxury KRX 300 Index 10,000 (5,000) (779) 4,221 DGB Index Plus Securities Feeder 10,078 (10,000) (78) Investment Trust No.1 Korea Omega Project No.2 Association 1,000 (7) 993 KoFC-Partners Pioneer Champ 2011-1st 2,210 (49) 2,161 Investment HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP 8,097 (106) (199) 7,792 INVESTMENT COMPANY Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-Advisor Securities 1,830 10 1,840 Investment Trust H Hi Global Dynamic Property Distribution 4,566 15 4,581 Investment Trust Hi Japan High-Dividends Focus Securities 3,076 13 3,089 Investment Trust Hi Korea Reunification Renaissance 2,020 11 2,031 Investment Trust Tribridge Capital Management Total ￦ 10,356 21,799 11,000 (15,000) (106) (871) 27,178 DGB Financial Group 143 (c) Condensed financial information Condensed financial information of associates as of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Assets Liabilities Gross income Net income(loss) Daegu FC ￦ 9,896 3,338 12,620 1,452 PINE TREE II VC PRIVATE EQUITY FUND 7,215 3 80 (176) HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP INVESTMENT COMPANY 39,711 8,554 1,403 1,682 HI KOSDAQ Venture Securities Investment Trust ￦ 6,743 208 1,021 82 (In millions of won) 2018 Assets Liabilities Gross income Net income(loss) DBG KRX300 Index Securities Investment Trust ￦ 14,515 483 1,183 (2,883) Daegu FC 7,351 2,245 8,066 2,079 Korea Omega Project No.2 Association 4,980 16 (36) KoFC-Partners Pioneer Champ #2011-1 Investment Association 10,393 205 601 (233) HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP INVESTMENT COMPANY 38,397 5,838 220 (1,491) Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-Advisor Securities Investment Trust H 5,083 17 24 Hi Global Dynamic Asset Allocation Securities Investment Trust 15,487 107 318 47 Hi Japan High-Dividends Focus Securities Investment Trust 5,773 244 28 Hi Korea Unity Renaissance Securities Investment Trust ￦ 5,971 278 30 (d) Financial statement date Financial statements dates used to evaluate the investments in associates as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: Settlement Month Date of evaluation Daegu FC (*) December 2019-09-30 HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP INVESTMENT COMPANY December 2019-12-31 HI KOSDAQ Venture Securities Investment Trust December 2019-12-31 PINE TREE II VC PRIVATE EQUITY FUND December 2019-12-31 (*) The effect of significant transactions or events occurred between the end date of Group’s reporting period and the end date of associates’ reporting period are properly reflected. 144 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 11. Loans at Amortized Cost (a) Loans at Amortized Cost Balance Loans at amortized cost as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Loans in won ￦ 42,317,616 37,567,026 Loans in foreign currencies 765,375 675,771 Loans to other banks 255,535 252,972 Financial lease bonds 876,449 716,036 Commercial papers 7,506 14,968 Bill bought 136,114 132,632 Advance for customers 66,745 63,776 Loans at amortized costs Credit card loan 442,600 419,345 Bonds under repurchase agreements 1,029,400 90,200 Others Call loans 162,887 214,977 Private loan 221,500 121,533 Privately placed public loan 484,419 317,270 Other loans 81,506 529,820 Subtotal 2,632,677 1,904,521 Loans Subtotal 46,847,652 41,116,326 Allowance for loan (335,118) (338,825) Present value Discount(-) (101) Present value Discount(+) 53 132 Deferred loan origination fees(-) (6,724) (6,114) Deferred loan origination costs(+) 81,213 55,533 Total ￦ 46,587,076 40,826,951 (b) Deferred loan origination fees Changes in deferred loan origination fees as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Beginning ￦ 6,114 6,841 Increase 8,270 5,829 Decrease (7,660) (6,556) Ending ￦ 6,724 6,114 Changes in deferred loan origination fees as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Beginning ￦ 55,533 49,114 Increase 74,653 54,796 Decrease (48,973) (48,377) Ending ￦ 81,213 55,533 DGB Financial Group 145 (c) Financing lease The fair value of financing leases’ total investments and minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Total Investments in the Lease Minimum Unguaranteed Net Investment Lease Payment Residual Value Unearned Interest in the Lease Within 1 year ￦ 314,011 28,270 285,741 Exceed 1 year and within 5years 612,909 33,204 579,705 Exceed 5 years 437 9 428 Total ￦ 927,357 61,483 865,874 (In millions of won) 2018 Total Investments in the Lease Minimum Unguaranteed Net Investment Lease Payment Residual Value Unearned Interest in the Lease Within 1 year ￦ 294,052 25,076 268,976 Exceed 1 year and within 5years 456,281 23,088 433,193 Exceed 5 years Total ￦ 750,333 48,164 702,169 (d) Changes in book value of loans at amortized cost as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Collective Assessment Individual Assessment 12-month Lifetime Lifetime Expected Expected Credit Expected Credit Credit Loss Credit Loss impaired Credit Loss impaired Total Beginning balance ￦ 36,849,880 3,752,651 137,258 88,404 288,133 41,116,326 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss 876,006 (866,157) (711) (8,138) (1,000) Transfer to lifetime Expected credit loss (1,565,781) 1,592,481 (4,587) (12,857) (9,256) (collective assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (86,983) (56,508) 143,816 (325) (collective assessment) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (3,344) (15,948) 19,292 (individual assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (153,753) (145,087) (1,712) (39,631) 340,183 (individual assessment) Execution or acquisition 51,806,276 1,459,924 19,468 9,221 55,692 53,350,581 Derecognition and collection (*1) (45,848,000) (1,288,606) (117,720) (18,171) (119,416) (47,391,913) Disposal of non-performing loans (21,764) (237,015) (258,779) Others (*2) 32,462 32,462 Changes in scope of consolidation (*3) (629) (396) (1,025) Ending balance ￦ 41,906,134 4,432,750 154,048 38,120 316,600 46,847,652 146 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2018 Collective Assessment 12-month Expected Credit Loss 12-month Lifetime Lifetime Expected Expected Credit Expected Credit Credit Loss Credit Loss impaired Credit Loss impaired Total Beginning balance (*4) ￦ 36,979,581 2,180,915 115,738 236,484 39,512,718 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss 542,502 (538,162) (4,340) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (1,998,839) 2,025,236 (3,129) (23,268) (collective assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (71,451) (42,927) 114,378 (collective assessment) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (19,333) (62,788) 83,177 (1,056) (individual assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (75,506) (62,092) (1,810) 139,408 (individual assessment) Changes in scope of consolidation due to 732,992 732,992 business combinations Execution & acquisition 13,398,578 1,077,926 13,145 5,227 84,882 14,579,758 Derecognition and collection (*1) (12,801,107) (825,457) (80,332) (14,491) (13,721,387) Disposal of non-performing loans (95) (16,392) (135,468) (151,955) Others (*2) 162,558 1,642 164,200 Ending balance ￦ 36,849,880 3,752,651 137,258 88,404 288,133 41,116,326 (*1) Decrease due to amortization and repayment (*2) Others are changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, etc. (*3) Changes in scope of consolidation due to disposal of operating segments, Hi Asset Management and Hi Investment & Futures. (*4) Restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. 12. Allowance (a) Changes in allowance for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 12-month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit-impaired Total Beginning balance (*) ￦ 919 919 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss Disposal (30) (30) Reversal of allowance for doubtful account (283) (283) Execution & acquisition 313 313 Income tax effect (195) (195) Ending balance ￦ 724 724 DGB Financial Group 147 (In millions of won) 2018 12-month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit-impaired Total Beginning balance (*) ￦ 1,131 1,131 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss Disposal (56) (56) Reversal of allowance for doubtful account (246) (246) Execution & acquisition 90 (90) Ending balance ￦ 919 919 (*) Restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. (b) Changes in allowance for securities at amortized cost as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 12-month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit-impaired Total Beginning balance (*) ￦ 328 328 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss Reversal of allowance for doubtful account 73 73 Execution & acquisition 111 111 Ending balance ￦ 512 512 (In millions of won) 2018 12-month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit-impaired Total Beginning balance (*) ￦ 198 198 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss Disposal (3) (3) Reversal of allowance for doubtful account 22 22 Execution & acquisition 111 111 Ending balance ￦ 328 328 (*) Restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. 148 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (c) Changes in allowance for loans at amortized cost and other financial assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Collective Assessment Individual Assessment 12-month Lifetime Lifetime Expected Expected Credit Expected Credit Credit Loss Credit Loss impaired Credit Loss impaired Total Loans at Amortized Cost Beginning balance ￦ 111,992 59,984 45,670 23,939 97,240 338,825 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss 12,860 (10,993) (69) (1,795) (3) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (7,528) 18,648 (1,017) (3,809) (6,294) (Collective assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (956) (2,330) 3,589 (303) (Collective assessment) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (4) (240) 244 (Individual assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (815) (4,222) (656) 12,254) 17,947 (Individual assessment) Reversal of allowance for doubtful account (31,152) (13,145) 76,929 (4,567) 61,905 89,970 Execution & Acquisition 38,125 16,616 5,998 404 17,633 78,776 Bad debt expenses (4,346) (2,039) (77,427) (35,734) (119,546) Collection of loans written-off 20,655 1,690 22,345 Disposal of non-performing loan (3,520) (36,112) (39,632) Effect of exchange rate, etc. (830) (830) Gain on interest of impaired debts (13,640) (20,754) (34,394) Changes in scope of consolidation due to (396) (396) business combination Ending balance ￦ 117,346 62,279 56,512 2,162 96,819 335,118 Other Financial Assets at Amortized Costs Beginning balance (*) ￦ 968 354 10,230 95 3,689 15,336 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss 36 (32) (1) (3) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (19) 55 (6) (24) (6) (Collective assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit Loss (5) (23) 28 (Collective assessment) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (1) 1 (Individual assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (2) (25) (7) (53) 87 (Individual assessment) Reversal of allowance for doubtful account 21 (1) 1,114 (11) 2,314 3,437 Execution & acquisition 189 57 67 7 96 416 Effect of exchange rate, etc. (792) (790) (562) (2,144) Changes due to business combination (380) (380) Ending balance ￦ 396 384 10,635 12 5,238 16,665 (*) Replaced 1 million won of the provision for loan losses (reversal) in other financial assets as gain or loss from discontinued operation. DGB Financial Group 149 (In millions of won) 2018 Collective Assessment Individual Assessment 12-month Lifetime Lifetime Expected Expected Credit Expected Credit Credit Loss Credit Loss impaired Credit Loss impaired Total Loans at Amortized Cost Beginning balance ￦ 126,172 51,720 70,403 290,925 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss 9,357 (8,781) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (12,531) 18,778 (5,036) (Collective assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit Loss (4,024) (3,626) (Collective assessment) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (117) (2,140) 3,313 3,313 (1,056) (Individual assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (2,407) (4,165) 8,382 (Individual assessment) Changes due to business combination 863 6,422 7,285 Reversal of allowance for doubtful account (43,139) (5,986) 17,969 17,969 85,767 117,429 Execution & Acquisition 38,977 15,425 2,657 2,657 9,793 72,423 Bad debt expenses (2,883) (1,240) (58,142) (145,131) Collection of loans written-off 384 39,622 Disposal of non-performing loan (19,656) (22,324) Effect of exchange rate, etc. 1,724 1,966 Gain on interest of impaired debts (1) (21) (23,370) Ending balance ￦ 111,992 59,984 23,939 23,939 97,240 338,825 Other Financial Assets at Amortized Costs Beginning balance (*) ￦ 950 455 10,922 490 12,817 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss 28 (27) (1) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (50) 60 (7) (3) (Collective assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit Loss (50) (55) 113 (8) (Collective assessment) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (7) 7 (Individual assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (19) (23) (102) 144 (Individual assessment) Changes due to business combination 39 2,935 2,974 Reversal of allowance for doubtful account (84) (163) (747) 61 (85) 1,018) Execution & acquisition 178 114 52 27 216 587 Effect of exchange rate, etc. (24) (24) Ending balance ￦ 968 354 10,230 95 3,689 15,336 (*) Restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. 150 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 13. Derivative Instruments (a) Notional amounts of unsettled derivative instruments Notional amounts of unsettled derivative instruments as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total Forward ￦ 9,806,115 145,531 9,951,646 6,966,442 550,806 7,517,248 Swap 30,260 694,793 725,053 30,260 202,599 232,859 Currency related Short future 118,424 118,424 105,971 105,971 Subtotal 9,954,799 840,324 10,795,123 7,102,673 753,405 7,856,078 Swap 20,000 4,631 24,631 11,181 11,181 Interest rate Long future 59,929 59,929 12,741 12,741 related Short future 819,486 819,486 2,444,570 2,444,570 Subtotal 899,415 4,631 904,046 2,457,311 11,181 2,468,492 Long options 3,695 3,695 34,156 34,156 Short options 38,061 38,061 Short futures Swap 197,202 197,202 270,597 270,597 Stock related Future 441,554 441,554 201,904 201,904 Long options 20 20 Short options 45,455 45,455 42,457 42,457 Subtotal 687,926 687,926 587,175 587,175 Commodity future 2,389 2,389 2,949 2,949 Others Other derivatives 6,446 6,446 4,721 4,721 Subtotal 8,835 8,835 7,670 7,670 Total ￦ 11,550,975 844,955 12,395,930 10,154,829 764,586 10,919,415 (b) Valuation on trading and hedging transactions Valuation on trading and hedging transactions for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Fair Value (Trading) Fair Value (Hedging) Valuation Asset Liabilities Valuation Assets Liabilities Forward ￦ (7,106) 71,209 78,462 (2,758) 5,412 1,813 Currency related Swap (736) 17 1,800 8,574 6,774 Swap (12) 12 (62) 11 Interest related Future 200 Option 23 27 Future (38,588) 8,412 44,754 Stock related Swap 8,365 3,685 7,621 Long stock index option 20 Short stock index option 173 729 Commodity future (58) 58 Other derivatives 181 65 Others Day 1 profit adjustments (1,421) 927 1,250 Reserve for credit risk adjustment (37) (436) (17) Total ￦ (39,016) 83,926 132,869 (1,020) 13,997 8,587 DGB Financial Group 151 (In millions of won) 2018 Fair Value (Trading) Fair Value (Hedging) Valuation Assets Liabilities Valuation Assets Liabilities Forward ￦ 3,692 36,774 35,144 2,580 9,934 4,253 Currency related Swap 597 753 1,484 4,363 2,461 Swap 206 30 196 Interest related Future (1,493) Option 163 220 213 Future 3,676 1 48,196 Stock related Swap (7,251) 3,248 17,836 Short stock index option (7,003) 577 Commodity future 28 90 8 Other derivatives (899) 638 Others Day 1 profit adjustments (379) 68 184 Reserve for credit risk adjustment (138) (391) (9) (1) Total ￦ (8,801) 40,763 102,787 4,093 14,493 6,714 (c) Gain (Loss) on valuation of hedged assets Gain (loss) on fair value hedged items and hedging instruments attributable to the hedged ineffectiveness for the year ended December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Gain/(Loss) on Gain/(Loss) on Hedge ineffectiveness Hedging fair value hedges fair value hedges recognized in Hedging item instrument (hedged items) (hedging instruments) profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through other ￦ Interest rate swap 62 (62) comprehensive income Securities in foreign currency Foreign exchange risk 2,328 (2,758) (430) Total ￦ 2,390 (2,820) (430) Gain or loss on valuation of items subject to hedging as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Gain on valuation Loss on valuation Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income ￦ 9 363 Bonds(Net non-operating income) 7,428 1,047 Securities at amortized cost 9,177 8,008 Total ￦ 16,614 9,418 Details of accounts and amount on profit or loss and other comprehensive income due to hedge ineffectiveness of cash flow hedge and net investment in foreign operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Hedge ineffectiveness Reclassified cash flow Hedging Gain or loss on hedge recognized in hedge reserve to Hedging item instrument recognized in OCI profit or loss profit or loss Cash flow hedge Debentures in won under variable interest rates ￦ Interest rate swap 7,690 2,179 Net investment in foreign operations hedge Debentures in foreign Net assets in foreign operations (7,161) currency Total ￦ 529 2,179 152 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (d) The average hedge ratio of future nominal cash flows by type of hedge as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 1 years 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Over 5 years Total Fair value hedge Nominal amount ￦ 150,162 150,162 Cash flow hedge Nominal amount 325,094 72,261 119,988 25,949 125,554 25,949 694,795 Net investment in foreign operation hedge Nominal amount 287,738 287,738 (e) Gain or loss of foreign currency translation for foreign operations by types of hedging instruments for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Debentures in foreign currency ￦ (7,161) (9,466) 14. Property and Equipment (a) Net book value of property and equipment Net book value of property and equipment as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Acquisition cost Accumulated depreciation Government grants Net book value Land ￦ 253,382 253,382 Buildings 460,189 (88,432) 371,757 Leasehold improvement 70,258 (56,232) 14,026 Business property 260,336 (176,520) (195) 83,621 Right-of-use assets 89,780 (23,071) 66,709 Construction-in-progress 1,032 1,032 Total ￦ 1,134,977 (344,255) (195) 790,527 (In millions of won) 2018 Acquisition cost Accumulated depreciation Government grants Net book value Land ￦ 260,262 260,262 Buildings 466,877 (84,665) 382,212 Leasehold improvement 65,236 (52,461) 12,775 Business property 275,053 (188,194) (259) 86,600 Construction-in-progress 63 63 Total ￦ 1,067,491 (325,320) (259) 741,912 DGB Financial Group 153 (b) Changes in property and equipment as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Gain or loss Acquisition Transfers to on translation Changes due Beginning capital Investment Disposal and Account of foreign Provision for to scope of Ending balance (*) expenditure property derecognition Depreciation transfer operations restoration consolidation Balance Land ￦ 260,262 599 (324) (7,155) 253,382 Buildings 382,212 5,651 (420) (13,317) (11.600) 9,231 371,757 Leasehold 12,221 6,407 (57) (4,895) 328 22 14,026 improvement Business property 86,600 25,153 (793) (27,946) 1,790 18 (1,201) 83,621 Right-of-use assets 52,879 44,425 (3,290) (26,609) 19 749 (1,464) 66,709 Construction63 12,324 (11,349) (6) 1,032 in-progress Total ￦ 794,237 94,559 (744) (24,612) (71,050) 53 749 (2,665) 790,527 (*) Restated in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1116 (In millions of won) 2018 Gain or loss Changes due Acquisition Transfers from on translation Beginning to business and capital Investment Disposal and Account of foreign Provision for Ending balance combination expenditure property derecognition Depreciation transfer operations restoration Balance Land ￦ 170,303 6,646 66,665 20,401 (3,753) 260,262 Buildings 195,595 1,912 19,686 1,584 (941) (8,028) 172,404 382,212 Leasehold 10,224 1,069 4,948 (404) (3,994) 29 903 12,775 improvement Business property 46,814 11,937 43,498 (827) (17,705) 2,852 31 86,600 Construction52,545 122,774 (175,256) 63 in-progress Total ￦ 475,481 21,564 257,571 21,985 (5,925) (29,727) 60 903 741,912 15. Intangible Assets Changes in intangible assets as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Gain or loss Acquisition on translation Changes due Beginning and capital Impairment of foreign to business Ending balance expenditure Disposal Amortization Loss operations combination Balance Goodwill ￦ 52,048 (2,582) 1,078 50,544 Software 41,489 21,526 (20,156) 12 (998) 41,873 Contributed acceptance assets 8,734 (924) 7,810 Membership 15,870 720 (353) 24 (1,111) 15,150 Customer-Related Intangible assets 2,510 (1,699) 811 Brand 5,738 (424) 5,314 Others 73,364 6,641 (15,973) 64,032 Total ￦ 199,753 28,887 (353) (38,752) (3,006) 1,114 (2,109) 185,534 154 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2018 Gain or loss Changes due Acquisition on translation Beginning to business and capital Impairment of foreign Ending balance combination expenditure Disposal Amortization Loss operations Balance Goodwill ￦ 21,690 29,091 1,267 52,048 Software 44,321 1,332 17,213 (21,393) 16 41,489 Contributed acceptance assets 9,659 (925) 8,734 Membership 7,121 6,230 2,936 (434) (13) 30 15,870 Customer-related intangible assets 2,596 (86) 2,510 Brand 5,738 5,738 Others 65,163 15,597 10,265 (2,313) (15,348) 73,364 Total ￦ 147,954 60,584 30,414 (2,747) (37,752) (13) 1,313 199,753 16. Investment Property (a) Changes in investment property Changes in investment property as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Replacement from Beginning balance Disposal Property and equipment Depreciation Ending Balance Land ￦ 163,510 (5,946) 324 157,888 Buildings 51,348 (8,646) 420 (1,953) 41,169 Total ￦ 214,858 (14,592) 744 (1,953) 199,057 (In millions of won) 2018 Change due to Replacement Beginning business from property balance combination Acquisitions Disposal and equipment Depreciation Ending Balance Land ￦ 56,283 1,311 127,770 (1,453) (20,401) 163,510 Buildings 37,308 419 18,561 (1,031) (1,584) (2,325) 51,348 Total ￦ 93,591 1,730 146,331 (2,484) (21,985) (2,325) 214,858 (b) Book Value and Fair Value of Investment Property by Category Book value and fair value of investment property as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Book Value Fair Value Difference Land ￦ 157,888 185,920 28,032 Buildings 41,169 51,915 10,746 Total ￦ 199,057 237,835 38,778 DGB Financial Group 155 (In millions of won) 2018 Book Value Fair Value Difference Land ￦ 163,510 182,481 18,971 Buildings 51,348 61,996 10,648 Total ￦ 214,858 244,477 29,619 The fair value of investment property is determined by factoring in the price of similar real estate transactions by independent real estate appraisal experts. (c) Rental income and expenses of investment property Rental income and expenses of investment property as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Incomes Expenses Incomes Expenses Property with rental income ￦ 8,842 1,832 9,976 1,609 Property without rental income 219 247 Total ￦ 8,842 2,051 9,976 29,619 17. Other Assets (a) Other assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Receivable ￦ 1,124,424 933,618 Accrued income 371,472 391,142 Deposits 165,297 175,309 Domestic bond receivables 306,540 135,417 Other Financial Assets Reinsurance assets 13,012 11,709 Others 15,728 29,899 Allowance for doubtful account (16,665) (15,336) Present value discount (2,998) (2,558) Subtotal 1,976,810 1,659,200 Pre-payments 104,066 98,777 Prepaid expenses 18,128 9,903 Deferred acquisition costs 109,122 96,355 Other Non-Financial Assets Separate account assets 165,956 132,173 Others 2,273 12,435 Subtotal 399,545 349,643 Total ￦ 2,376,355 2,008,843 (*) The amount of other financial assets mature within 12 months is ￦1,816,008 million (￦1,530,474 million as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019, and the amount matures after 12 months is ￦180,465 million (￦146,620 million as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019. 156 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (b) Change in book value of other financial assets as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Collective Assessment Individual Assessment 12-Month Lifetime Lifetime Expected Expected Credit Expected Credit Credit Loss Credit Loss impaired Credit Loss impaired Total Beginning balance ￦ 1,654,754 8,660 11,748 325 1,607 1,677,094 Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss 1,747 (1,727) (2) (13) (5) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (3,079) 3,158 (20) (43) (16) (collective assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (314) (257) 571 (collective assessment) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (53) (46) (26) 45 80 (individual assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (321) (397) (176) 894 (individual assessment) Execution & collection 322,166 (398) (133) (71) 820 322,384 Others (*1) (2,082) (64) (859) (3,005) Ending balance ￦ 1,972,818 8,993 12,074 67 2,521 1,996,473 (In millions of won) 2018 Collective Assessment Individual Assessment 12-Month Lifetime Lifetime Expected Expected Credit Expected Credit Credit Loss Credit Loss impaired Credit Loss impaired Total Beginning balance (*2) ￦ 944,664 6,480 11,386 1,898 964,428 Change in scope of consolidation due to business 825,208 825,208 combination Transfer to 12-month expected credit loss 1,268 (1,260) (8) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (4,350) 4,409 (19) (40) (collective assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (259) (254) 520 6 (13) (collective assessment) Transfer to lifetime expected credit loss (55) (202) 257 11111(individual assessment) Transfer to impaired lifetime expected credit loss (178) (165) (101) 444 (individual assessment) Execution & collection (118,338) (348) (30) 68 (288) (118,936) Others (*1) 6,794 (6) (394) 6,394 Ending balance ￦ 1,654,754 8,660 11,748 325 1,607 1,677,094 (*1) Include changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, etc. (*2) Restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. DGB Financial Group 157 18.Depository Liabilities Depository Liabilities as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Book Value Book Value Deposits in Won ￦ 16,135,468 14,901,697 Demand deposit Deposits in foreign currency 429,740 411,519 Subtotal 16,565,208 15,313,216 Deposits in Won 24,232,848 22,020,704 Time deposit Deposits in foreign currency 263,727 215,203 Subtotal 24,496,575 22,235,907 Certificate of deposits 1,290,654 693,808 Guarantee deposits in fiduciary loans 9,546 4,957 Investors’ deposits 396,197 481,569 Total ￦ 42,758,180 38,729,457 19. Borrowings and Debentures (a) Borrowings Borrowings as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Average Interest Rate (%) Book Value Average Interest Rate (%) Book Value The Bank of Korea 0.67 ￦ 263,221 0.7 451,037 Debentures in won Others 1.48~3.60 2,520,802 1.95 1,857,161 Subtotal 2,784,023 2,308,198 Debentures in foreign Borrowings from banks 2.00 808,071 1.97 706,525 currencies Bonds under Non-bank 0.65~4.20 3,273,528 2.21 3,286,587 repurchase agreements Borrowings in won 1.50~1.66 120,000 1.69 120,000 Borrowings in foreign Call money 2.55 52,101 2.13 14,662 currencies Subtotal 172,101 134,662 Others Bills sold 1.39 5,677 1.39 6,387 Total ￦ 7,043,400 6,442,359 (b) Debentures Debentures as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Average Interest Rate (%) Book Value Average Interest Rate (%) Book Value Debentures 1.45~3.53 ￦ 4,515,003 1.56 ~ 3.53 4,081,184 Subordinated debentures 2.62~5.30 734,663 3.03 ~ 5.60 895,000 Debentures in won Less: discount on debentures (4,549) (4,844) Subtotal 5,245,117 4,971,340 Debentures 3.75 347,340 335,430 Debentures in foreign Less: discount on debentures (2,425) 3.75 (2,930) currencies Subtotal 344,915 332,500 Borrowings and ￦ 5,590,032 5,303,840 debentures 158 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 20. Provisions (a) Details of provisions as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Unused commitment (*1) ￦ 16,806 22,630 Provision for financial guarantee 1,258 2,408 Allowance (*2) Non-financial guarantee contract 2,613 2,412 Allowance for restoration (*3) 8,620 7,225 Other allowance 6,757 14,400 Total ￦ 36,054 49,075 (*1) In the case that there is the commitment to provide the credit line, allowance for unused commitment is recognized because the additional withdrawing amount and time for unused commitment is not certain and the Group is exposed to credit loss risk. (*2) Allowance is accounted for as the estimated amount that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a guarantee obligation. (*3) Allowance for restoration is calculated as the present value of the restoration expense estimated and calculated at a discount rate as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. (b) Changes in unused commitment and provision for financial guarantee contract as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Unused Commitment Financial Guarantee Contract 12-Month Lifetime 12-Month Lifetime Expected Expected CreditExpected Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Impaired Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit Impaired Total Beginning (*) ￦ 13,774 8,214 642 2,408 25,038 Transfer to 12-month 1,938 (1,938) expected credit loss Transfer to lifetime expected (517) 521 (4) credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime (28) (595) 623 expected credit loss Reversal (3,773) (1,030) (1,037) (1,849) (7,689) Others 16 699 715 Ending balance ￦ 11,394 5,172 240 1,258 18,064 (In millions of won) 2018 Unused Commitment Financial Guarantee Contract 12-Month Lifetime 12-Month Lifetime Expected Expected CreditExpected Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Impaired Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit Impaired Total Beginning (*) ￦ 18,519 3,750 3,746 223 26,238 Transfer to 12-month expected 1,603 (1,603) credit loss Transfer to lifetime expected (852) 1,466 (614) credit loss Transfer to impaired lifetime (32) (81) 113 expected credit loss Reversal (5,156) 4,682 (2,619) 356 (2,737) Changes in foreign exchange rate 16 16 Others (308) 1,829 1,521 Ending balance ￦ 13,774 8,214 642 2,408 25,038 (*) Restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. DGB Financial Group 159 21. Defined Benefit Obligations (a) Major assumptions of actuarial valuation Major assumptions of actuarial valuation as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 2019 DBG Financial Group HI Investment & Futures DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd Daegu Bank Corporation Co., Ltd DBG Capital Co., Ltd Discount rate (%) 1.99 2.89 2.24 2.41 2.63 Salary increases Application of salary increase rates of each job group and age group based on experience statistics 2018 DBG Financial Group HI Investment & Futures DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd Daegu Bank Corporation Co., Ltd DBG Capital Co., Ltd Discount rate (%) 1.95 3.24 2.52 2.68 2.85 Salary increases Application of salary increase rates of each job group and age group based on experience statistics (b) The profit and loss of defined benefit plans The gain and loss of defined benefit plans as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Service cost ￦ 43,974 32,292 Interest expense 9,616 7,959 New/transfer 372 668 Interest income on plan assets (8,250) (6,757) Transfer of gain or loss from discontinued operations (1,084) Total ￦ 44,628 34,162 (c) Retirement benefit obligation Retirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Present value of retirement benefit obligations with accumulated fund ￦ 366,762 322,305 Fair value on plan assets (339,829) (287,244) Net liabilities for benefit obligation ￦ 26,933 35,061 (d) Changes in present value of retirement benefit obligation Changes in present value of retirement benefit obligation as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Beginning defined benefit obligations ￦ 322,305 226,235 Service cost 43,974 32,292 Interest expense 9,616 7,959 New/transfer 372 668 Re-measurement 8,650 37,723 Benefit paid (14,620) (19,244) Changes due to business combinations 36,672 Transfer from changes in scope of consolidation (3,535) Ending defined benefit obligations ￦ 366,762 322,305 160 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (e) Changes in fair value of plan assets Changes in fair value of plan assets as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Beginning fair value of plan assets ￦ 287,244 212,010 Interest income on plan assets 8,250 6,757 Re-measurement (13,160) 933 Contribution of employer 67,122 50,565 Benefit paid (6,508) (16,145) Changes due to business combinations 33,124 Transfer from changes in scope of consolidation (3,119) Ending fair value of plan assets ￦ 339,829 287,244 (f) Fair value of plan assets by category In accordance with the Group’s policy, it is preferred to invest in stable products rather than the products with high risk and high return. Accordingly, the Group is investing the plan assets in fixed interest rate products with guaranteed principal and in floating interest rate products with guaranteed interests. Fair value of plan assets by category as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Due from banks (*) ￦ 339,824 287,243 Contribution to National Pension Plan 5 1 Total ￦ 339,829 287,244 (*) Due from banks comprise retirement pensions of Samsung Life Insurance, Kyongnam Bank, Busan Bank and Industrial Bank of Korea. These include principal guaranteed products. (g) Defined contribution plan Expenses related to defined contribution plans for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 (*) 2018 Post-employment benefit ￦ 926 340 (*) Includes gain or loss of ￦272 million on discontinued operations DGB Financial Group 161 22. Insurance Contract Liabilities Insurance contract liabilities as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Premium reserve ￦ 5,454,364 5,387,045 Reserves for unearned premium 5,793 5,358 Minimum guarantee reserve 31,978 13,088 Reserve for outstanding claims 115,276 109,593 Reserve for participating policyholders' dividends 5,274 5,038 Reserve for policyholders' profit dividends 391 532 Loss preservation reserve for participating insurance 1,063 980 Policyholders’ equity adjustment 372 559 Others 24,955 30,541 Total ￦ 5,639,466 5,552,734 23. Other Liabilities Other liabilities as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Accounts payables ￦ 1,208,777 1,020,054 Dividend payables 32 4,855 Accrued expenses 407,391 534,611 Domestic exchange settlement credits 336,862 95,686 Foreign exchange settlement credits 8,400 33,531 Prepaid cards 5,611 6,009 Debit cards 323 330 Trust accounts 266,331 109,440 Guarantee deposit for securities subscription 95 711 Other financial liabilities Liabilities incurred by agency relationship 69,138 82,830 Deposit for credit control 155 362 Deposits for letter of guarantees and other 221,280 214,321 Account for agency business 170,017 131,050 Financial guarantee contract 231 214 Insurance claims payable 12,505 12,097 Right-of-use lease liabilities 68,482 Others 13,294 1,673 Subtotal 2,788,924 2,247,774 Separate account liabilities 169,592 134,564 Unearned income 40,381 37,108 Withholding taxes 30,513 33,550 Other non-financial liabilities Prepaid insurance 18,672 16,314 Others 213,357 102,892 Subtotal 472,515 324,428 Discount present value (15,836) (12,325) Total ￦ 3,245,603 2,559,877 162 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 24. Capital, Hybrid bonds, Capital Surplus, Capital Adjustment and Non-Controlling Interests (a) Controlling interest as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In won) 2019 2018 Authorized shares 500,000,000 shares 500,000,000 shares Number of shares issued 169,145,833 shares 169,145,833 shares Par value 5,000 won 5,000 won Capital stock ￦ 845,729,165,000 ￦ 845,729,165,000 Hybrid bonds 149,400,980,000 149,400,980,000 Capital surplus 1,562,451,185,572 1,560,908,834,638 Capital adjustment (9,980) (991,303,299) (b) Details of hybrid bonds Hybrid bonds that are classified as an asset as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows. Hybrid bonds that the consolidated group has an absolute right to avoid transfer of financial assets such as cash, etc. for payment obligation under contracts are classified as equity securities and shown as an asset on the statement. (In millions of won) Date of Issuance Maturity Interest Rate (%) 2019 2018 DGB Financial Group Capital 2018-02-21 Perpetual Bonds 4.47 ￦ 149,401 149,401 (New-Permanent-5 Call) (*) Dividends for Hybrid Bonds 5,960 5,774 (*) Hybrid bonds can be redeemed earlier after 5 years from the date of issuance by the consolidated group. (c)Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Issuance Date Maturity Date Interest Rate (%) 2019 2018 DBG()34-05 120A-28 (*1) 2013-05-28 2043-05-28 4.53 ￦ 199,700 199,700 DBG()34-10 120A-25 (*1) 2013-10-25 2043-10-25 5.55 59,911 59,911 DBG()34-11 120A-01 (*1) 2013-11-01 2043-11-01 5.55 29,954 29,954 DBG()39-01 A-30 2018-01-30 Perpetual Bonds 4.49 99,667 99,668 DBG()39-07 A-12 2018-07-12 Perpetual Bonds 4.53 99,668 99,667 DBG()39-11 5CallA-6 2018-11-06 Perpetual Bonds 4.09 99,667 99,667 DBG()40-07 5CallA-30 2019-07-29 Perpetual Bonds 3.40 99,718 Subtotal 688,285 588,567 Others (*2) 123,054 130,161 Total ￦ 811,339 718,728 Hybrid bonds dividends 23,946 20,917 (*1) Hybrid bonds may be redeemed earlier after 10 years from the date of issuance and the Group may extend the maturity(30 years from the date of issuance) with the same conditions at maturity. The Group cannot pay dividends to common stock if it does not pay dividends to hybrid bond holders. (*2) Others are non-controlling interests in Hi Investment & Futures Corporation and DGB Capital Co., Ltd. DGB Financial Group 163 25.Retained Earnings (a)Retained earnings as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Legal reserve (*1) ￦ 264,962 236,715 Discretionary appropriated reserve (*2) 1,264 1,235 Unappropriated retained earnings (*3) 1,857,297 1,623,314 ￦ 2,123,523 1,861,264 (*1) The Financial Holding Company Act requires a financial holding company to appropriate at least 10% of its net income after income taxes as legal reserve until such reserve equals 100% of its paid-in capital. This reserve is not available for payment of cash dividends; however, it can be used to reduce the Group’s deficit or be transferred to capital. (*2) The Group calculates and discloses its regulatory reserves for loan losses in the financial statements in accordance with the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies. (*3) Unappropriated retained earnings includes reserve for trust of ￦9,551 million (￦9,618 million as of December 31, 2018) as of December 31, 2019. (b)Regulatory reserve for loan losses In accordance with the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies, the Group reserves the differencebetween allowance for credit losses by K-IFRS and the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies in theaccount of regulatory reserves for loan losses. The reserve for credit losses is similar to voluntary reserve for retained earnings. When the existing reserve for credit losses exceeds the required reserve at the end of the reporting period, the excess amount can be reversed. When undisposed deficit exists, reserve for credit losses is waived until the undisposed deficit is reversed. Regulatory reserves for loan losses as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Regulatory reserves for loan losses ￦ 264,433 296,042 Adjustment effect due to changes in accounting policies (20,224) Estimated transfer to regulatory reserves for loan losses 44,747 (11,385) Regulatory reserves for loan losses at the end of the year ￦ 309,180 264,433 Details of profits after adjusting for regulatory reserves for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Net profit attributable to controlling shareholders ￦ 327,408 381,107 Shared profit for hybrid capital securities (5,960) (5,774) Estimated transfer to regulatory reserves for loan losses (44,747) 11,385 Adjusted profit after regulatory reserves for loan losses 276,701 386,718 Earnings per share after adjusting regulatory reserves for loan losses (in won) ￦ 1,636 2,286 164 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 26. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Allowance for doubtful debts Changes in estimated Net gain on Net investment the credit risk at fair value securities at fair Net gain on Net gain on hedge of a financial through other value through valuation of translation accounting Profit or loss Remeasurement liability at fair comprehensive comprehensive cash flow of foreign for foreign adjustment of defined value through income income hedges operations operations approach benefit plan profit or loss Total Beginning balance (*) ￦ 919 6,986 305 7,639 (4,136) (9,021) (82,083) 19 (79,372) Recognition of expected credit losses on debt securities at fair value (1) (1) through other comprehensive income Net increase(decrease) due to valuation of financial (12,819) 12,649 (170) assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Classification of gain or loss on valuation of debt securities at fair value (1,104) (1,104) through other comprehensive income as profit or loss Classification of gain or loss on valuation of equity \securities at fair value 287 287 through other comprehensive income as retained earnings Net gain on the fair value (62) (62) hedge accounting Classification as retained earnings of changes in the credit risk of financial 350 350 liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Recognition of net loss on 49,168 1,390 50,558 valuation as profit or loss Contractor’s equity adjustment distribution (1,326) (1,326) amount Net decrease due to (2,178) (2,178) valuation of derivatives Effect of investment (7,161) (7,161) hedge accounting Effect of translation of 7,880 7,880 exchange rate Remeasurements of (21,811) (21,811) employee benefits Income tax effect (195) (10,686) 532 (1,936) 1,738 (3,449) 5,213 (77) (8,860) Replacement of 1 (331) 5 337 (40) (28) non-controlling equity Replacement due to changes (1,300) 197 (1,103) in scope of consolidation Ending balance ￦ 724 28,813 (1,341) 13,588 (9,559) 1,569 (98,147) 252 (64,101) DGB Financial Group 165 (In millions of won) 2018 Allowance for doubtful debts Changes in estimated Net gain on Net investment the credit risk at fair value securities at fair Net gain on Net gain on hedge of a financial through other value through valuation of translation accounting Profit or loss Remeasurement liability at fair comprehensive comprehensive cash flow of foreign for foreign adjustment of defined value through income income hedges operations operations approach benefit plan profit or loss Total Beginning balance (*) ￦ 1,131 (26,559) (284) 3,013 (13,654) (54,776) (91,129) Recognition of expected credit losses on debt securities at fair value (213) (213) through other comprehensive income Net increase(decrease) due to valuation of financial 42,784 6,529 49,313 assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Classification of gain or loss on valuation of debt securities at fair value 1,839 1,839 through other comprehensive income as profit or loss Classification of gain or loss on valuation of equity securities at fair (1,206) (1,206) value through other comprehensive income as retained earnings Net gain on the fair value 31 31 hedge accounting Classification as retained earnings of changes in the credit risk of financial 30 30 liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Recognition of net loss on (450) (450) valuation as profit or loss Contractor’s equity adjustment distribution (357) (357) amount Net increase due to 405 405 derivative valuation Effect of investment (9,466) (9,466) hedge accounting Effect of translation of 10,520 10,520 exchange rate Remeasurements of (36,790) (36,790) employee benefits Income tax effect (9,424) (100) (2,586) 2,317 (1,446) 9,215 (8) (2,032) Replacement of 1 (122) (11) 268 (3) 133 non-controlling equity Net balance at end of period ￦ 919 6,986 305 7,639 (4,136) (9,021) (82,083) 19 (79,372) (*) Restated as of K-IFRS No. 1109. 166 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 27. Interest Income and Interest Expense (a) Interest income Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Interest on due from banks ￦ 14,951 10,072 Interest on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 121,829 38,861 Interest on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 68,958 66,323 Interest on securities at amortized cost 181,051 192,617 Interest on loans at amortised cost 1,803,429 1,713,653 Others 4,091 4,569 Total ￦ 2,194,309 2,026,095 (b) Interest expense Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Interest on deposits ￦ 490,706 436,181 Interest on borrowings 128,582 74,562 Interest on debentures 143,594 128,312 Interest on borrowings from trust accounts 3,550 3,546 Interest on money trust 6,056 4,080 Interest on lease liabilities 1,641 Others 9,170 Total ￦ 783,299 646,681 28. Net Fee and Commission Income (a) Fee and commission income Fee and commission income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Commissions received ￦ 285,906 183,807 Guarantee fees 54,313 9,178 Commissions received related to trust accounts 14,713 14,696 Total ￦ 354,932 207,681 (b) Fee and commission expense Commission expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Commissions paid ￦ 40,264 32,593 Commissions on credit cards 33,132 37,381 Commissions paid related to trust accounts 9,714 7,087 Total ￦ 83,110 77,061 DGB Financial Group 167 29. Insurance Income and Insurance Expenses (a) Insurance income Insurance income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Insurance income ￦ 754,995 955,112 Reinsurance income 43,762 40,242 Fees on reinsurance income 2,302 4,265 Separate account income 5 5 Total ￦ 801,064 999,624 (b) Insurance expenses Insurance expense for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Insurance expense ￦ 141,002 123,146 Refunds expense 548,156 566,216 Policyholder dividends 670 498 Reinsurance premium 49,366 46,778 Deferred acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts (59,221) (60,839) Expenses on acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts 87,945 98,792 Contribution to insurance reserve 85,617 272,544 Separate account expense 5 5 Amortization expenses on deferred acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts 46,454 46,105 Total ￦ 899,994 1,093,245 168 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 30. Net Gain or losses on Financial Instruments/Financial Instruments measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (a) Net gain or loss from financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Dividend income ￦ 807 608 Gain on disposal 289,142 67,258 Gain on financial instruments at Gain on valuation 106,272 46,431 fair value through profit or loss Others 41,816 27,218 Subtotal 438,037 141,515 Gain on transaction 706,303 378,516 Gain on derivative instruments Gain on valuation 96,214 44,633 held for trading Reversal of provision for credit risk adjustment 8 Subtotal 802,525 423,149 Gains on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 1,240,562 564,664 Commission expenses (acquisition expenses) 42 47 Loss on financial instruments at Loss on disposal 219,552 46,341 fair value through profit or loss Loss on valuation 29,892 39,016 Subtotal 249,486 85,404 Commission expenses (acquisition expense) 371 335 Loss on transaction 668,431 367,123 Loss on derivative instruments Loss on valuation 132,258 53,296 held for trading Reserve for credit value adjustment 45 138 Subtotal 801,105 420,892 Adjustments for overlay approach 14,039 6,078 Loss on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 1,064,630 512,374 Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss ￦ 175,932 52,290 Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss contains dividend income, net income on valuation and net income on disposal of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss. (b) Net gain (loss) on financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Gain on valuation ￦ 18,713 16,235 Gain on disposal 44 15 Total profit on financial instruments at designated at fair value through profit or loss 18,757 16,250 Loss on valuation 64,780 6,982 Loss of disposal 45,746 1,138 Total loss on financial instruments at designated at fair value through profit or loss 110,526 8,120 Net gain(loss) on financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss ￦ (91,769) 8,130 DGB Financial Group 169 31. Net Gain or losses on Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Net gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Dividend income ￦ 876 3,180 Gain on disposal 32,380 7,154 Gain on valuation of fair value hedge 62 Total gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 33,318 10,334 Loss on valuation of fair value hedged items 31 Loss on disposal 3,247 441 Total cost of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,247 472 Net gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income ￦ 30,071 9,862 32. Provision for Credit Losses Provision for credit losses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Loans at amortized cost and other financial assets ￦ 172,601 190,150 Securities at amortized cost 184 133 Securities at fair value through other comprehensive income 31 Provision for credit losses Provision for financial guarantee 356 Provision for non-financial guarantee 199 635 Subtotal 173,015 191,274 Loans at amortized cost and other financial assets 730 Securities at fair value through other comprehensive income 156 Provision for financial guarantee 1,849 Reversal of provision for credit losses Provision for non-financial guarantee 230 Provision for unused commitment 5,839 3,095 Subtotal 7,688 4,211 Total ￦ 165,327 187,063 170 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 33. General and Administrative Expenses (a) General and administrative expenses General and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Short-term employee benefits ￦ 553,217 430,564 Retirement benefit 45,478 34,133 Employee benefits Other long-term employee benefits 329 1,122 Termination benefit 306 57,653 Subtotal 599,330 523,472 Rent 14,277 26,510 Depreciation 69,737 30,625 Amortization 38,174 37,516 Tax and dues 36,176 28,447 Advertising 23,243 16,269 Repair and maintenance 11,959 10,955 Service 56,785 53,165 Others 100,494 90,010 Total ￦ 950,175 816,969 (b)Equity linked special incentives The Group grants equity linked special incentives to executives and employees and measures compensation expenses at fair value. The maximum number of stocks to grant are determined at the time when the agreement is made, and cash compensation is awarded if the pre-determined conditions are met. The performance compensation shall be paid immediately in cash for 40 percent of the amount calculated according to the results of the performance evaluation. The remainder is converted to shares and is deferred and paid equally in three years in relation to the share prices at the base dates. 1) Key characteristics and range Short-term performance compensation Grant in 2017 Grant in 2018 Grant in 2019 Shares to be granted 95,787 shares 127,110 shares 116,262 shares Shares outstanding 29,916 shares 81,118 shares 116,046 shares Grant date 2017-02-24 2018-02-23 2019-02-22 Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Grant method + + + Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Exercise price per share in won ￦ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Payment method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Vesting period 1 year 1 year 1 year DGB Financial Group 171 Long-term performance compensation Initially granted 9th (*) 10th 11th Shares to be granted 7,504 shares 18,535 shares 20,305 shares Shares in additional 2,438 shares 0 shares 0 shares Shares extinguished 0 shares 0 shares 0 shares Grant date 2017-12-26 2018-05-31 2019-01-02 Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Grant method + + + Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Exercise price per share in won Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Payment method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Vesting period 3 year 3 year 3year 18th 19th 20th Shares to be granted 17,180 shares 7,879 shares 24,864 shares Shares in additional 0 shares 0 shares 0 shares Shares extinguished 2,172 shares 0 shares 0 shares Grant date 2017-12-26 2018-03-23 2019-01-29 Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Grant method + + + Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Exercise price per share in won Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Payment method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Vesting period 3 year 3 year 2year (*) The exercise price per share and weighted average expected term are ￦0 and 1.27 years, respectively. Fixed deferred payments To be exercised in 2020 To be exercised in 2021 To be exercised in 2022 Shares outstanding (*) 17,366 shares 17,366 shares 6,769 shares Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Grant method + + + Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Exercise price per share won Payment method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Vesting conditions satisfaction status Satisfied Satisfied Satisfied (*) Fixed deferred payment is the quantity given after meeting the vesting conditions minus the payment amount as of December 31, 2019. 2) Changes in share-based compensation (quantity) Short-term performance compensation 2019 2018 At beginning of year 221,207 shares 175,961 shares Shares to be granted 116,262 shares 127,110 shares Shares exercised 110,389 shares 81,864 shares At end of the period 227,080 shares 221,207 shares 172 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Long-term performance compensation Initially granted 2019 2018 At beginning of year 124,907 shares 165,387 shares Shares to be granted 47,607 shares 26,414 shares Shares exercised 54,341 shares 24,020 shares Extinction of shares 21,640 shares 42,874 shares At end of the period 96,533 shares 124,907 shares The exercise price per share and weighted average expected term are ￦0 and 1.98 years. Deferred payments 2019 2018 At beginning of year 47,580 shares 52,957 shares Shares to be granted 21,135 shares 14,037 shares Shares exercised 27,214 shares 19,414 shares At end of the period 41,501 shares 47,580 shares (c) Major factors of measuring fair value of long-term performance share plan in the Black-Scholes option pricing model as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In won) Option Expected Expected Risk free pricing model Stock price Exercise price variance life rate Fair value Black-Scholes 9th ￦ 7,120 21.90% 0.99 years 1.34% ￦ 6,882 option pricing model Black-Scholes DGB Financial Holding 10th 7,120 21.10% 1.25 years 1.34% 6,821 option pricing model Black-Scholes 11th 7,120 21.98% 1.99 years 1.36% 6,650 option pricing model Black-Scholes 18th 7,120 21.90% 0.99 years 1.34% 6,882 option pricing model Black-Scholes Daegu Bank 19th 7,120 20.89% 1.23 years 1.34% 6,826 option pricing model Black-Scholes 20th 7,120 21.90% 1.00 years 1.34% 6,879 option pricing model Black-Scholes To be exercise in 2020 7,120 24.65% 0.25 years 1.26% 7,059 option pricing model Black-Scholes To be exercise in 2021 7,120 21.10% 1.25 years 1.34% 6,821 option pricing model Black-Scholes To be exercise in 2022 7,120 22.75% 2.25 years 1.37% 6,591 option pricing model Black-Scholes Fixed in 2017 7,120 24.65% 0.25 years 1.26% 7,059 option pricing model Black-Scholes Fixed in 2018 7,120 21.10% 1.25 years 1.34% 6,821 option pricing model Black-Scholes Fixed in 2019 7,120 22.75% 2.25 years 1.37% 6,591 option pricing model (d) Impact on management performance and financial position Expense of special incentive for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Short-term performance compensation expense ￦ 734 1,054 Long-term performance compensation expense 88 139 DGB Financial Group 173 Liability of special incentive for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Short-term performance accrued expense ￦ 1,569 1,779 Long-term performance accrued expense 494 719 34. Other Operating Loss, Net Other operating loss, net for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Gain on sale of loans ￦ 16,242 16,384 Reversal of other provision 958 752 Other operating income Earnings related to hedging derivatives 20,321 26,940 Others 27,610 16,086 Subtotal 65,131 60,162 Fees for credit guarantee fund 61,233 58,544 Deposit insurance premiums 53,126 52,433 Loss on sale of loans 59,903 28,340 Other operating loss Transfer of other provision 4,207 556 Loss related to hedging derivatives 47,230 35,090 Others 22,283 20,958 Subtotal 247,982 195,921 Other operating loss, net ￦ (182,851) (135,759) 35. Non-Operating Income, Net Non-operating income and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Gain on disposal of property and equipment ￦ 7,226 463 Gain on disposal of investment property 5,306 509 Gain on disposal of intangible assets 28 332 Earnings related to equity method 650 818 Non-operating income Rental income 9,081 9,540 Return on bargain purchase 161,344 Others 17,387 8,072 Subtotal 39,678 181,078 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 9,005 2,121 Loss on disposal of investment property 281 1,188 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1 14 Collecting expenses for written-off loans 76 172 Other operating expenses Loss related to equity method 133 4,414 Donations 16,453 14,815 Others 7,423 6,914 Subtotal 33,372 29,638 Non-operating income, net ￦ 6,306 151,440 174 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 36. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense is calculated by adjusting adjustments recognized in the current period for the prior period income tax expense, deferred income tax expense due to occurrence and extinguishment of temporary differences, and items recognized other than profit or loss. (a) Income tax expense Income tax expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Current income tax ￦ 121,105 74,002 Temporary differences (13,141) 8,365 Income tax expenses directly recorded in equity (8,831) (1,116) Income tax expenses ￦ 99,133 81,251 (b) The reconciliation of effective tax rate The reconciliation of effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Profit before income tax expenses ￦ 438,517 484,849 Income tax calculated at the statutory tax rate 110,230 122,972 Adjustments Non-taxable income (12,116) (40,148) Non-deductible expense 4,719 2,313 Additional payment of income taxes for prior year (refund of income taxes) 5,437 4,111 Investment & mutual aid promotion tax 1,115 Others (10,252) (7,997) Income tax expense ￦ 99,133 81,251 Effective tax rate 22.61% 16.76% Statutory tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows, and the residence tax is 10% of income tax: Tax base Rate Up to ￦200 million 10% More than ￦200 million ~ Up to ￦20 billion 20% More than ￦20 billion ~ Up to ￦300 billion 22% More than ￦300 billion 25% DGB Financial Group 175 (c) Changes in deferred income tax assets (liabilities) Changes in deferred income tax assets (liabilities) for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Temporary differences to be deducted from (added to) taxable income Deferred income tax Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balance assets (liabilities) Temporary differences Accrued income ￦ (271,059) (243,685) (270,858) (243,886) (59,533) Present value discount on securities (23,382) (2,637) (23,382) (2,637) (644) Gain on valuation of securities (22,143) (2,369) 38,034 (62,546) (15,267) Loss on valuation of derivatives 38,429 57,619 38,429 57,619 14,065 Other provisions, etc. 44,457 31,183 45,050 30,590 7,467 Unused annual/ monthly leave 37,704 33,168 37,704 33,168 8,096 Dormant deposit 38,883 3,775 2,300 40,358 9,851 Others 423,923 186,182 257,647 352,458 86,035 Total ￦ 266,812 63,236 124,924 205,124 50,070 (In millions of won) 2018 Temporary differences to be deducted from (added to) taxable income Deferred income tax Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balance assets (liabilities) Temporary differences Accrued income ￦ (219,731) (289,412) (238,084) (271,059) (66,653) Present value discount on securities (23,167) (23,382) (23,167) (23,382) (5,750) Gain on valuation of securities (30,989) (7,311) (16,157) (22,143) (5,445) Loss on valuation of derivatives 372 59,092 21,035 38,429 9,450 Other provisions, etc. 23,843 64,748 44,134 44,457 10,932 Unused annual/ monthly leave 33,316 37,243 32,855 37,704 9,271 Dormant deposit 24,238 (14,645) 38,883 9,561 Others 369,537 265,995 211,609 423,923 104,239 Total ￦ 177,419 106,973 17,580 266,812 65,605 (d) Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) before offsetting Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) before offset as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Deferred tax assets ￦ 125,514 143,453 Deferred tax liabilities (75,444) (77,848) Deferred tax assets, net 50,308 67,637 Deferred tax liabilities, net (*) ￦ (238) (2,032) (*) The Group sets off a deferred tax asset against a deferred tax liability of the same taxable entity if, and only if, they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities. 176 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 37. Earnings per Share (a) Basic earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In won, except share information) 2019 2018 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Group ￦ 327,408,183,355 381,107,175,220 Dividends to hybrid bond (5,960,000,000) (5,773,750,000) Net profit available for common stock ￦ 321,448,183,355 375,333,425,220 Weighted average number of common shares 169,145,833 shares 169,145,833 shares Continuing operations basic earnings per share 1,761 2,219 Discontinuing operations basic earnings per share 139 Earnings per share in won 1,900 2,219 (b) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Weighted average number of common shares outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In shares) 2019 Weighted average number Date Shares (*) Weight of common shares outstanding Beginning common shares 2019.01.01 169,145,833 365/365 169,145,833 (*) 1 share of self-share acquired as of December 31, 2019 was excluded from the calculation as it had no effect on the number of common shares (In shares) 2018 Weighted average number Date Shares (*) Weight common shares outstanding Beginning common shares 2018.01.01 169,145,833 365/365 169,145,833 (*) 1 share of self-share acquired as of April 3, 2018 was excluded from the calculation as it had no effect on the number of common shares (c) Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share because the Group has not issued dilutive securities. 38. Cash Flow (a) Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents on statements of cash flows as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,826,220 2,601,499 Restricted cash and deposits (1,822,313) (1,730,121) Due from banks with original maturities of more than three months (139,497) (138,326) Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 864,410 733,052 DGB Financial Group 177 (b) Significant Non-Cash Transactions Significant non-cash transactions for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Decrease in loans due to writing-off ￦ 143,590 171,941 Decrease in loans due to disposal 15,156 23,333 Increase in right-of-use assets 97,304 Transfer from construction-in-progress 11,349 175,256 Amount of adjustment for overlay approach 14,039 6,078 Total ￦ 281,438 376,608 (c) Changes of liabilities from financing activities Changes of debentures Changes of debentures from financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Beginning balance ￦ 5,303,840 Issuance 1,947,482 Repayment (1,787,000) Amortization 2,800 Debentures Gain on foreign currency transactions 6,749 Hedges of net investment in foreign operations 7,161 Others 109,000 Ending balance ￦ 5,590,032 (In millions of won) 2018 Beginning balance ￦ 4,356,652 Issuance 2,484,271 Repayment (1,747,860) Amortization 2,454 Debentures Loss on valuation 1,597 Gain on foreign currency transactions 2,267 Hedges of net investment in foreign operations 9,466 Others 194,993 Ending balance ￦ 5,303,840 Changes of borrowings and other liabilities Changes of borrowings and other liabilities from financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Gain or Gain or loss on loss Foreign translation of Beginning Increase currency foreign Consolidated Ending balance (decrease) transactions operations Others amount balance Borrowings ￦ 6,442,359 541,747 38,005 6,304 14,985 7,043,400 Borrowings from trust accounts 109,440 156,891 266,331 Borrowings from fund accounts 413 66 479 Deposits for letter of guarantees 214,321 6,959 221,280 Lease liabilities 49,155 (24,420) 42,595 (1,522) 65,808 Total ￦ 6,815,688 681,243 38,005 6,304 57,580 (1,522) 7,597,298 178 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2018 Gain or Gain or loss on loss Foreign translation of Beginning Increase currency foreign Consolidated balance (decrease) transactions operations Others amount Ending balance Borrowings ￦ 3,394,370 (621,861) 110,321 10,350 3,549,179 6,442,359 Borrowings from trust accounts 106,956 2,484 109,440 Borrowings from fund accounts 244 169 413 Deposits for letter of guarantees 220,143 (216) 1,275 (6,941) 60 214,321 Total ￦ 3,721,713 (619,424) 111,596 10,350 (6,941) 3,549,239 6,766,533 39. Commitments and Contingencies (a) Pending litigation As of December 31, 2019, there are 42 pending lawsuits brought to court by the Group, as a plaintiff, amounting to ￦21,072 million and 38 pending lawsuits against the Group amounting to ￦38,907 million. The major lawsuit case is as follows: (In millions of won) Defendant Plaintiff Legal details Legal Value Remarks Interest difference preserving loan deposits NTS Dongdaegu District Office DGB Finance Group ￦ 10,772 The date is undesignated correspond to assets received free of charge Disapproval of non-recognition of income tax NTS Suseong District Office Daegu Bank deduction for research personnel development of 4,556 The date is undesignated next-generation systems Republic of Korea The Group Claim for restitution of unjust enrichment 1,192 First trial in progress Eugene Asset Management, Golfzon Newdin Holdings. Claims for damage 4,831 First trial in progress The Company Co., Ltd. Korea Technology The Group Revoking of fraudulent act 1,132 Finance Corporation The Group Gong, Ki Hun Dividend dispute 1,062 The group counts the best estimate as a provision as of December 31, 2019, for cases in which the provision criteria are met, and the Group recognized ￦3,092 million of provision in respect to the lawsuit as of December 31, 2019. (b) There is a collateral of ￦60 million related with a lease deposit in regard to the Group’s land and buildings as of December 31, 2019. (c) Non-financial guarantee contracts Non-financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Acceptances and guarantees outstanding in won ￦ 302,093 303,021 Acceptances and guarantees outstanding in foreign currencies 33,120 32,343 Contingent acceptances and guarantees 165,106 166,023 Loan commitments in won 12,011,127 10,438,018 Loan commitments in foreign currencies 34,734 Purchasing commitments for securities 241,818 213,160 Total ￦ 12,787,998 11,152,565 DGB Financial Group 179 (d) Financial guarantee contracts Financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Financial guarantee contract in won ￦ 550,721 516,546 Financial guarantee contract in foreign currencies 15,915 23,768 Purchasing commitments for ABCP 126,000 107,000 Total ￦ 692,636 647,314 (e) Commitments with financial institutions that the Group makes about the issuance of letters of credit. Commitments with financial institutions that the Group makes as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Commitments related to letters of credit (In millions of won) Financial Institutions 2019 2018 KOOKMIN BANK ￦ 15,000 15,000 Commitments related to the borrowings (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Financial Institutions Limit Usage Limit Usage Busan Bank ￦ 30,000 30,000 Woori Bank 40,000 40,000 Kookmin Bank 20,000 20,000 10,000 Shinhan Bank 20,000 20,000 10,000 Korea Securities Finance 1,030,000 234,000 1,040,000 288,613 Kyongnam Bank 5,000 5,000 Meritz & Co., Ltd. 30,000 30,000 Korea Development Bank 40,000 35,068 55,000 31,081 NH Nonghyup Bank 20,000 20,000 100,000 Woori Investment Bank 20,000 20,000 Shinhan Bank 20,000 20,000 20,000 KEB Hana Bank 20,000 20,000 Total ￦ 1,275,000 289,068 1,400,000 379,694 (f) Product of immediate annuity at maturity Due to the announcement of the application by the Financial Supervisory Service in July 2018 for underpayment of overdue pension products, the Group is likely to pay additional premiums. However, due to the need for legal judgment on the application of comprehensive remediation policy, it is not possible to estimate reliably the amount of payment and the timing of payment as of the December 31, 2019. Accordingly, the Group has not established a provision under Korean IFRS 1037. (g) Insurance commitment The Group’s general and special account derived from insurance contracts with clients as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won / thousand cases) 2019 2018 Financial Institutions Numbers Contract amount Numbers Contract amount General account 1,586,550 ￦ 23,577,455 1,508,287 ￦ 21,737,933 Separate account 31 116 32 167 Total 1,586,581 ￦ 23,577,571 1,508,319 ￦ 21,738,100 180 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (h) Reinsurance agreement The details of the Group’s ceding agreements as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: Method of Cession Reinsurance company Ceding amount/ratio Product type General Re Corporation ￦ 55 million Life insurance Korean Re 20 million ~ 80 million Products before financial year 2000 Korean Re 50% or over 1 billion VIP term insurance NonKorean Re 30% ~ 50% Life, disability, cancer insurance) proportional Korean Re 22.5% ~ 37.5% All products (new after financial year 2009 Korean Re 50% Child insurance (2013 co-developed product) Korean Re 80% Living benefit insurance (among year 2002~2006) Korean Re 50% ~ 60% Lifetime cancer insurance Munich Reinsurance 50% Silver cancer insurance Scor Reinsurance 50% Cancer insurance giving living expenses monthly Korean Re 80% Long-term care insurance Proportional Korean Re 50% Health insurance General Re Corporation 30% Health insurance Korean Re 30% Permanent insurance General Re Corporation 50% Permanent insurance 40.Transactions with Related Parties (a)Related parties except for subsidiaries Related parties except for subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: Related parties Relationship Daegu FC (*1) Associate PINE TREE II VC PRIVATE EQUITY FUND (*2) Associate Tribridge Capital Management (*3) Associate HI KOSDAQ Venture Securities Investment Trust (*3) Associate Hi Gold Ocean Kmarin No.8 Ship Investment Company (*3) Associate (*1) Associate company of Daegu Bank which is wholly owned by the Group. (*2) Associate company of DGB Capital which is wholly owned by the Group. (*3) Associate company of Hi Investment & Securities which is wholly owned by the Group. (b)Transaction between the Group and the related parties except for subsidiaries Significant balances between the Group and the related parties except for subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Daegu FC Key management Loans ￦ 26 477 Assets Receivables 1 Total ￦ 26 478 Deposits ￦ 4,746 1,203 Liabilities Others 18 22 Total ￦ 4,764 1,225 DGB Financial Group 181 (In millions of won) 2018 Hi Japan Hi ROKI1 Global Hi Global High-dividends Robo-Advisor Dynamic Asset Hi Korea Unity Focus Securities Securities Allocation Renaissance Investment Investment Securities Securities Key Daegu FC Trust Trust H Investment Trust Investment Trust management Loans ￦ 11 413 Assets Receivables 13 2 6 4 Total ￦ 11 13 2 6 4 413 Deposits ￦ 2,571 1,102 Liabilities Others 17 12 Total ￦ 2,588 1,114 Significant balances between the Group and the related parties except for subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Daegu FC Key management Interest ￦ 10 Income Fee and commission Total 10 Expense Interest on deposits ￦ 41 7 (In millions of won) 2018 Hi Japan Hi ROKI1 Global Hi Global High-dividends Robo-Advisor Dynamic Asset Hi Korea Unity Focus Securities Securities Allocation Renaissance Investment Investment Securities Securities Key Daegu FC Trust Trust H Investment Trust Investment Trust management Interest ￦ 15 Income Fee and commission 13 9 18 8 Total 13 9 18 8 15 Expense Interest on deposits ￦ 32 3 Significant balances between the Group and the related parties except for subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Korea Omega Project No.2 DGB Luxury KRX300 Index PINE TREE II VC PRIVATE Association Securities Investment Trust EQUITY FUND Cash contribution ￦ 1,898 Return on contribution 1,114 4,324 (In millions of won) 2018 DGB Index Plus Securities DGB Luxury KRX300 Index Korea Omega Project No.2 Feeder No.1 Securities Investment Trust Association Cash contribution ￦ 10,000 1,000 Return on contribution 9,247 5,000 182 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (c) Guarantees and collaterals given or received between the Group and the related parties There are no guarantees and collaterals that the Group provides for funding of related parties or are provided by related parties as of December 31, 2019. (d) Compensation for key management personnel Compensation for key management personnel in total and for each of the following categories for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Short-term employee benefits ￦ 3,873 3,948 Share-based compensation 1,648 2,262 Post-employment benefits 791 804 Total ￦ 6,312 7,014 41. Financial Risk Management The Group has exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk and operational risk from financial instruments. The Group's risk management system aims at maintaining capital adequacy and managing stability through the comprehensive appraisal and management of significant risks that arise in management activities. By optimizing risk and return balance, the risk management system realizes the stable growth of the Group, while maximizing company value and maintaining an adequate equity capital level as well as achieving business strategies, policies and plans 41-1. Credit Risk (a) Maximum exposure of credit risk Maximum exposure of credit risk as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 On balance accounts (*1) Due from banks (*2) ￦ 887,986 855,233 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (*3) 7,708,766 6,215,754 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (*3) 4,131,744 3,963,546 Securities at amortized cost 7,340,887 7,846,106 Loans at amortized cost 46,587,076 40,826,951 Derivative financial assets 97,923 55,256 Reinsurance assets 13,012 11,709 Other financial assets 1,963,798 1,665,652 ￦ 68,731,192 61,440,207 Off-balance accounts Financial guarantee ￦ 692,636 647,314 Commitments 12,287,680 10,651,178 Non-financial guarantee 500,319 501,387 ￦ 13,480,635 11,799,879 (*1) After impairment and setting off (*2) Excluding due from Bank of Korea (*3) Excluding equity securities Degree of credit risk exposure is based on the net book value of financial position. In the case of financial guarantee, it is measured as the maximum amount to be paid for the debtor and in the case of loan contract which cannot be cancelled or can be cancelled if critical changes occur, it is measured as the entire amount of the contract. DGB Financial Group 183 (b) Degree of industrial risk concentration of financial assets which have credit risk Degree of industrial risk concentration of financial assets which have credit risk as of December 31, 2019 and 2018are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 On balance account Off-balance account Financial assets designated Financial at fair value assets at fair through other Securities at Loans at Financial Non-financial value through comprehenamortized amortized Derivative guarantee guarantee profit or loss sive income cost cost assets Total contracts contracts Comitments Total Enterprises Manufacturing ￦ 103,398 19,997 10,692,819 10,816,214 8,840 2,019,107 222,544 2,250,491 Construction 30,987 20,022 60,012 1,139,788 1,250,809 96,000 308,341 298 404,639 Wholesale and 1,782 10,144 3,851,726 3,863,652 5,761 657,409 236,383 899,553 retail Financial services 1,478,255 1,635,515 1,234,336 3,045,911 13,153 7,407,170 30,000 615,055 4,982 650,037 and insurance Others 2,419,342 862,403 1,488,029 13,247,329 18,017,103 552,035 934,006 36,112 1,522,153 Subtotal 4,033,764 2,528,084 2,802,374 31,977,573 13,153 41,354,948 692,636 4,533,918 500,319 5,726,873 Households 13,272,084 13,272,084 5,315,238 5,315,238 Government and 3,675,002 1,603,660 4,539,025 1,155,394 10,973,081 42,987 42,987 public institutions Credit card 442,600 442,600 2,395,537 2,395,537 Derivatives 85,205 85,205 Reserve for credit (435) (435) risk adjustment Allowance (512) (335,118) (335,630) Present value 53 53 discount Present value premium Deferred loan originated cost 74,490 74,490 and fee Total ￦ 7,708,766 4,131,744 7,340,887 46,587,076 97,923 65,866,396 692,636 12,287,680 500,319 13,480,635 184 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2018 Balance account Off-balance account Financial assets designated Financial at fair value assets at fair through other Securities at Loans at Financial Non-financial value through comprehenamortized amortized Derivative guarantee guarantee profit or loss sive income cost cost assets Total contracts contracts Comitments Total Enterprises Manufacturing ￦ 73,636 16,257 19,998 10,592,011 10,701,902 16,021 1,715,314 232,958 1,964,293 Construction 30,987 20,056 110,017 1,020,540 1,181,600 77,000 316,298 1,466 394,764 Wholesale and 10,582 10,050 3,546,374 3,567,006 5,406 656,544 223,714 885,664 retail Financial services 1,348,643 1,719,458 2,036,688 1,468,275 6,573,064 30,000 652,313 4,982 687,295 and insurance Others 1,904,762 302,184 699,622 11,857,442 14,764,010 518,887 749,540 38,267 1,306,694 Subtotal 3,368,610 2,068,005 2,866,325 28,484,642 36,787,582 647,314 4,090,009 501,387 5,238,710 Households 11,340,380 11,340,380 4,253,375 4,253,375 Government and 2,847,144 1,895,541 4,980,109 871,959 10,594,753 71,624 71,624 public institutions Credit card 419,345 419,345 2,236,170 2,236,170 Derivatives 55,647 55,647 Reserve for credit (391) (391) risk adjustment Allowance (328) (338,825) (339,153) Present value (101) (101) discount Present value 132 132 premium Deferred loan originated cost 49,419 49,419 and fee Total ￦ 6,215,754 3,963,546 7,846,106 40,826,951 55,256 58,907,613 647,314 10,651,178 501,387 11,799,879 DGB Financial Group 185 (c) Degree of credit risk concentration for each credit rating Degree of credit risk concentration for each credit rating as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 12 Months Expected credit Lifetime expected Credit rating (*1) loss measurement credit loss Loans impaired Total Enterprises 1~6 ￦ 26,770,800 3,548,770 5,127 30,324,697 7 12,546 285,543 116,081 414,170 8 (*2) 6,490 36,192 30,063 72,745 9 (*2) 3,214 10,766 49,772 63,752 10 (*2) 1,558 9,479 143,990 155,027 Not rated (*3) 883,208 1,619 62,355 947,182 27,677,816 3,892,369 407,388 31,977,573 Households 1~6 11,880,602 121,192 4,739 12,006,533 7 157,021 204,615 2,275 363,911 8 (*2) 39,981 92,416 6,045 138,442 9 (*2) 20,040 58,214 14,026 92,280 10 (*2) 4,552 37,761 25,201 67,514 Not rated (*3) 603,167 175 62 603,404 12,705,363 514,373 52,348 13,272,084 Public sectors and others 1~6 1,148,405 1,178 1,149,583 7 808 830 1,638 8 (*2) 25 13 38 9 (*2) 10 (*2) 3,995 3,995 Not rated (*3) 140 140 1,149,378 2,021 3,995 1,155,394 Credit card 1~6 320,492 15,202 276 335,970 7 22,368 17,657 741 40,766 8 (*2) 13,534 13,644 521 27,699 9 (*2) 5,240 8,916 662 14,818 10 (*2) 1,706 6,676 4,709 13,091 Not rated (*3) 10,235 10 11 10,256 373,575 62,105 6,920 442,600 Total ￦ 41,906,132 4,470,868 470,651 46,847,651 (*1) The Group assesses and manages credit rating of loans classifying loans into enterprises (external audit, non-external audit, individual business, financial institute, public sector and special finance) and loans to households. Combined evaluation model of financial model and non-financial model is used for loans to enterprises other than loans to financial institute, public sector and special finance. Regular check for adequacy is conducted to guarantee the adequacy of credit rating. (*2) The definition of bankruptcy in Basel II is based on overdue criteria and default criteria and is applied to the definition of impairment of the Group. Impairment unit is borrower criteria thus there might be loans under 8th degree which are neither overdue nor impaired. (*3) Amount of non-rated loan is ￦1,560,982 million as of December 31, 2019 and arises from inter-bank transactions such as inter-bank loans and loans related with sound collateral (deposits and warranty) and gilt-edged bills (discounted bills and electronic factoring). Amount of non-rated loans from inter-bank transactions and sound loan borrowers is ￦255,535 million and ￦1,305,447 million as of December 31, 2019 respectively. 186 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2018 12 Months Expected credit Lifetime expected Credit rating (*1) loss measurement credit loss Loans impaired Total Enterprises 1~6 ￦ 24,438,947 2,993,402 27,432,349 7 11,388 349,101 360,489 8 (*2) 5,760 44,113 46,010 95,883 9 (*2) 3,099 10,972 73,102 87,173 10 (*2) 2,432 8,667 190,318 201,417 Not rated (*3) 298,567 2,021 6,743 307,331 24,760,193 3,408,276 316,173 28,484,642 Households 1~6 10,154,737 43,692 10,198,429 7 136,280 205,381 341,661 8 (*2) 34,704 86,885 4,096 125,685 9 (*2) 18,664 55,602 6,516 80,782 10 (*2) 5,108 31,114 26,466 62,688 Not rated (*3) 531,060 75 531,135 10,880,553 422,674 37,153 11,340,380 Public sectors and others 1~6 861,822 1,304 863,126 7 255 88 343 8 (*2) 2,592 2,592 9 (*2) 4,911 4,911 10 (*2) 100 887 987 Not rated (*3) 862,077 4,084 5,798 871,959 Credit card 1~6 298,908 17,455 316,363 7 20,633 16,516 37,149 8 (*2) 12,895 13,633 562 27,090 9 (*2) 4,975 8,771 605 14,351 10 (*2) 1,623 6,364 5,482 13,469 Not rated (*3) 10,835 12 76 10,923 349,869 62,751 6,725 419,345 Total ￦ 36,852,692 3,897,785 365,849 41,116,326 (*1) The Group assesses and manages credit rating of loans classifying loans into enterprises (external audit, non-external audit, individual business, financial institute, public sector and special finance) and loans to households. Combined evaluation model of financial model and non-financial model is used for loans to enterprises other than loans to financial institute, public sector and special finance. Regular check for adequacy is conducted to guarantee the adequacy of credit rating. (*2) The definition of bankruptcy in Basel II is based on overdue criteria and default criteria and is applied to the definition of impairment of the Group. Impairment unit is borrower criteria thus there might be loans under 8th degree which are neither overdue nor impaired. (*3) Amount of non-rated loan is ￦849,389 million as of December 31, 2018 and arises from inter-bank transactions such as inter-bank loans and loans related with sound collateral (deposits and warranty) and sound bills (discounted bills and electronic factoring). Amount of not rated loans from inter-bank transactions and sound loan borrowers is ￦252,972 million and ￦596,417 million as of December 31, 2018 respectively. DGB Financial Group 187 Relationship between internal credit rating and external credit rating are as follows: Classification of rating Internal credit rating External credit rating Current 1~6 AAA~BBPrecautionary 7 B Substandard 8 CCC Doubtful 9 CC, C Estimated loss 10 D (d) Estimated fair value of types of credit enhancements and collateral for impaired loans as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Enterprises Households Public sectors and others Total Real estate ￦ 91,954 15,089 3,973 111,016 Movable asset 23,090 6,186 29,276 Securities and debentures 102 12 114 Guarantee 23,030 2,084 25,114 Others 296 66 362 Total ￦ 138,472 23,437 3,973 165,882 (In millions of won) 2018 Enterprises Households Public sectors and others Total Real estate ￦ 121,500 14,051 1,894 137,445 Movable asset 22,578 1,932 24,510 Securities and debentures 5 5 Guarantee 17,752 1,600 19,352 Others 504 504 Total ￦ 162,334 17,588 1,894 181,816 (e) Restructuring loans and receivables Restructuring loans and receivables is an activity to maximize the collection of loans and receivables by changing the condition of a financially troubled borrower and includes extension of maturity, postponement of payment and relief of interest rate. Restructured loans and receivables as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are ￦53,326 million and ￦48,814 million, respectively. 188 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (f) The total carrying amount of the debt securities by credit rating according to the method of measuring the allowance for loss as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 12-Month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Impaired Total Securities at amortized cost AAA ￦ 2,273,872 2,273,872 AA+ ~ AA388,140 388,140 A+ ~ A40,661 40,661 Not rated 4,638,727 4,638,727 Subtotal 7,341,400 7,341,400 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income AAA 1,831,709 1,831,709 AA+ ~ AA366,971 366,971 A+ ~ A30,166 30,166 Not rated 1,902,898 1,902,898 Subtotal 4,131,744 4,131,744 Total ￦ 11,473,144 11,473,144 (In millions of won) 2018 12-Month Expected Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Credit Loss Impaired Total Securities at amortized cost AAA ￦ 2,898,399 2,898,399 AA+ ~ AA430,949 430,949 A+ ~ A63,226 63,226 Not rated 4,453,860 4,453,860 Subtotal 7,846,434 7,846,434 Other financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income AAA 1,399,404 1,399,404 AA+ ~ AA437,971 437,971 A+ ~ A54,442 54,442 Not rated 2,071,729 2,071,729 Subtotal 3,963,546 3,963,546 Total ￦ 11,809,980 11,809,980 (g) Offsets of financial assets and financial liabilities The Group has financial instruments which are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. The similar agreements include derivative clearing agreements, repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements, etc. Some of the derivative instruments are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement. In accordance with this agreement, all the derivatives transactions are terminated in the credit event such as bankruptcy of any of the counterparties and the net amounts offset in each transaction will be paid from one party to another at the time of termination. The Group’s repurchase agreement transactions, and securities lending transactions, etc., are also subject to an agreement similar to ISDA (International Derivatives Swaps and Dealers Association) offsetting agreements. Financial assets and liabilities are not offset in the statement of financial position because ISDA offsetting agreements and similar agreements are exercisable only in the credit event and the parties to transactions have no intention to either settle on a net basis, or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. DGB Financial Group 189 Offsetting financial assets Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Net amounts of Related amounts not set off Gross offset financial assets in the statement of financial position amounts of presented in Collateral received Gross amounts recognized the statement of recognized financial of financial Financial financial assets liabilities position instruments Securities Cash Net amount Bonds purchased under resale ￦ 3,559,656 3,559,656 2,405,679 1,028,900 125,077 agreements Accrued balance spot exchange 533,951 (113,394) 420,557 420,460 97 Securities lending and borrowing asset 1,849,808 1,849,808 1,685,893 40,170 123,745 Trading derivative assets 205,960 205,960 44,264 264 161,432 Hedging derivative assets 13,996 13,996 7,163 5,587 1,246 Financial assets at fair value 39,260 39,260 39,260 through profit or loss Total ￦ 6,202,631 (113,394) 6,089,237 4,563,459 1,113,917 264 411,597 (In millions of won) 2018 Net amounts of Related amounts not set off Gross offset financial assets in the statement of financial position amounts of presented in Collateral received Gross amounts recognized the statement of recognized financial of financial Financial financial assets liabilities position instruments Securities Cash Net amount Bonds purchased under resale ￦ 60,200 60,200 56,353 3,847 agreements Accrued balance spot exchange 264,158 264,158 264,060 98 Securities lending and borrowing asset 598,941 598,941 551,451 47,490 Trading derivative assets 26,824 26,824 7,299 1,185 58 18,282 Hedging derivative assets 14,494 14,494 4,090 961 9,443 Total ￦ 964,617 964,617 826,900 58,499 58 79,160 Offsetting financial liabilities Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Net amounts of Related amounts not set off Gross offset financial liabilities in the statement of Gross amounts amounts of presented financial position of recognized recognized the statement of Financial Collateral financial assets financial assets financial position instruments provided Net amount Bonds under repurchase agreements ￦ 3,267,709 3,267,709 2,405,678 862,031 Accrued balance spot exchange 2,331,965 (113,394) 2,218,571 2,208,981 9,590 Trading derivative liabilities 320,281 320,281 34,673 300 285,308 Hedging derivative liabilities 8,587 8,587 7,163 1,424 Total ￦ 5,928,542 (113,394) 5,815,148 4,656,495 863,755 294,898 190 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (In millions of won) 2018 Net amounts of Related amounts not set off Gross offset financial liabilities in the statement of Gross amounts amounts of presented financial position of recognized recognized the statement of Financial Collateral financial assets financial assets financial position instruments provided Net amount Bonds under repurchase agreements ￦ 774,873 774,873 774,873 Accrued balance spot exchange 509,006 509,006 508,879 127 Trading derivative liabilities 28,026 28,026 10,163 1,306 16,557 Hedging derivative liabilities 6,714 6,714 4,090 2,624 Total ￦ 1,318,619 1,318,619 523,132 778,803 16,684 41-2. Liquidity Risk Financial liabilities held for trading and demand deposits are recognized as fair value and included in the 'On demand' section. Non-derivative financial liabilities Contractual maturity analysis for financial liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 On Less than 1~3 3~6 6 ~ 12 1~3 3~5 5 demand 1 month months months months years years years Total On-balance accounts Deposits ￦ 16,620,617 4,308,858 5,137,225 6,828,269 9,010,557 1,058,488 38,234 129,653 43,131,901 Financial liabilities at fair value 1,685,893 1,685,893 through profit or loss Fair value changes on financial liabilities 525 13,651 17,745 59,447 550,190 4,864 128,310 774,732 designated at fair value Debts 4,284,392 519,174 496,256 676,083 796,142 371,844 438,890 7,582,781 Debentures 99,963 483,325 367,390 625,702 2,857,179 803,362 485,598 5,722,519 Other financial liabilities 32 2,580,891 23,699 45,503 56,285 169,222 26,231 15,119 2,916,982 Lease liabilities 77 2,845 4,394 5,196 6,917 20,972 36,766 13,123 90,290 Total ￦ 16,620,726 12,963,367 6,181,468 7,760,359 10,434,991 5,452,193 1,281,301 1,210,693 61,905,098 Off-balance accounts Financial guarantee contract ￦ 692,636 692,636 Commitments 12,287,680 12,287,680 Payments on guarantees 500,319 500,319 Total ￦ 13,480,635 13,480,635 DGB Financial Group 191 Non-derivative financial liabilities, continued (In millions of won) 2018 On Less than 1~3 3~6 6 ~ 12 1~3 3~5 5 demand 1 month months months months years years years Total On-balance accounts Deposits ￦ 15,371,153 3,660,781 5,134,795 5,212,613 7,949,758 1,392,778 205,753 262,030 39,189,661 Financial liabilities at fair value 551,451 551,451 through profit or loss Fair value changes on financial liabilities 1,978 306 7,759 399,327 108,424 517,794 designated at fair value Debts 3,943,678 370,610 508,234 471,164 635,020 314,733 284,693 6,528,132 Debentures 298,545 468,902 485,882 573,414 2,219,689 1,194,930 495,738 5,737,100 Other financial liabilities 1,433,551 27,854 37,068 47,967 139,586 10,863 12,804 1,709,693 Total ￦ 15,371,153 9,888,006 6,004,139 6,244,103 9,050,062 4,786,400 1,726,279 1,163,689 54,233,831 Off-balance accounts Financial guarantee contract ￦ 647,314 647,314 Commitments 10,651,178 10,651,178 Payments on guarantees 501,387 501,387 Total ￦ 11,799,879 11,799,879 Maturity structures of derivative financial liabilities as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Less than 1~3 3~6 6 ~ 12 1~3 3~5 More than 1 month months months months years years 5 years Total Trading derivatives Currency related ￦ 30,816 27,632 8,591 11,422 78,461 Others 7,621 7,621 Stock related 45,541 32 1,231 46,804 Subtotal 76,357 27,632 8,591 11,454 8,852 132,886 Hedging derivatives Currency swap 4,009 616 788 244 278 5,935 Total ￦ 76,357 27,632 12,600 12,070 9,640 244 278 138,821 (In millions of won) 2018 Less than 1~3 3~6 6 ~ 12 1~3 3~5 1 month months months months years years Total Trading derivatives Currency related ￦ 12,380 5,367 13,979 3,254 164 35,144 Others 6 48,788 39 153 17,836 66,822 Stock related 8 638 646 Subtotal 12,386 54,163 14,018 3,407 18,638 102,612 Hedging derivatives Currency swap 753 2,928 733 1,544 1,166 7,124 Total ￦ 12,386 54,916 16,946 4,140 20,182 1,166 109,736 Available assets to fulfill the payment obligations of liabilities and to carry out the unpaid loan contracts are cash, due from The Bank of Korea, loans, equity securities and debt securities. The Group is able to deal with unexpected cash flows through the disposal of securities and by additional fund raising resources such as the asset securitization market. 192 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 41-3. Market Risk (a) Trading Position VaR by risk types (trading position) VaR by risk types as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Period end Average Minimum Maximum Interest rate risk ￦ 6,004 5,290 3,547 6,936 Foreign exchange risk 5,977 3,318 730 6,414 Stock risk 7,016 5,450 4,224 7,581 Other risk (420) (361) 30 (1,398) Diversification effect (2,879) (852) (3,887) 2,271 Total risk ￦ 15,698 12,845 4,644 21,804 (In millions of won) 2018 Period end Average Minimum Maximum Interest rate risk ￦ 3,268 3,638 2,995 4,660 Foreign exchange risk 1,484 1,447 852 1,992 Stock risk 4,493 5,809 2,590 6,714 Diversification effect (3,587) (3,648) (1,581) (2,818) Total risk ￦ 5,658 7,246 4,856 10,548 The sum of VaR for each risk type does not match the total VaR due to correlation between risk factors and the diversification effect. The correlation between risk factors and the volatility are calculated using the simple moving average method. The interest rate risk of DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd. as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Interest rate Interest rate Interest rate Interest rate Exposure sensitivity(%) sensitivity amount Exposure sensitivity(%) sensitivity amount I. Insurance liability 1. Interest rates fixed ￦ 1,857,506 15 27,167,977 1,753,643 15 25,822,370 2. Interest rates linked 3,503,546 7 25,050,002 3,545,743 7 23,192,852 Subtotal ￦ 5,361,052 10 52,217,979 5,299,386 9 49,015,222 II. Interest bearing assets 1. Due from banks 234,233 48,500 264,980 50,900 2. Financial assets at fair value through 34,867 1 47,884 34,710 2 81,512 profit or loss 3. Financial assets at fair value through 862,277 9 7,938,377 811,215 7 5,816,099 other comprehensive income 4. Securities at amortized cost 3,995,219 12 45,957,415 3,852,396 10 37,109,835 5. Loans at amortized cost 418,293 12 4,964,990 397,483 11 4,241,534 Subtotal ￦ 5,544,889 11 58,957,166 5,360,784 9 47,299,880 Ⅲ. The maturity mismatch amount 101,088 25,730 Ⅳ. The minimum interest rate amount 128,805 129,227 Ⅴ. The interest rate back spread amount 5,280 Ⅵ. The interest rate risk amount ￦ 134,085 129,227 =[max(Ⅲ,Ⅳ)+Ⅴ] DGB Financial Group 193 Other price risks of DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Other price risks of DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd. are the risks that financial instrument’s cash flow or fair value is changed due to the change of market price other than an exchange risk or interest risk. The price risk is an analysis about KOSPI 200 index changes, and 10% increase and decrease are used for reasonable and possible fluctuations. This shows management’s evaluation about the reasonable and possible fluctuations of the stock index. (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Other comprehensive Other comprehensive Profit or loss income Profit or loss income 10% increase ￦ 2,077 5,378 Beneficiary certificate 10% decrease (2,077) (5,378) (b) Non-trading position The Group manages interest rate risk for non-trading position. Interest rate risk of non-trading position is the risk that the net asset value or net interest income might decrease due to the inconsistency of interest rate maturity and the unfavorable change of market interest rate. The Group measures interest rate risk for interest assets such as loans, dues from banks and bonds, for interest rate liabilities such as deposits and borrowings and for hedge derivatives. Among non-trading positions, marketable available-for-sale financial assets (stocks) are managed through VaR. Method of interest rate risk management The tolerance limit to manage the interest rate risk on trading positions is required to be set in principle at least once a year, and approved by the Committee. To verify complying with the tolerance limit, the interest risk is measured and managed at least once a month, and reported to the management, the Council and the Committee. Assessment methods for interest rate risk Value at Risk (VaR) Interest rate VaR measures potential losses in value of a net asset over a defined period for a given confidence interval. The Group calculates interest rate VaR by the gap of interest rate and the modified duration. Earning at Risk (EaR) EaR is the quantity by which net income is projected to decline in the event of an adverse change in prevailing interest rates. Others The Group evaluates interest rates risk by using the rate of interest gap, and conducts the interest risk analysis of crisis situations under abnormal market conditions one or more times a quarter. Also, the department verifies the accuracy, completeness and suitability one or more times a year regularly and observes measurement-related data constantly and independently. Interest rate VaR (non-trading position) Interest rate VaR as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) End Average Minimum Maximum 2019 ￦ 70,798 140,036 68,236 178,151 2018 129,898 118,163 37,727 153,699 (c) Foreign exchange bias Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value of financial instruments or future cash flows are affected by the volatility of foreign exchange rate. The Group does not divide foreign exchange position into trading position and non-trading position but manages it on the whole. 194 2019-2020 Sustainability Report Exposures to foreign exchange risk as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 USD JPY EUR CNY Others Assets Cash and due from bank ￦ 139,043 58,764 50,621 32,466 114,951 Financial assets at fair value 29,400 through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value 373,584 43,621 through other comprehensive income Securities at amortized cost 190,684 274,136 120,916 Loans at amortized cost 1,012,243 57,569 29,367 131,056 3,010 Derivative assets on hedge 5,462 3,366 5,157 Other assets 489,572 11,387 14,281 1,491 (6,560) Total ￦ 2,239,988 127,720 415,392 165,013 237,474 Liabilities Deposits ￦ 555,447 55,017 18,162 53,815 11,239 Borrowings 803,556 49,001 7,303 45,466 Debentures 344,915 Derivative liabilities on hedge 7,385 942 260 Other liabilities 531,714 10,901 655 3,163 2,755 Total ￦ 2,243,017 114,919 27,062 102,444 14,254 Exposures to foreign exchange risk as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 USD JPY EUR Others Foreign currency financial assets ￦ 2,224,863 111,981 113,110 491,012 Foreign currency financial liabilities 1,851,381 110,571 37,616 189,082 42.Capital Management Regulated capital and BIS ratio (neither audited nor reviewed by the external auditor) of the Group as of December 31,2019 and 2018 are as follows. The Group has complied with all the external capital maintenance restriction conditionsfor the past two years. (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Total capital (A) ￦ 5,278,719 5,014,663 Basic capital (B) 4,675,824 4,426,663 Common stock (C) 4,085,641 3,831,182 Supplementary capital (D) 602,895 588,000 Risk weighted asset (E) 42,835,526 39,109,962 Ratio of total capital (A/E) 12.32% 12.82% Ratio of basic capital (B/E) 10.92% 11.32% Ratio of common stock capital (C/E) 9.54% 9.80% DGB Financial Group 195 43. Disclosures for Fair Value 43-1. Account classification and fair value of financial instruments Book value and fair value of each financial instrument as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Book value Fair value Financial Assets Cash and due from bank ￦ 2,826,220 2,826,220 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 7,748,112 7,748,112 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,181,307 4,181,307 Securities at amortized cost 7,340,887 7,373,711 Loans at amortized cost 46,587,076 46,808,441 Derivative financial assets held for trading (*) 84,362 84,362 Derivative financial assets held for hedging (*) 13,996 13,996 Other financial assets 1,976,809 1,974,715 Total ￦ 70,758,769 71,010,864 Financial Liabilities Deposits ￦ 42,758,180 42,765,508 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 1,685,893 1,685,893 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 774,732 774,732 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (*) 132,886 132,886 Derivative financial liabilities held for hedging (*) 8,587 8,587 Borrowings 7,043,400 7,046,227 Debentures 5,590,032 5,680,078 Other financial liabilities 2,788,923 2,788,319 Total ￦ 60,782,633 60,882,230 (*) Amounts before deducting provision for credit loss (In millions of won) 2018 Book value Fair value Financial Assets Cash and deposits ￦ 2,601,499 2,601,499 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 6,277,966 6,277,966 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,032,620 4,032,620 Securities at amortized cost 7,839,654 8,007,644 Loan receivables at amortized cost 40,826,951 40,854,907 Derivative financial assets held for trading (*) 41,154 41,154 Derivative financial assets held for hedging (*) 14,493 14,493 Other financial assets 1,665,652 1,668,374 Total ￦ 63,299,989 63,498,657 Financial Liabilities Loan payables ￦ 38,729,457 38,456,845 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 551,451 551,451 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 517,794 517,794 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (*) 102,796 102,796 Derivative financial liabilities held for hedging (*) 6,714 6,714 Borrowings 6,442,359 6,425,406 Debt securities issued 5,303,840 5,293,973 Other financial liabilities 2,247,774 2,249,145 Total ￦ 53,902,185 53,604,124 (*) Amounts before deducting provision for credit loss 196 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 43-2. Hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities at fair value (a) Hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities at fair value in the consolidated financial statements Hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities at fair value in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Classification of levels Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial Assets Financial Assets at fair value through profit or loss Equity securities ￦ 4,378 34,968 39,346 Debt securities 2,083,996 3,726,129 1,296,432 7,106,557 Others 355,096 247,114 602,210 Subtotal 2,088,374 4,081,225 1,578,514 7,748,113 Financial Assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Equity securities 1,012 48,551 49,563 Debt securities 1,080,755 3,050,989 4,131,744 Subtotal 1,081,767 3,050,989 48,551 4,181,307 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial assets held for trading (*) 8,432 71,226 4,705 84,363 Derivative financial assets held for hedging (*) 13,996 13,996 Subtotal 8,432 85,222 4,705 98,359 Total financial assets ￦ 3,178,573 7,217,436 1,631,770 12,027,779 Financial Liabilities Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Equity securities ￦ 25,952 25,952 Debt securities 80,231 1,579,710 1,659,941 Subtotal 106,183 1,579,710 1,685,893 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Others 774,732 774,732 Derivative financial liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading (*) 45,541 78,474 8,871 132,886 Derivative financial liabilities for hedging (*) 8,587 8,587 Subtotal 45,541 87,061 8,871 141,473 Total financial liabilities ￦ 151,724 1,666,771 783,603 2,602,098 (*) Amounts before deducting provision for credit loss DGB Financial Group 197 (In millions of won) 2018 Classification of levels Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial Assets Financial Assets at fair value through profit or loss Equity securities ￦ 16,216 45,996 62,212 Debt securities 216,629 4,737,945 691,475 5,646,049 Others 386,450 183,255 569,705 Subtotal 232,845 5,124,395 920,726 6,277,966 Financial Assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Equity securities 1,047 68,027 69,074 Debt securities 1,323,171 2,640,375 3,963,546 Subtotal 1,324,218 2,640,375 68,027 4,032,620 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial assets held for trading (*) 90 37,742 3,322 41,154 Derivative financial assets held for hedging (*) 14,493 14,493 Subtotal 90 52,235 3,322 55,647 Total financial assets ￦ 1,557,153 7,817,005 992,075 10,366,233 Financial Liabilities Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Equity securities ￦ 32,154 32,154 Debt securities 519,297 519,297 Subtotal 32,154 519,297 551,451 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Others 517,794 517,794 Derivative financial liabilities for hedging (*) Financial liabilities held for trading (*) 48,780 35,996 18,020 102,796 Derivative financial liabilities for hedging (*) 6,714 6,714 Subtotal 48,780 42,710 18,020 109,510 Total financial liabilities ￦ 80,934 562,007 535,814 1,178,755 (*) Amounts before deducting provision for credit loss (b) The variable inputs used to measure the valuation technique and fair value of financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: 2019 Valuation method Variable inputs Financial assets Equity securities DCF method Discount rate Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Debt securities DCF method, Net asset value Discount rate Others DCF method, Net asset value, etc. Discount rate Financial assets at fair value through other Debt securities DCF method Discount rate comprehensive income DCF method, Discounted Discount rate, currency rate, Derivative financial assets held for trading cash flow method etc. IRS curve, FX swap curve DCF method, Embedded forward Derivative financial assets held for hedging Discount rate, currency rate and etc. rate agreement, etc. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss DCF method and etc. Discount rate, Stock price and etc. Derivative financial liabilities held for trading Discounted cash flow method and etc. Discount rate, IRS curve. Derivative financial liabilities held for hedging Embedded forward rate agreement and etc. Discount rate 198 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 2018 Valuation method Variable inputs Financial assets Debt securities DCF method Discount rate Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Others DCF method, Net asset value, etc. Discount rate Financial assets at fair value through other DCF method Discount rate Debt securities comprehensive income DCF model Discount rate Discount rate, currency rate, Derivative financial assets held for trading DCF method, Net asset value, etc. Stock price index and etc. DCF method, Embedded forward Derivative financial assets held for hedging Discount rate, currency rate and etc. rate agreement, etc. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss DCF method Discount rate, Stock price and etc. Derivative financial liabilities held for trading DCF method and etc. Discount rate, currency rate and etc. Derivative financial liabilities held for hedging Embedded forward rate agreement and etc. Discount rate (c) The inputs used to measure the valuation technique and fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as Level 3 as of the end of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: 2019 Valuation method Unobservable variable inputs Range Financial assets Binomial method, Discount rate, 7.86%~9.71% Black-Scholes model, Equity securities Variability, 18.30% DCF method, Growth rate 0% Net asset value Binomial method, Discount rate, 15.38%~39.45% Financial assets at fair value Black-Scholes model, Debt securities Variability, 3.98%~11.93% through profit or loss DCF method, Liquidating value 0% Net asset value Variability: Variability, 0.0692770792 ~ 0.3156681124, Others Net Asset value and etc. correlation coefficient, Correlation coefficient: Growth rate, Liquidating value -0.5179 ~ 0.9967 Discount rate, 10.67%~21.18% Financial assets at fair value Equity securities Discounted Cash Flow method Variability, 0% through other comprehensive income Liquidating value 0% Variability: 0.0692770792 ~ 0.3156681124, Derivative Black-Scholes model, Variability, Correlation coefficient: Derivative financial assets financial assets Hull-White model Correlation coefficient -0.5179 ~ 0.9967, held for trading Regression coefficient: 0.1000 , Variability: 0.1034 ~ 0.2481 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value Variability: through profit or loss 0.0692770792 ~ 0.3156681124, Black-Scholes model, Variability, Correlation coefficient: Hull-White model Correlation coefficient -0.5179 ~ 0.9967, Derivative financial liabilities held for trading Regression coefficient: 0.1000 , Variability: 0.1034 ~ 0.2481 DGB Financial Group 199 2018 Valuation method Unobservable variable inputs Range Financial assets Discount rate, 8.87 ~ 9.71%, Equity securities Binomial method Variability, 18.30%, Growth rate 0% Financial assets at fair value Discount rate, 12.14 ~ 39.45%, through profit or loss Binomial method Variability, 4.56 ~ 11.93%, Debt securities Liquidating value 0% Discounted Cash Flow method Discount rate 5.58% Others Net Asset value and etc. Discount rate, Financial assets at fair value 12.13 ~ 21.18%, Equity securities Discounted Cash Flow method Variability, through other comprehensive income 0%, 0% Liquidating value Black-Scholes model, Variability, 7.32 ~ 33.79%, Derivative financial assets held for trading Hull-White model Correlation coefficient -58.47% ~ 99.7% Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Black-Scholes model, Variability, 7.32 ~ 33.79%, Hull-White model Correlation coefficient -58.47% ~ 99.7% Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (d) Changes in financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Financial liabilities Financial assets at designated at fair fair value through Financial assets at fair value value through profit other comprehensive Derivatives through profit or loss and loss income for trading Equity Debt Equity Derivative Derivative securities Securities Others Others securities assets liabilities Beginning (*) ￦ 45,996 691,475 183,255 517,794 68,027 3,322 18,020 Amount recognized in profit or loss (2,941) 15,266 21,009 33,112 1,839 (7,365) Amount recognized in other (3,054) comprehensive income Purchase amount 2,241 747,350 93,453 666,380 1,351 1,917 Amount sold (4,092) (155,867) (50,602) (442,554) (1,633) (1,807) (3,701) Amount changed from level 3 to 300 another level Others (6,536) (1,792) (14,789) Total ￦ 34,968 1,296,432 247,115 774,732 48,551 4,705 8,871 (In millions of won) 2018 Financial liabilities Financial assets at designated at fair fair value Financial assets at fair value value through profit through other Derivatives through profit or loss and loss comprehensive income for trading Equity Debt Equity Derivative Derivative securities Securities Others Others securities assets liabilities Beginning (*) ￦ 37,013 556,874 51,157 152 927 Acquisition due to business combinations 85 72,247 179,829 522,263 13,611 3,089 10,262 Amount at fair value through profit or loss 9,048 7,379 3,426 9,253 233 7,758 Amount recognized in other (30) 3,160 comprehensive income Purchase amount 147,122 100 Amount sold (150) (92,147) (13,692) (1) Amount changed from level 3 to (152) (927) another level Total ￦ 45,996 691,475 183,255 517,794 68,027 3,322 18,020 (*) Restated based on K-IFRS 1109. 200 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (e) Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments classified as Level 3 Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is divided into advantageous and disadvantageous changes based on changes in the value of financial instruments due to changes in unobservable input variables using statistical techniques. And when fair value is affected by more than one input variable, it is based on the most advantageous or most disadvantageous amount. The sensitivity of financial instruments classified as Level 3 as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Favorable changes Unfavorable changes Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (*1) ￦ 4,452 4,325 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (*2)(*3) 2,331 1,170 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and 5,636 4,963 Derivative financial instruments for trading (*4) (*1) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing discount rate (-1%p ~ 1%p) and growth rate (0% ~ 1%). (*2) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0%p~1%p) and discount rate (-1%p~1%p) or increasing or decreasing liquidating value (-1%~1%) and discount rate (-1%p~ 1%p). (*3) Fair values of certain equity securities such as PEF are measured by the asset approach method. Fair value changes of such equity securities are excluded as sensitivity calculation by changes in inputs is practically impossible. (*4) Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial instruments for trading are calculated by increasing or decreasing the volatility and correlation of the major unobservable input variables (10%). (In millions of won) 2018 Advantageous changes Disadvantageous changes Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (*1)(*2) ￦ 9,279 (8,651) Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (*3) 3,282 (1,601) Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and 22,452 (22,296) Derivative financial instruments for trading (*4) (*1) Fair values of certain equity securities such as PEF are measured by the asset approach method. Fair value changes of such equity securities are excluded as sensitivity calculation by changes in inputs is practically impossible. (*2) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing discount rate (-1%p ~ 1%p) and growth rate (0% ~ 1%). (*3) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0%p~1%p) and discount rate (-1%p~1%p) or increasing or decreasing liquidating value (-1%~1%) and discount rate (-1%p~ 1%p). (*4) Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial instruments for trading are calculated by increasing or decreasing the volatility and correlation of the major unobservable input variables (10%). (f)Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price (the fair value of the consideration given or received) unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets. If the valuation technique incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data, the difference between the transaction price and the fair value based on the valuation technique (day-one profit or loss) is not recognized in profit or loss upon initial recognition but deferred. Deferred day-one profit or loss is recognized over the period between the trade date and the date when the variables are expected to become observable in the market, or over the life of the trade (whichever is shorter). The deferred day-one profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 2018 Deposit at fair value through Derivative financial Deposit at fair value through Derivative financial profit or loss instruments held for trading profit or loss instruments held for trading Beginning balance ￦ 5,268 (116) (1,080) Increase (9,756) 1,213 6,174 263 Recognized loss (3,033) (1,421) 174 (379) Ending balance ￦ (7,521) (324) 5,268 (116) DGB Financial Group 201 (g) A fair value hierarchy of financial assets and financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value but are disclosed at fair value Valuation method of fair value for financial instruments measured at amortized cost Valuation method of disclosed fair value for assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value are as follows: Valuation method Cash and due from banks The estimated fair values of cash and due from banks are the carrying amounts. Securities at amortized cost The fair values of securities at amortized cost are determined using prices evaluated by credible evaluators. The fair values of loans at amortized cost are the present value of contractual cash flows discounted at market rates Loans at amortized cost by factoring in the default rates and credit spreads The estimated fair values of demand deposits are the carrying amounts. The estimated fair values of time deposits Depository liabilities are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. The estimated fair values of call money and borrowings in won are the carrying amounts. The fair values of other Borrowings borrowings are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. Debentures The fair values of debentures are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. Classification and fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at amortized cost. The classification and the fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Type Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,826,220 2,826,220 Securities at amortized cost 2,528,995 4,844,716 7,373,711 Financial assets Loans at amortized cost 46,808,441 46,808,441 Other financial assets 1,974,715 1,974,715 ￦ 5,355,215 4,844,716 48,783,156 58,983,087 Depository liabilities ￦ 16,611,621 26,153,886 42,765,507 Borrowings 172,101 6,874,126 7,046,227 Financial liabilities Debentures 135,000 5,545,078 5,680,078 Other financial liabilities 2,788,319 2,788,319 Total ￦ 16,783,722 135,000 41,361,409 58,280,131 (In millions of won) 2018 Type Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,601,499 2,601,499 Securities at amortized cost 2,315,013 5,692,631 8,007,644 Financial assets Loans at amortized cost 40,854,907 40,854,907 Other financial assets 1,668,374 1,668,374 ￦ 4,916,512 5,692,631 42,523,281 53,132,424 Depository liabilities ￦ 15,338,640 23,118,205 38,456,845 Borrowings 134,662 6,290,744 6,425,406 Financial liabilities Debentures 174,574 5,119,399 5,293,973 Other financial liabilities 2,249,145 2,249,145 Total ￦ 15,473,302 174,574 36,777,493 52,425,369 202 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (h) Valuation method and inputs of level 2 Valuation method and inputs used in measuring fair values of financial instruments measured at amortized cost using level 2 inputs as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 2019 Type Valuation method (*) Inputs (*) Financial assets Securities at amortized cost DCF method Discount rate Financial liabilities Debentures DCF method Discount rate (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items which carrying amounts are assumed to be fair values are not disclosed. 2019 Type Valuation method (*) Inputs (*) Financial assets Securities at amortized cost DCF method Discount rate Financial liabilities Debentures DCF method Discount rate (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items which carrying amounts are assumed to be fair values are not disclosed. (i)Valuation method and inputs of level 3 Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring fair values of financial instruments measuredat amortized cost using level 3 inputs as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 2019 Type Valuation method (*) Inputs (*) Loans measured at amortized cost DCF method Discount rate, credit spreads, prepayment rate Financial assets Others DCF method Discount rate Depository liabilities DCF method Discount rate Borrowings DCF method Discount rate Financial liabilities Debentures DCF method Discount rate Other financial liabilities DCF method Discount rate (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items whose carrying amounts are considered to be reasonable approximation of fair values are not disclosed. 2018 Type Valuation method (*) Inputs (*) Loans measured at amortized cost DCF method Discount rate, credit spreads, prepayment rate Financial assets Others DCF method Discount rate Depository liabilities DCF method Discount rate Borrowings DCF method Discount rate Financial liabilities Debentures DCF method Discount rate Other financial liabilities DCF method Discount rate (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items whose carrying amounts are considered to be reasonable approximation of fair values are not disclosed. DGB Financial Group 203 44.Discontinued Operations The Group sold Hi Asset Management Co., Ltd. and Hi Investment & Futures Corp., subsidiaries of its subsidiary Hi Investment & Securities in December 2019. The above companies were not classified as discontinued operations or held for sale at December 31, 2018. (a)Gain or loss from discontinued operations as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Operating income ￦ 45,020 Operating expense 43,391 Operating profit 1,629 Non-operating income 29,034 Non-operating expense (31) Income before income tax from discontinued operations 30,694 Income tax expense 7,169 Net income from discontinued operations ￦ 23,525 (b)Cash flow from discontinued operations as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Cash flow from operating activities ￦ (18,865) Cash flow from investing activities 2,903 Cash flow from financing activities (2,222) Cash flow from discontinued operations, net ￦ (18,184) (c) Changes in financial position of the Group due to disposal of operating segments are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Cash and due from banks ￦ 196,750 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 26,476 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 14,789 Financial assets at amortized cost 9,847 Investment in associates 9,620 Derivative assets 31 Loans at amortized cost 548 Property and equipment 2,665 Other assets 17,705 Total 278,431 Depository liabilities 163,491 Derivative liabilities 34 Other liabilities 15,770 Total 179,295 Decrease in net asset 99,136 Proceeds from disposal 105,325 Disposed cash and cash equivalents 10,505 ￦ 94,820 204 2019-2020 Sustainability Report 45. The Group as a lessee (a) Details of right-of-use assets by type of underlying assets as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Right-of-use asset (*1) Property ￦ 57,386 Delivery equipment 6,512 Others 2,811 Total 66,709 Lease liabilities (*2) ￦ 65,807 (*1) Included in ‘Property and equipment’ in the consolidated statement of financial position. (*2) Included in ‘Other liabilities’ in the consolidated statement of financial position. Details of changes in accounting policies are explained in Note 2-5. (b) Details of lease liabilities by type of underlying assets as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2019 Depreciation of right-of-use asset Property ￦ 20,528 Delivery equipment 2,459 Others 2,474 Total 25,461 Interest expense on lease liabilities 1,641 Short-term lease payment 251 Low-value assets 846 Variable lease payment excluded from lease liability measurement ￦ (*) Cash outflow of lease amount is ￦25,065 million as of December 31, 2019. DGB Financial Group 205 46. Restatement of prior period financial statements The Group restated each item of the financial statements affected in the prior period in relation to the effect of the discount rate of the general account reserve due to the changes in the Detailed Regulations on Supervision of Insurance Business and the calculation of the effective interest rate of the financial assets at amortized cost. Details of adjustment of financial position and business performance as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Assets Liabilities Equity Operating income Net income Before Restatement ￦ 64,917,600 59,854,522 5,063,078 4,160,748 406,027 Adjustments: Effect of effective interest rate on (4,059) 3,352 (7,411) (3,220) (2,428) financial assets at amortized cost After restatement ￦ 64,913,541 59,857,874 5,055,667 4,157,528 403,599 Details of adjustment of financial position and business performance as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Assets Liabilities Equity Operating income Net income Before Restatement ￦ 56,733,837 52,538,047 4,195,790 3,641,768 316,271 Adjustments: Effect of effective interest rate on (2,446) (2,446) (3,232) (2,446) financial assets at amortized cost Effect of change on general 815 3,352 (2,537) (2,537) account reserve After restatement ￦ 56,732,206 52,541,399 4,190,807 3,638,536 311,288 206 2019-2020 Sustainability Report PART 7 APPENDIX Third-Party Assurance Statement 208 Third-Party Verification Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emission 210 GRI Content Index 211 TCFD/CDP Index 213 PRB Index 213 UNGC Index 214 Sustainability Management Initiatives 214 DGB Financial Group 207 제3자 검증의견서 LR Independent Assurance Statement Relating to DGB Financial Group’s Sustainability Report for the 2019 calendar year This Assurance Statement has been prepared for DGB Financial Group in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LR) was commissioned by DGB Financial Group to provide independent assurance on its ‘2019/2020 Sustainability Report’ (“the report”) against the assurance criteria below to a “moderate level of assurance and materiality” using “Accountability’s AA1000AS (2008)”, where the scope was a Type 2 engagement. Our assurance engagement covered the operations and activities of DGB Financial Group (DGB Financial Holding and its eight major affiliates – DGB Daegu Bank, Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, DGB Asset Management, DGB U-Pay, DGB Data System and DGB Credit Information) in Korea and specifically the following requirements: • Evaluating adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles1 of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness • Confirming that the report is in accordance with GRI Standards2 and core option • Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for only the selected indicators listed below: GRI 200 (Economic): 201-1, 201-2, 205-1, 205-2, 206-1 GRI 300 (Environmental): 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 306-2 GRI 400 (Social): 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 402-1, 403-2, 404-1, 404-2, 405-2, 412-2, 413-1, 418-1, 419-1 G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: FS13, FS14 Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of DGB Financial Group’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the report. LR’s responsibility is only to DGB Financial Group. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. DGB Financial Group’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the report is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of DGB Financial Group. LR’s Opinion Based on LR’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that DGB Financial Group has not, in all material respects: • Met the requirements above • Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as all errors or omissions identified during the assurance engagement were corrected • Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a moderate level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a moderate assurance engagement is less than for a high assurance engagement. Moderate assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a moderate assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a high assurance engagement been performed. LR’s approach LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: • Assessing DGB Financial Group’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through reviewing documents and associated records. • Reviewing DGB Financial Group’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their Report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by DGB Financial Group and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether DGB Financial Group makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development. 1 https://www.accountability.org 2 https://www.globalreporting.org P274 Product procedure Revision 2, 20 January 2020 208 208 2019-2020 Sustainability Report • Auditing DGB Financial Group’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or misstatements in the report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the report. • Reviewing additional evidence made available by DGB Financial Group at DGB Financial Holding’s head office in Daegu. • Checking that the GRI Content Index allows stakeholders to access sustainability indicators. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: • Stakeholder inclusivity: We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from DGB Financial Group’s stakeholder engagement process. • Materiality: We are not aware of any material issues concerning DGB Financial Group’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from the report. It should be noted that DGB Financial Group has established extensive criteria for determining which issue/aspect is material and that these criteria are not biased to the companies’ management. • Responsiveness: DGB Cyber Green Branches of DGB Daegu Bank raise environmental awareness of customers and promotes their positive environmental outcomes through sales of financial products and operation of programs in terms of the environment. However, DGB Financial Group should make more efforts to make sure that its own principles of corporate social responsibility and management approaches to material sustainability issues, e.g. policies, objectives, processes, programs, etc. are applied consistently through all entities in the group. • Reliability: DGB Financial Group has reliable data management systems for the indicators in the report. LR’s standards, competence and independence LR implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements for ISO 14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021 Conformity assessment – Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems that are at least as demanding as the requirements of the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. This verification engagement is the only work undertaken by LR for DGB Financial Group and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. Tae-Kyoung Kim Dated: 15th July 2020 LR Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea LR reference: SEO00000637 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2020. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. P274 Product procedure Revision 2, 20 January 2020 DGB Financial Group 209 209 온실가스 검증의견서 INV-20-001 GHG Verification Statement DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 111, Oksan-ro, Buk-gu, Daegu, Republic of Korea Verification Scope Korean Standards Association has conducted GHG inventory verification based on GHG report provided by DGB FINANCIAL GROUP, which includes 2019’s scope 1, scope 2, and scope 3(domestic/overseas business trips for work and commuting travel) emissions. Verification Standards and Guidelines To conduct verification activities, verification team applied WRI GHG Protocol, KS Q ISO 14064-3:2006, IPCC Guideline:2006, and Korean Target Management Scheme Guideline. Verification Conclusion As a result of verification activities, verification team has found no significant errors. Therefore, Korean Standards Association confirms that following emission data are adequately quantified. unit: tCO2eq DGB HI Investment DGB DGB DGB Asset DGB DGB DGB Credit Daegu Bank & Securities Life Capital Management U pay Data System Information Scope 1 2,751.89 210.96 486.91 300.00 32.05 36.62 8.56 8.01 (Direct GHG emissions) Scope 2 14,618.25 1,258.71 525.29 239.73 12.58 38.79 142.76 35.39 (Indirect GHG emissions) Scope 3 (Domestic/overseas 2,650.86 643.28 173.55 190.42 40.39 29.43 90.52 24.20 business trips and commuter vehicle) Overall emissions 20,021.00 2,112.951,185.75 730.15 85.02 104.84 241.84 67.60 ※ Daegu Bank was verified including its headquarter and branches, while the other affiliates were verified about the headquarters. May 29, 2020 KOREAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION 210 210 2019-2020 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Topic Disclosure Page Note GRI 102: General Disclusures 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 4~13 102-3 Location of headquarters 4~13 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4, 68 102-6 Markets served 4 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 4, 92 Refer to each company's business report for the number of male and female employees by employment type 102-9 Supply chain 72 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 39~40 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 70~71 102-12 External initiatives 213~214 102-13 Membership of associations 213~214 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2~3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 29 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 32 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 66~67 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 58 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 94 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 58 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 58 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 58, 62~63 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 4~13 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 63 102-47 List of material topics 63 102-48 Restatements of information 6, 7, 8, 43, 45, 97, 98 102-49 Changes in reporting 63 102-50 Reporting period About This Report 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report 102-55 GRI content index 211~212 102-56 External assurance 208~209 Topic-specific Standards GRI 200: Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 87~91 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 87 Economic 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 82~83 Refer to TCFD Performance 2016 climate change Progress Report on the DGB Financial Group website for details. http://www.dgbfg. co.kr/sm05.fg GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 28 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 32 Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 31~32 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 28 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, No violations Behavior 2016 and monopoly practices DGB Financial Group 211 211 Topic Disclosure Page Note GRI 300: Environmental Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 70~71 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 99 302-3 Energy intensity 99 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 99 GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 70~71 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 303: Water and 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 98 Effluents 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 70~71 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 99 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 99 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 99 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 99 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 99 GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 70~71 Approach 2016 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 98 GRI 400: Social Performance GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 73~76 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 92 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 75~76 or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 93 Parental leave target data not available GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 78 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 402: Labor/Management 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 94 GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 76 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 93 Safety 2016 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 73~74 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 95 Data by Job group not Education 2016 available 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 73~74 GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 73 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 405: Diversity and 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 93 Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 77 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 77 Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 78~81 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 78~81 and development programs GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 22~23 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 102 losses of customer data GRI 103: Management 103-1, 2, 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 28 Approach 2016 approach and its components, Evaluation of the management approach GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 102 Compliance 2016 GRI Financial Services Standard Disclosures Product Portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. Website http://www.dgbfg. micro/SME/ 36-39 large) and by sector co.kr/ir0106.fg Local Communities FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 43~46 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 25~26, 41 212 212 2019-2020 Sustainability Report TCFD/CDP Index TCFD recommendations CDP disclosure Page Governance: Disclose the organization´s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. C1.1b 82 b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. C1.2, C1.2a 82 Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material. a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, C2.1, C2.3 , C2.3a 82 medium, and long term. C2.4 , C2.4a b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, C2.3a , C2.4a , C2.5 , C2.6 , C3.1 , 82 strategy, and financial planning. C3.1c , C3.1d c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different C3.1a 82 climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. Risk management: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks. a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. C2.2b , C2.2c 83 b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. C2.2d 83 c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated C2.2 83 into the organization’s overall risk management. Metrics & targets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities C4.2 , C9.1 83, 99 in line with its strategy and risk management process. b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks. C6.1 , C6.3, C6.5 83, 99 c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and C4.1 , C4.1a , C4.1b , C4.2 83, 99 performance against targets. * Refer to in detail TCFD report at the link below. http://www.dgbfg.co.kr/sm0 PRB Index Principle Self-Assessment Requirements Location of information 1. Alignment 1.1 Describing our business model, main customer segments, types of 4~5 We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and products and services, and main markets. contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed 1.2 Describing our strategy contributing to society's goals, as expressed 54~55 in the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks. in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate Agreement. 2. Impact and Target Setting 2.1 Impact analysis identifying most significant positive and PRB Progress Report* We will continuously increase our positive impacts while negative impact. reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, 2.2 Targets addressing at least two of the identified “areas of most 84~85, 99, people and environment resulting from our activities, products and services. To this end, we will set and publish targets where significant impact”, resulting from the bank’s activities and provision of PRB Progress Report* we can have the most significant impacts. products and services. 2.3 Means and key performance indicators(KPIs) monitoring the 56~57 progress against the set targets. 2.4 Status of meeting the set targets. 56~57 3. Clients and Customers 3.1 Policies and practices to promote responsible relationships 18~22 We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to with customers. encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities 3.2 Describing how we are working with clients and customers to 42~47 that create shared prosperity for current and future generations. encourage sustainable practices and enable sustainable economic activities. 4. Stakeholders 4.1 Describing stakeholders we collaborate with to implement these 58~59 We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner Principles and improve our impacts. with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals. 5. Governance & Culture 5.1 Governance structures, policies and procedures we have in place to 84~85 We will implement our commitment to these Principles through manage significant positive and negative impacts. effective governance and a culture of responsible banking 5.2 Initiatives and measures we implemented to foster a culture of 84~85 responsible banking among our employees. 5.3 Governance structure in place for the implementation of the PRB 55 6. Transparency & Accountability 6.1 Disclosure of progress on implementing the six Principles. 84~85 We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals. * Refer to in detail PRB Progress Report at the link below. http://www.dgbfg.co.kr/sm05.fg DGB Financial Group 213 213 UNGC Index DGB Financial Group has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since July 2006, and we comply with the Ten Principles covering four areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption). Classification Page Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 77 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 77 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 94 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 77 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 77 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.. 73 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 70~71 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 44, 70~71 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 44, 70~71 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 28~33 Sustainability Management Initiatives UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate UN Environment Programme Climate Disclosure Standard Board 〮 Signatory since 2006 〮 Reported on water resource Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) (CDSB) 〮 DGB Financial Group Chairman management since 2010 〮 Participant in Korea group 〮 Member of 2012 CDSB Korea is a director of UNGC Korea meetings working group UN Sustainable Development Carbon Disclosure Project Dow Jones Sustainability FTSE4Good Indexes Goals (SDGs) 〮 Annual signatory since 2007 Indexes (DJSI) 〮 Listed for 9 consecutive years 〮 Report progress of SDGs 〮 Recognized for excellence 7 〮 Listed for 10 consecutive years in appropriate for DGB Financial times, including 2018 Asia-Pacific Group 〮 Listed for 11 consecutive years in Korea Science Based Targets Task Force On Climate-related Principles for Responsible Women’s Empowerment Principles 〮 Signatory to 2018 targets Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Banking (PRB) (WEPs) 〮 Participated as a TCFD member 〮 Joined as a supporting 〮 Joined in 2019 in 2018 organization in 2018 and 〮 Participation in TGE (Target participated as a signatory Gender Equality) program for in 2019 implementation of WEPs in 2020 214 214 2019-2020 Sustainability Report DGB Financial Group 2019-2020 Integrated Sustainability Report was printed on eco-friendly papers using soybean oil printing techniques. DGB Daegu Bank I Hi Investment & Securities I DGB Life Insurance I DGB Capital DGB Asset Management I DGB U-Pay I DGB Data System I DGB Credit Information
