A LEGACY OF 2019 GLOBAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OUR MISSION At Mylan, we are committed to setting new standards in healthcare. Working together around the world to provide 7 billion people access to high quality medicine, we innovate to satisfy unmet needs; make reliability and service excellence a habit; do what’s right, not what’s easy; and impact the future through passionate global leadership. 2 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS SECTION I: INTRODUCTION.........................................4 SECTION II: OUR AREAS OF IMPACT...........................12 Patients....................................................13 Employees................................................25 Environment..............................................34 Global Public Health..................................38 Community...............................................46 SECTION III: GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA................................................52 Introduction ..............................................53 Patient Health ..........................................55 Employee Health ......................................66 Environmental Health................................71 GSR Oversight and Ethics Compliance.....76 SECTION IV: APPENDIX................................................83 SECTION V: GRI & SASB TABLES.................................88 The I-Icon throughout this report indicates there is additional information i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC for a topic in section III of this report. Section III provides a comprehensive description of Mylan’s management, governance and organization of important social responsibility and ESG matters, as well as performance data. 3 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT ADDRESSING THE COVID-19 Mylan’s 2019 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report PANDEMIC This report provides an overview of Mylan’s global efforts related to environmental, While the information presented in this social and governance (ESG) matters. report pertains to the 2019 calendar year, the world in which we are publishing this Additionally, within each chapter this edition includes a historical retrospective report has changed dramatically due to across Mylan’s impact areas as we are approaching a potential milestone for the COVID-19 pandemic. As the situation Mylan, with the planned combination of Mylan with Pfizer’s Upjohn Division in surrounding the pandemic continues 2020 to form a new company – VIATRIS™. to evolve, Mylan’s priorities will remain protecting employees, continuing to supply We trust that the information provided offers a useful view of how we’ve delivered on our mission of providing access from the day we were critical medicines to patients, utilizing founded in 1961 until today. the company’s scientific and operational We remain committed to annual reporting on important ESG matters and continually work to enhance our disclosure. The content of this expertise to assist where possible in report is based, in part, on an issues assessment conducted in 2018 with internal and external stakeholders and is prepared in accordance the needed potential prevention and with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core level.1 This report also includes references to selected SASB indicators. treatment efforts, and extending support to communities where the company operates. Mylan is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and is committed to the Compact’s 10 principles related to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As a Compact signatory, this report constitutes Mylan’s Communication on Progress Report. These truly unprecedented times require everyone in the healthcare industry and Mylan N.V. and certain subsidiaries2 are also subject to statutory sustainability reporting in the EU, following the EU Non-Financial Reporting beyond to work together to meet the Directive (EU NFR). This report, together with Mylan’s statutory filings, is intended to fulfill our applicable reporting requirements. challenges both at hand and ahead. Information contained in this report reflects work and progress from Jan. 1, 2019 – Dec. 31, 2019, unless otherwise noted. Reporting on Mylan pledges to continue to do its part to other matters specific to financial performance of Mylan N.V. and our subsidiaries can be found in Mylan’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. support employees, patients, partners and communities throughout this multi-stage More information on Mylan’s work, policies and management processes is also available at Mylan.com. journey. We thank our employees for the important ABOUT MYLAN work they continue to perform every day to help us deliver on our mission of providing medicines to our patients, and we send our We offer a robust portfolio of more than 7,500 deepest appreciation to all of the healthcare products, including generics, brand-name drugs and workers and first responders working over-the-counter (OTC) remedies. We market our tirelessly around the globe to care for those affected by COVID-19. products in more than 165 countries and territories, and every member of our ~35,000-strong workforce is For more information on Mylan’s COVID-19 dedicated to creating better health for a better world. efforts, visit Mylan’s COVID-19 newsroom. 1 Please see the GRI Content Index on page 88. 2 Mylan N.V. in the Netherlands and Meda AB (publ) in Sweden. Publication date: May 4, 2020 4 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report LEGACY OF IMPACT: HIGHLIGHTS 1961 – TODAY Mylan received its first U.S. FDA approval for a generic drug in 1966 with penicillin G tablets and, with the 1984 approval of Maxzide®, became the first generics manufacturer to win approval for a patented drug. PATIENTS Today, Mylan supplies products capable of addressing 9 of the top 10 causes of death globally.1 Mylan has long been committed to delivering access, such as bringing antiretroviral (ARV) medicines to difficult-to-reach parts of the world for patients with HIV/AIDS. Today, about 40% of all people treated for the disease depend on our ARVs every day. Mylan was founded in the U.S. by two Army buddies in 1961 and since then has grown to ~35,000 colleagues around the world. Heather Bresch became the first woman to run a Fortune 500 pharmaceutical company with her appointment to CEO in 2012. EMPLOYEES In the 2018 inaugural global employee survey, 81% of Mylan employees said they saw a clear link between their work and Mylan’s mission to provide the world’s 7 billion people with access to high quality medicine. Mylan is committed to the AMR Industry Alliance’s Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework. Mylan has utilized thermal oxidizer technology for nearly three decades and, as a result, has eliminated well over 3.5 million ENVIRONMENT pounds of VOC/HAP (volatile organic compounds and hazardous air pollutants) emissions from the atmosphere. In 2009, we began installing zero-liquid discharge (ZLD) technology across facilities in India. Today, 10 Mylan facilities apply the technology. In 1982, Mylan helped establish the Generic Pharmaceutical Industry Association (GPIA). During the next few years, GPIA, Mylan and others advocated for the Hatch-Waxman Act, which became the framework that gave birth to the U.S. generics industry. Mylan has advocated for the generics industry to have a seat at the table in global issues affecting patients as active members of POLICY various forums including Medicines for Europe and the International Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Association (IGBA). Mylan spearheaded 2012 legislation to strengthen the global drug supply chain and make it safer for patients with the passage of Generic Drug User Fee Amendments and the FDA Innovation and Safety Act. Since 2002, Mylan has funded the Mylan Charitable Foundation, which has awarded grants supporting efforts to enhance the quality of life and meet needs in and around the communities where Mylan operates, primarily working with child-related issues in the areas of education, social services and health, by encouraging self-sustaining and ongoing positive change. COMMUNITY Over the past five years, Mylan has donated over $230 million dollars worth of medicine2 to charitable organizations that assist people in need around the globe. Mylan’s social responsibility programs in health, community welfare and education have impacted the lives of more than 11 million people in India over the past five years. 1 The remaining cause of death is road injury. Source: Global Health Estimates 2016: Deaths by Cause, Age, Sex, by Country and by Region. 2000-2016 Geneva, World Health Organization; 2018 2 Amount based on manufacturing cost. Active products in our portfolio are valued at February 2020 cost and discontinued products no longer in the portfolio are valued at the last available cost prior to discontinuation. 5 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report OUR IMPACT: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS ~62 billion doses sold across Supplied medicine in 94 out Mylan reaches ~5 times as many HIV more than 165 countries and of 106 access countries2 patients per day around the world as the territories, including 88.5% of lowbranded originators do combined3 and lower-middle-income countries1 ~60% of the world’s HIV+ children receiving Received prequalification First generic manufacturer to receive treatment rely on a Mylan medication approval by WHO for the Mylan WHO prequalification for HIV Self Test, an innovative daclatasvir to treat hepatitis C ~10 million people on HIV treatment home-testing kit depend on a Mylan product Collaborated with Selected to participate in Regulatory 86% participation in employee engagement survey >60 industry trade associations worldwide on WHO prequalification pilots and implementation approvals for biosimilars in issues of global public health workshops >85 countries 90% of employees set performance objectives Announced a global partnership with TB Alliance for the antibiotic pretomanid as part of two drug regimens to increase access to tuberculosis treatment in many lowand middle-income countries Net Sales by Segment Net Sales by Product Type Rx: Physician prescribed Rest of and marketed mostly with Grew our renewable World Europe Rx/Bx a brand name energy consumption by 28% 25% 37% Bx: Branded generics Gx: Unbranded generics North America Gx OTC: Over-the-counter OTC 35% and consumer 1 Income groups from the World Bank list of economies (Published July 2019) 2 As defined by the Access to Medicine Foundation 3 Based on internal estimates and North American and European IQVIA [HIV drug treatment] sales volume for branded originators, which we define as Gilead Sciences, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson&Johnson, Merck & Co., Bristol-Myers Squibb and Abbvie 6 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report NEARLY 60 YEARS OF UNCONVENTIONAL SUCCESS 2007: Mylan goes global 2018: Year of Scientific and Rajiv Malik joins Achievements 2016: 2015: Dermatology and 2013: Expanding Topicals Leader Global our Reach Injections 1961: Founded 1961 FINGERPRINT FOOTPRINT BLUEPRINT 2020 2002: Robert Coury 2012: Heather 2017: Biosimilars 1989: Leveling becomes Vice Chairman Bresch Named CEO; Growth 1966: the Playing Field and CEO FDASIA/GDUFA First FDA 2008: approval $5B B in Revenue 1973: Mylan goes public 7 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A MESSAGE FROM THE CEO: Reflecting on our JOURNEY If you have ever interacted with someone from Mylan, you know our mission is a cause that is deeply personal. Providing access to high quality medicine has been our purpose since the very beginning in 1961 in my home state of West Virginia, U.S. It has since expanded to include the lofty goal we set for ourselves at the beginning of my CEO tenure eight years ago – to provide the world’s 7 billion people access to high quality medicine. Starting with its very founding by two Army buddies determined to succeed at providing patients in need with access to medicine, and throughout our journey to become a global healthcare company, Mylan’s story has been a uniquely special one. From founder Mike Puskar’s effort to establish the company’s fingerprint, to Executive Chairman Robert J. Coury’s work to expand our global footprint, and my focus on establishing a sustainable blueprint for the company, our DNA has been defined by a passion for expanding patient access to medicine. And I believe Viatris, the new company to be created by Mylan’s planned combination with Upjohn, a division of Pfizer, will continue to carry on this mission. Throughout our journey, we have taken our leadership responsibilities seriously and at every step have remained committed to our core founding principles – doing what’s right, not what’s easy. Our continued commitment to the U.N. Global Compact and the Compact’s 10 principles is but one example of that dedication. Health and well-being are interlinked throughout the U.N.’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, as health has multiple social, environmental and economic determinants. Moreover, good health enables participation in education, work life and decision-making. This critical linkage has never been more apparent than now, as the world grapples with the life-altering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. We remain committed to helping lead positive, sustained change during these challenging times. The global social responsibility efforts within Mylan, in collaboration with our many external partners, reinforce that commitment. We often take the path less traveled, and our efforts have had lasting impact. I am incredibly proud that Mylan has never shied away from challenging the status quo. That has included being active in addressing the concerns around the globe about prescription-drug prices; opioid addiction; fighting for the same quality standards no matter where a product is made; and helping to illuminate the complex supply chains that often make it difficult for patients and payers to get the full benefits of less costly medication. We have always considered our role and how we can help address these issues in ways that best reflect our mission. One of our strongest legacies lies in the tireless work to provide access to treatment for HIV+ patients across the globe. Today, we help treat ~40% of the world’s HIV+ patients on treatment. 8 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report These and many more demonstrations of our efforts to break down barriers to access have continued to fuel my passion for the important work of this industry through the years. In 2019 alone, Mylan: • Expanded our partnership with the non-profit drug developer TB Alliance for the antibiotic pretomanid as part of two drug regimens, which will promote access to tuberculosis treatments to patients in lowand middle-income countries. Mylan supports the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, as articulated by the U.N., in the adoption of the Sustainable • Participated in the World Health Organization (WHO) prequalification pilot for cancer biologics on the Essential Medicines List. Development Goals (SDGs), by all U.N. member states in 2015. And we know that companies must play an active role for these • Became the first licensed generic manufacturer to receive WHO prequalification for daclatasvir, a direct-acting antiretroviral (DAA) used to treat hepatitis C, and made it goals to be achieved. available for one of the lowest prices in the world. Good Health and Well-Being (3) is the goal where we can have our In 2019, we began work across the company to identify future goals and targets in the most significant positive impact. Our portfolio, footprint and our areas of Access, Diversity and Inclusion, and Environmental Health and Safety. I expect that partnerships enable us to truly contribute to this goal. the continuing commitment to achieving meaningful, lasting impact within the new planned company, Viatris, will drive those efforts forward. As a global healthcare company, how we conduct ourselves and interact with our partners impacts that and other goals. Therefore, As the first woman to be appointed CEO of a major pharmaceutical company, I am especially we work to ensure a safe, fair and inclusive workplace. We nurture mindful of the importance of diversity and inclusion. When I took on this role in 2012, I was a culture of integrity and uphold ethical business practices. We the 18th woman to join the ranks of Fortune 500 CEOs. Today, as I prepare to retire from support local communities and work diligently to reduce our Mylan at the conclusion of its planned transition to Viatris, there are still less than 40. environmental impact. These efforts are all integral to delivering on our mission of creating better health for a better world. Capability knows no gender, but opportunity certainly does, and differing backgrounds and perspectives bring critical value to any team. Taken together, these concepts form the foundation of inclusive leadership, which is something I’ve been fortunate to experience SDGs most relevant to Mylan firsthand during my years working with Mylan’s management team. While my time as Mylan’s CEO may be coming to an end, I will remain an active advocate for inclusive leadership and the actions required – from both men and women together – to move us toward a more equitable future. As I said when I announced my retirement, my personal and professional journey with Mylan has been life-altering, and the many relationships I have forged will be life-long. I have been privileged to work with an incredibly talented and dedicated group of colleagues. I wish to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to all of Mylan’s employees and partners for their hard work and collaboration over the years. Working across boundaries with our partners and leveraging the passion of our employees have been essential components for Mylan’s accomplishments throughout the decades, and I am convinced that they will be more important than ever as our collective mission continues. As I have always believed, it is not the abilities of each individual player that leads to lasting success, but the strength of the entire team – the “Power of Us” truly can change the world. See p. 52, 88-96 for more information on the SDGs and Mylan’s approach. Heather Bresch, CEO 9 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report Building on our Success While Addressing Challenges and Preparing for the Future “Our leadership and board’s commitment to access and to social responsibility overall, combined with the daily dedication of our As Mylan has grown from a small regional company thousands of colleagues around the world who truly embrace that to one that serves patients in nearly every corner of commitment, has allowed Mylan the world, we have also expanded our commitment to create in only a few short to social responsibility. It is an intrinsic component years a formal GSR program and of our operations and part of our overall focus of infrastructure that now both reflects ensuring long-term, sustainable results and positive and advances the significant work impact. We know well that our actions affect not only that has been occurring throughout the communities we serve but also our ability to fulfill the organization for decades.” Lara Ramsburg, our mission to provide 7 billion people access to high Head of Corporate Affairs quality medicine. In recent years, we have witnessed growing interest among stakeholders in companies that To further our progress, as we entered 2019, we set out to establish companywide GSR goals look to realize opportunities and create value by meeting societal needs and aspirations while and initiated workstreams to deliver on that commitment. We identified Access, Environmental effectively managing inherent risks. Our business model – built on access, diversification and Health and Safety, and Diversity and Inclusion as our initial areas of focus. However, we now durability, coupled with our commitment to social responsibility – has positioned Mylan well to are looking towards the intended combination of Mylan with Upjohn, a division of Pfizer, that is be a long-term partner in this evolution. currently expected to occur in the second half of 2020. If the combination is completed, it will be more appropriate, and relevant, to establish goals once the combined company, Viatris, is In 2017, we formalized our approach to global social responsibility (GSR) oversight and formed and we are able to assess the goals that will be the most relevant to the new company. reporting and since then have been purposefully building out our program with respect to GSR Across Mylan, functions that are key to our environmental, social and governance performance management, initiatives and communication. Our work has been informed by knowledge and have made noteworthy progress that will continue to form the foundation for the future. insights from colleagues, business partners, investors, advocates and policymakers – to name just a few. We have established a solid foundation of central governance and board oversight, We also continued our engagement with key stakeholders in 2019. The discussions and relevant GSR topics are considered as a component of the company’s enterprise risk provided valuable insights about their expectations of Mylan and their perspectives about the management process. pharmaceutical industry while also offering an important opportunity to share what we believe 10 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report makes Mylan different. Topics that continue to be of great interest to stakeholders include: our our commitment to providing access. We have applied a highly disciplined approach to how we ongoing business transformation efforts, our approach to pricing – including what we learned invest every dollar across the business and have focused on rationalization of products not earning from EpiPen, quality and risk management, our corporate culture, our commitment to help their cost of capital while refocusing commercial resources to promote further growth of other address the misuse of opioids, and our work to reduce our environmental impact. products. Throughout the process, Mylan has paid special attention to the availability of single source medications critical to patient health. We also are further centralizing and rightsizing our Throughout the year, we continued commercial and operating infrastructure, which includes a continuous evaluation of sites across our efforts in, as well as enhanced our Our definition of access is making our network to further optimize required production capacity and efficiencies. We believe this effort communication around, GSR-related areas sure the medicine we make is and mindset will position Mylan to create an even more powerful platform for patients and other of interest to our stakeholders. We have stakeholders in the future. strengthened our communication around actually getting into the hands what access means to Mylan. We have of patients in the more than 165 A Champion for Global Health worked to better convey how the durability countries and territories we serve. of our business model combined with the While more people than ever before are accessing essential health services, far too many are breadth of our product portfolio and the still missing out. The unequal distribution of education, health and living standards is a barrier to scale of our footprint has allowed us to make a lasting impact on access to medicine and how human development. With about 2 billion people worldwide living on very low incomes without we differentiate ourselves from others in our industry. We have experienced the value of taking access to medicine or robust health systems, the need for leadership through innovation and an active role across the world, in various forums, to advocate for access and quality, address partnership is as critical as ever. the challenges patients face in accessing affordable alternatives, mitigate the risk for and impact Mylan is dedicated to breaking down barriers to access to medicine, reaching patients and from drug shortages, and promote responsible environmental conduct. We’ve also seen the providing solutions that will help people live healthier lives. Viatris, the new company created by critical importance of showing our dedication to high standards in our operations across our Mylan’s planned combination with Upjohn, a division of Pfizer, will remain dedicated to this mission. entire network. We refined our internal reporting processes on GSR topics and implemented a new digital platform to facilitate oversight. As always, while we have made progress, much work remains. All the above items must be constantly monitored, nurtured and refined for continued progress. “As a global healthcare company, we have a unique opportunity and responsibility to actively play a part in advancing positive change that Transforming Our Business benefits a large span of stakeholders. Not only as it relates to access 2019 was a year of transformation and transition for Mylan, in the context of a healthcare to medicine, but beyond. As someone who was unfamiliar with Mylan landscape that is itself everchanging. Demographic forces, budget constraints, regulatory development, global trade relations, and an increasingly complex and competitive industry until I joined via the Meda integration in 2016, I have found myself continue to challenge both companies and public healthcare systems. Keeping these forces proud every day of my colleagues’ work and and access in mind, we commenced an analysis of our operations with the goal to ensure a the impact we have made and continue to sustainable business that can continue to deliver high quality medicine. make across the globe. As we continue to We have assembled a world-class portfolio and pipeline, which have been and will continue step up our social impact efforts, our potential to be our foundation as we work to maximize everything that we have built to date. As the to demonstrate additional leadership is global economy continues to evolve and become increasingly competitive, Mylan is committed significant.” to ensuring the long-term viability of its business in service to the many patients who rely on our medicines around the world. This includes work we have undertaken to transform our Lina Andersson, Head of Global Social Responsibility business to unlock latent value and deliver improved economic profitability, while maintaining 11 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report OUR AREAS OF IMPACT We know that meeting diverse needs in a complex global healthcare environment requires sustained commitment, innovation and action. We also understand that not only what we do, but also how we do it, impacts billions around the world. That’s why we’re continuously working to conduct ourselves in a responsible manner and striving to make a positive impact, whether through serving patients, empowering employees, caring for the environment, supporting community well-being, advocating for global public health or ensuring we operate with integrity. PATIENT EMPLOYEE ENVIRONMENT Legacy Impact: p. 13 Legacy Impact: p. 25 Legacy Impact: p. 34 Since 2019 represents what is planned to 2019 Highlights: p. 20 2019 Highlights: p. 30 2019 Highlights: p. 36 be the company’s last year under the name Mylan, we believed it was important to include in this report a historical perspective about our work and our impact around the world. Mylan has a long and rich history of creating better health for a better world, and we’re proud to chronicle those contributions. The following pages provide a summary of both our legacy of impact and a selection of 2019 highlights in these areas and more. GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH COMMUNITY Legacy Impact: p. 38 Legacy Impact: p. 46 2019 Highlights: p. 44 2019 Highlights: p. 49 12 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: PATIENTS For nearly 60 years, increasing access to high quality medicine and improving patient health has been Mylan’s mission. Setting what would become a lasting example of our willingness to go where no path exists and forging one, founders Don Panoz and Milan “Mike” Puskar together in 1961 created their own distribution network in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, to ensure access to affordable medicine in difficult-to-reach communities. Their pledge to help patients by setting new standards in healthcare put us on a course we’ve remained true to throughout our history as we’ve expanded into more than 165 countries and territories. 1961 Despite many challenges along the way, challenges, we are a company that, at Mylan helped shape an entire industry. its core, is committed to delivering better Our attention to quality – and willingness health for a better world. As we look to choose paths less traveled – enabled back on our nearly 60 years of history us to overcome these obstacles. and service to patients, our relentless From financial struggles in commitment to access will continue to the 1960s to today’s pricing guide our path forward. pressures and complicated healthcare systems in addition In those early years, what was then known to the COVID-19 pandemic as “Milan” bought finished dose medicines that we all now face, we and resold them from the trunk of a learn to take lessons Pontiac Bonneville to rural pharmacies and Setting what would become a lasting example of our willingness to from both successes and physicians throughout the Appalachian failures. Regardless of the region of the U.S. Later, we established go where no path exists and forging one, founders Don Panoz and Milan “Mike” Puskar together in 1961 created their own distribution Penicillin G network in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, to provide access Mylan received its first U.S. FDA approval for to affordable medicine in difficult-to-reach communities. a generic drug in late 1966 with penicillin G tablets. 13 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: PATIENTS manufacturing operations in Morgantown, West Virginia. Our team there began by making vitamins and empty gelatin capsules but soon switched focus. In 1966, we received approval to manufacture penicillin G – Mylan’s first U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval. The antibiotic marked our entrance into generic pharmaceuticals, creating an opportunity to serve patients in a new and more expansive way. From that moment, we’ve never stopped looking for innovative ways to develop, manufacture and supply the products patients need. As Mylan’s vision grew, so did the company. In 1972, Milan changed its name to Mylan Laboratories as a way to highlight its technical expertise. A year later, we went from being privately owned to a publicly traded company. The first shares of Mylan stock began trading in 1973 under the ticker symbol MYLN – an attempt to make it easier for investors to find the 1973 company at the end of fine-print stock listings in newspapers. Relentless in our efforts to expand access, we have steadily grown our product line and the customers we reach. By 1984, Mylan broke new ground with the introduction of an antihypertensive called Maxzide® – making us the first generics manufacturer in the world to patent a new drug.1 It was the precursor of our future research and development capabilities, which would help build one of the most robust pipelines in the industry. Using Our Innovation to Address Rare Diseases As a U.S.-based company, Mylan had the majority of its customers east of the Mississippi River. Keeping this in mind, we opened our first distribution center in North Carolina in 1988, 1988 True to our tradition of working tirelessly to address unmet needs, Mylan received approval in 1994 for the capsule form of the orphan with a 25,000-square foot facility. drug Cysteamine Bitartrate, which helps control a rare genetic disorder called cystinosis. If left untreated, patients with cystinosis usually died Today, our climatebefore reaching their teen years. Although only a few hundred children controlled distribution were affected by this disease worldwide in the mid-1990s, Mylan 1995 center in North Carolina has wanted to help. grown to 483,000 square Receiving U.S. FDA approval for Cystagon® was a particularly proud feet and serves as a hub moment for the company. to ship both domestic and international product. However, our commitment to patients diagnosed with this devastating disease reached far beyond the U.S. to patients throughout the world who were in desperate need of a treatment. To further our mission and reach more people, we spent the 1990s strategically acquiring a number of companies to establish an even stronger presence in the pharmaceutical industry. On the 20th anniversary of manufacturing Cystagon, Mylan was And in 1995, Mylan had the most dispensed line of pharmaceuticals in America, brand recognized by the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) for its or generic. significant achievements in rare research and orphan drug development. 1 Mylan: 50 Years of Unconventional Success by John Seaman and John T. Landry. 14 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: “The scale of the new Mylan is evident in PATIENTS every area of our business: we have scale in our geographic reach, scale in R&D, scale in manufacturing, scale in API, scale Mylan’s steady growth was aided by leaders who encouraged their employees to dream big. in our combined product portfolio, and While Panoz left the company early on, Puskar remained close and after a short time away scale in our global commercial footprint. returned to Mylan to help re-energize the business. Puskar served as the company’s president We have also created an extremely wellfrom 1976 to 2000, Chairman of the Board from 1993 to 2009 and CEO from 1993 to 2002, balanced and diversified company, with focusing on enhancing operations and developing new medicines. significantly reduced risks related to any The next decade would prove pivotal in Mylan’s evolution. In February 2002, Robert J. Coury one particular market or product.” was elected to the Board of Directors, having previously served as a strategic advisor to the company. He became vice chairman shortly after his election and was made CEO in September of that same year. While during his many years of leadership, Puskar established 2002 Robert J. Coury, Executive Chairman October 2007 the “fingerprint” for Mylan, Coury successfully expanded our reach beyond what many at that time thought was possible for a generics company. Coury guided Mylan in establishing a durable business model within the industry, one that would responsibly harness the power of competition to drive innovations and create greater global access to medicine. Under Coury’s leadership, we expanded Mylan’s “footprint” in 2007, scaling the company virtually overnight from operating in a single country to reaching countries around the world by acquiring a majority stake in Matrix Laboratories and completing our acquisition of Merck KGaA’s generics business. Under Coury’s direction, Mylan would undergo its biggest transformation in 2007. Mylan’s 2007 acquisition of Matrix was a watershed event that transformed us into one of the That’s the year Mylan acquired India-based Matrix Laboratories and the generic leading specialty and generic pharmaceutical companies in the world. business of Merck KGaA, creating a powerful global operating platform and 2007 the third largest generic company in the world. The new Mylan benefitted from In 2011, Mylan celebrated its golden anniversary. A year later, the company would make substantial operational efficiencies and economies of scale from increased sales history again, naming Heather Bresch as CEO – the first woman to run a Fortune 500 volumes and its vertically and horizontally integrated platform. pharmaceutical company. That same year, Bresch led Mylan and its industry partners as an outspoken advocate for the 2012 Generic Drug User Fee Act (GDUFA), which increased the FDA’s ability to perform critical 15 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: Increasing Access Through Biosimilars PATIENTS Mylan has exhibited a passion to bring more affordable versions of complex biologic medicines to market in all parts of the world, including lowand middleincome countries where medicine is often most needed and least affordable. Today, biosimilars – lower-cost alternative versions of costlier biologics – program functions and created quicker access to medicines represent a new standard of care that have increased patient access to critical for patients. Our support of this milestone law was an treatments for conditions such as cancer, diabetes, arthritis and beyond. example of Mylan’s commitment to patients around the world who rely on our high quality medicines. Mylan has made a significant investment in biosimilar development over the During her tenure as CEO, Bresch built a “blueprint” for the 2012 past years. We introduced our first biosimilar – trastuzumab – in India in 2014, and today, we offer one of the industry’s largest and most diverse biosimilars organization to instill not only disciplined global processes, portfolios. We have 20 biosimilars or insulin analogs in development or on the infrastructure and diversification but a future-focused market referencing many of the best-selling biologics globally focused on the “Healthcare 2020” strategy. areas of oncology, immunology, endocrinology, ophthalmology and dermatology. Mylan has received 150 marketing authorizations for its biosimilar products in Much of this decade saw Mylan continuing its evolution while growing our commitment to patients in countries large and small, and across multiple product lines and capabilities. 2014 more than 85 countries worldwide. Mylan’s commitment to biosimilars is the result of a partnership-driven model. We have been diligent in growing the portfolio depending on patient needs, Strategic Acquisitions Over the Years technology, and the strengths of our partners. Mylan continues to position itself Since Mylan went global in 2007, we continued strategic acquisitions to expand our ability as a partner of choice within biosimilars. to reach patients with the products they need, building on our foundation of manufacturing oral solid dose (OSD), transdermal and semisolid products and R&D. YEAR COMPANY CAPABILITIES Providing Alternatives Through • API 2007 Matrix • Manufacturing • R&D Wixela® Inhub® • Commercial footprint Remaining steadfast in our efforts to expand access to 2007 Merck Generics • Portfolio medicines, one of those opportunities involved patients 2010 Bioniche Pharma • Injectables • Manufacturing suffering from asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary • R&D disease (COPD). ADVAIR DISKUS®, the mainstay of asthma • Global injectable • R&D and COPD treatment, had no generic equivalent, and patients did not have access 2013 Agila Specialties portfolio and pipeline • Manufacturing to an affordable alternative to treat their condition. Our team began to investigate the • Global women’s health • R&D 2015 Famy Care need to develop a more affordable treatment option. But since no generic existed portfolio and pipeline • Manufacturing for this complex product, the FDA had not developed regulatory guidance for a drug 2015 Abbott Established Brands • • Established brands Commercial infrastructure • • Medical Manufacturing 2019 and device approval. The path forward was uncharted and took years. • Global topical platform 2016 Renaissance • Manufacturing Despite challenges, we never gave up on our goal to find a suitable product to • R&D help patients in need. Our passionate team members from dozens of disciplines • OTC R&D 2016 Meda • OTC/Brands • Medical around the company developed a product, prepared data and shared our findings • Commercial infrastructure • Manufacturing with the U.S. FDA to help them establish regulatory requirements and set a path • API forward for a potential generic. In January 2019, Mylan announced the FDA approval 2017 Apicore • R&D and launched Wixela Inhub, the first generic of ADVAIR DISKUS, at a significantly *List of acquisitions is representative of Mylan’s growth and is not comprehensive. discounted list price from the original brand product, further demonstrating the savings that generics can deliver for patients. 16 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: “Mylan has always believed in partnering with other PATIENTS companies as part of its strategy. We have developed meaningful partnerships, combining the strengths and leveraging the capabilities to deliver high-quality affordable medicines to more patients around the world.” Notable Strategic Partnerships and Investments Since our founding, an important component of Mylan’s work to break down barriers to patients’ Rajiv Malik, President access to affordable high quality medicine has been to partner with other pharmaceutical companies. It has enabled us to share risks and costs, leverage strengths and scale up distribution. The result often is that medicines become available to a significantly larger group of patients. We have license agreements with several branded originators. Many of our noteworthy collaborations especially benefit patients in lowand middle-income countries. Mylan’s partnerships have brought great diversification and access to markets across a broad range of capabilities, including biosimilars, complex products and more. Since joining Mylan as part of the Matrix transaction in 2007, Mylan President Rajiv Malik has helped secure many key partnerships for the company, displaying a unique ability for identifying scientifically strong, operationally sound and commercially robust collaborators. Our partnerships are anchored in the shared interest of accelerating the development and delivery of quality-focused, innovative treatments as soon as possible in as many markets as possible. 17 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A History of Working to Stem the Tide of HIV/AIDS Recognizing an Urgent Need secure land for new cemeteries to accommodate the rising number of people dying from AIDS in Africa. Many were unable to access expensive but life-saving treatment. As a result, Prasad Mylan’s impact on the HIV/AIDS community around the world is significant. Our numbers tell an challenged his team to create cost-effective ARVs to help the population of Africa have access amazing story: We manufacture ~5 billion ARV tablets and capsules every year and about 50% to the medicines they desperately needed. of our company’s total active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) capacity is devoted to ARVs. Why such a huge emphasis? Because more than a decade ago, Mylan recognized an incredible need around the world and sought to make a difference in the lives of patients living with HIV. Expanding Our Presence Today, we provide access to high quality and affordable ARVs in more than 100 countries and In 2007, Mylan received its first U.S. FDA approval for an HIV treatment, via the FDA’s ~40% of the 23.31 million people on treatment for HIV use a Mylan product. Approximately 60% President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) pathway. That FDA approval would be of the world’s HIV+ children on treatment rely on one of our medications. the first of many – now over 40 – as we worked tirelessly to create access for these life-saving Our HIV/AIDS efforts began in 2007, when we acquired a controlling interest in Matrix, the medicines in countries hardest hit by HIV. world’s second largest API player at the time and a company with strong scientific capabilities. Mylan and its executive team were attracted to the humanitarian support that Matrix, led by Many of these countries were lowand lower-middle-income countries, often seen as its Chairman N. Prasad, had been providing in response to the global AIDS crisis. That work unprofitable or too full of regulatory hurdles for some pharmaceutical companies. In began in 2003, when Prasad met a man on an airplane who explained that his job was to 2009, we introduced the first generic one-tablet-once-a-day combination for developing countries, only three years after the originator product launched in the U.S. That was unprecedented at a time when medicines took a decade or longer to reach patients in lowand lower-middle-income countries. The medicine was offered for less than half the originator’s list price. Though we continued to be the product’s sole generic supplier for nearly three years, we cut its list price even further – by more than half – over that period as we were able to identify opportunities for efficiency. Today, our list price is less than one quarter of what it was at launch. Innovating to Help All Patients As our footprint expanded around the world, we continued to respond to the diverse needs of patients. In sub-Saharan Africa, for example, a lack of refrigeration presented major barriers to getting medicines to those who needed them. To change that, we introduced in 2009 the first generic, heat-stable form of the WHO’s preferred second-line drug. A few years later, we set out to help pediatric patients. Because children typically have difficulty swallowing tablets, ~40% of the 23.3 million people many pediatric medicines in high-income countries come in the form of syrups. But in some countries, syrups are difficult to transport, often requiring cold storage, and can taste strongly on treatment for HIV bitter. Our scientists developed a dispersible tablet version of an important combination that use a Mylan product dissolves into a child’s drink. Later, we developed a heat-stable, taste-masked version of the medicine most recommended by the WHO for HIV-positive infants. Ten years ago, Mylan’s leaders went to several countries in Africa to learn about the regional needs, infrastructure and stakeholders that are part of providing access to ARV treatment. What they learned We recognized, of course, that vital medicines are no good if they don’t get to the people who informed our work and partnerships, reinforcing our focus on breaking down barriers and increasing need them most. To maximize our impact around the world, we needed partners. In August the number of people with access to affordable treatment for HIV. 2017, we were the first company in the world to launch the first fixed-dose combination of its 1 As of end of 2018, unaids.org 18 | Mylan A History of Working to Stem the Tide of HIV/AIDS kind, Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate, Lamivudine and Dolutegravir (TLD), what has become the WHO’s preferred first-line HIV treatment. With that approval, we also announced a deal with the Mylan reaches Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), the Department approximately five times for International Development (DFID) and others to price the new drug the same as existing ones so cost wasn’t a barrier to treatment. We continue to work with these and many other as many HIV patients per organizations around the world to ensure patients have access to treatment. day around the world as the branded originators Investing to Make HIV/AIDS Care Affordable and Sustainable do combined. We have also invested in ensuring patients can afford the important HIV/AIDS treatments they patient support services for our HIV self-test kit supplied there. In 2019, we announced with need. Our price for the current WHO preferred HIV therapy1 is about $0.20 a day; innovator our partner and medical device manufacturer Atomo Diagnostics that the Mylan HIV Self Test list prices for similar regimens are ten times this for developing countries and ~$100 a day for received WHO prequalification approval, a milestone that will expand its adoption. The test, patients in the U.S.2 We have helped reduce the cost of treating patients in lowand lowerwhich has launched in many countries with additional partners, was made available in Botswana middle-income countries by more than 80% over the past decade. and Namibia in 2019. We’ve done this in part by investing more than $250 million during that time in expanding our We also are deeply committed to encouraging authorities globally to embrace PrEP (precapacity to reach HIV patients in lowand lower-middle-income countries. In fact, we reach five exposure prophylaxis) as a proven way to prevent infections. In the U.K., Mylan is proud to times as many HIV patients per day around the world as the branded originators combined. be supporting England’s National Health Service in the world’s largest PrEP implementation Hoping to replicate our success in lowand lower-middle-income countries, we also have been trial targeting people at high risk of HIV infection. In many countries, we advocate for this working to reduce the cost of HIV treatment in the U.S., where the list price of treatment is often vital medicine to be reimbursed and made available under medical supervision. In Ireland, for over $30,000 per year. In 2018, we launched a set of three new branded combination therapies example, we joined patient groups and others to successfully advocate for the implementation with list prices 40% below the cost of their nearest competitors. of a PrEP program. A free program was announced by the government about a year after we made our HIV self test available at retail pharmacies in Ireland, further demonstrating our commitment to prevention of infections in the community. Partnering with Patients Through Their Entire Journey With these exciting developments and PrEP already well established in large European Although HIV infection is preventable, significant HIV transmission continues across high countries like France and England, we believe the time is now for all stakeholders to work income countries and dedicated work is still needed. Our efforts to stem the tide of HIV/AIDS together to prevent HIV. And soon, we believe PrEP will be the major global driving force around the world doesn’t just include treatment options but also being a part of the entire preventing the disease. patient journey. That’s why we support patients through the sponsorship of free community HIV/AIDS testing. We are proud supporters of many patient organizations, including the At Mylan, we are immensely proud of our work to make a difference in the lives of people European AIDS Treatment Group, HIV Ireland and the Gender Orientation Sexual Health HIV living with HIV/AIDS. We have become the world’s largest producer by volume of ARV drugs Organisation (GOSHH). in lowand lower-middle-income countries, and ~40% of the FDA’s tentative approvals of new products under PEPFAR in the last decade are Mylan medicines. Our continued investment in We market HIV self-test kits in an ever-expanding list of countries around the world. The kits local manufacturing of ARVs, productive and efficient partnerships, and focus on being firstoffer patients a discreet, at-home test that detects the presence or absence of HIV antibodies to-file for important drug applications has established us as a leader in the prevention, testing, through a fingerstick. It uses one-fifth the volume of blood necessary for other tests and and treatment of HIV/AIDS. Our journey is truly a testament to our unwavering belief that people provides the result in just 15 minutes. In Ireland, the patient group GOSHH in 2019 provided everywhere deserve access to life-saving medicines. 1 For adults and adolescents: TDF + 3TC (or FTC) +DGT. See WHO guide for other populations and special circumstances 2 MSF Access Campaign: Stopping Senseless Deaths 19 | Mylan PATIENT HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Fighting Infectious Diseases People living with HIV/AIDS, hepatitis and tuberculosis who receive the proper care can lead long and healthy lives. However, preventing and diagnosing the diseases and ensuring patients have access to life-saving medications, especially in lowand lower-middle-income countries where the burden is most prevalent, are still global challenges. HIV/AIDS ✔ Committed to expanding our capacity ten-fold from 20,000 to 200,000 monthly pediatric doses of our Lopinavir/Ritonavir granules, a first-line product critical to children with HIV. ✔ Launched HIV self tests in Botswana, Laos, Namibia and Portugal. We also introduced a new chat bot to assist website visitors with questions about the testing kits. ✔ Expanded our agreement as the sole provider with the National Health Service England PrEP trial from 10,000 users to over 15,000. ✔ Became the first generic manufacturer to receive FDA tentative approval through the PEPFAR expedited review process for tenofovir alafenamide, lamivudine and dolutegravir.1 ✔ Partnered with HarborPath, a U.S. organization dedicated to assisting patients in gaining access to their entire regimen of HIV/AIDS medication to donate our HIV combination therapies, Symfi®, Symfi Lo® and Cimduo®, to uninsured individuals. ✔ Worked with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation on a grant that will allow Mylan to develop what we expect will be the first-ever combination tablet to prevent both HIV Mylan has continued to increase its commitment to WHO and pregnancy in women of childbearing age. prequalification Prequalification allows for U.N. procurement and accelerated registration processes in lowand middle-income countries, an important part of increasing access. With 69 products2, Mylan is among the leaders in products listed on the WHO list of prequalified products. In 2019, Mylan received prequalification approval by the WHO for the Mylan HIV Self Test, which enables individuals to test in the comfort and privacy of their own home, making the test an effective way of reaching hard-to-reach populations. Our partnership with Atomo Diagnostics, the manufacturer of the test, covers more than 100 countries across Africa, Asia, the Middle East, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and Latin America. 1 2 President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) database WHO Pre-Qualification list as per 2/26/20 ✔ Mylan also became the first licensed generic manufacturer to receive WHO prequalification for daclatasvir3, a DAA used to treat hepatitis C, and made it 3 Essential Medicines and Health Products: Prequalification of medicines: Hepatitis 4 Clinton Health Access Initiative: Partnerships will help Rwanda eliminate hepatitis C in five years available for one of the lowest prices in the world.4 See pages 57 and 83 for information on the products. i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 20 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report PATIENT HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Hepatitis ✔ Became the preferred partner for India’s National Viral Hepatitis Control Program, supplying medicine for more than 150,000 patients in more than 11 Indian states. ✔ Screened ~200,000 people for hepatitis through our Ashray program, which offers free and subsidized screening and diagnostics, emotional support and helplines. ✔ Partnered with the Center for Disease Analysis Foundation to support the launch of the Uzbekistan Hepatitis Elimination Pilot (UHEP). This program is leveraging innovative financing tools to help fill the funding gap for tackling hepatitis and, if successful, has the potential to scale nationally. ✔ Developed a next generation HepBuzz mobile application, which aims to provide a one-stop solution for simplifying hepatitis B and C management. The innovation received an award for “leveraging technology for use of mobile application” at the 4th Annual Digital India Health Summit and Awards. Working to Eliminate Hepatitis C in Egypt A little over a decade ago, Egypt had the highest hepatitis C prevalence rate in the world at ~15%. That startling statistic led government efforts and publicprivate partnerships to spread awareness of the disease and newer treatments with a goal of eliminating hepatitis C and, later, for the country’s president to launch an effort to get every citizen in the country tested. Over the last few years, Mylan supported the nonprofit group Tahya Misr to sponsor ~1 million hepatitis C screening kits at low cost. We also donated a medically equipped bus for the nationwide testing program and have provided quality direct-acting antiretrovirals at very low costs under the program. In all, Mylan’s efforts have resulted in ~150,000 patients being treated in Egypt over the last few years. Egypt has made tremendous strides in lowering the prevalence of hepatitis C in the country, thanks to government efforts and partnerships like Mylan’s with Tahya Misr. We believe the program in Egypt stands as a strong example of how public health gains can be made in low-resource contexts provided there is strong government will, budgetary commitment and smart drug procurement to make life-saving treatments affordable. i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 21 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report Tackling Tuberculosis with Passion and Partnership Expanding Our Focus Our global collaboration with TB Alliance enabled us to make the product available for public procurers in low-income countries just a few months after FDA approval. This represented an Tuberculosis (TB) is one of the top 10 causes of death worldwide, killing an estimated 1.6 unprecedented accomplishment: Previously, it had taken several years for the launch of novel million people a year.1 Nearly all of these deaths occur in lowand lower-middle-income TB drugs from the time they were approved by stringent regulatory authorities such as the FDA countries, where drug resistance poses a serious challenge to treating the disease. TB is also or European Medicines Agency to when they were available to patients in developing countries, the leading cause of death among people with HIV/AIDS.2 which have by far the highest burden of the disease. Because of our longstanding commitment to battling infectious diseases like HIV, we Committed to Affordability recognized the need to bring that same commitment to addressing the TB epidemic. In addition to making pretomanid available for patients in lowand middle-income countries, In 2019, we announced a global partnership we’re also committed to making it affordable. Mylan has agreed with the Global Drug Facility with the nonprofit drug developer TB Alliance (GDF), as part of the StopTB Partnership, to make pretomanid available for purchase by lowfor the molecule pretomanid as part of two and middle-income countries at $2 a day. This puts the cost of the regimen at $1,040 per drug regimens. The news came two years treatment course when bought from the GDF.3 Further, our license agreement with TB Alliance after we secured licensing of another TB for these countries is non-exclusive, reflecting our shared commitment to ensure affordable and treatment, delamanid, from Otsuka. sustainable access to new treatments from multiple sources. Mylan received the Platinum Pledge recognition from United States Agency for TB Alliance also is currently conducting clinical trials to determine whether pretomanid may also In August 2019, pretomanid was approved International Development (USAID) for its by the U.S. FDA in a combination regimen be useful as part of a different treatment regimen, called BPaMZ, for treatment of drug-sensitive work to help tuberculosis patients in India. with bedaquiline and linezolid for treating and multi-drug resistant TB. If this new use is approved by people with extensively drug-resistant, treatment intolerant or non-responsive TB. Pretomanid’s health authorities, Mylan will be TB Alliance’s global production, approval came via the Limited Population Pathway for Antibacterial and Antifungal Drugs, commercialization and distribution partner for this treatment as which encourages the development of antibacterial and antifungal drugs to treat serious, lifewell. As part of our agreement, we also received a sublicense threatening infections, such as TB, that affect a limited patient population. It marks the first-ever for bedaquiline for the treatment of drug-sensitive TB for use FDA approval of a treatment for XDR-TB. in the BPaMZ regimen, making us the first generic company to receive such a sublicense. With this, Mylan will be the only company in the world able to market and supply each of the three new drugs – delamanid, pretomanid, and bedaquiline – developed Mylan and Otsuka have provided 400 patient treatment courses of over the past decade for treatment of active TB. The development will bring significant delamanid to the Indian government. In parallel, we are partnering opportunity to achieve greater access for patients in high burden countries. on a technology transfer project to produce the medicine locally in India, which will make the current treatment more affordable and more accessible for patients. 1 WHO Tuberculosis Fact Sheet 2 UNAIDS Topic: Tuberculosis 3 StopTBPartnership News 22 | Mylan PATIENT HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Easing the Burden of Non-Communicable Diseases Cardiology Non-communicable diseases (NCD) affect people from all ages and genders in every region worldwide, accounting for ~71% of all deaths. More than three-quarters of these deaths occur ✔ Launched Rozor®/Twicor®, a fixed-dose combination of rosuvastatin and ezetimibe in lowand middle-income countries,1 where access to education, prevention, diagnostics and to reduce cholesterol (LDL-c) levels in five additional countries France, Belgium, treatment is often limited. Mylan remains committed to reducing the impact of these diseases Romania, Slovakia and Bulgaria and have expanded to newer strengths in Spain, Czech Republic, Portugal and Slovenia to help more patients achieve their LDL-c through ensuring access to high quality medicines, proactive outreach and more. goals, improving their cardiovascular risk. ✔ Developed several digital platforms to provide general practitioners and specialists with access to medical information about dyslipidemia, which is a condition that causes Oncology abnormally elevated cholesterol or fats (lipids) in the blood. ✔ Enhanced our partnership with the European Atherosclerosis Society to disseminate ✔ Continued our support of the Tata Memorial Centre’s Affordable Cancer Care project the 2019 European Society of Cardiology guideline changes to help provide important in India. In 2019, the Centre trained nearly 600 frontline health workers and more education to more physicians across Europe. than 200 medical officers on early detection and prevention of common cancers. Additionally, a group of doctors and nurses were also trained in chemotherapy in six ✔ Created an awareness campaign in Italy about cardiovascular risks associated with cholesterol levels and the importance of healthy lifestyle choices. districts there. ✔ Launched the first biosimilar trastuzumab in Canada, Australia and South Africa, developed along with our partner Biocon Biologics, increasing access to this treatment Respiratory option for breast and gastric cancer patients. We also launched in the U.S., where we were the first to receive U.S. FDA approval. ✔ Increased access for patients with metastatic breast cancer by entering into a ✔ Provided the first epinephrine auto injector in Lebanon in partnership with Droguerie marketing license agreement with Eisai India to commercialize the innovator’s second De L’Union, increasing access to this life-saving medication. Eribulin brand, TECERIS®. ✔ Announced the expansion of our current development and commercialization ✔ Offered assistance for 3,000 oncology patients enrolled in our Ashray program, which agreement with Theravance Biopharma Ireland Limited, a subsidiary of Theravance Biopharma, Inc., for nebulized revefenacin to include China and certain adjacent offers free and subsidized screening and diagnostics, emotional support and helplines. territories. Revefenacin treats COPD, which accounts for ~910,000 deaths in ✔ Implemented an integrated multimedia awareness campaign about prostate cancer – China annually.3 the most common cancer in men in the Netherlands – aimed at educating the public about the importance of testing and early treatment.2 ✔ Received approval for Dymista® for use in children, ages 6–11, in Canada and South Korea, increasing access to this first-line treatment for symptoms of allergic rhinitis to this population. ✔ Provided patients living with asthma and COPD in the U.S. with a more affordable treatment option through the launch of Wixela® Inhub®, the first U.S. FDA-approved generic of ADVAIR DISKUS®. 1 WHO Fact Sheet Noncommunicable Diseases 2 Dutch Cancer Society: Prostate Cancer 3 A Subnational Analysis of Mortality and Prevalence of COPD in China From 1990 to 2013: Findings From the Global Burden of Disease Study 2013 i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 23 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report PATIENT HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Women’s Health ✔ Implemented an educational campaign in Italy for women, gynecologists and pharmacists about the physiological changes that occur over a woman’s lifetime and the importance of proper feminine hygiene throughout every stage of life. The campaign reached about 7,000 pharmacies. ✔ Created a website for patients and healthcare providers focusing on educational information about menopausal and menstrual disorders. The site initially launched in Switzerland and will be adapted for additional countries in the future. ✔ Supported the development of an expert speaker academy in the U.K. to coach healthcare providers on educating their peers about the impact menopause can have on a woman’s quality of life and hormone replacement therapy options, benefits and risks. Academy participants held local educational sessions for healthcare professionals. ✔ Furthered education and awareness around menopause and hormone replacement therapy options by supporting a symposium at the International Congress of the European Menopause and Andropause Society. ✔ Launched new generation contraceptive products in the private market through distribution partners in the Philippines, Taiwan, Mauritius, Tanzania, Mongolia and Thailand to reduce discontinuation rate (happening due to adverse effects). Dermatology ✔ Educated nurses from Belgium, France, Portugal and Spain on wound and infection care through a master class at the International Nurse College of Antimicrobials Management. ✔ Held educational workshops aimed at increasing knowledge about the treatment of eczema in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and South Africa. ✔ Sponsored the Interactive Derma Academy for the fourth year in a row to increase awareness and knowledge about dermatological diseases. Nearly 270 doctors from Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Italy, Lithuania, Malaysia, Netherlands, Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Turkey and Ukraine attended. ✔ Increased options for acne patients and their doctors in Australia through the launch of Acnatac, Mylan is committed to the U.N.’s Every Woman Every Child which was already widely available in Europe. In order to provide a complete disease management Initiative, and we’ve achieved our goal of registering our approach, a new line of dermo-cosmetics, called Acnacalm, was launched in Italy and Switzerland, along with a campaign highlighting the impact of acne in the quality of life of teenagers and contraceptive portfolio in 80% of the family planning (FP2020) providing information on proper treatment. target countries1, which are some of the poorest in the world. ✔ Expanded the availability of our over-the-counter wart treatment EndWarts® beyond Europe to We’re also progressing on our goal of providing contraceptives include patients in Thailand and Australia. to 25 million women and girls by the end of 2020. i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 1 For target countries with registrations and countries that accept products via import permits. 24 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: EMPLOYEES In a world and industry defined by perpetual change, the Mylan culture – described as being passionate, committed, relentless and unconventional – has remained one of the few constants. Its hallmarks include a shared obsession with quality, a strong work ethic, a commitment to teamwork and a readiness to challenge the status quo. At the heart of it all are the people who drive, and thrive in, this unique environment: the employees of Mylan. Their commitment to the company’s mission and values has not only endured, but positioned us for new growth opportunities at each stage of our history. Employment increased from the original four “Do it right or don’t do it at all” became to 25 people at the time Mylan launched a way of working, and employees took a its first manufacturing operations in growing sense of pride in the company’s Morgantown, West Virginia, in the mid-1960s. accomplishments. By the early 1970’s It was there that one of our company’s our workforce had increased to about signature traits emerged. When a problem 250 people. arose at the plant, leaders wouldn’t turn to just a single person to find a solution. Instead, The effort that employees invested in they would hold small group discussions with Mylan was rewarded, including with new supervisors, lab staff and line workers. health and retirement benefits added in the early 1980s. Operations grew as well. This approach resulted in better informed In 1987 we diversified our manufacturing solutions. It also emphasized learning and base by starting up a new plant in Puerto raised employee morale, engagement and Rico and in 1988 opened a distribution accountability. And it’s credited as influencing center in Greensboro, North Carolina. Mylan’s ability to advance our business Employment growth overall was limited; Since Mylan’s early days, employees have demonstrated a through the development of more challenging however, at the end of the decade, the formulations than a typical generics workforce stood at a few hundred people. strong commitment to quality as reflected by the mantra, manufacturer might undertake. “Do it right or don’t do it at all.” 25 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: EMPLOYEES “We believe Mylan is very well positioned for continued Hiring increased dramatically in the 1990s as our product offerings and capabilities grew. growth given our vertically and The Morgantown operations doubled in size. A second factory launched in Puerto Rico. The Greensboro center moved to a larger local warehouse, and an additional distribution center horizontally integrated, global, opened in Reno, Nevada, to serve western U.S. markets. Acquisitions included Dow B. Hickam, Bertek, UDL Laboratories and Penederm. diversified platform and the broad set of opportunities These moves, together with other investments, resulted in a Mylan workforce that exceeded 2,000 employees as the 1990s came to a close. we have identified and are In the first decade of the new century, Mylan set out to improve access to medicine prepared to execute.” by achieving the scale needed to succeed in an industry that had become increasingly Rajiv Malik, President, competitive. Despite its influence and accomplishments, Mylan nonetheless was a mid-size May 2013 company operating in a consolidating industry, and its leaders recognized the need to augment organic growth with acquisitions. A major step was acquiring Matrix Laboratories, the Hyderabad, India, company that served as the world’s second-largest producer of APIs. The 2007 acquisition created a “global startup” of 5,100 employees operating in 10 countries. Matrix increased Mylan’s manufacturing base and provided access to new markets in India, China and Africa, as well as a platform for expansion in Europe. In addition to its key capabilities, Matrix possessed a corporate culture and work ethic that paralleled Mylan’s own. A collaborative spirit was among the shared qualities. In an early test of the Mylan-Matrix relationship, R&D teams in Morgantown and Hyderabad were individually assigned a complex product and challenged by management to develop it as fast as possible. The teams quickly transitioned to sharing information and experiences on their respective successes and failures –­ learning from each other. The experience laid the groundwork for a collaborative approach that yielded substantial benefits. Close on the heels of the Matrix acquisition, Mylan’s bold bid for Merck Generics transformed the company yet again by growing its portfolio, scale and people. Merck Generics increased Mylan’s footprint with new leading positions in Australia, France, Japan, Portugal, Spain and the U.K., and created significant opportunities to advance our global product offerings. The expanded Mylan family became the world’s third-largest generics company overnight, with more than 11,000 employees in 90-plus countries. 26 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: EMPLOYEES The two organizations proved to be a close cultural fit, with colleagues sharing values centered on quality, integrity, reliability and service. Rather than a collection of business units without a unifying culture, the new Mylan had the opportunity to become, and indeed became, a truly global enterprise. Throughout our rapid growth, the employee experience was always a significant consideration – demonstrated in part by the 2009 decision by then-CEO Robert J. Coury to enhance all aspects of the Human Resources function under a new name, “Human Relations.” The enhancements and associated name change reinforced the belief that our long-term success depended on the quality of our workforce, which remained a direct reflection of Mylan’s strong and unique corporate culture. The 2010s presented new opportunities to expand access to medicine by growing through acquisitions. Chief among those that further grew the Mylan employee family were the additions of Bioniche Pharma, Agila Specialties, Abbott’s non-U.S. developed markets specialty and branded generics business, Famy Care’s women’s healthcare businesses, Renaissance Acquisition Holdings’ topicals-focused business, and Meda. These acquisitions greatly enhanced Mylan’s product portfolio and capabilities, while simultaneously increasing our reach across Europe, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, and accelerating our growth in markets including China, Southeast Asia, Russia and the Middle East. Over the years, senior leaders focused on integrating these major acquisitions and utilizing the commitment and talents of colleagues across the world. As Mylan evolved, management had to think differently about our business by optimally leveraging our assets, restructuring and, in some cases, reducing our workforce. When it came to these difficult decisions, leaders made every attempt to minimize the impact to our people and care for impacted employees with the utmost respect and gratitude. Through the strategic acquisitions, key partnerships and organic growth, our workforce has grown into the ~35,000-strong people at Mylan today. We are well-positioned for our next phase: our intended combination with Upjohn and creating a new company in Viatris. “One of Mylan’s great strengths is the mindset of its employees. We see opportunity everywhere. We thrive on change. We love a good challenge. We are willing to roll up our sleeves and work hard. We want to make a difference in the world.” Heather Bresch, CEO 27 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: EMPLOYEES Apicore A Growing, Global Workforce c e 2017 an a iss Med16 From the roots that were planted by our founders in 1961, Mylan has na 16 20 Ab Re 20 b o grown to become a world-leading pharmaceutical company. 20 tt L 15 ab re s a m y Ca “The reason our company has F 01 5 Agila 2 been so successful and is so 2013 Bioni c Phar he Merck well-positioned for a very bright ma 2 010 Generics future is because every one of our 2007 employees has made it a priority Matrix Labs every day to live our values.” 2007 Penederm UDL Lab 1998 s Robert J. Coury, 1996 Bertek Inc. Executive Chairman, October 2009 1993 rm Som ede Pen 998 B. Pha erse t 1 Dowkam 198rma i c H 991 9 1 lan My 61 19 UD L L 19 abs 96 c. ek In Bert 993 1 B. Dowkam c Hi 991 1 et m ersma So Phar 89 1 9 Mylan 1961 Mylan 1961 *Acquisitions are representative of Mylan’s growth and not comprehensive. 1961 1966-2006 2007-2019 Workforce: 4 Workforce: ~2,900 Workforce: ~35,000 28 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: EMPLOYEES Ensuring Employee Safety At Mylan, we actively promote and maintain a work environment in which each of us accepts personal responsibility for our own safety and that of our colleagues. Making safety personal and staying focused on a “think safe, work safe” mindset also helps us achieve our mission. We applied that same proactive philosophy to many programs and processes, including machine guarding to ensure our employees were safe on the job and measures to reduce noise and dust in plants. In the 1990s, we invested in industry-leading lockout/tagout procedures that ensured machines were properly shut off during maintenance for the safety of our employees and nearby communities. The systems included controls to shut off power from outside of rooms housing equipment. These systems became standards of construction across our facilities in North America and, later, expanded globally as our operations grew. Sound Preparation Positioned Mylan Facility to Weather Devastating Hurricane Risk management habits begin at the top. At Mylan, we make it a priority to emphasize safety, quality, compliance and ethical behavior. Mylan and FM Global, a well-established property insurance company specializing in highly protected risk, share the belief that many losses can be prevented with forward-thinking investments. When Hurricane Maria and its 150-mile-an-hour winds passed over Puerto Rico in 2017, it seemed to destroy “Mylan is very committed nearly everything on the island. Yet, standing tall among to protecting its the scattered trees and shattered buildings was Mylan’s manufacturing site in Caguas. It had withstood the properties against risks, destruction thanks to years of planning and preparation including threats from to the facility. weather. They worked Implementing Standardization As Mylan’s plant expanded and renovations took place, hard to make Caguas a One of the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) team’s biggest contributions was bringing it followed FM Global’s latest recommendations on wall well-protected facility, and Mylan’s global EHS standard across the new and larger company. Every time our business construction, dock doors and windows, and it reinforced its it proved to be just that. grew, Mylan’s EHS employees were the first ones on the ground, learning from the teams in sprinkler system and added natural gas shutoffs to limit fire It took a lot of dedication place, taking the best of the two systems, updating and enhancing our programs, and then exposure in the aftermath of hurricanes and earthquakes. and foresight from both implementing the same standard across the company. Whether we were opening plants or decommissioning others, we made sure EHS was our first priority. Recognizing and mitigating Over the years, Mylan had made it a priority to protect our teams, but their joining people, our products, our facilities and our environment. As any risks posed by our operations is critical to our business. goal was always safety.” a result, Mylan was able to resume operations much faster than its counterparts on the island and continue its pursuit Diana Van Meter, Assistant of creating better health for a better world. Vice President, FM Global 29 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report EMPLOYEE HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Mylan’s Most Valuable Asset Our passionate and talented workforce is fundamental in bringing Mylan’s mission to life. This is why we make it a priority to listen to – and act on – employees’ feedback and to keep them informed about our business. It’s their diverse perspectives that drive innovation, and we are certain that different views and experiences make our company stronger and more resilient. Throughout 2019, we embarked on a variety of talent programs and supported wellness activities around the globe in support of employees’ professional and personal growth. Engaging Our Employees ✔ Developed local action plans at more than 100 sites based on feedback from our 2018 global engagement survey. We also established a companywide focus on improving employee development, process efficiency and two-way communication. ✔ Achieved 86% employee participation in a pulse engagement survey in 2019 to track our progress toward our action plans, which found that 62% of employees have experienced positive changes as a result of the 2018 survey. Gained a slight increase in engagement with a global score of 71%, representing employees’ willingness to go above and beyond in their roles to support the company. 71% 67% of employees have witnessed leaders’ feel that recognition is commitment to open and honest twoa part of Mylan’s culture way communication with employees ✔ Held town hall-style meetings with more than 250 teams around the world on Mylan’s business model, strategic priorities and transformation to ensure 77% of employees employees are informed of the company’s progress. ✔ Introduced Celebrating You!, a global recognition program empowering employees to nominate colleagues who exemplify a commitment to quality, leadership, innovation, customer service, operational excellence and social responsibility. Received more than indicated they are extremely satisfied 3,400 nominations, with winners to be celebrated regionally and globally in 2020. with Mylan as a place to work. i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 30 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report EMPLOYEE HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Talent Management and Development Cultivating and Acquiring Talent ✔ Developed strategic plans for managing talent across all countries and segments with ✔ Conducted our broadest global talent review to date, with managers assessing a focus on workforce planning in 40 areas that included capability enhancements, employees’ potential to develop within their current roles and take on new roles or an engagement and recruitment. Defined critical roles and established succession plans increase in future responsibilities. Assessed 65% of employees globally at managerfor the top 100 positions in the company. level and higher with an emphasis on retaining talent and planning for succession, which will continue in 2020. ✔ Simplified and raised the bar on our Leadership Expectations, which guide the behaviors employees should use to drive their own growth by Leading, Learning, ✔ Encouraged employees to pursue internal career opportunities by formally identifying Teaching and Performing with the right Attitude. Emphasized “how” work is their interests in their Career & Development Plans and promoted key jobs internally on accomplished through behaviors such as sound judgment, coaching, teamwork, a monthly basis. Continued efforts planned for 2020 will seek to improve the candidate empowerment, agility and humility. Supported managers in using the expectations to experience and internal mobility. coach employees on their performance and development. ✔ Launched our employer brand – The Power to Change the World – in key markets to ✔ Launched a formal career development planning process. Resulted in 69% of build awareness of the exciting career opportunities at Mylan and reflect employees’ employees opting to set development goals and 73% defining Career & Development pride in their company. Plans to help them identify their goals and career aspirations. ✔ Strengthened the skills of people-managers worldwide through interactive training on continuous feedback and coaching skills. Developed our own coaching model focused on creating ownership, understanding motivations and inspiring change at its core – all on a foundation of building trust and providing valuable feedback. Delivered training to ~2,000 managers and will continue to emphasize the value of coaching in 2020 to foster manager development and grow talent. Talent Principles We continued to integrate our Talent Principles for growing and managing people into our organizational practices and tools throughout 2019. • Hiring with rigor is a must. We connect with the right talent every time. We look for internal talent and encourage unconventional career moves. • Building talent is the responsibility of every leader. ✔ Reviewed our approach to sourcing candidates and refocused talent acquisition teams • We invest management energy in assessing talent and potential. on key disciplines to extend our reach into defined markets. Standardized recruitment processes globally to create greater efficiencies and leverage specialized internal • Employees own their careers. expertise, resulting in stronger hires. • Professional development is required for everyone – not just a select few. • Successors are identified for critical roles. ✔ Hosted more than 300 interns and apprentices globally in 2019. • Diverse perspectives drive innovation. ✔ Created online dashboard to measure the effectiveness of our people strategies and better manage our workforce through data analytics. i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 31 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report EMPLOYEE HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Building Capabilities Culture of Diversity and Inclusion ✔ Offered specialized leader development opportunities customized by region. Examples ✔ Defined future strategies to promote increased diversity and inclusion. These strategies, include a cross-functional executive development program for 30 leaders in our established by senior leaders, include employee resource groups that foster a growing European operations and training on topics ranging from behavioral interviewing to sense of belonging and fuel engagement. disciplined execution for managers and formal team-building activities in India and Emerging Markets. ✔ Conducted an extensive review of workforce data showing that career progression in 2019 occurred at a similar rate for men and women. ✔ Deployed several new online courses globally to enable employees to improve their skills in areas ranging from managing change to time management to supporting a ✔ Continued to educate employees on our equal employment opportunity and nonpositive workplace. Recorded more than 3,800 course completions in 2019 with an discrimination policies as part of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics mandatory average 96% favorable feedback from participants. The courses will extend into 2020. annual training. ✔ Exceeded 3 million completed employee learning activities in MyUniversity, Mylan’s ✔ Developed new Workplace Harassment Avoidance training to help ensure a safe, learning management system, in 2019. respectful work environment. Documented successful completion by 95% of North American employees in 2019. Driving Performance ✔ Implemented a new program that drove the company’s top 300 leaders to set Employee Well-Being individual business objectives for transforming our organization and creating greater ✔ Offered a variety of competitive benefits such as retirement plans, health insurance, value over the next two years. education assistance, childcare incentives, preventive health screenings, immunizations and more to help employees take charge of their personal and financial well-being. For ✔ Aligned employees’ work with the company’s business priorities by setting annual example, in India the Mylan Employees Welfare Fund provides grants to employees performance objectives. Our approach corresponds with our compensation framework, for unplanned circumstances and expenses such as healthcare, school tuition for which is designed to effectively retain and reward talent. Career and development employees’ spouses and children, or marriage costs. goals were established at the same time to help employees see the connection to their performance and build their careers. ✔ Decided to add an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) fund to the Mylan U.S. 401(k) Plan to provide employees with more options for growing their savings 82% 76% while investing in socially responsible companies, planned for introduction in 2020. ✔ Hosted fairs at sites worldwide to help employees learn about their benefits, both health and financial, and how to use them to their fullest. of employees discussed of employees received their career aspirations feedback they found ✔ Provided education throughout the year with webinars on topics ranging from or development with helpful for improving retirement planning to educational benefits to nutrition and overall wellness. their managers their performance ✔ Sponsored activities to encourage employees to live healthier lifestyles, including vision screenings, flu shots, massages, fitness sessions and step challenges, among other health and wellness programming. ✔ Supplemented employee wellness initiatives with support ranging from fitness center discounts to employee assistance programs. ✔ Continued to collaborate with employees to assess site-specific opportunities to help balance work-life priorities and improve workplace flexibility. Implemented flexible work programs at select sites that will be evaluated for effectiveness for other locations. i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 32 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report EMPLOYEE HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Employee Health and Safety Mylan is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors. In addition to our rigorous safety programs and practices, we cultivate an environment that encourages our people to speak up and play an active role in making workplace safety a priority. ✔ Implemented Mylan Alerts, a global text notification program to ensure employees receive timely security updates and urgent company information. Enrolled more than 7,800 employees in the voluntary program in 2019, supporting greater business continuity. ✔ Launched new modules for our Safety Culture Program, which includes a new safety culture survey tool, leadership and employee workshops, and continuous improvement tracking for our sites. ✔ Received the 2019 National Member of the Year award from the National Safety Council of Australia (Foundation) for our Carole Park facility. The award is presented to an organization that has demonstrated commitment and leadership in Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) and is a result of the site’s success in raising awareness of best practice WHS within the safety community and making a positive difference to WHS and culture. ✔ Achieved the British Safety Council (BSC) 5-Star Rating at India Unit 8 and Unit 9, bringing our total number of BSC-certified sites to four. ✔ Updated our EHS Management System to drive continuous improvement and incorporate current industry best practices and programs. i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 33 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: ENVIRONMENT As Mylan matured and grew, we knew another critical component of our desire to meet the needs of patients and the communities where we operated was to grow our environmental, health and safety (EHS) management system. We wanted to ensure a safe, healthy and environmentally responsible workplace that protects our employees, communities and facilities around the world while supporting continued growth. And so in 1995, we posted the first internal leadership position at Mylan focusing on EHS. In the 1990s, Mylan was still a relatively small, Setting High Standards U.S.-focused generics business, but our One of the team’s first accomplishments footprint was starting to expand with business came in those early years when Mylan acquisitions that added manufacturing plants voluntarily changed the coating process in Vermont and Illinois, among others. Our in our Morgantown, West Virginia, facility biggest presence was still in our home state, from a solvent-based to a water-based though, so it was fitting that our first EHS hire formulation. The switch allowed us to was a native West Virginian. eliminate a commonly used solvent from our The team expanded slowly at first, adding a Morgantown operations, reducing the risk of couple of technicians and a secretary who built exposure to employees and the environment. on the work of previous contractors. Reporting into Human Resources, the team would Using Water Wisely “At Mylan, our long-standing commitment of ‘doing things the eventually become a standalone department, with members sitting in locations around the Water is an important component for making right way’ applies not only to our products, but in everything world. Today, there are ~300 members of medicines. It’s also a precious resource that the EHS department who keep our workforce is in short supply in some parts of the world. we do, including how we care for the environment.” laser-focused on operating sustainably That’s why we have worked at our facilities and safely. around the world to ensure we use water Sunil Kulkarni, Mylan’s Head of Environment, Health and Safety – wisely. From installing zero-liquid discharge India and Rest of World 34 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: ENVIRONMENT (ZLD) technology at several of our facilities in India in 2009 to installing a state-of-the-art, expandable, full-scale wastewater treatment system featuring membrane technology at our plant in Galway, Ireland, we have made water conservation and wastewater treatment a priority. Responsible wastewater treatment is a key topic for our industry, and it is our policy to comply fully with applicable legal requirements. Examples of our actions include advanced wastewater treatment technologies such as sequencing batch reactors, membrane technology, ZLD systems, carbon filtration and others. We use collection systems to capture water potentially containing high risk products and segregate wastewater streams for optimum treatment such as by-product recovery, sending incinerable waste for co-processing to save energy. We also have systems in place such as disk filters and water recovery systems to reduce the amount of wastewater generated. Promoting Clean Air We also have worked to promote clean air as we have promoted better health for a better world. A great example of this was in the early 1990s, when we installed a thermal-oxidization (TO) system at our plant in Vermont to control solvent compounds, including volatile organic compounds and hazardous air pollutants. Based on the positive experiences in Vermont, we went on to install similar systems elsewhere, including in 2010 when we added a regenerative thermal-oxidation (RTO) system in Morgantown, West Virginia. These technologies enabled Mylan to expand production while also decreasing emissions and protecting the environment. The RTO produces reusable heat that reduces operating costs and the system’s overall energy consumption. Reducing Plastic in Packaging With a growing product portfolio through the years, we were always looking for opportunities to use our resources efficiently, not only in the making of our products but also in the packaging of them. For example, all of Mylan’s blue bottles in North America are recyclable, and in Mérignac, France, we reduced plastic use through changes to the bottles of the liquid antiseptic Betadine®. In Confienza, Italy, we worked with a supplier to modify the design and reduce the use of plastic in the outer packaging of pump dispenser bottles for Saugella Girl and Babygella, Mylan has utilized thermal oxidizer technology a hygiene products line produced from natural plant extracts. And in Portugal, our Bebegel packaging is now a more sustainable and easier-to-use cardboard, instead of plastic. for nearly three decades and, as a result, has eliminated well over 3.5 million pounds of VOC/ HAP emissions from the atmosphere. 35 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Responsible environmental stewardship and promoting safe, sustainable operations are Improving Air Emissions priorities for Mylan. We work systematically and continuously to identify ways to protect Mylan continues to focus on projects aimed at reducing particulate matter, sulfur oxides, nitrogen the environment and minimize our impact through a comprehensive approach focused on oxides, volatile organic compounds (VOC) and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions to the air. managing our water, air emissions, waste and energy. ✔ Decreased the amount of particulate matter released into the air by 83% through the installation of new electrostatic precipitator control devices on boilers at our facility in Conserving Water and Managing Wastewater Visakhapatnam, India. A high quality water supply is essential for our operations, and we are committed to working to ✔ Reduced particulate matter, sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and CO2 emissions at one of protect and conserve this precious resource and improve our wastewater management. our sites in Bangalore, India, where the boilers were converted from fuel oil to natural gas. A second unit there is also in the process of being converted. ✔ Continued to enhance our water purification processes across our operations, ✔ Continued our efforts to reduce fugitive emission leaks of refrigerants and phase out the including efforts that reduced the amount of rejected water in our Warsaw, Poland, use of ozone-depleting substances in facility equipment across our operations. Globally facility by 28%. we reduced refrigerant leaks by 35% compared to 2018 through enhanced prevention ✔ Reduced water demands by 7% at our facilities in Bangalore and Nashik, India, by efforts at our manufacturing locations. installing new advanced disk and glass media filtration systems, as well as initiated water conservation projects such as new spray nozzles on water taps, boiler condensate recycling, and recycling of purified water discharge which have decreased Reducing Waste demand for fresh water supply. Throughout all of our operations, we continue to be committed to reducing waste through ✔ Supplied recycled water from our Bangalore Injectable units to a garment responsible use of resources, increased recycling, reuse of materials and initiatives dedicated manufacturing facility so that freshwater demands can be reduced in their operations. to waste minimization. We strive to reduce our environmental impact by appropriately managing and reducing hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated from our processes In 2019, Mylan began working and operations. on a community watershed ✔ Achieved zero landfill status at our Damastown, Ireland, oral solid dose facility, bringing project covering ~2,500 the number of zero landfill sites to 11. hectares in one of the most ✔ Began a multi-year effort to evaluate projects at key locations that will decrease the amount of waste sent to landfills. severely affected drought regions in India. This five-year ✔ Globally, increased the amount of waste we recycled from 14.1 tonnes to 17.8 tonnes – a 26% increase. project will help recharge the groundwater table which will help improve agriculture, support local villages, improve availability of water, and help us towards reaching water neutrality at some of our Mylan operations in India. i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 36 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Encouraging Energy Efficiency and Mitigating Responsible Antibiotic Manufacturing Climate Change Antimicrobial resistance happens when bacteria Responsible energy management is one important way that Mylan is reducing our impact evolve to withstand the effects of antibiotics, making on climate change. infections harder to treat. There are many drivers ✔ Conducted energy assessments at key behind antimicrobial resistance, from poor infection locations to evaluate opportunities to drive One of our facilities control, lack of awareness and misdiagnoses to energy efficiencies and reduce emissions. We over-prescription, falsified drugs and the presence of antibiotics in the environment. in Vizag, India, was will use this information to establish additional Human and animal use and excretion by people and animals (pets, horses metrics and goals over the next one to two awarded the prestigious years. We will also continue to conduct and food animals) using antibiotics is by far the biggest source of antibiotics in energy assessments at key locations in 2020. “National Energy the environment.1 Environmental emissions from manufacturing, from both the Management Award” by production of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and their formulation into ✔ Installed a new cogeneration unit at our Caguas, Puerto Rico, facility. the Confederation of drugs is another, however, significantly smaller, source.1 ✔ Completed several facility energy Indian Industry. Even though manufacturing emissions is not the main source of antibiotics in the improvement projects that reduced the amount of steam required for operations. environment, most stakeholders, including the pharmaceutical industry, agree on For example, at two injectable locations in India the reverse osmosis (RO) plant the need for common responsible manufacturing practices to minimize their risk. recovery rate improved from 90% to 95% through desilication process, thereby The AMR Industry Alliance strives to eliminate or significantly reduce antibiotic reducing the hydraulic load on the evaporators treating the RO reject water and residues in manufacturing emissions, and the AMR Industry Alliance has made resulting in a decrease in energy and steam demand by 45%. specific commitments to reduce the environmental impact from the production of ✔ Engaged with solar energy partners on a rooftop and ground-mounted solar antibiotics. In 2018, the group launched the Common Antibiotic Manufacturing energy project that is being evaluated at eight sites in India. Globally, we increased Framework, later accompanied with a set of discharge target values. As a member renewable energy 25% compared to 2018. of the board and the Manufacturing working group of the Alliance, Mylan adopted ✔ Eight of our facilities are ISO 50001 certified and two additional facilities in India this Framework in 2018. began sourcing energy from renewable resources in 2019. In 2019, Mylan continued its work following the adoption of the AMR Industry Alliance Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework. Mylan mapped its antibiotic MYLAN’S 2019 CDP SCORES supply chain for both finished dose formulation and active pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers and communicated its expectations of the Framework to all CLIMATE WATER antibiotic suppliers. Mylan continues to embed the Framework requirements within Bour internal network and conducts risk assessments of antibiotic discharge with B respect to the discharge targets published by the AMR Industry Alliance. 1 Making Antibiotics Responsibly i READ MORE ON THIS TOPIC 37 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Throughout our history, we have been involved in some of the most important government and policy milestones in the history of the generics industry. Early on, we realized it wasn’t enough to develop, manufacture and supply medicine. Just as importantly, we also needed to work hard to ensure that the high quality and affordable medicines we were producing were getting to the patients who needed them. In countries around the world, we worked together with stakeholders to break down the barriers that impede access through actions including: • Arguing against trade policies and intellectual property (IP) protections that extended exclusivity beyond national law for more expensive brand products, while restricting access to lower-cost generic medicines; and ensuring the appropriate balance between competition and innovation; • Collaborating with health agencies across the world to ensure there were appropriate regulatory standards set across the generics industry, while also facilitating processes that would enable increased access and affordability to patients, such as quicker and increased approvals of generic and biosimilar medicines; • Advancing industry viability by seeking to ensure a sustainable supply of medicines around the world and minimizing drug shortages; • Advocating for policies that promote antiretrovirals as prevention and not just treatment for those with HIV/AIDS; and • Proactively shaping policies that would ensure the opportunity for patients to have access to biosimilar medicines that would reduce cost and increase access to these life-saving medicines. In the 1980s, we co-founded the U.S. generic industry trade association that was instrumental in shaping the groundbreaking Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of In countries around the world, we worked together with 1984, otherwise known by the names of its sponsors – Hatch-Waxman. In an effort to address stakeholders through dedicated action to break down the high cost of brand drugs, the legislation created incentives for U.S. generic drugmakers to challenge the patents of brand drugs. It struck a balance between innovation and competition the barriers that impede access. and brought more affordable, high quality medicines more quickly to American consumers. 38 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Advocacy that Starts at the Top Throughout her career at Mylan, CEO Heather Bresch has always been an outspoken advocate for patient access in the U.S. and Also in the 1980s, we found that many of our U.S. applications for generics had been delayed, around the world. She spoke numerous times while other companies were having no difficulty bringing similar products to market. We hired before Congress, giving a voice to patients in detectives who uncovered evidence of fraud and corruption in the FDA’s generics division. need of medicines that were affordable and The investigation discovered that certain companies were paying the agency to move their accessible. Nine years before assuming the role products up in the approval queue, while delaying their competitors. Congress took notice, and of CEO, Bresch worked alongside other generic eventually several FDA officials and executives at other generics companies would face criminal pharmaceutical companies in the passage of the charges. In the end, exposing these wrongdoings led to the restoration of a level playing field for 2003 Medicare Modernization Act. This revision manufacturers and the implementation of safeguards to ensure consumer safety. to Hatch-Waxman helped expand consumers’ access to affordable medicine. In 2006, she Advocating for Quality Across Our Industry testified before the U.S. Senate’s Special Committee on Aging about potential solutions Part of ensuring safety for patients involved making sure we were committed to quality in everything we do. When Mylan went global in 2007, we were dismayed to learn that many to issues putting billions of dollars of consumer manufacturers outside of the U.S. that supplied medicines to the U.S. market were seldom, if healthcare savings at risk. ever, inspected by the FDA. So we got to work and led the way in updating an outdated 1938 law Her advocacy included testifying in front of to ensure that all prescription drugs dispensed in the U.S. are held to the same quality standards a congressional subcommittee about the regardless of whether those medicines are made in facilities in the U.S. or abroad. importance of holding all manufacturers selling To ensure adequate resources for FDA to inspect facilities globally, Mylan also led the industry products into the U.S. to the same quality in the development, negotiation and passage of the Generic Drug User Fee Act (GDUFA) to help standards. fund the needed inspections as well as to speed review of generic drug applications in the U.S. User fees from generic manufacturers would be used by the FDA to hire more agency experts to Most recently, Bresch has been able to shine a conduct and review applications for generic drugs, so the generic drugs could be approved faster light on the impact of the opaque prescription and get to patients more quickly. It also enabled the FDA to continue to hire more inspectors drug supply chain in the U.S. The lack of to ensure that all manufacturing sites both domestically and internationally are inspected on a transparency often restricts access to affordable regular basis. generic medicines and continues to cause Americans to have the highest prescription drug We partnered with other members of our industry to advocate for these important safeguards prices and pay more out of pocket than anywhere for patients. Mylan continues to be heavily involved with the discussions with the FDA when in the world. She continues to engage with GDUFA is renegotiated and rewritten every five years. During the first update to GDUFA in 2017, lawmakers, advocacy groups and others in the Mylan worked with other generic companies to ensure that the FDA had the necessary funding supply chain to find solutions that will support from user fees to continue to approve generic drugs more quickly and that all plants are routinely greater patient access and lower costs to patients inspected to ensure the continued supply of high quality generic drugs in the United States. and the healthcare system. 39 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Generic Pharmaceutical Industry Association (GPIA), the first U.S. association formed to give Generic Savings Around the World the generic industry a recognized voice. Through our determined focus on product quality and patient safety, Mylan helped to raise the bar for the entire generic industry. The use of generics saves money. Examples of these savings around the world include: • In the U.S., the healthcare system saved $293 billion in 2018 and about $2 trillion in Sparked by the urge to truly make a difference, Mylan today plays an active role in more than the last decade through the use of generic medicines. The savings in 2018 was the 60 similar associations around the world. Here are some examples of our work: highest amount of savings attributed to generics over the years. • In Australia, the generic medicines market for the year ended June 30, 2019 • In Europe, we were co-founders and continue to be active members of several accounted for just over 86% of the volume of subsidized medicines but only 28.7% prominent industry trade associations, including Medicines for Europe and Medicines of the cost. for Ireland. We have worked with governments facing budget constraints to develop policies to expand access to and encourage the use of generics and have championed • In Canada, for the 12 months ending June 2019, generic drugs filled 72.8% of efforts to introduce paperless prescriptions, improve patient adherence and support prescriptions, but accounted for only 19.5% of the total cost of Canada’s total early HIV diagnosis. In addition, we have advocated for the use of biosimilars so that annual prescription drug expenditure of CA$29.6 billion. patients could have access to high-cost biologic medicines. Finally, we have continued • In Europe, generic medicines account for 67% of dispensed medicines and 29% of to work with our trade associations in Europe to ensure that the generic industry pharmaceutical expenditure at list prices, according to statistics for 2018. can remain sustainable for the long term and that requirements (e.g., serialization, responsible manufacturing and supply chain management) are being fairly defined for Source: Association for Accessible Medicines, International Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Association the generic industry. • In Australia, we have consulted with the government to expedite patients’ access to medicine, in some cases by up to two years. We have worked closely with Australia’s Leading Industry Associations Around the World trade association, the Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Association, to also ensure that the government-subsidized pharmaceuticals scheme encourages the uptake of One of the ways we help patients is through leading and participating in important industry generics and biosimilars and that any trade agreements do not hinder access to new associations around the world that are focused on solving the challenges of removing barriers generis and biosimilars for patients. Recently, we have been working closely with the trade association to ensure increased education and understanding of biosimilars. to access for patients. In 1982, Mylan became a leading voice in the establishment of the • The Japanese government has set aggressive targets to continue to increase uptake of generic medicines and to be able to gain the savings from these medicines. To support that ambition, Mylan has shared the U.S. experience in increasing generic utilization and the impact on access. Throughout our history, we have held leadership positions with trade associations around the world so that we can better advocate for patients. Many of our leaders have served as chair of the Association for Accessible Medicines (AAM) in the U.S., and currently Mylan leaders in Ireland and Australia head their respective industry groups, among others. And just as importantly, we’ve also advocated for the generics industry as a whole to have a seat at the table in global issues affecting patients. We have continued to participate in – and at times lead – global organizations, such as the International Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Mylan’s Marcie McClintic Coates speaks on Capitol Hill to advocate for balanced Association (IGBA). trade policy to encourage generic and biosimilar medicines. Mylan played a leading role in helping to amend provisions of United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement (USCMA) to help address patient access barriers to generics and biosimilars in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. 40 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Forging International Partnerships to Help Patients Mylan Contributes to Sub-Saharan Africa’s Economic Since the global nature of the pharmaceutical industry requires significant geographic “Growth Miracle” connectivity, we also work closely with international organizations. A great example is The Investment in health is not only a desirable, but also an essential priority for most societies. Health Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, where we participate on or lead various performance and economic performance are interlinked. committees. We also remain actively engaged with the World Trade Organization working group and are a signatory to the Davos Declaration on combating antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and Sub-Saharan Africa’s rapid economic expansion since 2001 has been called a “growth miracle” a board member of the AMR Industry Alliance. by Harvard professor Dani Rodrik.1 A recent paper by Anna Tompsett of Stockholm University2 estimates that improved access to HIV treatment, from essentially 0% at the start of the millennium to almost two-thirds of people living with HIV in that region today3, drove about oneIdentifying Challenges to Patient Access in the U.S. third of this performance. One of our most recent efforts involves working to address a new challenge to patient access in the U.S. Increasingly, generic medicines are being left off of generic formulary Mylan is the leading supplier of antiretrovirals to sub-Saharan Africa; since 2016, about 50% of tiers, which provide lower out of pocket costs for patients, and instead are treated the people on treatment for HIV in the region have used a Mylan product. It is estimated that nearly same as brand-name drugs causing seniors to pay much higher out of pocket costs than 11.3 million HIV infections in sub-Saharan Africa have been averted since the beginning of the necessary. In fact, a recent study from Avalere found that seniors could have saved nearly epidemic due to PEPFAR and the global HIV response.4 We are honored to have contributed to $16 billion from 2016-2019 if generics were in fact treated as generics and included on the health and well-being of millions of people in Africa and around the world, and look forward to generic formulary tiers. Research further demonstrated that in many cases generics were continuing to do so for years to come. not even being placed on formulary tiers for up to three years after launching. 1 Journal of African Economies Advance Access: An African Growth Miracle? 2 Journal of Development Economics: The Lazarus drug: the impact of antiretroviral therapy on economic growth Historically, generic medicines were immediately included on a generic tier so that patients 3 UNAIDS Data 2019 4 PEPFAR 2019 Annual Report to Congress could get the benefit of lower priced generics by paying the lowest out-of-pocket cost. The result was a high utilization of generic medicines and a huge savings to the healthcare system. Additionally, patients should also get the benefit of lower cost specialty generics and biosimilars with lower out-of-pocket costs relative to brands. Specialty medicines represent some of the costliest and most frequently prescribed drugs in the U.S. but they continue to lack the dedicated formulary tiers that would ensure patients get the benefits Mylan works closely with the ICH (International Council of lower cost sharing. for Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use), which includes regulatory We continue to work with lawmakers and the administration to find policy solutions to authorities and representatives from the pharmaceutical address these issues so patients can access more affordable generics and biosimilars and industry from around the globe that discuss the harmonization of the scientific and technical do so at an affordable cost. aspects of drug registration. Mylan has been a partner with ICH to achieve greater harmonization worldwide to ensure that safe, effective, and high quality medicines are developed and registered in the most resource-efficient manner. Mylan was one of the first generic companies to have a leadership role in the various ICH teams. The company’s role has increased with Mylan either leading or being involved in several of the ICH workstreams that promote science-based standards and set consistency to give patients peace of mind knowing they are taking high quality medicines. 41 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Fighting for Important Access in Europe In most parts of the world, when brand medicine patents expire it opens the door for generic entrants into the market. The result is greater access created to more affordable medicines for patients. But in Europe, that wasn’t necessarily the case. It was illegal to manufacture medicines in preparation for a patent expiring, even when the final patent protection phase called “SPC” (Supplementary Protection Certificates) was in place. That intellectual property law meant patients couldn’t get immediate access to more affordable versions of the medicines they needed. Instead, these newly allowed medicines had to be manufactured in other parts of the world and follow a long, expensive supply chain before getting to patients. The system limited access to patients and put Europe at an economic disadvantage by stifling manufacturing and job creation, making the EU as a whole less competitive. In partnership with the industry association Medicines for Europe, which Mylan co-founded, we set out to change this through the approval of a SPC Manufacturing Waiver. Beginning in 2013, we played a critical role together with Medicines for Europe and later Medicines for Ireland, France’s GEMME and other country trade organizations to develop policy and advocate to change this law. We built strong strategic stakeholder alliances in order to speak louder for patients and led media engagement in Brussels and other capital cities across Europe to spread awareness of this important issue. In the summer of 2019, the European Commission granted the SPC Manufacturing Waiver. The move is expected to create 25,000 additional jobs and create billions of dollars in savings in pharmaceutical spending in the EU. Our hope is that the waiver can be quickly implemented to avoid further technology transfer of pharmaceutical production outside of Europe and boost R&D and manufacturing investment in the region, without shifting the balance between originator and competitive pharmaceutical sectors. In 2018, Mylan’s strong commitment to quality was recognized by the U.S. Pharmacopeia (USP), a globally recognized nonprofit organization, who sets quality standards for medicines that are recognized in the U.S. and more than 140 countries around the world. We continue to partner closely with USP to support their efforts setting these quality standards. 42 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report Working Together to Fight AMR Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a growing public health threat that is already impacting We have adopted the AMR Industry Alliance Common Antibiotic hundreds of thousands of patients each year and jeopardizing the level of care in health Manufacturing Framework and have a global environmental systems around the world. The effects of AMR threaten not only the application of modern program to conduct and promote responsible manufacturing. medicine and ability to achieve good health but also have implications across society, from In addition, Mylan advances efforts on mitigating AMR and affecting agriculture and food security to economic development and beyond. Lowand pharmaceuticals in the environment (PiE) through our national middle-income countries are disproportionately burdened by factors such as limited access to and regional trade associations and collaborations with non-governmental organizations. antimicrobials, vulnerability of patients to invasive bacterial illness, limited diagnostic tools and Recently, we have engaged with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change overuse of antibiotics. Substandard and falsified medicines pose an additional challenge to (MOEF) and other agencies in India regarding AMR, and in Sweden we are a founding member mitigating the spread of AMR. of PLATINEA1, a multi-stakeholder platform for innovation of existing antibiotics, supported by the Swedish Government which aims to optimize the use of these antibiotics and to increase Addressing AMR requires a comprehensive approach and multi-stakeholder cooperation. An the availability of important antibiotics which risk disappearing from Sweden. effective response to AMR will tackle challenges such as access to antimicrobials, stewardship measures – including appropriate use and surveillance – and responsible manufacturing. As a global healthcare company, Mylan considers the diverse needs and circumstances of patients and communities across the world by supporting and developing measures to address AMR while taking care to avoid unintended consequences. Mylan is committed to supplying a diverse range of antimicrobial products including “forgotten antibiotics,” those which are less widely produced and often effective against many resistant bacteria. Access to effective antimicrobials in lowand middle-income countries is a priority for Mylan, as evident in our collaborations with TB Alliance and Otsuka. These programs have allowed Mylan and our partners to increase access to affordable treatment for multidrugresistant forms of TB in high burden countries (see more on p. 22). Our supply chain supports reliable access to antimicrobials with mechanisms such as rapid-response advanced planning systems, dual sourcing systems and maintaining safety and strategic stocks. We have comprehensive processes to protect the security of products and safety of patients, including anticounterfeit serialization. Our approach to stewardship includes healthcare professional (HCP) education, appropriate use packaging configurations, incorporating technology such as mobile apps and conducting AMR surveillance. Mylan supplies a broad portfolio of packaging configurations for various strengths and formulations, including pediatric formulations. Further, we work with pharmacies and support mobile applications, as well as other adaptations such as pictograms, to increase prescription adherence. Our HCP education programs meet the highest ethical standard and reach providers on the front lines of AMR. We monitor AMR through multiple surveillance programs which will be published in peer-reviewed journals. In India, Mylan supports a multicenter retrospective study of antimicrobial resistance in intensive care unit patients and operates the Revised National TB Control Programme (RNTCP). 1 https://www.vinnova.se/en/p/platinea-a-collaboration-platform-for-innovating-existing-antibiotics/ 43 | Mylan GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS We work hard to give a voice to patients around the world and advocate for better health. ✔ Worked closely with trade associations to develop education materials and white We do this through building relationships to advance the sustainability of our industry, helping papers to support increased understanding and usage of biosimilars. shape policies that promote the use of lower-cost generics and biosimilars and fighting for ✔ Engaged with the U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to receive a favorable fair regulatory expectations across all markets. By addressing these issues through direct and coding decision and “pass-through” payment status, with both decisions enabling a indirect advocacy and engaging with governments and other relevant external stakeholders, better opportunity to gain biosimilar uptake. Mylan continues our work to provide patients around the world access to affordable medications. ✔ Continued to engage with various governments throughout the world by providing comments and submissions to possible government policy changes and rulings to continue to educate about the need for increased usage of biosimilars and savings Advocating for Increased Use of Biosimilars for patients. One of the ways we did this was by driving a focus on building sustainable market environments to ensure access to biosimilars. Educating About the Safety of Generics and Biosimilars ✔ Participated in the World Health Organization (WHO) prequalification pilot for cancer Although they are equal in efficacy to their brand counterparts, generic medicines and biologics on the Essential Medicines List and the first WHO implementation workshop biosimilars remain misunderstood in many parts of the world. Mylan takes seriously on post-approval changes and continue to provide our feedback on the implementation. its responsibility to educate policymakers about the safety and effectiveness of these ✔ Supported the launch of British Columbia’s Biosimilars Initiative in Canada to transition products, and we spent a lot of time in 2019 talking with governments and health patients using originator biologic drugs for certain indications to their biosimilar versions. authorities around the world. We have collaborated with trade associations and other ✔ Completed activities to shape National and Local NHS commissioning policy toward companies to ensure that there is an increased awareness that patients can take a generic switching to biosimilar insulin in the U.K. medicine or biosimilar and be assured that they are receiving a product as safe and ✔ Worked closely with GBMA’s (Australian Generics Trade Association) inaugural effective as the brand counterpart. Biosimilars Week that was focused on increased education and awareness of biosimilars. ✔ Aligned with trade associations and other companies to change regulation that would Removing Barriers to Patient Access have required the refiling of generic insulin applications and potentially delaying generic competition and access to a lower-cost insulin. We advocated for policies and regulations to help patients get the medicines they need and not hinder access. Mylan’s Head of ✔ Argued successfully along with Medicines for Europe for a SPC Waiver allowing generics manufacturers to make products in the EU in the months leading up to the Global Biologics originator product’s patent expiration. Commercial Chrys Kokino joined industry ✔ Helped abolish mandatory arbitrations in Portugal between generic manufacturers and leaders in November originators so that patients would have faster access to more affordable medicines. 2019 to discuss ways to improve patient ✔ Continued to fight against the extension of patent protection and regulatory exclusivity periods that unfairly favor less affordable originator products and delay access for access and ensure a patients. These provisions have been included in free trade agreements and we have sustainable market for worked with policymakers to remove such increased exclusivity for the originator biosimilar drugs. products. A recent success was the removal of the biologic exclusivity period of 12 years from the USCMA free trade agreement. We will continue to work with the negotiators of free trade agreements that are being updated throughout the world to hopefully achieve similar success. 44 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS ✔ Participated in discussions and planning Promoting Affordability to ensure a stable supply of medicines post-Brexit. We communicated our concerns with policies and actions that would limit access to lower cost generic medicines. ✔ Became the first generic company to have PrEP reimbursed in Portugal within less than one week after the originator’s ✔ Advocated for fixing insurance formulary tiers in the U.S. that result in patients paying the brand out-of-pocket rate for lower-cost generics. reimbursement. ✔ Campaigned for a free HIV PrEP access program, which Ireland’s Prime Minister and ✔ Deployed serialization across the globe to Health Minister officially announced the creation of in October 2019. Also worked with meet the timing and requirements from all the government in Spain to have appropriate reimbursement for PrEP. authorities to ensure that all of our drugs can be tracked and traced through the Serialization ensures that supply chain. medicines can be tracked and Partnering to Advance Disease Awareness ✔ Played a strong leadership role on ICH traced through the supply chain. We’re a partner with many like-minded organizations and government agencies around the world with more experts on the various expert who share our passion to help patients. working groups than any other generic company. These working groups are focused on harmonizing regulations in specific knowledge areas across the globe. ✔ Sponsored the Congressional Women’s Softball Game ✔ Collaborated with other stakeholders to raise concerns about government changes to benefit the Young Survival Coalition, which supports in the manufacturing of oxytocin in India that could cause potential shortages and risk thousands of young women diagnosed with breast patient health during childbirth. cancer every year. ✔ Backed the use of a “ladder” policy by the Canadian pricing association, pCPA, which ✔ Engaged with the Ministry of Commerce in India and supported an increase in a drug price if competitors left the marketplace to ensure provided feedback to the government on the alternate that the price was competitive to keep companies in the market and supply products export scheme in place of the Merchandise Exports without causing shortages. In 2019, the policy was implemented and the pCPA will from India Scheme and draft Foreign Trade Policy 2012. consider tier price increase applications where one or more competitor marketed drugs are no longer marketed in Canada. If a product is deemed eligible for price increases, ✔ Provided feedback to India’s Ministry of Environment about addressing AMR issues. standard generic framework pricing rules will apply (number of drugs, proportion of brand reference price and brand reference determination). ✔ Engaged with the Indian Government to create and pilot a TB eradication program to meet the Prime Minister’s goal of eradicating the disease by 2025 in India and ahead of the WHO target of 2030. ✔ Collaborated with the AMR Industry Alliance as they completed their progress report, including providing data and information as well as a case study of our work with the TB Alliance. 45 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: COMMUNITIES Giving back has been a core value at Mylan since the beginning. Our founders believed contributing to Mylan’s community was a great way to stay connected to people and truly understand their needs. That simple principle of being of service would grow in importance and scope as the company grew, too – first across the U.S., and then across the world. Whether it has been helping residents recover from devastating floods in West Virginia or ensuring young Indian students had a safe water supply, Mylan has promoted better health through supporting our neighbors and strengthening our communities. One of our earliest ways of giving back was As we added to our portfolio and began through helping the people in the state where reaching more patients around the world, Mylan got its start. The Milan Puskar Health our efforts to give back expanded, too. We Right, founded in 1984, is a primary care began supporting groups like Americares, clinic named after one of our founders that and as of today have provided ~353 million provides free healthcare to the uninsured or doses of medicine to the organization since underinsured in North Central West Virginia. 2007. Americares delivers our medicines We’ve given generously to the clinic and since to a network of 4,000 health centers 2007 have donated more than 11 million doses worldwide, as well as health facilities treating of medicine. We have supported many other disaster survivors. In recent years, we’ve causes in the state over the years, including supported Americares responses to the “Mylan has been a dedicated Americares partner for over 28 years. the United Way and others, culminating in 2018 2015 Nepal earthquake as well as several with the announcement of a collaboration called hurricanes in 2017. For Hurricanes Harvey, Their continuous support has allowed us to increase access to STEMCARE® with West Virginia University. That Irma and Maria alone, Mylan donated essential medicines for thousands of families around the world, and initiative encourages a growth mindset through more than 6 million doses of essential science, technology, engineering and math medicines. We are extremely proud to be we look forward to expanding our partnership here in the U.S. to (STEM), with a goal of touching young lives in one of Americares’ most dedicated and every corner of the state. longstanding supporters. reach even more people in need.” Christine Squires, Americares President and CEO 46 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report A LEGACY OF IMPACT: COMMUNITIES Some Examples of Doses of Medicine Donated We’ve also closely aligned with The Dispensary of Hope (DOH), a nonprofit, social enterprise Catholic Mission Medical Board: that connects medication surplus from manufacturers and physicians with low-income and underinsured patients around the U.S. The group shares our mission of access, making our 1 billion since 2012 efforts a perfect match. In all, Mylan has donated 193 million doses of medicine spanning a variety of therapeutic areas to the Dispensary of Hope since our partnership began in 2012. Americares: 353 million since 2007 Our efforts to provide support are as diverse as the regions we serve and the people they help. For example, in India, we have a very robust program of corporate social responsibility Dispensary of Hope: initiatives. Mylan supports and encourages our employees in India and around the world to give back. 193 million since 2012 Mylan sponsors Positive Athlete In the U.S., Mylan has a donations policy and committee that manages contributions. Pittsburgh because student-athletes in Elsewhere, our country managers oversee community initiatives in accordance with local Western Pennsylvania, home to our U.S. and company policies. headquarters, share many of our core values – including passion, leadership Mylan also funds the Mylan Charitable Foundation, an independent U.S. 501(c)(3) organization. and perseverance. As a result, Mylan has The Foundation provides financial support to help meet community education, social services supported the Positive Athlete program and health needs, among other areas. since 2014, providing more than $150,000 for scholarships to local students and Some other ways Mylan has made an impact in communities around the world include: overall event support. • Creating access to healthcare by donating thousands of doses of flu vaccine in Greece and Italy “Mylan’s donations have helped • Providing financial assistance to help eliminate mother-to-child transmission of patients in more than 33 states HIV in Nigeria plus the District of Columbia. • Facilitating ongoing education and research in pediatric oncology through a In fact, in 2019 alone, the €1 million donation to the Princess Maxima Center in the Netherlands that was used to construct a new auditorium company’s donations have • Supporting students studying pharmacy and medicine with scholarships in equated to more than 92,000 South Africa daily doses, distributed to Working together with our partners and other stakeholders, we are making an impact in support America’s low income, the communities where we live and work around the world. uninsured population.” Scott Cornwell, Dispensary of Hope The Mylan-sponsored auditorium at the Chief Supply Chain Officer Princess Maxima Center for Pediatric Oncology. 47 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report Community Highlight: Making a Lasting Impact in India Mylan’s presence in India has allowed us to touch millions of lives across 18 states over the We have also made an impact in India in the following ways: years through our commitment to social responsibility. Our efforts have included everything • Implemented a comprehensive sanitation and hygiene program in schools across the from constructing healthcare infrastructure, donating medical equipment, creating access to states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. clean water and spreading disease awareness to desilting water bodies, constructing check Constructed 26 toilet facilities in schools in these states over the last five years under dams, building community halls and improving road safety measures. All of our efforts have the Swachh Vidyalaya program, benefiting around 6,800 students a year. helped to promote better health, well-being and productivity in communities throughout • Equipped 24 schools in South India with RO purification water systems. This the country. initiative will benefit over 6,000 students every year by providing them with clean, safe drinking water. Our health outreach programs have impacted the lives of more than 1 million people over the • Established over 30 community drinking water facilities which provide clean and safe past five years, including through our multi-specialty health camps that provide education and drinking water to over 100,000 people. help identify gaps in care. One example is Mylan’s partnership with the Institute of Liver and • Donated funds to help rebuild the lives and homes of those affected by floods in Kerala. Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in India for the “Healthy Liver, Healthy Delhi” initiative which serves to create awareness of liver health and facilitate screening of hepatitis B and C. Mylan has funded • Partnered with medical schools in India to educate residents on the rational use of antimicrobial agents in managing infections. a state-of-the-art mobile diagnostic unit for detection of liver-related disorders, and so far more than 16,000 people have received free screenings through the program’s mobile clinics; • Donated garbage disposal trucks to seven villages in India to help support the management of solid waste for more than 100,000 residents. 6,000 were screened in 2019 alone. Based on the success of the initiative, Mylan and ILBS are working to increase the number of mobile clinics to reach more patients. One of the most significant and successful impacts we have made has been through the Affordable Cancer Care program. Doctors, nurses and supporting staff in western India >6 million people have been were trained to screen for and treat cancer at district-level hospitals and improve care given to screened for oral cancer cancer patients. As a result, patients were not with Mylan’s support required to travel to larger cities for screening under the Affordable and treatment but instead can stay in their own districts. Under this program, over 6 million Cancer Care Program people have been screened for oral cancer. Additionally, in northern India, more than 1 million people were screened for TB in a screening camp sponsored by Mylan as part of a national mission to eradicate the disease by Mylan’s programs in health, training health workers and providing ease of access to medicines. community welfare and education have impacted the lives of >11 million people in India over the past five years. 48 | Mylan COMMUNITY HEALTH: 2019 HIGHLIGHTS Because many factors can affect someone’s ability to live a healthy life, we are always looking for ways to help strengthen the communities where we live and work. Here are some of the ✔ Worked to help Serbia’s most vulnerable young highlights from 2019: people by donating clothes, toys, books and other items to the Children’s Shelter in Belgrade. Many ✔ Raised disease awareness and funding for patient of the children who benefit are victims of violence, groups by participating in runs, walks and biking abuse and neglect, trafficking and are homeless. events around the world, including the Run Lyon for the eighth consecutive year in France to benefit ✔ Contributed funding to help Greece’s Athens the Association Petit Princes and runs in Italy to Checkpoint, the country’s most prominent benefit patients with HIV and cystic fibrosis. We also community-based HIV testing and counseling participated in events in Finland, Belgium, Bulgaria facility, rebuild after the facility was targeted by and the U.S., among others. arsonists. ✔ Supported children with life-limiting conditions and ✔ Funded an awareness campaign in South Africa their families by donating to the only children’s on the importance of knowing one’s HIV status, hospice in Queensland, Australia, through a series getting onto a treatment regimen and adhering of employee fundraisers. to that course of treatment. ✔ Supported mothers and children in Mardin, Turkey, ✔ Provided about 800 students in Bollaram, India, through the establishment of a new toy library at the access to develop skills that will help them succeed Cumhuriyet Neighborhood Women-Children Center. in work and life through the construction of a skill Mylan’s team donated toys as well as manpower development center. The facility for 10th grade to clean and paint the space and celebrated the and intermediate students will focus on soft skills library’s opening with local families. such as leadership, teamwork and communication, among others. ✔ Supported families suffering pregnancy loss in the U.K. to have continued access to East Kent ✔ Supported children at the Indira Gandhi Institute Hospital’s Ocean Suite, which is a special room of Child Health in Bangalore, India, through the used by grieving families so that they can be construction of a play zone near the hospital’s separate from the maternity suite. outpatient center that is expected to serve as many as 10,000 children a year. Donated a high✔ Promoted better health for children with autism definition medical grade camera system that will and their families in Ireland through the support allow doctors to safely perform minimally invasive of the Galway Autism Partnership (GAP) and the surgeries on ~1,000 infants a year. Snowflakes organization in Dublin. Our Galway team raised money through a variety of events including the “Sky Diver, Hell & Back” obstacle race. 49 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report Mylan, which began pharmaceutical operations in Puerto COMMUNITY HEALTH: Rico in 1987, and its employees spent weeks volunteering 2019 HIGHLIGHTS in restoration efforts to homes on the island. Restoring Hope in Partnership with SBP All too often, natural disasters leave many of our friends and neighbors in need in the communities where we operate around the world. In those times, we’re proud to step up and help not just immediately following a crisis, but for the months and years of recovery that often lie ahead. In the spring of 2019, Mylan attended a welcome home ceremony after the Mylan Charitable Foundation (MCF) pledged $1 million to rebuild communities in Puerto Rico in partnership with SBP, a national disaster recovery organization. This donation helped jumpstart the rebuild and repair of devastated homes, adding to SBP’s recovery efforts since Hurricane Maria devastated the island in 2017. This commitment was on top of what we did after the storm violently struck: We immediately shipped 36,000 pounds of essential items needed by local residents in a chartered aircraft; opened the doors of our manufacturing plant to provide food, water and other assistance to those in the surrounding area. We first came together with SBP in 2016, when Mylan and the MCF contributed $1 million to SBP to rebuild homes and help residents in southern West Virginia recover from devastating floods. Mylan and its employees also contributed to SBP’s relief efforts in Texas following the heavy flooding left by Hurricane Harvey. “We are grateful for the Mylan Charitable Foundation’s support in establishing a long-term recovery operation here in Puerto Rico. This partnership has enabled SBP to help establish on-the-ground recovery operations and provide a predictable path home for disaster-impacted families in several communities across the island.” Zack Rosenburg, SBP Co-Founder and CEO 50 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report Impacting Young Lives in the U.S. 2019 was a busy year for our STEMCARE® initiative with STEMCARE BY THE NUMBERS West Virginia University. We introduced a new curriculum May-November 2019 for kids and continued to raise awareness of the program, which is designed to help encourage a growth mindset through science, technology, engineering and math ~500 young campers have ~300 students have been (STEM) programming and transform the state’s youth to participated in STEMCARE educated through STEMCARE reimagine their futures. programming through 4-H camps in programming offered at West Virginia. West Virginia schools. The program was announced by CEO Heather Bresch and West Virginia University President Gordon Gee in May 2018. Mylan committed a $5 million charitable contribution over 10 years to help empower West Virginia children to be Curious, Active, Resilient and Engaged – putting the CARE in STEMCARE. In the summer of 2019, we debuted the Mylan-sponsored Innovation Station curriculum to 4-H 20 WVU Extension Agents & 21 WVU STEM Ambassadors campers to encourage kids to challenge themselves and develop important critical thinking have been trained to deliver STEMCARE’s “Sky’s the Limit” program that skills. In the fall, we started introducing that curriculum into schools across West Virginia. focuses on a growth mindset and design-based learning in schools and at 4-H camps. One part of the Innovation Station, an activity called “Sky’s the Limit,” was also on display at the 2019 WV State Fair, attended by thousands. During the lesson, children used the engineering design process to build their own flying machine to hover in a wind tunnel. The fun activity promotes creativity and problem solving – two aspects that make up a growth mindset, which helps kids understand that they can keep working and growing even if they don’t succeed on “What this starts to do is their first try. create a sense of hope, At the fair, the STEMCARE booth also featured DIY marshmallow catapults and “drop copter” opportunity, possibility and templates for kids to take home. Parents and educators could find a brochure that explained promise within students who the program, why Mylan is involved and how they can incorporate STEMCARE ideas in their are in school today that are own curricula at home or in classrooms. the future of West Virginia. We took every opportunity in 2019 to spread awareness about the program, including speaking And by instilling some very real to educators and 4-H leaders from around the country at the annual meeting of the National practical skills, hopefully that Association of Extension 4-H Agents. Many participants from around the country were interested in replicating the program in their home states, and we are hopeful the program will creates a very good foundation have an opportunity to expand beyond West Virginia. for West Virginia in the future” Leah Summers, Head of Community Outreach and Engagement Children at 4-H camp participate in the “Sky’s the Limit” activity sponsored by Mylan during the summer of 2019. 51 | Mylan GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE AND PERFORMANCE DATA In this section of Mylan’s 2019 GSR Report, we present a comprehensive description of Mylan’s management, governance and organization of important social responsibility and ESG matters. We will also provide performance data across Mylan’s impact areas. The information presented herein complements the information presented in the preceding chapters. Our intention is to provide a balanced and complete description of Mylan’s work and performance to enable informed decisions about Mylan by our key stakeholders. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option and references the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) disclosures. Mylan’s GRI Content Index and SASB Reference Table are presented on p. 88-96. 52 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA Our Vision for Global Social Responsibility Global social responsibility (GSR) is intrinsically woven within Mylan’s commitment to achieve our mission and deliver better health for a better world. It is what drives our enduring passion to improve access and serve unmet needs across all geographies, while respecting the environment and positively impacting our stakeholders. As a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact, Mylan is committed to the Compact’s ten principles related to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Mylan supports the U.N.’s agenda and believes that companies can play a central SDG’s most relevant role in helping to achieve these development goals. The Sustainable Development to Mylan Goal that is most relevant to our mission and impact is No. 3: Good Health and WellBeing. Our broad and diverse portfolio across 10 therapeutic categories – combined with our long-standing commitment to increasing access to high quality medicine through innovation and partnerships – strongly positions Mylan to make continued contributions toward this goal. As a global healthcare company, we know our influence and actions impact other goals as well. From ensuring a fair, diverse and safe workplace and upholding a United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) 10 Principles culture of integrity and ethical business practices to supporting local communities and reducing our environmental impact, we are committed to helping lead positive, Human Rights Environment sustained change. 1: Businesses should support and 7: Businesses should support respect the protection of internationally a precautionary approach to proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; GSR Governance 2: make sure that they are not complicit in 8: undertake initiatives to Mylan’s Board of Directors oversees management’s efforts with respect to GSR human rights abuses. promote greater environmental responsibility; and through its Risk Oversight Committee. At the end of 2019, Mylan’s Head of Global Labor 9: encourage the development and Sustainability was promoted to oversee a newly organized Corporate Affairs diffusion of environmentally friendly 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom function within Mylan. This function now encompasses not only Mylan’s global of association and the effective technologies. social responsibility efforts, but the company’s global communications, global recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-corruption policy, U.S. government relations and global brand activities. It also collaborates 4: the elimination of all forms of forced 10: Businesses should work against closely with Mylan’s investor relations team. The Head of Corporate Affairs reports and compulsory labor; corruption in all its forms, including directly to the CEO and communicates regularly with Mylan’s Board of Directors extortion and bribery. 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and through the Risk Oversight Committee. This reorganization only served to amplify 6: the elimination of discrimination the importance of Mylan’s commitment to sustainability across all of its stakeholder in respect of employment and occupation. 53 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA communication efforts under the leadership of an executive with meaningful ESG g Patient Outcomes Access to Medicines Management knowledge and experience. The office of Corporate Affairs oversees the development Business Ethics Research & Development and implementation of Mylan’s strategic focus and efforts around GSR matters and Pricing philanthropy and provides regular updates to Mylan’s Risk Oversight Committee Supply Chain Manufacturing & Distribution Market Influence on GSR matters. A multifunctional GSR Advisory Committee comprised of crossTalent Management STAKEHOLDER INTEREST Contribution to Global Public Health Employee Engagement functional leaders convenes monthly and supports the progress and integration of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment relevant GSR topics across the organization. Corporate Governance Regulatory Impact Brand & Reputation GSR Assessment and Priorities In 2018, Mylan conducted a priority assessment in coordination with external ESG advisors, capturing external and internal perspectives on important GSR topics. We considered GSR-related input from external stakeholder engagements, as well as viewpoints, concerns and priorities of a broad range of stakeholders, including customers, partners, investors, NGOs, employees, community groups and policy makers. We also engaged senior leaders at Mylan, representing key business units and cross-functional areas of our company, spanning Mylan’s geographic footprint. IMPACT ON COMPANY g Five issues – pricing, manufacturing and distribution (including product quality and safety), research and development, access to medicines management and talent COMPLETE LIST OF ISSUES ASSESSED management – were identified as GSR priorities based on their overall stakeholder Access to Medicine Being a Responsible Operating a Responsible Access to Medicines Management* Employer Business interest and potential impact on Mylan’s business and mission. Compliance Diversity and Inclusion Brand and Reputation Local Capacity Building Employee Engagement Business Ethics Manufacturing and Distribution Talent Management* Corporate Governance However, all topics included in the assessment are relevant and important to manage (including product quality Customer Satisfaction & safety)* Environmental Stewardship Data Privacy and Protection diligently and effectively. These topics, and the broader findings of our GSR analysis, Market Influence Air Ethical Marketing and Promotion formed the basis for and are addressed throughout this report and have also been Patents and Licensing Climate Change and Energy Global Competitiveness Pricing* Environmental Protection Human Rights used to inform Mylan’s strategic planning and enterprise risk management efforts. Product Donations Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Regulatory Impact Research and Development* Product Stewardship R&D Impacts Waste Risk Management Societal Impact Water Supply Chain Community Engagement and Workplace Health and Safety Transparency Impact Patient Outcomes Contribution to Global Public Health *Denotes top 5 priority based upon assessment results 54 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH Mylan’s Commitment to Access Throughout our history, Mylan’s foundation and core business model have been focused on providing access to medicine. Given the significance of patient needs across the globe and across all income levels, we are convinced that meeting this challenge requires a consistent and sustainable commitment. Our access objectives and key performance indicators (KPIs), that flow from our mission statement, seek to describe how we have and will continue to operate universally to fulfill our aim of providing high quality medicines to billions of patients around the world. OUR ACCESS OBJECTIVES: OUR ACCESS KPIs: OUR MISSION • Doses sold • Number of products At Mylan, we are Continuously leverage the breadth, depth and capability • Number of countries and territories reached committed to setting new of our business model to consistently provide high quality • Therapeutic categories medicine and related services to meet the needs of standards in healthcare. • Coverage percentage of the top ten causes of patients in low-, middleand high-income countries death globally Working together around • Coverage percentage of the top ten causes of death the world to provide 7 across lowand lower-middle income countries billion people access to Research and develop new dosage forms that will high quality medicine, we: improve effective adherence; alternative product • Products in development by region options that will provide more affordable access; and • Innovate to satisfy unmet • Products pending approval by region opportunities to bring our existing portfolio to additional needs countries and regions Cultivate quality-focused internal and external • Make reliability and manufacturing capabilities and services along with pricing • Types of products • Average selling price of Mylan’s medicines service excellence a habit approaches that allow for both affordable patient access • Customer service levels globally and by region and sustainable supply • Do what’s right, not • Percentage of lowand lower-middle income countries what’s easy reached Apply the same commercial and operational focus as • Doses sold in lowand lower-middle income countries well as commitment to quality and safety while supplying • Impact the future through products to patients and countries with varying degrees • Number of products on the World Health Organization's (WHO) Essential Medicines List passionate global of income level and resources • Number of products on the WHO list of prequalified leadership products (including cross-listed approvals) Seek out opportunities to provide access-related industry • Active partnerships or organizational memberships related and global public health leadership to increasing access to medicines 55 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH At Mylan, we invest in science and believe that innovation is key to expanding access Our Access Key to medicine. In the pharmaceutical industry, R&D is often assumed to reference only the 2017 2018 2019 Performance Indicators development of new, brand-name drugs. However, there are many other components of R&D that are just as critical to providing the world’s population with access to needed medicines. Coverage percentage of the top 10 causes N/A 90% 90% At Mylan, in addition to working on new chemical entities and focusing on developing new of death globally1,2 delivery devices, we also constantly look for ways to improve patient convenience, prescription Coverage percentage of the top 10 causes compliance, safety, experience and access. We continually review our product portfolio, of death across lowand lower-middle N/A 77% 77% manufacturing network and supply chain to ensure our products help address unmet needs income countries3 while supporting our mission. For these reasons, it is not uncommon for us to be among the From 2013first to manufacture difficult-to-make generic versions of drugs. 2017, we invested more In 2019 we: Total investments in R&D $704.5M $639.9M than $3 billion in ✔ Received over 600 global product approvals. cumulative R&D spend ✔ Completed 139 market submissions in more than 120 different countries, including 89 products in emerging and expansion markets. Products in development by region4 ✔ Filed over 650 individual market submissions, including over 300 individual market North America 359 340 190 submissions for emerging and expansion markets for the total number of regulatory Europe 174 200 90 filings. Rest of World 4915 600 250 ✔ Completed 14 drug master filings. A drug master file (DMF) contains detailed information on a new API molecule that will be used in a new Mylan medicine. Products pending approval by region4 Patients in more than 165 countries and territories rely on our products today, and we are North America 267 200 190 committed to ensuring the continued sustainability and availability of our portfolio to the Europe 528 700 690 extent possible, which may periodically mean rationalizing products not earning their cost Rest of World 9885 1,600 1,600 of capital. Throughout this process, Mylan pays special attention to the availability of single Types of products See page 87 source medications critical to patient health. Portfolio sustainability also means focusing our R&D investments on medicines that are more difficult to manufacture in an effort to meet Average selling price of Mylan's medicines 17¢ per dose 19¢ per dose 18¢ per dose unmet patient needs. As we move our portfolio up that value chain, we are focused on making Customer service levels globally and by improvements to existing products and expanding formulations to make them more widely region available to those who may not have previously had access. North America N/A 82.3% 84.8% Europe N/A 90.3% 89.3% Our Access Key 2017 2018 2019 Rest of World N/A 95.7% 95.8% Performance Indicators Doses sold ~69 billion ~59 billion ~62 billion Global N/A 90.3% 89.5% 1 The remaining cause of death is road injury Number of products >7,500 >7,500 >7,500 2 Source: Global Health Estimates 2016: Deaths by Cause, Age, Sex, by Country and by Region. 2000-2016 Geneva, World Health Organization; 2018 Number of countries and territories reached >165 >165 >165 3 Income groups from the World Bank list of economies (Published July 2019) 4 Change in year over year numbers is a focus of product mix; products taken from internal data and rounded 5 In the 2017 GSR Report, Mylan reported per RoW split into: Japan, Australia & New Zealand and Expansion Markets Major therapeutic categories 10 10 10 56 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH Our Access Key All of Mylan’s sites are regulated and inspected by national health authorities from the 2017 2018 2019 Performance Indicators markets where we sell. The health authority inspections provide extensive external Percentage of lowand lower-middle certification and authorization of Mylan sites for further production and marketing. N/A 90% 88.5% income countries reached1 Doses sold in lowand lower-middle In 2019, global health authorities conducted over 92 regulatory inspections of our over 40 N/A >5 billion ~6.5 billion income countries1 manufacturing facilities. Additionally, we completed 656 quality and Good Manufacturing Number of medicines on the WHO’s Practice (GMP), 83 Good Clinical Practice (GCP), and 16 Pharmacovigilance (PV) audits N/A >150 >200 Essential Medicines List at our facilities and suppliers. Number of medicines on the WHO 63 HIV/AIDS: 46 HIV/AIDS: 45 list of prequalified products (including Reproductive Reproductive Quality Management cross-listed approvals) Health: 9 Health: 9 Mylan maintains a quality infrastructure at the global level that includes Global Quality Policies Tuberculosis: 8 Tuberculosis:7 which set a uniform expectation for fundamental topics within the Quality Management System, as well as Global Quality IT systems which are implemented and designed to establish industry Influenza: 3 Influenza: 2 best practice and consistency throughout our global network. Malaria: 1 Malaria: 3 Hepatitis: 1 Hepatitis: 3 All our operational facilities have management systems, standards and processes in place which are designed to ensure product quality and safety across our operations and to be Total: 68 Total: 692 in compliance with the quality guidelines and practices applicable to the markets in which 1 Income groups from the World Bank list of economies (Published July 2019) 2 As per 2/2/20 our products are provided, such as current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP), Good Pharmacovigilance Practice and Good Clinical Practice. Additional Data 2017 2018 2019 In addition to these guidelines, we apply relevant quality guidelines and practices, including: Number of patents filed to date ~4,000 >4,500 >5,0001 Eudralex, Falsified Medicines Directive, ICH Quality Guidelines, WHO GMP, Food and Drug Licenses via the Medicines Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA) and the EU Excipient Risk Assessment for N/A 5 52 Patent Pool ascertaining GMP for excipients of medicinal products for human use. We use a Regulatory Number of women and girls that Intelligence and Knowledge Management Dissemination Program to better inform, evaluate and >13 million >13 million >14 million Mylan provided contraceptives to3,4 implement regulatory updates, industry trends and internal knowledge. 1 Including active patents and pending applications Mylan’s Quality Management System (QMS) and Product Safety and Risk Management System 2 As per 3/9/20 3 Data per 2017 and 2018 has been restated due to modifications in methodology. maintain standard operating procedures for core components including but not limited to: 4 Based on internal sales records and IQVIA IMS data for third party manufactured products (sales in Europe). IQVIA IMS 2019 data was available up to Q3, for full year data the average of 3 quarters is measured as 4th quarter. • Managerial responsibility • Products risk assessment Ensuring Quality and Patient Safety in Processes and • Regular training • Regular compliance monitoring Products • Regular audits • Regular testing • Incident investigation, corrective and preventative action Protecting patients and consumer health by ensuring the quality and safety of our products is at the heart of how we operate across our network. Every step of our development, manufacturing and monitoring processes from product development to sourcing of raw materials to producing finished dosage forms is grounded in this commitment. 57 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH Quality Governance and Organization Mylan provides procedural and GMP training for all personnel whose duties are in any way Mylan’s Head of Global Quality reports to the President and the following functions are within the associated with the manufacturing, packaging, processing, holding, or testing of products overall Global Quality structure: or whose duties require them to enter manufacturing areas or laboratories, as well as any other personnel whose activities could affect the quality of the product. Personnel • Global Operations Audit • Global Respiratory Quality working in areas where contamination is a hazard, such as clean areas, sterile areas or • Global Learning and Development • Global Quality Systems/QA IT areas where highly active, toxic, infectious, or sensitizing materials are handled, are given Technical Quality • Global Quality Compliance additional specific training. • Global Quality Investigations • Global OSD and API Quality • Global Quality Operations, Affiliates Training in cGMP is conducted by qualified individuals to assure that employees remain • Global Injectables Quality familiar with the specific cGMP requirements applicable to them. • Global Quality Integration/Surveillance • Global Dermatologics Quality • Global Clinical and Bioanalytical Quality • Global Biologics Quality • Our Global Operations Training program ensures that role-specific and periodic cGMP training programs are compliant with regulatory requirements both regionally and Mylan continuously evolves its quality organization to ensure alignment with the business globally. cGMP training is conducted on an annual basis in accordance with regulatory operations and to enhance compliance with applicable standards. We enhanced our overall requirements. In addition to training on the theory and practice of cGMP, Mylan utilizes a curriculum-based approach to ensure all analysts, operators, and other personnel operations and quality organizations to further improve connectivity and oversight throughout are fully trained based upon their defined job descriptions and assigned duties. The the global network. Quality leadership was expanded to facilitate broader surveillance functions curricula are specifically designed for each job description. and to continue to optimize compliance. Existing global quality resources are embedded within Supplier quality training is reviewed as part of the supplier selection due diligence process. In the operational verticals to align closely with the business units and drive consistency across the addition, throughout the business relationship, supplier employee quality training is reviewed as sites. These enhancements promote closer connectivity among operational leaders and leads part of the routine GMP audits. to improved product quality, supply continuity and patient access. As part of the continual work to assess and adapt quality management, in 2019 Mylan further Quality Monitoring in Our Operations enhanced its global policies and procedures on data governance, corrective and preventative Our program relies primarily on oversight by a specially trained team of internal global experts, action, training, auditing, incident investigation, critical event management and field alert augmented and supported by independent third parties. Mylan’s global internal audit program reporting to further drive consistency in practice and allow more efficient trending and is a key component of Mylan’s oversight and monitoring of the quality performance across our life-cycle management. network. The internal audits are designed to proactively evaluate compliance against the GQM/ GQP and global cGMP regulations. Training for Continuous Improvement • Internal sites are required to provide appropriate corrective and preventative actions in Our Global Operations Training program provides consistent and effective training to assure response to any observations with agreed upon timelines for implementation. access to and delivery of knowledge to global Mylan operations personnel. This program • Dedicated audit leads are assigned to quality operations within each vertical to coordinates and standardizes training requirements, content, techniques and training delivery participate in all internal audits within that vertical. There is collaboration with site methods to continually strengthen our corporate learning culture. Employees are provided training and vertical leadership to develop more robust processes and re-evaluate existing on quality culture to ensure personnel have a clear understanding of Mylan’s commitment to processes from risk stand point and develop appropriate risk mitigation mechanisms. Internal audits are performed on an annual basis for each production site. quality. Mylan also provides a regulatory intelligence program that provides all Mylan personnel access to current global regulations, publications, and industry trends. • Quality Council programs at each site oversee and monitor key performance indicators, track quality incidents, identify trends and have the authority to escalate incidents to senior quality leadership. 58 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH In 2019, we streamlined the global internal audit program to include expedited timelines for • Mylan conducts routine audits to assess the strength and performance of the QMS. issuance of observations and increased site leadership engagement to ensure immediate Frequency is based upon cyclical audit requirement by facility type, historical regulatory inspection performance, and key product launches. remediation of identified observations. We further increased focus on global investigations oversight, third-party management, and surveillance across Mylan sites. o In 2019, 656 GMP, 83 GCP audits as well as 16 PV audits were conducted by Mylan’s global Quality team at our facilities and suppliers. • We have expedited the internal audit process by augmenting the program to mimic External contractors and suppliers approved for business with Mylan are recorded in an the U.S. FDA 483 process. Our stringent policy requires internal sites to develop internal global database which encompasses a mixture of third-party manufacturers (sterile and mandated corrective actions within 15 business days and to implement them non-sterile), third-party packagers, third-party laboratories, distribution centers, miscellaneous within 90 days. These CAPA are submitted to Mylan’s Global CAPA Management team for review and approval. Furthermore, any CAPA from critical and/or major service providers, API Suppliers (sterile and non-sterile), excipient suppliers, and packaging observations are verified by the Global Operations Audit Team. component suppliers. • In 2019, Mylan worked with global industry experts to further develop competency in deviations and corrective and preventive action (CAPA) management, focusing on Working with Health Authorities triage1, procedures and root cause analysis techniques. We constantly review our products, processes and facilities throughout our network and work Quality Risk Assessment closely with external health authorities to ensure transparency with emerging information, Proactive risk assessment is central to our approach to ensuring quality. We apply the including shortages, adverse event reporting of other manufacturers’ products, development principles outlined in the Quality Management and Quality Risk Management guidelines2 by of new scientific and testing criteria and evolving regulatory and manufacturing expectations the ICH: the ICH Q9 Quality Risk Management, as well as those in ICH Q10 Pharmaceutical everywhere we operate. We continuously learn from these interactions as scientific, technology Quality System. and regulatory expectations continue to evolve. • The health authority inspections provide extensive external certification of Mylan sites Ensuring a High Quality Supply Chain and Mylan’s suppliers and provide authorization for further production and marketing. To help ensure the integrity of our supply chain, external suppliers and third parties • Regarding Mylan’s active FDA Warning Letters from 2018 and 2019, we are making are taken through a rigorous Business Contract Review and Approval/Supply Network progress according to plan to resolve the identified non-conformities. Committee (BCRA/SNC) approval process prior to being engaged for the supply of • In 2019, 92 health authority inspections were conducted across Mylan’s facilities. an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) or a drug product. As part of this process, a contractual agreement called a Quality Technical Agreement (QTA) may be implemented that Notable International Health Authority Inspections in 2019 include: specifically details Mylan’s expectations and the right to perform regular on-site audits to AGES – Austria ANSM – France ANVISA – Brazil ensure compliance with regulations and Mylan’s expectations, notification of health authority Danish Medicines Agency (DKMA) – inspections and outcomes, and access to all records related to the supplied products. ASL – Italy CDSCO – India Denmark Drug Control Administration Drug Enforcement Administration • Mylan’s Global Operations Audit program for supplier management includes DQS-MED – Germany (DCA) – India (DEA) – USA risk-based assessment scoring of external suppliers based upon current health authority regulatory compliance, dosage form, supplier type, date of last Mylan FAMPH – Belgium FDA – Ghana FDA – USA conducted audit, audit history and severity of observations. The risk scores further Finnish Medicines Agency Fukui Prefecture Health facilitate audit prioritization and the supply chain decision-making process. GIF – Poland (FMA/Fimea) – Finland Authority – Japan • To support some external suppliers in meeting quality standards, Mylan has Health Canada – Canada HPRA – Ireland Infarmed (NAMHP) – Portugal implemented a program that places Mylan Quality personnel in person at the site of a supplier to engage, monitor, and mentor the site team and foster quality compliance. Improvements are assessed as part of the review of manufacturing and packaging of each batch prior to release. This program has been successful in educating and improving compliance of our external manufacturers and ensuring 1 A process used by companies to speed up workflows for projects under tight deadlines. quality product is produced and released. 2 ICH Quality Guidelines 59 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH Potential safety signals are assessed and evaluated through our corporate safety governance Notable International Health Authority Inspections in 2019 include: structure and new information is communicated in a timely manner to healthcare professionals, Kanton Zug Health Authority – Medicine Control Authority MHRA – United Kingdom patients and health authorities. Mylan currently has more than 300 risk management plans and Switzerland (MCAZ) – Zimbabwe Ministry of Food and Drug associated interventional measures designed, where required, to ensure all of Mylan’s products Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Safety (MFDS/KFDA) – South Ministry of Health – Belarus are used safely and effectively. As part of Mylan’s PV system, the benefit risk profile of all Russian Federation – Russia Korea products are monitored and assessed for safety impact on an ongoing basis. National Agency for Medicines National Drug Authority (NDA) National Organization for Medicines and Medical Devices (NAMMA/ Mylan’s PV System includes standard operating procedures for managerial responsibility and – Uganda (NOM/EOF) – Greece ANMDM) – Romania standardized processing for all activities. Key activities are monitored for performance and Pharmaceuticals and Medical compliance against standards, targets and thresholds. The system is subject to both internal Pharmacy and Poisons Board Regierungspräsidium Darmstadt – Devices Agency (PMDA) – (PPB) – Kenya Germany and external audits and inspections by regulatory authorities from around the world. Mylan’s Japan SOLNA STAD – Sweden TFDA – Taiwan TMDA – Tanzania compliance and deviation monitoring mechanisms are in place for any observations resulting from audits and inspections to ensure they are thoroughly analyzed for root cause and impact World Health Organization (WHO addressed. As appropriate, corrective and preventive actions which are tracked until their effective implementation for compliance with worldwide pharmacovigilance obligations are implemented. All processes are compliant with the EU Good Pharmacovigilance Practices Patient and Product Safety (GVP) or, if applicable, stricter regulations anywhere in the world. Our PV system, coupled with a global policy on product safety, guides Mylan’s approach to ensure patient care and safety in relation to the use of our marketed products. In line Our Product Safety & Risk department is a key component of our PV system and participates with applicable global legislation, we have a cross functional team of medical and scientific in all internal and external audits which are conducted regularly, along with ensuring that the professionals that support a global PV system that reports our risk and benefit assessments to personal health information of those participating in our clinical trials is carefully safeguarded. global health authorities. Mylan’s Corporate Product Safety Committee, chaired by the Global In 2019, in addition to the 16 PV audits conducted by Mylan’s global Quality team, there were Head of Product Safety & Risk Management and the European Economic Area-Qualified 4 external audits by business partners and 4 PV inspections by national health authorities Person for PV provides a forum for the periodic and ad hoc evaluation of newly emerging safety conducted at Mylan’s facilities. information regarding our products. • The internal audit schedule is based on a robust risk assessment with all PV system • In 2019, Mylan submitted about 250,000 individual case safety reports and more than processes and all stakeholders in scope. The frequency of the audits is normally 1 year 1,600 aggregate reports. for global process service providers and around 3 years or shorter for affiliates based As part of developing Mylan’s PV system and being compliant with evolving regulations, we on risk assessment. began implementing the new international standard for transmitting adverse event reports, as We conduct training that complements Mylan’s policy on PV Training Standards, which defines per the ICH E2B R3 reporting requirements. This entailed upgrading the existing Global Safety training curriculum, frequency, effectiveness measurements and documentation and other Database followed by full validations against the global PV safety reporting requirements. Our requirements. Employees who are part of Mylan’s PV systems are assigned professional standard operating procedures were updated to reflect the newly implemented processes and development training courses based on individual experience. all personnel involved in these processes have now been fully trained. 60 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH Product Testing processes for overseeing and auditing outsourced activities completed by our vendor partners. Dedicated independent members of Mylan’s quality team conduct periodic assessments and All ingredients used in Mylan products undergo testing to assure they meet registered audits. Any potential or actual incidents are managed through clear processes and escalated to specifications, and those that do not are rejected. For all products, as regulated by GMP, senior management as appropriate. Mylan conducts extensive testing throughout the product lifecycle including raw material, intermediate, and finished product and post-distribution stability testing in compliance with the In 2019, Mylan continued clinical research activities in the U.S., EU and Asia-Pacific region in registered specifications as approved in each marketing authorization for the markets in which diverse therapeutic areas such as oncology, diabetes and cystic fibrosis, to name a few. Mylan those products are provided. conducts clinical trials in many regions of the world as part of the process to eventually make treatments available to patients. To support the geographic expansion of Mylan’s products and Product Recall Management bring more products to more patients, the number of trials in new settings have increased. Regardless of where the trials are conducted and whether they are performed inhouse or by Effective quality and product safety management systems are designed to detect potential risks a qualified vendor party, Mylan’s global standard operating procedures apply which aims to and may result in product recalls as part of their design. These recalls are largely initiated by ensure the safety of the participants and the trial. a pharmaceutical company as a precautionary measure in cases of possible or actual risk to the quality and safety of the product and/or risk to the patient. Though there is no harmonized Mylan develops clinical study protocols for every clinical trial, which contain criteria and international standard between countries on what constitutes a recall, Mylan has a global procedures for the conduct of each trial. The procedures for clinical site assessment are requirement that each Mylan site must maintain a written procedure to govern the recall of developed prior to the selection of investigators. Mylan maintains procedures that require products based upon health authority regulatory requirements in the territories in which our ongoing evaluation of a clinical site’s conduct of clinical studies from study initiation through products are provided. Additionally, a recall may often be performed out of an abundance study closeout. Mylan works with our partners to ensure that clinical investigators are carefully of caution and therefore, can be a positive metric as it relates to the health of a Quality screened prior to being selected to participate in a clinical study and requires that clinical Management System (QMS). investigators conduct careful screening and selection of patients. Mylan requires that all clinical studies receive review and approval with the institutional review Conducting Responsible Clinical Development board/independent Ethics Committee (IRB/EC). The review of each clinical study must be Mylan is committed to conducting clinical trials in an ethical way and to promoting patient properly documented for every clinical site participating in a Mylan clinical study. Mylan reviews safety and protection of patient rights throughout the study lifecycle. The company’s global IRB/EC documentation for clinical sites that participate in a clinical study, ensuring that initial program for clinical research and applicable standard operating procedures are designed to IRB/EC approval is thoroughly documented, and that ongoing review of each clinical site is adhere to international best practice and GCP as defined in the Declaration of Helsinki and underway. the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) framework. Mylan’s governance councils and quality committees oversee the conduct of clinical trials, including regular monitoring of ongoing trials, and partner with internal and external experts and investigational sites to promote patient safety and data integrity across our clinical development Management and Oversight programs. In addition, we use quality councils, governance boards and independent data Mylan’s Head of Global Clinical Operations reports to the Head of Global Clinical Research monitoring committees when appropriate to support quality, safety and protection of & Medical Operations, who reports to Mylan’s Chief Operating Officer (COO). The COO participants in our clinical development programs. reports to Mylan’s President and is part of the company’s executive governance committee. Mylan’s Global Quality Management System (QMS) is at the core of our clinical investigations. Mylan’s standard operating procedures specifically address the requirements associated with It includes procedures on internal processes associated with drug development as well as the development of Investigator Brochures, Clinical Protocols and Informed Consent Forms 61 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH in order to adhere to global regulations. A cross-functional development and review process As part of complying with the GCP, Mylan follows the FDAAA 801 and the Final Rule is incorporated into the procedures to ensure that experts in various functions have input into requirements for disclosure and results posting in the US and currently are following the EU the design and approval of these documents. These documents provide clinical investigators Clinical Trial Directive (EC) No. 001/20/EC in the EU. When the Clinical Trial Regulation EU No. with sufficient background on the investigational product to ensure the safety of research 536/2014 goes into effect, Mylan will comply with that regulation as well. participants, that the clinical study is scientifically rigorous and that participants are wellinformed of the potential risks and benefits, study goals, procedures, and their critical role in Mylan also maintains procedures that describe a scientifically rigorous process for the clinical research. All employees that are involved in this aspect of a clinical trial undergo training preparation and dissemination of scientific articles addressing the results of clinical trials in order for this purpose. to ensure that Health Care Providers (HCPs) and patients have access to information on the results of clinical trials. Informed Consent Animal Studies Mylan’s standard operating procedure governing the informed consent process is part of Mylan’s QMS. It includes detailed procedures regarding the development, review, approval, We do not conduct animal testing unless it is required by national regulation. Mylan is implementation and confirmation of the accent/informed consent process for adult and committed to the “3 R” approach (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement) with respect to pediatric trails. Informed consent documents are written in a manner that allows potential trial ethical animal testing. Facilities performing animal testing on our behalf are required to comply participants, regardless of reading skills and local language, the ability to make an informed with regional scientific procedures for laboratory animal science. These facilities use and/ decision that considers the potential risks and benefits of trial participation. Local independent or are approved by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal ethics committees review and approve informed consent forms prior to patient participation in Care (AAALAC). Mylan’s Global Operations Audit team performs regular audits on all parties to a clinical study. The clinical investigator ensures that patients understand the informed consent ensure compliance. document prior to participation in the clinical study. As part of adhering to GCP, Mylan provides a direct contact line for the trial participants and information on how to escalate a report. Promoting Product Security and Fighting Falsified Medicine Risk Management in Clinical Development To mitigate the risks from counterfeit products and protect the security of products and safety The QMS provides procedures on assessing risks associated with the various aspects of of patients, Mylan has a formal infrastructure to support oversight of product security and clinical development, such as study design, vendor selection, site selection and patient guide applicable efforts. Mylan’s Product Integrity Coordination Committee consists of leaders populations. The application of data analytics and access to increasingly better data enable from Compliance, Quality, Regulatory, Medical Affairs and Security. Mylan’s Product Security more efficient management and oversight of clinical trials, focusing efforts on trials that are team conducts an annual risk assessment of Mylan’s portfolio to determine those products regarded as higher risk. which may be at a higher risk for counterfeiting or diversion activity. This assessment takes into consideration several aspects including therapeutic category, dosage type, regulatory Trial Data Transparency concerns, medical affairs concerns, and previous incident history. Products with higher levels of risk are given priority attention when it comes to analysis and market monitoring. We also use Mylan’s QMS addresses the publishing of Mylan clinical trial data in publicly accessible intelligence gathered from open market analysis to prioritize risk. registries, as required by global regulations to promote transparency. Mylan publishes results of applicable clinical trials in publicly accessible registries such as www.clinicaltrials.gov, Mylan conducts internal investigations when there is suspicion of counterfeit or at-risk products https://eudract.ema.europa.eu, and others. and to support health authorities and law enforcement investigations. In addition to internal resources, we are also collaborating with external stakeholders such as online sales platforms, to ensure that counterfeit products avoid reaching the hands of our patients. 62 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH Mylan has a legal obligation to provide effective controls to guard against theft and diversion Serialization of controlled substances, and to design and operate a system to identify suspicious orders of Serialization is a process that helps companies obtain valuable information about the products controlled substances. At the same time, it is just as important to ensure an uninterrupted flow of they sell, and where they are made and shipped. It is fueled by myriad government regulations medicine to the patient. that require pharmaceutical companies to track their products along the supply chain and verify We have a cross-functional team including members from Compliance, Customer Relations, their authenticity. The goal of serialization is to ensure that medicines reaching consumers Controlled Substance Monitoring, Global Security, Distribution Center, Regulatory Legal, are not counterfeit, stolen or contaminated. Our quality, regulatory and serialization teams Regulatory Affairs, State Licensing and DEA that works to maintain and continuously enhance are also ensuring that serialization requirements for all countries are met. In doing so, Mylan our strong programs designed to detect and prevent diversion within the supply chain, while works closely with industry groups such as the RxGPS Alliance, a group of multinational assuring there is an uninterrupted flow of medication to our customers and patients across pharmaceutical supply chain stakeholders who have a common interest in advancing global the globe. alignment of drug serialization and tracing requirements to harmonize various standards among countries. Our suspicious order monitoring program holds some key components, including but not limited to; Serialization efforts include technology that uniquely numbers each pack and places a serialization mark, known as a 2D data matrix, on products. Mylan works internally and • Experienced compliance team externally (with contract manufacturers) to ensure the products made for patients include these • Data and analytical programs identifying marks. Eventually, this serialization process will leverage aggregation, which places • Know Your Customer (Due diligence) process a unique code on shippers of our products. This code will associate data for each individual • Education and training product packaged within it, creating a parent-child relationship. Aggregation will facilitate the efficient flow of product in the supply chain. Once products are serialized , our work continues. • On-going state and federal collaboration efforts Large amounts of data created by serialization must be managed, maintained and reported In addition, we also have a concentrated product diversion program, which encompass to authorities or trading partners. Before serialization, Mylan delivered quality products; in the anonymous reporting mechanisms. Together with our suspicious order monitoring systems, future with serialization, quality products must be delivered with serialization data. This new way it enables risk mitigation. of doing business is driving a digital supply chain with emphasis on data integrity. Quality and product safety expectations are intensifying globally from a variety of stakeholders. Our serialization project has involved installation of new equipment on our nearly 200 internal There is now a greater emphasis on companies taking responsibility for their supply chains, packaging lines, as well as work with hundreds of other manufacturers who are part of our data integrity and quality assurance, priorities Mylan has embraced for many years. supply chain. Falsified medicine – medicine that is sold as authorized, authentic medicine but in fact contains Overall, 2019 was a stabilization year for serialization. With go-live dates of November 2018 ingredients of bad or toxic quality or dosage – continues to be an issue for the pharmaceutical for the U.S. Drug Supply Chain Security Act for product serialization and February 2019 for full industry. We have made significant investments in packaging and information technology to implementation of the EU Falsified Medicine Directive (FMD), most of 2019 was focused on enhance product safety. By lowering the likelihood that falsified products will enter our supply ramping up to full volume and stabilization of data flows from packaging to agency reporting. chain, we are helping to ensure that the integrity of the product is not impacted and to enhance Master data cleansing was also a part of these stabilization efforts. In the EU, in addition product safety as well as ensure access to high quality medicine. Mylan has global policies to to stabilization, the industry is also focusing on alerts. The Mylan alert team has developed govern validation, operations, serialization and product security. New and updated procedures analytic tools to filter alerts allowing the team to focus on root causes. The alert team works in have also been implemented across all manufacturing sites to drive consistency in packaging, collaboration with EU and national verification organizations, Medicines for Europe and solution management, master data and distribution of serialized product. Among these are processes to providers to improve the alert management and reporting process. track and trace serialized products. An internal product safety group helps monitor the supply chain to help ensure it is not breached. 63 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH In 2020, Mylan will upgrade our serialization technology and continue to build out aggregation capabilities. In the EU, Mylan will focus on EU FMD alerts by engaging with various working groups, national agencies and applying additional advanced analytics with the goal of eliminating false positives. Mylan is working actively with national authorities and trade organizations on alerts within the EU system so that counterfeit and suspect products are properly identified. In the U.S., Mylan is focused on wholesaler returns verification and will commence testing in early 2020, in preparation for the end of enforcement discretion in November 2020. Rest of World markets are also a focus as several key markets will enact serialization regulations in 2020. Mylan actively monitors serialization regulations. In some instances, Mylan actively contributes in working groups to properly advance regulations that leverage global standards and requirements. Tackling Medicine Shortages Examples of partners Mylan is working with to prevent counterfeiting include: Drug shortages are a challenge across the globe, with several causes that are in some instances • Pharmaceutical Distribution Security Alliance (PDSA) very complex. Mylan is partnering with industry and governments to mitigate the impact on • The Alliance for Global Pharmaceutical Serialization (RxGPS) patients and to find solutions. • Association of Accessible Medicines (AAM) – Supply Chain Taskforce • Medicines for Europe – EFPIA FMD Implementation Workshop A fundamental factor is that the global demand for medicine is increasing significantly, putting extra • Medicines for Europe – FMD Alerts Working Group pressure on manufacturers and supply chains to produce and supply products around the globe. At the same time, governments all over the world are facing the urgent need to manage spending • Medicines for Europe – Anticounterfeit Steering Committee amid increasingly tight budget constraints. Generic medicines have proven to be important in • World Health Organization (WHO) Policy on Traceability Drafting Group addressing both challenges: Generics lower the cost of medicine through increased competition in • Ireland Medicines Verification Organization (IMVO) – Ireland Working Group the marketplace with increased availability of treatments. Alerting stakeholders of potential or known risks associated with However, manufacturers are facing increasing regulatory complexity and costs, as well as, volatile counterfeit products demand and procurement models that often only look at lowest price. The combination can be In the U.S. and EU, suspect and counterfeit reporting systems are integral to the serialization difficult for industry to manage while pursuing the mission of access. regulations. Mylan is a member of the Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI), an organization Tackling medicine shortages in a multi-source context requires a holistic approach that addresses of pharmaceutical manufacturers who collaborate and work together to share intelligence and both the root causes of the problem while also mitigating the impact when a shortage occurs. This information related to counterfeit and diverted pharmaceuticals. As part of the requirements to includes addressing the economic causes of shortages to ensure market predictability and healthy join PSI, Mylan is required to share information with PSI when counterfeit or diverted drugs are competition and also improving regulatory efficiency and managing supply chain information. identified in the marketplace. This is in addition to any standard regulatory requirements that may be required. Mylan has been actively engaged in drug shortage task forces initiated by health authorities to provide context of the supply chain dynamic that can be causing increased drug shortages and We have also worked with our IP legal team to register trademarks with U.S. customs on products potential solutions to minimize shortages. We are also working with a variety of stakeholders to find which may pose a risk to product security. Therefore, we will be notified in the event a questionable a holistic and long-term solution to ensure continued supply and access to medicines. product is seized and could assist and respond appropriately. 64 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA PATIENT HEALTH Examples of customers we serve Our supply chain security program has achieved Tier III status, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s vision for the highest level of Customs – Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C Retail and Institutions Pharmacy -TPAT). Tier III consists of those fully certified, validated C-TPAT partners who exceed the minimum standards and who have adopted C-TPAT best practices. Certified, validated C-TPAT importers using C-TPAT best security practices will be subject to relatively infrequent random inspections. Also, in the past (2014-2015), Mylan participated in the FDA Secure Supply Chain Payers, Pilot Program to contribute to the infrastructure and knowhow of secure supply chains. Wholesalers/ Insurers & Distributors Governments Working for a Stable Supply of Medicine Our more than 40 manufacturing sites, combined with our global supply chain network and the facilities of the many partners with whom we collaborate on manufacturing, development, supply Mail-Order/ and logistics offer a worldwide, strategically located network of robust size and scope. Designed E-commerce Pharmacies to reach more patients with more solutions when and where they need them, our regional supply sites are often in close proximity to our key markets and utilize real-time demand and supply data to leverage capabilities and create efficiency and flexibility across our operations. Mylan’s global supply chain is strategically designed to support the continued growth of our Supporting Appropriate Use of Medications business and to protect the quality and safety of our diverse and increasingly complex products. Helping patients use medicines appropriately and adhere to prescriptions are crucial factors Mylan has a Rapid Response Advanced Planning system, a state-of-the-art technology for in improving health and well-being around the world. Mylan promotes the appropriate use of supply chain planning and management. The program enables Mylan’s many stakeholders to be medicines and has several initiatives aimed at educating patients on medical conditions and closely connected across our global operations. It enables us to update and share information ways to better manage them. We support online portals, websites and mobile applications in real time, allowing us to leverage capacities and resources across key functions such as that offer features ranging from tracking symptoms to reminding patients about refilling commercial, supply chain, warehousing and manufacturing. We look out over a 24-month prescriptions. In addition, some digital solutions provide real-time guidance for healthcare horizon and plan supply to meet both the forecast and safety stock requirements to buffer providers to help them understand a patient’s overall status. against any potential fluctuations in demand or supply. Mylan supports individual dose dispensing across several European countries to increase therapeutic adherence and reduce medication errors, which is particularly important for elderly Distribution patients taking multiple medications. Dose dispensing not only helps an individual patient Mylan’s products make their way to patients through a variety of distribution channels and use medication correctly, it also assists caretakers and healthcare professionals in managing intermediaries, and local laws and customs give rise to different types of pharmaceutical medications more effectively. In addition, Mylan continues to adapt its packaging to include markets (distribution, tender, substitution and prescription). As a result, the customers we work symbols and pictograms that illustrate dosage schedules to make it easier for patients to take with to distribute our medications to patients number in the tens of thousands and include the right doses of medicines at the right time. retail pharmacies; specialty pharmacies; wholesalers and distributors; payers, insurers and governments; and institutions such as hospitals, among others. We work closely with them In 2019, Mylan introduced a special digital dosage calculator in Serbia for the pain and other important collaborators including NGOs, to help create better health for a better medicine Brufen to assist with more accurately administering the suspension to children world by making our products available to patients in countries with varying degrees of income and launched several websites across Europe with comprehensive and consumer-friendly and resources. information about the product. 65 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA EMPLOYEE HEALTH Human Relations Organization and Governance Our People 2017 2018 2019 Mylan Human Relations supports the Mylan’s workforce success of our employees and our Total workers 35,560 35,260 34,240 business by being closely integrated at all levels of the organization. The HR Employees 31,828 31,207 31,180 function focuses on the priority areas of Temporary workers 3,732 4,053 3,060 talent, organizational effectiveness and Workforce by region engagement. This framework allows for North America 21.2% 19.0% 17.8% HR to deliver solutions with specificity at the regional and local levels, while still Europe 27.4% 28.8% 27.6% operating as a global community as it Rest of World 51.4% 52.2% 54.6% executes on its strategy. Full-time equivalent employees by region North America N/A 97.9% 99.9% The company’s Chief Human Relations Officer reports to the CEO and is a Europe N/A 93.2% 93.8% member of the executive governance Rest of World N/A 99.7% 99.8% team. The function provides quarterly Globally N/A 97.4% 98.2% updates to the Compensation Committee of the board and as needed to the full board. Workforce by function Global centers of excellence for Talent and Total Rewards actively define strategies and processes to support local markets. Regional HR leaders are accountable for helping to Operations 58.0% 57.1% 60.1% deploy global and local programs, working closely with our commercial and operational Sales & Marketing 19.7% 21.0% 21.8% functions. Actionable insight and guidance is provided by HR Business Partners who are General & Administrative 13.7% 13.7% 10.2% aligned at all levels by site and business. Scientific Affairs 8.6% 8.2% 7.9% HR support for employee services is provided through channels that include online portals Employees by age group and regional shared service centers. This results in high quality service center support as Under 25 4.2% 4.0% 3.0% evidenced by an average employee satisfaction score of 4.7 on a five-point scale for 2019. 25-34 37.4% 36.9% 35.5% Mylan’s workforce operates under one integrated HR information system, making it easier 35-44 30.4% 30.8% 31.6% to review data holistically so we can make informed decisions that benefit the business and 45-54 19.1% 19.3% 20.1% people everywhere. Efforts to further improve and standardize the employee experience 55-64 8.6% 8.6% 9.3% are ongoing. 65 and over 0.3% 0.4% 0.5% Average age 39.4 34.6 All references to “workers” and “workforce” include employees and temporary workers. 66 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA EMPLOYEE HEALTH Our People 2017 2018 2019 Diversity and Inclusion Mylan is committed to providing a positive, productive work environment that fosters inclusion, Employee gender by region1 Female Male Female Male Female Male integrity, dignity and mutual respect for all. Embracing diverse viewpoints, thinking differently North America 38.2% 61.8% 40.7% 59.3% 40.3% 59.7% and challenging the status quo all support our ability to understand and meet patients’ needs and set new standards in healthcare. Europe 55.3% 44.7% 54.9% 45.1% 55.9% 44.1% Rest of World2 11.9% 88.1% 13.8% 86.2% 15.9% 84.1% We are an equal opportunity employer that embraces what makes our people unique including, but not limited to, gender, sexual orientation, age, race/ethnicity, color, religion, national origin, Globally 28.3% 71.7% 29.8% 70.2% 31.3% 68.7% physical or mental disability, or any other characteristic protected by law. Our global policy Board diversity3 36.0% 64.0% 33.3% 66.7% 30.8% 69.2% prohibiting discrimination, harassment and retaliation is reflected in our practices for managing talent, recruitment and hiring, transfers and promotions, training and compensation. People managers by gender1 26.0% 74.0% 26.8% 73.2% 29.0% 71.0% All employees are trained on Mylan’s global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that % of female employees responsible 14.6% articulates Mylan’s prohibitions against discrimination, harassment and retaliation. Employees for managing people as a percentage 14.0% 13.1% of total female population1,4 who believe they have been subject to discrimination, harassment or retaliation can contact their supervisor or Human Relations representative, the Legal department or the Compliance % of male employees responsible for department. They can also anonymously report any concerns using Mylan’s Compliance Line. managing people as a percentage of 16.0% 15.8% 16.3% total male population1,4 Compensation and Benefits % of senior management that is N/A 19.1% 18.0% female1 Mylan has a competitive compensation framework that provides salaries, wages and benefits Career progression by gender1 aligned with the market. We also maintain shortand long-term incentive programs to % of female employees with career effectively retain and reward talent. Incentive programs include performance-based annual cash N/A N/A 22.8% progression bonuses, sales incentive compensation programs and equity grants, each designed to drive % of male employees with career the continued development of our business, recognize achievements, create shareholder value N/A N/A 22.3% and encourage behaviors expected of leaders. We actively manage our incentive programs to progression ensure they are dynamic enough to attract key talent, motivate people to accomplish our stated 1 Based on Mylan’s HR information system. 2 64.2% made up of manufacturing employees in India. goals and objectives, and retain our employees, our most important asset. 3 Includes CEO Heather Bresch. 4 As a percentage of total female and male population, respectively. During the annual compensation review process, Mylan managers evaluate employee All references to “workers” and “workforce” include employees and temporary workers. performance and total compensation. We also overlay a review of gender to ensure employees in the same job and performance level are aligned to the same compensation package. We continue to ensure our compensation programs are competitive, consistent and incentivize the continued growth of our business. 67 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA EMPLOYEE HEALTH Commitment to Managing Reorganizations Responsibly Recognizing Freedom of Association Mylan recognizes and respects the rights of employees to have access to representation We are committed to managing reorganizations responsibly and communicating with and collective bargaining. Around the world, we have a significant number of employees in employees to support them in times of change. We carefully assess employee expertise and manufacturing, commercial and corporate functions who are represented and covered by skill sets to best position employees for the future. In 2019, Mylan enhanced its severance plan collective agreements. We engage with employee representatives globally and strive to maintain and global guidelines for impacted employees; this may include pay and benefit continuation as productive relationships with them as we do with all employees. well as outplacement services and, where applicable, tuition assistance, retraining, job search allowances, moving allowances and other support. Involving Employee Representatives Our People 2017 2018 2019 We are committed to informing and consulting with employee representatives and routinely Employee turnover rate overall 17.8% 16.7% 10.7% obtain their input, particularly regarding the work environment, employee safety and providing Voluntary overall 7.4% wages, benefits, and terms and conditions of employment aligned with the market. Voluntary male1 N/A 8.3% 6.8% Health and Safety Management Information Voluntary female1 N/A 8.9% 8.3% Involuntary overall 2.2% Management System and Governance Involuntary male1 N/A 5.9% 1.6% Our Global Health and Safety Policy and Global EHS Management System along with our technical standards provide a foundation for our work to create a safe and healthy workplace Involuntary female1 N/A 4.5% 2.0% for Mylan employees, contractors and visitors. They guide us in our efforts to implement Other overall 1.1% industry best practices and are key in ensuring we meet health and safety compliance requirements. Other male1,2 N/A 2.3% 0.9% The Global EHS Management System is implemented at all operational sites worldwide. Our Other female1,2 N/A 1.7% 1.3% technical standards establish global minimum operating requirements for a variety of safety and New hire rate overall N/A 15.3% 11.2% environmental activities and topics including emergency response, work at height, bloodborne By male 1 N/A 14.1% 10.2% pathogens, electrical safety, hazardous energy, fire prevention, personal protective equipment, By female 1 N/A 16.3% 12.6% machine guarding and chemical storage, among others. Our technical standards program includes a five-year continuous improvement strategy that began in 2015. Each year, we Average male employee tenure1 N/A 7.5 years 7.4 years conduct self-assessments on the standards to ensure alignment with the five-year plan. Average female employee N/A 8.4 years 7.6 years tenure1 Implementing these standards helps ensure compliance with applicable regulations in the % employee engagement3 N/A 70% 71% countries where we operate, in addition to filling gaps where certain regulations may not exist. 1 Based on Mylan’s HR information system. 2 Reasons include retirement, mutual agreement and others. 3 See Employee Health: 2019 Highlights. 68 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA EMPLOYEE HEALTH The Global EHS Function is integrated across the organization and reports into the Chief Internal and External Audits Operating Officer (COO), who oversees EHS performance and initiatives. These efforts include We routinely conduct assessments and internal and external on-site audits, including reviews of health and safety programs such as industrial hygiene, occupational toxicology, emergency our data, systems and programs. The frequency of assessments and audits is established per preparedness, facility design guidance, risk assessment, incident management, personal a risk-based approach which incorporates EHS performance trends, facility design, regulatory protective equipment, confined space, chemical management and serious and fatal incident compliance and other EHS program requirements. prevention. Vertical leadership are also key members of our EHS Governance Committee. Their commitment and drive within their respected businesses is a key component of our EHS For more details on Mylan’s EHS management and governance, please see p. 52-53 and 70. programs and performance. The COO reports to the president and is a member of Mylan’s executive governance committee. Proactive Incident Prevention We aim to continuously improve our safety programs and to keep safety at front of mind. Our Incident Prevention Opportunity (IPO) program promotes the identification and correction One way we do this is through Safety Excellence programs that we have launched at many of potential hazards. It enables employees to report safety concerns and encourages every of our facilities in Europe, India and North America. These programs include safety leadership employee to participate by setting site and department specific targets and goals each year that workshops with site senior leaders and supervisors where topics such as the role of leadership are monitored monthly. and safety excellence leadership behaviors are discussed. Our Serious and Fatal Incident Prevention (SFIP) Program further identifies the potential for We are committed to being transparent on Mylan’s health and safety efforts and performance. incidents to be more severe and ensures that we proactively address these possible conditions We report externally on an annual basis and communicate both internally and externally and outcomes with effective controls. throughout the year to promote general awareness on health and safety issues as well as to inform about Mylan’s work. Health and Safety* 2017 2018 2019 We strive to keep our facilities resilient and secure, especially those vulnerable to natural Total Recordable Incident disaster. Risk engineering and emergency response planning are vital components of our EHS Rate (Recordable cases per 0.51 0.52 0.67 programs and across our operations we have well-trained emergency response teams and 200,000 hours worked) technology to respond quickly should an incident occur. When a natural disaster strikes, Mylan Total DART Incident Rate1 and its partners will endeavor to protect our sites and resume production as soon as possible, (DART cases per 200,000 0.39 0.39 0.47 always keeping safety top of mind. hours worked) Total Lost Time Incident Rate Health and Safety* 2017 2018 2019 (Lost time cases per 200,000 0.29 0.34 0.41 hours worked) Number of sites certified to 5 12 12 OHSAS 18001 Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 Number of sites certified to N/A 2 4 1 Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees. Assuming the average employee works 2,000 hours per year, 100 the British Safety Council employees equals 200,000 hours worked. *Data as of January 2020. Information may be restated due to the availability of additional data. Includes data for manufacturing, *Data as of January 2020. Information may be restated due to the availability of additional data. packaging, research & development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control. Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control. 69 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA EMPLOYEE HEALTH Safety Training Through extensive training, Mylan’s employees and contractors receive information and knowledge to assist them in performing activities safely and without harm to themselves or others. We require employees to take safety courses based on job responsibilities and regulatory requirements including topics such as emergency response, hazardous energy, confined space, powered industrial trucks, personal protective equipment and many others. Global or regional training campaigns are also conducted and have included topics such as fall prevention, incident prevention opportunities and situational awareness. Training is administered through our online MyUniversity platform as electronic learning, classroom training or practical training and are translated to local or native languages. Contractor Safety Our commitment to safety extends beyond our employees. Across all locations, protecting the safety of our contractors and visitors is part of our EHS management system. Contractors and visitors are covered by EHS policies and procedures applicable at their specific sites. We have established guidelines and expectations for contractor safety management, prescreening and training. Contractor safety performance is tracked and included in our contractor safety metrics. We have not experienced any work-related fatalities among contractors since 2017. 70 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH Management System and Governance Governance, Monitoring and Reporting Mylan’s Global Environmental Stewardship Policy and Global Environmental, Health and The Global EHS function is integrated across the organization and reports into the chief Safety (EHS) Management System provide the foundation of Mylan’s comprehensive work to operating officer (COO). The COO reports to the president and chairs Mylan’s EHS Governance reduce our environmental impact and help ensure that we meet environmental compliance Committee, overseeing programs, performance and initiatives, including environmental requirements. programs on energy, climate change and water management. The Global EHS team oversees the data collection, management and monitoring of climate-related activities through a global database and system. The team also monitors relevant environmental issues and opportunities The EHS Management System builds on a four step cycle for continuous improvement: – including climate change impacts – and reports relevant information to the COO and the Global Social Responsibility Advisory Committee. PLAN: IMPLEMENT: CHECK: IMPROVE: Identify how we Close the gaps. Measure or Decide how Working collaboratively with operations and business unit leaders, the Global EHS team can close gaps confirm that we can get between where we we have better. leverages technical expertise across multiple disciplines, including environmental management, are versus where succeeded. health and safety, industrial hygiene, occupational toxicology, training, process safety and we should be. information technology (IT) systems. We monitor and track many elements of our environmental performance allowing us to manage data, oversee results and identify risks and opportunities. Our IT systems include custom built The Global EHS Management System supports systematic identification of continuous databases, tools, dashboards and reports that drive EHS compliance and identification of key improvement opportunities and industry best practices. Mylan’s technical standards establish trends, opportunities and information. global minimum operating requirements for a variety of environmental and safety activities. Implementing these standards helps ensure compliance with applicable regulations in the We are committed to being transparent regarding Mylan’s environmental efforts and countries and locations where we operate, in addition to filling gaps where certain regulations performance. We report externally on an annual basis and communicate throughout the year may not exist. to contribute to general awareness on environmental issues as well as to inform internal and external stakeholders about Mylan’s work. Our environmental programs, guidelines and technical standards cover waste management, wastewater management and discharge, incident management, chemical management, facility design, ozone depleting substances, air emissions, pharmaceuticals in the environment and environmental hazard assessments of products. Forty-five percent of Mylan’s manufacturing 90% of Mylan’s API sites are ISO 14001 certified for environmental management systems. manufacturing facilities1 External Certifications 2017 2018 2019 are ISO 14001 certified 90% Number of sites certified to 12 20 20 for environmental ISO 14001 Number of sites certified to management systems. 7 8 8 ISO 50001 1 All API manufacturing facilities in India are certified. 71 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH Internal and External EHS Audits GHG Emissions and Climate Change Internal assessment and audit are core components of our EHS management approach and Protecting our employees, our products, our facilities and the environment has always been serve several purposes, including identifying risks to employees, the environment and the a long-standing priority for Mylan. As part of those efforts, we also evaluate regulatory company; fostering continuous improvement; and promoting knowledge transfer. We routinely and physical risks and opportunities associated with the effect of climate change across conduct assessments and on-site audits, including reviews of our systems, procedures, our operations. Mylan’s ability to maintain operations and support the local community in programs and data. Every Mylan site has a 1to 5-year auditing frequency, with the actual Puerto Rico when Hurricane Maria hit in 2017 is a relevant example of effective planning, risk schedule established per a risk-based approach which incorporates EHS performance mitigation, and building resilience from the impact of extreme weather. trends, facility design, regulatory compliance and other EHS program requirements. In case of observations, the audited facility develops and implements action plans, which are tracked by We are committed to responsible energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions management the EHS function. through strategic energy sourcing and on-going improvement of our energy management systems. We continuously evaluate and identify opportunities to lower our energy demand usage and decrease GHG emissions. Examples of efforts undertaken are the phase out of Environmental Risk Management ozone depleting substances and energy sourcing and reliability for manufacturing. Environmental risks are evaluated for our products, processes and facilities. Through Mylan Individual operation sites have set various shortpolicies, the Global EHS Management System and technical standards, each site is required to utilize EHS risk assessments using a formal process to analyze environmental, health and term strategies that support Mylan’s overall Our renewable energy commitment and several initiatives have been safety risks and maintain continuous improvement plans. These plans include improving implemented throughout the organization. These consumption grew by 25% in 2019 water management, increasing recycling efforts, mitigating climate change risks including include: increasing the purchase of renewable management of ozone depleting substances, GHG emission, improving energy efficiencies and energy, utilizing alternative fuel sources and data management. fugitive emission reductions, and phasing out Other environmental risk management areas of focus include: ozone depleting substances (as required). Several of our operations sites are systematically looking for ways to improve energy management and efficiencies by implementing energy • Waste efficiency and emissions reduction projects. • Water scarcity analysis using World Resource Institute Aqueduct tool We performed energy assessments at key operational locations in 2019 to identify energy • Wastewater treatment and discharge efficiency and emission reduction opportunities to help drive additional targets and initiatives • Regulated air emissions with respect to energy and climate change. Mylan will continue to evaluate its baseline data • GHG emissions and climate change outlined herein to identify potential opportunities and strategies that may have a direct or • Pharmaceuticals in the environment including antimicrobial resistance indirect impact on climate change. We will continue to conduct energy assessments at key locations in 2020. We have completed more than 683 environmental hazard assessments of our products since implementing the program in 2016. The evaluation criteria were based on sources such as the We recognize the need for relevant information on management of risks and opportunities U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Stockholm County Council, European Medicines related to climate change through the enhanced disclosure recommendations from the Task Agency, the European Union’s CLP (classification, labeling and packaging) standards and Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have begun incorporating its third-party experts. Products and compounds are compared to the criteria and classified as recommendations into our energy and climate change strategies and disclosures. We have representing low, moderate or high risk. Assessments then are compared to internal guidance reported to the CDP climate program since 2017. Our current CDP climate change score is B. documents to determine appropriate levels of control within our manufacturing processes. Mylan’s climate data as reported to the CDP is subject to third party verification. 72 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH Energy Purchased Waste Management 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (GWh) Mylan’s companywide EHS waste management standards, along with industry regulations, govern specific handling, treatment, storage and disposal of all waste. Each waste stream is Total energy use 548 559 572 592 611 reviewed and evaluated to determine the best treatment method. Waste treatment methods are selected based on the type of waste treatment requirements and internal standards. We Renewable energy sources 16 36 56 72 90 strive to use recycling, reuse and energy recovery options, including waste-to-energy facilities, Non-renewable energy cement kilns and fuel-blending facilities where possible to treat waste. Converting waste to 532 522 516 520 521 sources energy contributes to the substitution of fossil fuel at these facilities. We strive to reduce or Energy Intensity Ratio eliminate the amount of waste sent to landfills and are looking to continue to increase our 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.05 (GWh / million USD revenue) number of zero landfill sites. Greenhouse Gas Waste Management 2017 2018 2019 Emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (thousand tonnes) (thousand tonnes CO2e) Total waste generated 56 58 69 Total GHG Emissions 653 661 670 676 670 Hazardous waste 36 39 45 Scope 1 GHG emissions 299 315 326 325 316 Non-hazardous waste 19 19 24 Scope 2 GHG emissions 354 346 344 351 354 (market-based) Percentage of waste Total GHG Emissions Intensity recycled or sent to energy 68% 70% 74% Ratio (tonnes CO2e / million USD 69 60 56 59 58 recovery revenue) Significant spills 0 0 0 • 2015 is base year for total GHG emissions. • Scope 2 emissions are based on market-based method. • Where applicable, prior year data have been restated due to improved data quality. • Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct • Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational operational control. control. • Data from 2015–2019 have been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the • Some data include estimates and may be updated at a later time when more accurate data is available. methodology prescribed in the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol. • Excludes data and sources from commercial, employee travel and commutes, small administrative/lab sites, small warehouses and other business transportation. • Data do not include process emissions from manufacturing or emissions from insignificant sources such as welding gases, lab gases, fire extinguishers, dry ice, etc. • All solvent combustion in air pollution control devices in Scope 1 emissions is treated as ethanol. • 2019 GHG emissions data has been verified by a third-party to a reasonable level of assurance using the methodology of the GHG Protocol issued by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute. The 2017 and 2018 data was previously verified by a third-party but has since been restated due to acquisitions and new and more accurate emission factors and has not been reverified at this time. • Where applicable, prior year data have been restated due to improved data quality. • Some data include estimates and may be updated at a later time when more accurate data are available. 73 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH Water and Wastewater Management Water Use Responsible wastewater treatment is a key topic for our industry and Mylan is committed to & Discharge 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 leading by example. We recognize that water is a scarce resource in some of the communities Summary where we live and work and are committed to working proactively to protect water resources (thousand m3) and continue to improve our water management practices and systems. We perform water risk Total water supply 3,130 3,162 3,270 3,306 3,263 assessments and all operations sites are periodically audited to ensure compliance with local regulatory and internal standards. Total water recycled 133 370 424 467 475 and reused Our teams work to identify opportunities to improve water management within our highly regulated industry, which often presents many restrictions and limitations related to items such Total water discharged 1,717 1,650 1,650 1,592 1,573 as reuse of water in production. Sites with zero liquid discharge (ZLD) 6 7 9 10 10 The production requirements of our operations, coupled with local regulations and systems infrastructure, guide the type of water and wastewater management applied. We implement • Where applicable, prior year data have been restated due to improved data quality. appropriate controls, technologies and containment strategies to minimize the amount of • Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control. potential pharmaceutical ingredients that could enter the wastewater. • Total wastewater discharge includes sanitary/domestic sewage. • Some data include estimates and may be updated at a later time when more accurate data is available. All wastewater streams are then treated to ensure compliance with local regulatory and internal standards. In India, multiple sites apply zero liquid discharge (ZLD) technology that eliminates Water Use by wastewater discharge. To ensure our ZLD-equipped plants continue to operate effectively, we Sources 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 conducted independent, third-party assessments on some ZLD facilities and will continue to (thousand m3) conduct additional evaluations. Mylan maintains all applicable permits and authorizations for Municipal / Third 3,050 3,082 3,174 3,186 3,155 wastewater discharge with governing authorities and complies with all local discharge limits. party On-site borewell 73 73 89 112 100 Rainwater 2 2 2 2 1 Other 5 5 5 5 3 • Where applicable, prior year data have been restated due to improved data quality. • Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control. • Some data include estimates and may be updated at a later time when more accurate data is available. • 2019 Water Supply and Wastewater Discharge were verified by a third-party to a reasonable level of assurance. 74 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH Air Emissions Mitigating Antimicrobial Resistance Mylan is committed to reducing emissions to the air and we use the companywide EHS Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) continues to be a major global public health problem negatively program to identify, track, monitor and control relevant emissions, per industry standards and impacting the lives of hundreds of thousands each year. Mitigating AMR requires a holistic regulatory guidelines. Our facilities are equipped with air emission control devices as required approach and multi-stakeholder cooperation to address issues such as universal access to to manage regulated air pollutants. Examples include high-efficiency dust collection, HEPA antimicrobials, appropriate use, surveillance, stewardship and responsible manufacturing. filtration, electrostatic precipitation, primary and secondary condensers, multi-stage filtration and recirculation systems, process scrubber technology and regenerative thermal oxidizers. Mylan is a signatory to the Davos Declaration on combating AMR and a founding board member of the AMR Industry Alliance. Mylan has adopted the AMR Industry Alliance Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework and is an active member of its manufacturing working group. Pharmaceuticals in the Environment The Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework provides a common methodology to assess The primary pathways for pharmaceuticals entering the environment from human use are by potential risk from antibiotic discharges and take appropriate action when necessary.3 normal patient excretion and improper disposal of medicine by consumers1 in addition to the use of pharmaceuticals in agriculture. A significantly smaller contribution stems from emissions As part of this commitment, the AMR Industry Alliance developed a unified approach to resulting from the pharmaceutical manufacturing process, which is attributed to less than 2% of establishing discharge targets for antibiotic manufacturing, referred to as Predicted No Effect the overall contribution.2 Concentrations (PNECs) for use in environmental risk assessments of antibiotics. Mylan conducts risk assessments using the discharge target values published by the AMR Industry While gaps remain in the scientific link between pharmaceuticals in the environment and Alliance to assess potential risk of release of antibiotics from production, and if needed, takes human health risk, we are committed to reducing pharmaceuticals discharged from our corrective action. manufacturing operations. Mylan’s approach to addressing and minimizing the potential impact of pharmaceuticals in the environment (PiE) from our own manufacturing is based on a wide More information on Mylan’s efforts to mitigate AMR are presented on p. 37 and 43. range of activities and governance: External initiatives that Mylan engages on regarding manufacturing and the environment: • Risk and Impact Evaluation • CDP • Risk Reduction and Control • AMR Industry Alliance • Engagement and Policy – Board Member Mylan is an active participant in the Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship Inter-Association Initiative, a – Manufacturing Work Group cross-industry collaboration on environmental issues such as responsible effluent management and appropriate disposal of unused medicine. • Medicines for Europe – Environment, Health and Safety Work Group • Inter Association Initiative on Pharmaceutical in the Environment (IAI PiE) Task Force • BDMA 1 Royal Society of Chemistry: Sources of Pharmaceutical Residues in the Environment and their Control 2 Executive Agency for Health and Consumers: Study on the environmental risks of medicinal products 3 AMR Industry Alliance: Responsible Manufacturing 2020 Progress Report 75 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA GSR OVERSIGHT & ETHICS COMPLIANCE Risk Governance and Management Mylan is committed to operating ethically and with integrity and seeks to apply a holistic, Mylan’s Balanced Pricing Model enterprise-wide approach to risk management. We are subject to a number of risks inherent in the complex and rapidly changing environment in which we operate including, but not limited to, Given our long history of providing high quality, low-cost generic pharmaceuticals, we global operations, environment and social responsibility. Mylan’s management and employees are uniquely situated to work with customers, payors, non-governmental organizations implement and administer risk management processes to identify material risks to our business.1 (NGOs) and other partners to find solutions and meet the needs of the patients and Management assesses, monitors and manages those risks, all while maintaining flexibility in families we serve. We also have a strong track record of developing new products, how we operate. To further embed risk management and compliance into our culture, Mylan particularly complex and difficult-to-formulate medicines, and are committed to making implements policies and procedures and trains employees on how to comply with them. Mylan’s safe, high quality products accessible to patients across all income levels. board and its committees rigorously review key risks with management. With respect to Mylan’s generic portfolio, we offer thousands of affordable products Mylan’s enterprise risk management (ERM) and business continuity process and associated at a fraction of the price of the equivalent innovator medicine. The prices of these programs are supported by multiple functional areas including Global Internal Audit, Global drugs often decrease every year. As negotiations occur with our customers or as we Information Technology, Global Compliance, Global EHS, Global Security, Finance, Quality participate in tender programs or public-private partnerships around the globe, we will and Product Safety. Global Internal Audit and Global Compliance report into the Audit and continue to do so based on an assessment of supply, demand, patient need and the Compliance Committees of the Board of Directors, respectively. Other stakeholders support affordability of our products, especially as it relates to the equivalent brand name drug. the company’s ERM activities as needed. These programs are designed to ensure that Mylan As it pertains to our brand portfolio, Mylan is committed to pricing its products in a way is prepared to respond to a variety of events that may adversely impact the business, such as that reflects their value to patients and providers. Mylan will endeavor to not raise the legal or regulatory matters, supply disruptions, environmental events, including those related to prices of our branded products more than once per calendar year; however, we will climate change (e.g., flooding, drought, extreme temperatures, severe storms) or other significant assess the prices of our products on a regular basis. Our aim is for any price increases business interruptions. to be reasonable in light of relevant factors, including current economic indicators and By embedding our ERM processes into the company’s strategic planning process, we optimize the state of the overall business marketplace. The socioeconomic conditions within our ability to identify and manage risks, while also identifying and leveraging opportunities. each market where Mylan does business are inherently considered as part of our We conduct a periodic enterprise risk assessment, which is a significant component of the generic and brand pricing assessments, as is the importance of sustaining our ability to company’s ERM program, to identify key and emerging risks. Our GSR priority assessment consistently provide patients in each market with the quality products needed. This is informs the periodic enterprise risk assessment and ultimately the company’s risk profile. reflected in our ability to provide ~62 billion doses of medicine in 2019 to more than 165 countries and territories around the world at an average price of 18 cents per dose. As we continue to expand into new geographies — potentially with increased risk profiles – safeguarding integrity in business conduct and our assets is critical. Mylan has well-established procedures to identify, manage and monitor risks as part of expanding our business. More specifically, risks associated with expansion into new geographies is an element of our ERM In connection with its oversight responsibilities, the Compliance Committee of program which is leveraged by Global Internal Audit in determining areas over which it will perform audits. Mylan’s Board of Directors reviews global compliance-related policies relating to pricing and commercialization of the company’s products and services. 1 For more detailed information about the risks and uncertainties associated with our business activities, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2019. 76 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA GSR OVERSIGHT & ETHICS COMPLIANCE Responsible Marketing and Promotion Cultivating Good Conduct and Compliance Mylan employees often interact with members of the healthcare community as part of Everyone at Mylan – and those acting on our behalf – is personally responsible and accountable their efforts to educate on the appropriate use and efficacy of Mylan’s products. These for the company’s reputation and dedication to doing business with integrity. Mylan works interactions are important and fundamental to increasing patient access but may bring to provide the adequate procedures and guidance to support that individual responsibility. elevated risk. Mylan’s Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Professionals (HCPs) Mylan’s Chief Administrative and Compliance Officer has the operational responsibility to instruct employees on proper behavior when engaging with HCPs. The guidelines are ensure Mylan’s Corporate Compliance Program is effective and robust and directs its daygrounded in Mylan’s companywide standards and take into consideration local laws and to-day implementation. To ensure broad perspectives and independence in the Compliance regulations. Any member of Mylan’s workforce who interacts with HCPs are trained on Office, Mylan’s Chief Administrative and Compliance Officer reports to the board’s Compliance the standards and are required to comply with them. Additionally, employees are trained Committee and the Chief Executive Officer. in Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which also addresses interactions with healthcare professionals. A summary of Mylan’s Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Mylan’s Compliance department is organized by operating regions and Global Centers of Professionals is provided on Mylan.com. Excellence (CoE) to efficiently support the organization. The Compliance department and Mylan’s Global Compliance Program are structured in a manner consistent with the Office of Inspector We have well established global, regional and local policies and procedures that inform General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) Resource Guide for employees on appropriate interactions with the healthcare community and requirements Measuring Compliance Program Effectiveness. The Chief Administrative and Compliance Officer pertaining to drug promotion and ethical marketing. Risk leads three global CoE that support Mylan’s global operating regions and business. A senior assessments and employee training are key components Promotional activities leader manages each respective CoE, which focuses on policies, training and communications, of each. We strive to comply with regulations and adhere global compliance risk, audit and due diligence, and investigations. The Compliance department and materials to ethical standards set forth by Mylan and industry oversees the development, maintenance and recordkeeping of global policies and procedures, associations. must never involve and performs various periodic and needs-based operational audits throughout the year, often in promotion of conjunction with Internal Audit. Mylan’s Global Policy for the Marketing and Advertising drugs for off-label Review Council requires the establishment of local In 2019, Mylan: procedures to ensure that all promotional materials and indications, uses, other commercial communications are reviewed and doses or populations. ✔ Updated our: approved internally by appropriate subject matter experts. o Global Policy on Records and Information Management, as well as implemented a unified, companywide records retention schedule; • The goal of the local review procedures implemented under the policy is to ensure o Insider Trading Policy; that all materials and communications intended for promotional or commercial puro Privacy Policies (Data Protection Policy, Fair Processing Notice, and the Privacy poses are accurate, truthful, medically and scientifically sound, not misleading, and Shield Policy) to ensure Brexit readiness. compliant with all applicable marketing, legal, regulatory and medical requirements ✔ Continued to review the definition of compliance-related matters in consideration of and company policies. relevant guidance to assess risk more effectively. • These local procedures include clear review processes, risk assessments and ✔ Continued to enhance Mylan’s employee data protection and privacy policies, processes compliance monitoring as part of Mylan’s compliance program and enterprise risk and training to ensure compliance with the evolving Global Data Protection Regulation management. (GDPR) and other privacy regulatory requirements. ✔ Evaluated the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Criminal Division’s updated guidance against Mylan’s Program elements using a risk-based approach to clarify and streamline requirements wherever possible. ✔ Successfully completed all year-two requirements under Mylan Inc. and Mylan Specialty L.P.’s Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG and submitted our annual report. 77 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA GSR OVERSIGHT & ETHICS COMPLIANCE Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines guiding principles on how employees and those working on our behalf should conduct themselves. It also informs on policies and standards while providing high-level guidance on critical areas of the company’s business operations. We require and provide dedicated training on anti-corruption, fair competition and Mylan’s Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Providers (for employees with relevant job responsibilities). Vendors that may interact with government officials on our behalf also receive anti-corruption training. Depending on their role, part-time employees and contractors are required to take subsets of the trainings listed above. We require employees to certify that they have read, understand and agree to comply with Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. GOAL: Maintain and communicate ACCOMPLISHMENT: 97% trained in 2019 Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and train at least 90% of employees on the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics GOAL: Maintain and communicate ACCOMPLISHMENT: 97% trained in 2019 Mylan’s Anti-Corruption Policy and train at least 90% of Mylan’s applicable employees on the company’s AntiCorruption Policy and related laws Training topics include but are not limited to: GOAL: Maintain and communicate ACCOMPLISHMENT: 96% trained in 2019 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Fair Employment Practices and Recognizing Mylan’s Fair Competition Policy and and Preventing Harassment, Discrimination and train at least 90% of Mylan’s applicable Anti-Corruption Retaliation C-TPAT (Customs – Trade Partnership employees on the company’s Fair Against Terrorism) Fair Competition, Anti-Trust and Pricing Competition Policy Requirements General Privacy Overview Supplier Code of Conduct Engaging Healthcare Professionals as Consultants, Advisory Board Members Standards for Interactions with Healthcare and External Speakers Professionals (including locally specific content for sales representatives, as necessary) Records & Information Management and Good Documentation Practices Mylan’s Corporate Integrity Agreement General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 78 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA RESPONDING TO THE U.S. OPIOID EPIDEMIC Throughout our history, Mylan has worked to help address some of the world’s most pressing public health issues, and the opioid crisis facing Americans is no exception. Mylan recognizes the scope of this issue and is committed to doing its part to help in the nationwide fight against opioid addiction, abuse and misuse. Mylan’s opioid products in the U.S. are almost exclusively generics, which typically are automatically substituted for branded products by pharmacies. Mylan’s generic opioid products consist of pain relievers that provide important therapeutic benefits for appropriate patient populations when prescribed and used responsibly, and products indicated for the treatment of opioid dependence (such as generic suboxone). Mylan also has a single branded opioid product, ULTIVA™, an intravenous anesthesia medication administered exclusively and directly by healthcare providers in surgery-center, in-patient settings. Mylan has a very limited role in the U.S. opioid market and is not promoting or marketing these products. We supply on average approximately 1% of opioid-containing drug products sold, according to IQVIA data for 2016-2019. Furthermore, Mylan’s total net sales of opioid-containing drugs in the U.S. made up only 2.5% of its sales in 2019. Excluding Mylan’s generic suboxone and its branded Ultiva product, Mylan’s sales of opioid-containing products only make up approximately 1% of Mylan’s sales in the U.S. Despite its limited role in the United States opioid market, Mylan – given its leadership position within the generic pharmaceutical industry and its extensive scientific capabilities – is committed to finding ways to be part of the long-term solution to this challenge. Indeed – as noted above – Mylan offers products that are used to treat opioid dependence. Moreover, in 2014, Mylan launched a generic, injectable, single-vial version of naloxone, a product that is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of opioid depression induced by natural and synthetic opioids, as well as for diagnosis of suspected or known acute opioid overdosage. In the summer of 2016, the Company expanded its offerings of this important therapy by launching a multiple-vial version of naloxone. The U.S. Surgeon General, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Food and Drug Administration have each publicly recognized naloxone as a critical tool for individuals, families, first responders and communities to help reduce opioid overdose deaths. Mylan stands ready to continue to provide reliable supply of and access to naloxone, including through a commitment to develop an auto-injector drug-device combination naloxone product. In 2019, Mylan launched a generic, combination product of buprenorphine and naloxone (generic suboxone) – which is indicated for the treatment of opioid dependence and should be used as part of a complete treatment plan to include counseling and psychosocial support. When the FDA announced its approval of Mylan’s generic suboxone sublingual film product, then-FDA Commissioner Gottlieb stated: “The FDA is taking new steps to advance the development of improved treatments for opioid use disorder, and to make sure these medicines are accessible to patients who need them. That includes . . . facilitating market entry of generic versions of approved drugs to help ensure broader access.” (See press release here). Mylan’s commitment to being part of the long-term solution to the opioids crisis goes beyond the product offerings described above. As yet another example of Mylan’s commitment, Mylan’s Board of Directors published a report in 2019 to provide Mylan’s stakeholders with additional information regarding, among other things, the steps that Mylan has taken and will continue to take to ensure the safe and approved use of its opioid-based medications. The full report can be accessed on Mylan’s website. 79 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA GSR OVERSIGHT & ETHICS COMPLIANCE Fighting Corruption and Promoting Fair Competition Mylan’s anti-corruption program is based on the elements of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Resource Guide to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the U.K. Ministry of Justice Bribery Act 2010 Guidance; and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Good Practice Guidance on Internal Controls, Ethics and Compliance, as well as the local laws where we operate. Our Global Anti-Corruption Policy strictly forbids bribery and corruption in any form anywhere we do business. The policy defines bribery and corruption, including facilitation payments, which are strictly prohibited even where permitted under law. Mylan has monitoring and auditing procedures in place to identify and deter such payments. We reassess our anti-corruption program periodically and make updates as warranted. Training is provided for employees as applicable to educate them on what constitutes bribery, corruption and facilitation payments as well as where the risk exposure may be elevated. The training also guides employees on what constitutes acceptable behavior and how to seek support when questions arise. Mylan provides several options for personnel to submit concerns or seek guidance: either online or via telephone, mail, or email. They are very welcome to reach out to their manager, specific departments, their local Compliance Officer, or use the Compliance Line. Reporting Compliance Concerns Mylan encourages open communication, provides a variety of channels for reporting potential As part of these procedures, Mylan monitors any case of suspected conflict of interest. Each compliance violations and strictly prohibits retaliation of any reports made in good faith. identified case is investigated and if concerns remain after investigation, actions are taken as appropriate. • Employees are encouraged to discuss compliance matters with their supervisor, Human Relations, the Legal department, their local compliance officer or the Global Compliance As part of Mylan’s ERM program, Internal Audit assesses anti-corruption and anti-fraud department. management over entities throughout the world from a corruption risk perspective. Size (the • They also can use Mylan’s Compliance Line, which is operated by an external party. It is number of people and sales volume) and a country’s ranking in the Transparency International available 24/7 and permits anonymous reports in all countries in local languages where permitted by law. Corruption Perception Index (CPI) are key to informing the risk profile of an entity. Entities identified as higher risk along with those of strategic importance to Mylan are a particular focus. • For investigating, resolving and remediating reported events, our Global Policy on Reporting and Investigating Compliance-Related Matters outlines a clear process that includes: Further, we monitor business activities that are deemed an elevated risk – such as HCP o a thorough, impartial and timely investigation of each report in coordination with Human interactions – through established internal processes and controls. Our procedures also Relations, our Legal department and other functions as appropriate; and address our business partners. o fair and consistent disciplinary measures, when necessary. • The policy is available to all employees on the company’s intranet. Compliance and its partners seek to maintain confidentiality throughout the investigation process and to help Ensuring Good Conduct in External Partnerships ensure that good faith reporters do not suffer negative employment actions as a result of External partners sometimes act as intermediaries on our behalf or in settings where special their allegations. skills or expertise are required. Given their role, it’s essential these partners comply with Mylan’s ethical and anti-corruption standards and act with good judgment. 80 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA GSR OVERSIGHT & ETHICS COMPLIANCE The Compliance department identifies business partner categories that may carry higher In 2019, we expanded Mylan’s Council for Sustainable Sourcing to include members from inherent corruption and/or reputational risk. These partners, noted during the business contract Global Environmental Health and Safety, Commercial and Global Social Responsibility – in drafting and approval process, are subject to a risk review depending on the aggregated risk addition to the members of Mylan’s sourcing leadership team. This group will continue to: factors assigned, as well as other Mylan compliance standards. Those identified as having an • Provide guidance and direction for sustainable sourcing; elevated risk are subject to a due diligence process including investigation and clarification of • Develop policy, practice and reporting of sustainable sourcing; discovered legal, civil and reputational allegations or convictions. Anti-corruption language, • Instill the culture of sustainable sourcing within sourcing teams; right-to-audit clauses and ethical expectations are included in Mylan contracts. Any potentially high-risk business partners undergo a due diligence review and annual monitoring. Mylan also • Set annual sustainable sourcing goals and objectives; has a process to train business partners who interact with government officials on Mylan’s • Develop, implement and monitor compliance of sustainable sourcing policies and metrics; and behalf on our Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures. • Continue to expand our focus on Green Procurement. This year the sourcing team also executed on commitments to support Mylan’s larger GSR Building Sustainable Supplier Relations efforts by continuing to build-out our sustainable sourcing program focused on the following Mylan relies on its suppliers to deliver high quality, affordable and accessible products to areas: our customers and ultimately to patients. Keeping good relationships helps not only to reduce risk and ensure a high quality and reliable supply but also helps us partner on our • Supplier Code of Conduct sustainability practices. • Source selection • Partnerships and communication Mitigating Supply Chain Risk • Supplier diversity We have a robust due diligence process to better understand supplier capabilities and ensure • Monitoring, reporting and continues improvements their ability to comply with regulatory and compliance requirements. Our source selection The Supplier Code of Conduct provides guidance for doing business with Mylan and supports process is governed by a Source Review Committee (SRC), comprised of a cross-functional our efforts to inspire, engage in and foster better health for a better world. Further, it aims to internal team from science, legal and sourcing. enhance supplier relationships and helps mitigate supply chain risks. We are committed to continually working to improve our operations and expect our business partners to promote This team also manages the selection of API suppliers. Mylan has a proactive risk mitigation similar principles throughout their supply chain. In 2019 we: program to protect the supply chain by strengthening supply agreements with current suppliers and qualifying alternate suppliers. We monitor performance through reporting, trend ✔ Enhanced internal training on the Supplier Code of Conduct which is required to be analysis and consistent business review meetings. Mylan has established escalation and completed on a biannual basis and relaunched training for employees with purchasing, supply chain and sourcing roles. cross-functional issue management processes. Sourcing teams routinely meet with suppliers to review the performance of supply and create action plans to address identified risks. ✔ Continued to build-out our Supplier Relationship Management program focusing on For our third-party finished dose formulation suppliers, we maintain an end-to-end product preferred suppliers to mitigate risk and enhance long term strategic partnerships. Our Supplier Relationship Management program aims to minimize risks by consolidating management approach. our supply base with preferred suppliers. Advancing Sustainable Sourcing ✔ Promoted Mylan’s Supplier Code of Conduct and reiterated Mylan’s commitment to sustainability in supplier meetings. Mylan’s vision for sustainable sourcing is to identify, evaluate and select goods and services ✔ Enhanced our standard Supply Agreement template to include sustainability language across the globe that are strategically aligned with Mylan’s commitment to social and and clearer language on the right to request supporting documentation, the right to environmental responsibilities by fostering long-term relationships with suppliers that embrace audit and implementation of corrective action plans as needed. These templates are sustainability practices. expected to be rolled out in 2020 and apply to new agreements. 81 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GSR MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE & PERFORMANCE DATA GSR OVERSIGHT & ETHICS COMPLIANCE ✔ As part of our commitment to the AMR Industry Alliance Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Respecting Human Rights Framework to promote responsible practices, we have notified our active antibiotic suppliers of our alignment with this Framework and expectations of our suppliers. As a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact, we recognize our responsibility to respect a opportunity to support Source selection is a key sourcing process to ensure vendors meet Mylan’s minimum standards and promote the protection of human rights within and for quality, cost and compliance. In 2019, we expanded our focus in this area to include: beyond our own operations. We do so through our core ✔ Implementing an enhanced practice to business, how we conduct ourselves and in our dealings consider sustainability as part of the source ~100% of direct material with partners. Mylan is committed to the 10 principles of selection process for direct materials. The the U.N. Global Compact and respects the International new practice aims to verify that the supplier suppliers received Bill of Human Rights and the Fundamental Conventions has established a sustainability program and Mylan’s Supplier Code has set sustainability goals. of the International Labour Organization. of Conduct and ~70% ✔ Requiring vendor acknowledgement of Mylan’s of indirect suppliers Mylan’s global policies and associated procedures, Supplier Code of Conduct prior to new received Mylan’s Supplier employee and partner training and due diligence are source selection or renewal of existing Supply Agreements for Direct Materials. the foundation of our work to mitigate the risk of human Code of Conduct. rights violations. Topics critical to addressing human Promoting Supplier Diversity in the U.S. rights are addressed through a variety of Mylan policies including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Our U.S. Supplier Diversity Program supports small businesses and businesses owned by Supplier Code of Conduct, Mylan’s Policy Statement minorities, women and veterans. We have worked to build relationships with small and diverse Regarding Slavery and Human Trafficking, Global Policy businesses. Mylan’s senior management meets quarterly to review goals and achievements related on Combatting Human Trafficking in Persons and our to supplier diversity and when necessary, recommend corrective action. We train our sourcing companywide EHS program. Examples include: employees on this initiative, monitor spending and provide access to databases featuring diverse suppliers to promote these businesses. • freedom of association; • legal compliance; ✔ Achieved our overall 2019 target for small business spend, with most areas exceeding expectations: • prohibition of trafficking of persons; • prohibition of forced and child labor; 200 • handling of identity and immigration documents; 175 • wages; 150 • working hours; Percent of Goal 125 • safety in the workplace; 100 • preventing harassment; and 75 • recruitment practices. 50 25 0 Small Business: Veteran-owned: Disadvantaged-owned: Women-owned: 122% of Target 95% of Target 145% of Target 193% of Target 82 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report APPENDIX PRODUCTS ON THE WHO PREQUALIFICATION LIST International nonproprietary name (INN) Dosage form & strength International nonproprietary name (INN) Dosage form & strength International nonproprietary name (INN) Dosage form & strength Daclatasvir (dihydrochloride) Tablet, Film-coated 30mg Efavirenz/Lamivudine/Tenofovir Tablet, Film-coated Oseltamivir (phosphate) Capsules, hard 30mg Daclatasvir (dihydrochloride) Tablet, Film-coated 60mg disoproxil fumarate 400mg/300mg/300mg Oseltamivir (phosphate) Capsules, hard 45mg Sofosbuvir Tablet, Film-coated 400mg Emtricitabine Capsules, hard 200mg Oseltamivir (phosphate) Capsules, hard 75mg Abacavir (sulfate) Tablet 300mg Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Tablet, Film-coated 200mg/300mg Artemether/Lumefantrine Tablet 20mg/120mg fumarate Abacavir (sulfate) Tablet 60mg Artemether/Lumefantrine Tablet 40mg/240mg Flucytosine Tablet 500mg Abacavir (sulfate)/Lamivudine Tablet, Film-coated 600mg/300mg Desogestrel/Ethinylestradiol Tablet 0.150mg/0.030mg Lamivudine Tablet 300mg Abacavir (sulfate)/Lamivudine Tablet 60mg/30mg Desogestrel/Ethinylestradiol + Desogestrel/Ethinylestradiol Tablet Lamivudine/Nevirapine/Zidovudine Tablet, Film-coated Placebo + Placebo Tablet 150mcg/30mcg Abacavir (sulfate)/Lamivudine/ Tablet 300mg/150mg/300mg 150mg/200mg/300mg Zidovudine + 0mcg Lamivudine/Nevirapine/Zidovudine Tablet, Dispersible Ethinylestradiol/Levonorgestrel Tablet, Sugar coated Atazanavir (sulfate) Capsules, hard 150mg 30mg/50mg/60mg 30mcg/150mcg Atazanavir (sulfate) Capsules, hard 300mg Lamivudine/Stavudine Tablet 150mg/30mg Ethinylestradiol/Levonorgestrel + Ethinylestradiol/Levonorgestrel Atazanavir (sulfate)/Ritonavir Tablet, Film-coated 300mg/100mg Lamivudine/Stavudine Tablet 150mg/40mg Ferrous Fumarate Tablet + Placebo (Ferrous Fumarate Darunavir (ethanolate) Tablet, Film-coated 800mg Lamivudine/Tenofovir disoproxil Tablet, Film-coated 300mg/300mg Tablet) 30mcg/150mcg + 75mg Darunavir (ethanolate) Tablet, Film-coated 600mg fumarate Ethinylestradiol/Levonorgestrel + Tablet, Sugar coated Lamivudine/Tenofovir disoproxil Tablet 300mg/300mg Placebo 30mcg/150mcg + 0mg Dolutegravir (Sodium) Tablet, Film-coated 50mg fumarate Levonorgestrel Tablet 1.5mg Dolutegravir (Sodium)/Lamivudine/ Tablet, Film-coated Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 50mg/300mg/300mg Lamivudine/Zidovudine Tablet, Film-coated 150mg/300mg Levonorgestrel Tablet 750mcg Dolutegravir (Sodium)/Lamivudine/ Tablet, Film-coated Lamivudine/Zidovudine Tablet, Film-coated 30mg/60mg Levonorgestrel Tablet, Film-coated 0.03mg Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 50mg/300mg/300mg Lamivudine/Zidovudine Tablet, Dispersible 30mg/60mg Medroxyprogesterone acetate Suspension for injection 150mg Efavirenz Tablet, Film-coated 600mg Lopinavir/Ritonavir Tablet, Film-coated 200mg/50mg Capreomycin (sulfate) Powder for solution for injection 1g Efavirenz Tablet 50mg Lopinavir/Ritonavir Tablet, Film-coated 100mg/25mg Cycloserine Capsules, hard 250mg Efavirenz Tablet, Film-coated 100mg Nevirapine Tablet 200mg Isoniazid Tablet 300mg Efavirenz Tablet 200mg Ritonavir Tablet, Film-coated 100mg Isoniazid Tablet 100mg Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir Tablet 600mg/200mg/300mg Ritonavir Tablet, Film-coated 25mg Kanamycin (sulfate) Solution for injection 500mg/2ml disoproxil fumarate Sulfamethoxazole/Trimethoprim Tablet 400mg/80mg Kanamycin (sulfate) Solution for injection 1000mg/3ml Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir Tablet, Film-coated disoproxil fumarate 600mg/200mg/300mg Sulfamethoxazole/Trimethoprim Tablet 800mg/160mg Moxifloxacin (hydrochloride) Tablet, Film-coated 400mg Efavirenz/Lamivudine/Tenofovir Tablet, Film-coated Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Tablet, Film-coated 300mg Hepatitis Malaria disoproxil fumarate 600mg/300mg/300mg Zidovudine Tablet 300mg Therapeutic HIV/AIDS Reproductive Health Area Legend Efavirenz/Lamivudine/Tenofovir Tablet, Film-coated Zidovudine Tablet, Film-coated 100mg Influenze Tuberculosis disoproxil fumarate 400mg/300mg/300mg Source: WHO Pre-Qualification list as per 2/26/20 83 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report APPENDIX Number of countries on the Access to Medicine Foundation list of Access Countries1 that Mylan supplied to in 2019: 94 out of 106 1 Access To Medicine Index 2018 84 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report APPENDIX COLLABORATING TO IMPROVE ACCESS Below are examples of our collaborations. This list is not all-inclusive. COMMERCE ORGANIZATIONS BG Pharma (Bulgarian Generic Pharmaceutical Association) Ihoken (Medical Insurance System Study Conference) AMCHAM (American Chamber of Commerce in India) BGMA (British Generic Manufacturers Association) Medicines Association) BCIU (Business Council for International Understanding) Biosimilars Canada JBSA (Japan Biosimilar Association) FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & BioWV JGA (Japan Generic Medicines Association) Industry) BOGIN (Netherlands Association for Biosimilars and Generic KPIA (Kansai Pharmaceutical Industries Association) PHARMEXICIL (Pharmaceutical Export Promotion Council) Medicines) Läkemedelsindustriföreningen (Trade association for the USIBC (US-India Business Council) CGPA (Canadian Generic Pharmaceutical Association) research-based pharmaceutical industry, Sweden) USISPF (US India Strategic Partnership Forum) Council for Healthcare and Pharma Front Medaxes (Belgian Association of Pharmaceutical Companies) U.S. Chamber of Commerce EFPIA (European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries Medicines for Europe and Associations) Medicines for Ireland GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS FGL (The Association for Generic Pharmaceuticals and U.N. Global Compact Biosimilar,Sweden) Neprofarm (Dutch association representing manufacturers of self-care products) WHO (World Health Organization) FOPE (Federation of Pharma Entrepreneurs) NZSMI – New Zealand Self-Medication Industry GEMME (French Generics-maker Association) INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS Pharmig (Austrian Pharmaceutical Industry Association) GBMA (Australia Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Association for Accessible Medicines (AAM) Association) Prognerika (German Generic Association) AESEG (Spanish Generic Medicines Association) GENAS (Slovak Association of Generic producers) SINFAR (Union of Pharmacists) APOGEN (Portuguese Association of Generic Medicines and IDMA (Indian Drug manufacturers Association) SINDUSFARMA (Industry Syndicate of Pharmaceutical Biosimilars) Products in the State of São Paulo) IGBA (International Generic and Biosimilar AssoGenerici (Italy Association of Generic Medicines and Yueki (The Intravenous Solutions Society) Biosimilars) IGL (Danish Generic and Biosimilars Medicines Industry Association) BAH (German Medicines Manufacturers’ Association) 85 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report APPENDIX COLLABORATING TO IMPROVE ACCESS INFECTIOUS DISEASE PARTNERS MANUFACTURING ASSOCIATIONS PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Alliance for Global Pharmaceutical Serialization Canadian Association of Professionals in Regulatory Affairs (CAPRA) Clinton Health Access Initiative AMR Industry Alliance Regulatory Affairs Professional Society (RAPS) GBCHealth CII (Confederation of Indian Industries) PPSWG (Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Working Gilead Sciences FPMAJ (Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturer’s Group) Association of Japan) Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Leadership Forum QUALITY AND REGULATORY AUTHORITIES International AIDS Society ISPE (International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering) Drug Information Association (DIA) OPTIMIZE Consortium FDA Alumni Association and Alliance for Stronger FDA JPMA (Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association) Otsuka FDA Drug Shortage Committee Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Tokyo (PMAT) UNAIDS GDUFA/BSUFA Implementation/Negotiation Teams President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) PRODUCT ASSOCIATIONS ICH (International Council for Harmonisation) AESGP (Association of the European Self Medication Industry) St. Stephen’s AIDS Trust IPAC-RS (International Pharmaceutical Aerosol Consortium on Consumer Healthcare Products Association Regulation & Science) TB Alliance Consumer Health Products Canada Pharmaceutical Science Group (PSG) UNITAID WSMI (World Self Medication Industry) PDA (Parenteral Drug Association) ViiV Healthcare USP (United States Pharmacopeia) WOMEN’S HEALTH United Nations Population Fund U.N. Every Woman Every Child initiative 86 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report APPENDIX Participation in relevant patient assistance and Mylan has more than 40 manufacturing sites government-sponsored healthcare or tender programs in various locations around the world.1 Mylan provided patient assistance for 20 products in the U.S. in 2019; operates the Ashray program for Hep C and breast cancer patients in India and participates in various governmentsponsored healthcare or tender programs around the world. REST OF WORLD EUROPE NORTH AMERICA INDIA: Chatillon, France Somerset, N.J. Managing Political Contributions Responsibly Ahmedabad Confienza, Italy Caguas, Puerto Rico Mylan’s Global Political Contributions and Activity Policy guides our approach to political Aurangabad Damastown, Ireland Morgantown, W.Va. contributions. It is overseen by the Compliance committee of the Mylan Board of Directors and Bangalore Dublin, Ireland Rockford, Ill. applies to all company personnel. Only to the extent allowed by law, the company may directly Hosur Galway, Ireland San Antonio, Texas contribute to political candidates and political organizations. This is relevant primarily for Mylan’s Hyderabad Komarom, Hungary St. Albans, Vermont U.S. subsidiaries and Mylan’s Political Action Committee, a voluntary, nonpartisan, employeeIndore Merignac, France Sugar Land, Texas run committee. Political contributions are made in accordance with U.S. campaign finance laws. Jadcherla Meyzieu, France Jaggiahpeta Troisdorf, Germany Mylan files a quarterly report of expenses associated with lobbying the federal government in Mumbai Warsaw, Poland accordance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act. That report can be found on the U.S. Senate Nashik Office of Public Records website or the U.S. House of Representatives Office of the Clerk Sarigam website. Mylan’s Political Action Committee also files monthly political contribution reports (FEC) Vizag with the U.S. government. Mylan relies on outside legal counsel to support these filings. Mylan’s semiannual Political Contribution & Trade Association Memberships report is reviewed by the OTHER: Board of Directors and made available on our website. Carole Park, Australia Johannesburg, South Africa Katsuyama, Japan Honoring Our Commitment as a Publicly Traded Company Zambia, Africa Mylan N.V. is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange in New York. Its corporate seat is Amsterdam, Netherlands, with its principal executive office located in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, England. Types of Mylan Products The global headquarters of the Mylan group is Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, U.S. It is at this location where the CEO and other executive officers of the group carry out the day-to-day Biosimilar and insulin analogs conduct of our worldwide business. Respiratory Complex sterile products Mylan N.V. is managed and controlled under the oversight of the company’s Board of Directors. Dermatological and transdermals Each director is elected annually by the company’s shareholders pursuant to Dutch law and the Complex OSD company’s Articles of Association. Certain of the directors’ duties, rights and responsibilities Modified-release dosage forms are detailed in the company’s Articles of Association, Board Rules and Corporate Governance OTC/parapharmaceuticals Principles, among other governance documents. Mylan is subject to applicable rules, regulations High potency and/or listing standards of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ and the Traditional generics Dutch Corporate Governance Code, among other requirements. 1 As of publication, this report does not include one site already announced for closure. Some locations have more than one manufacturing site. Also represents packaging facilities. 87 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES* Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Mylan N.V. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2019 Form 10-K 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 87 p. 87 102-4 Location of operations 8 2019 Form 10-K p. 87 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2019 Form 10-K p. 16-24, 55-57 102-6 Markets served 3 2019 Form 10-K p. 5-7, 55-56, 66 102-7 Scale of the organization. 2019 Form 10-K p. 66-67 A significant portion of Mylan's activities are performed by 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6 workers who are employees, and there are no significant variations in our employee figures annually. p. 55-66, 81-82 102-9 Supply chain 2019 Form 10-K 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2019 Form 10-K 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 34-37, 53-54, 57-64, 71-75, 81-82 102-12 External initiatives p. 4, 9, 18-24, 37, 41-45, 47-51, 64, 75, 85-86 102-13 Membership of associations p. 37, 40, 42-45, 75, 85-86 *Mylan’s 2019 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 88 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 8-9 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities p. 8-11, 13-65, 68-82 Ethics and Integrity p. 2 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 16 2, 5 & 10 Mylan Values 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics p. 66, 77-78, 80 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 2019 Form 10-K Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental 102-20 p. 8-11, 53-54, 68, 71, 76-77 and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and 102-21 p. 8-11, 30, 37, 39-45, 48, 51, 54, 58-59, 64, 75, 81-82 social topics p. 53-54, 76 Composition of the highest governance body and its 2019 Form 10-K 102-22 committees Mylan.com/Leadership Mylan.com/corporategovernance Stakeholder Engagement Community Customers Employees 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 8 Partners Patients Shareholders p. 68 Mylan recognizes and respects the rights of employees 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements to representation and collective bargaining. We currently 3 do not keep company-wide records on the percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 10-11, 38-45, 54, 75-76 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 10-11, 38-45, 54, 75-76 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 10-11, 38-45, 54, 75-76 *Mylan’s 2019 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 89 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2019 Form 10-K We completed our first formal priority topic analysis in 2018 to confirm our GSR priorities based on the topics of 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries highest importance to the company and key stakeholders. We identify where impacts occur for each priority topic in the Topic Boundary section (GRI 103) of the GRI Index. 102-47 List of material topics Topic Boundary section (GRI 103) of the GRI Index Women with access to Mylan’s contraceptives in 102-48 Restatements of information 2017-2018, p. 57 GHG data per 2015-2018, p. 73 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2019, Jan. 1 Dec. 31 102-51 Date of most recent report 4/3/19 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Should you have questions or feedback, please contact 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report us at GSR@Mylan.com. Mylan's 2019 GSR Report is prepared in accordance with 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, core level. 102-55 GRI content index p. 88-96 Mylan's 2019 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report has not been assured by a third party. Mylan's 102-56 External assurance reporting to the 2019 CDP Climate Change and Water Security Programs was verified by an external party. *Mylan’s 2019 Global Social Responsibility Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 90 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE GRI 103: TOPICS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES* Mylan's Priority (Material) Topics Management Approach Cross-Reference Relevant External Entities Economic GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 18-24, 38-45, 47-51, 55-65, 76 Communities, Customers, Patients Environment Environmental Stewardship Communities, Customers, Governments, Patients, GRI 301: Materials 2016 Oversight and Compliance Suppliers p. 57-62, 73-75, 81-82 Social Oversight and Compliance GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 Communities, Governments, Shareholders p. 66, 68-70 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 p. 31, 65 N/A Communities, Customers, Governments, Patients, GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 p. 55-65 Shareholders * Mylan’s 2019 Global Social Responsibility Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 91 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE GRI 200-400: TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES* UNGC Topics Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG Principle Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016** 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2019 Form 10-K Infrastructure investments and services 203-1 p. 46-51 1 supported GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 Indirect economic impacts p. 18-24, 38-51, 55-65, 76 3 Communication and training about antiGRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016** 205-2 p. 78, 80-81 16 10 corruption policies and procedures Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiGRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 2019 Form 10-K 16 10 trust, and monopoly practices Environmental Details on material types, sources and percentage of renewable content, in addition GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 12 to the information on energy, water and waste is not provided. GRI 302: Energy 2016** 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 36-37, 72-73 12 13 8, 9 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource p. 36, 74-75 6 12 8 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts p. 36, 74-75 6 12 8 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018** 303-3 Water withdrawal p. 74 6 12 8 303-4 Water discharge p. 74 6 12 8 305-1 Scope 1 GHG emissions p. 72-73 12 13 7, 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016** 305-2 Scope 2 GHG emissions p. 72-73 12 13 7, 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 37, 72-73 12 7, 8, 9 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 73-74 12 8 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016** No significant spills occurred at Mylan's 306-3 Significant spill 12 facilities in 2019. No significant fines and nonmonetary sanctions GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Non-compliance with environmental laws and 307-1 for noncompliance with environmental laws 12 2016** regulations and/or regulations in 2019. *Mylan’s 2019 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. **Additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics 92 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE UNGC Topics Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG Principle Social 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 68 8 6 GRI 401: Employment 2016** Full-time benefits not provided to temporary/ 401-2 Mylan Careers part-time employees p. 68 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes impacting employees, including GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational continued employment, vary across the 402-1 8 2016 changes company, as determined by legislation, local and regional policies and practices, individual employment contracts, and collective bargaining agreements, as applicable. Occupational health and safety management p. 29, 33, 68-70 403-1 3 8 system Global Health Safety Policy Hazard identification, risk assessment and p. 68-70 403-2 3 8 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety incident investigation Global Health Safety Policy 2018** p. 32-33, 68-70 403-6 Promotion of worker health 3 8 Mylan Values 403-9 Work-related injuries p. 69 8 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 32, 78 Programs for upgrading employee skills and p. 31-32 404-2 8 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016** transition assistance programs Mylan Careers Percentage of employees receiving regular 404-3 p. 32 6 performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 67 5 6 2016** GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on HR policies or procedures p. 67, 77-78, 80-82 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 2016** Operations with local community engagement, GRI 413: Local Communities 2016** 413-1 impact assessments, and development p. 18-24, 47-51 1 programs *Mylan’s 2019 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. **Additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics 93 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE UNGC Topics Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG Principle GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions p. 87 16 10 p. 57-65 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety Assessment of the health and safety impacts of As part of Mylan's PV program, all products 416-1 3 12 2016 product and service categories are monitored and assessed for safety impact on an ongoing basis. Requirements for product and service GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016** 417-1 p. 57-65, 77 3 12 information and labeling * Mylan’s 2019 Global Social Responsibility Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. **Additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics 94 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE Sustainability Accounting Standards Board: Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals Sustainability Accounting Standard As part of Mylan’s efforts to evolve our disclosure regarding our approach and performance around topics that are important to key stakeholders and recognizing the growing integration of ESG information in investor decision-making, Mylan considered the SASB indicators when developing this report. In the below table we point to relevant content per a set of SASB topics and metrics, selected with consideration to Mylan’s priority assessment in 2018. Topic: Safety of Clinical Trials SASB code Metric details Relevant information HC-BP-210a.1 Discussion, by world region, of management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials p. 61-62 Topic: Access to Medicine SASB code Metric details Relevant information Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to health care products for priority diseases and in priority countries as HBP-240a.1 P. 16-24, 55-57, 84 defined by the Access to Medicine Index HC-BP-240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP) p. 57, 83 Topic: Affordability and Pricing SASB code Metric details Relevant information HC-BP-240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list price (2) average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to previous year p. 40, 56, 76 HC-BP-240b.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price (2) net price of product with largest increase compared to previous year p. 40, 56, 76 Topic: Drug Safety SASB code Metric details Relevant information HC-BP-250a.3 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled p. 61 Topic: Counterfeit Drugs SASB code Metric details Relevant information Description of methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain and prevent HC-BP-260a.1 p. 62-65 counterfeiting Topic: Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention SASB code Metric details Relevant information HC-BP-330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and research and development personnel p. 30-32, 66-67 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives/senior managers HC-BP-330a.2 (b) midlevel managers p. 68 (c) professionals (d) all others 95 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report GRI CONTENT INDEX & SASB REFERENCE Topic: Supply Chain Management SASB code Metric details Relevant information Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply p. 57-65 Chain Consortium audit program or equivalent third-party audit programs for integrity of supply chain and ingredients Topic: Business Ethics SASB code Metric details Relevant information HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals p. 77-78, 80 Topic: Activity Metrics SASB code Metric details Relevant information HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated p. 17-24, 56-57 HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and development (Phases 1-3) p. 56 96 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report #MylanMadeAnImpact 97 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT This document contains “forward-looking statements”. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements about the proposed combination of Upjohn Inc. (“Newco”) and Mylan N.V. (“Mylan”), which will immediately follow the proposed separation of the Upjohn business (the “Upjohn Business”) from Pfizer Inc. (“Pfizer”) (the “proposed transaction”), the expected timetable for completing the proposed transaction, the benefits and synergies of the proposed transaction, future opportunities for the combined company and products and any other statements regarding Pfizer’s, Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s future operations, financial or operating results, capital allocation, dividend policy, debt ratio, anticipated business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competitions, and other expectations and targets for future periods. Forward-looking statements may often be identified by the use of words such as “will”, “may”, “could”, “should”, “would”, “project”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “potential”, “pipeline”, “intend”, “continue”, “target”, “seek” and variations of these words or comparable words. Because forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: ongoing challenges and uncertainties posed by the Covid-19 pandemic for businesses and governments around the world; the parties’ ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the proposed transaction; changes in relevant tax and other laws; the parties’ ability to consummate the proposed transaction; the conditions to the completion of the proposed transaction, including receipt of approval of Mylan’s shareholders, not being satisfied or waived on the anticipated timeframe or at all; the regulatory approvals required for the proposed transaction not being obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule or at all; inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial statements and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and related standards or on an adjusted basis; the integration of Mylan and Newco being more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected; Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s and the combined company’s failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating performance and results; the possibility that the combined company may be unable to achieve expected benefits, synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with the proposed transaction within the expected time frames or at all or to successfully integrate Mylan and Newco; customer loss and business disruption being greater than expected following the proposed transaction; the retention of key employees being more difficult following the proposed transaction; Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s liquidity, capital resources and ability to obtain financing; any regulatory, legal or other impediments to Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s ability to bring new products to market, including but not limited to where Mylan, the Upjohn Business or the combined company uses its business judgment and decides to manufacture, market and/or sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an “at-risk launch”); success of clinical trials and Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s ability to execute on new product opportunities; any changes in or difficulties with Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s manufacturing facilities, including with respect to remediation and restructuring activities, supply chain or inventory or the ability to meet anticipated demand; the scope, timing and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows; Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s and the combined company’s ability to protect their respective intellectual property and preserve their respective intellectual property rights; the effect of any changes in customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns; the ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in third-party relationships; actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators; the impacts of competition; changes in the economic and financial conditions of the Upjohn Business or the business of Mylan or the combined company; the impact of outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics, such as the coronavirus pandemic; uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and reimbursement for Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s products; and uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management and other factors described under “Risk Factors” in each of Pfizer’s and Mylan’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These risks, as well as other risks associated with Mylan, the Upjohn Business, the combined company and the proposed transaction are also more fully discussed in the Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended, which includes a proxy statement/prospectus (as amended, the “Form S-4”), which was filed by Newco with the SEC on October 25, 2019 and declared effective by the SEC on February 13, 2020, [the Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended, which includes an information statement (as amended, the “Form 10”), which has been filed by Newco with the SEC on January 21, 2020 and amended on February 6, 2020 and subsequently withdrawn on March 11, 2020, and is expected to be refiled prior to its effectiveness,] a definitive proxy statement, which was filed by Mylan with the SEC on February 13, 2020 (the “Proxy Statement”), and the prospectus, which was filed by Newco with the SEC on February 13, 2020 (the “Prospectus”). You can access Pfizer’s, Mylan’s and Newco’s filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through Pfizer’s or Mylan’s website, as applicable, and Pfizer and Mylan strongly encourage you to do so. Except as required by applicable law, Pfizer, Mylan and Newco undertake no obligation to update any statements herein for revisions or changes after this the date of this document, which is May 4, 2020. Additional Information and Where to Find It This document shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In connection with the proposed transaction, Newco and Mylan have filed certain materials with the SEC, including, among other materials, the Form S-4, Form 10 and Prospectus filed by Newco and the Proxy Statement filed by Mylan. The Form S-4 was declared effective on February 13, 2020 and the Proxy Statement and the Prospectus were first mailed to shareholders of Mylan on or about February 14, 2020 to seek approval of the proposed transaction. The Form 10 has not yet become effective. After the Form 10 is effective, a definitive information statement will be made available to the Pfizer stockholders relating to the proposed transaction. Newco and Mylan intend to file additional relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT MYLAN, NEWCO AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. The documents relating to the proposed transaction (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. These documents (when they are available) can also be obtained free of charge from Mylan, upon written request to Mylan or by contacting Mylan at (724) 514-1813 or investor.relations@mylan.com or from Pfizer on Pfizer’s internet website at https://investors.Pfizer.com/financials/sec-filings/default.aspx or by contacting Pfizer’s Investor Relations Department at (212) 733-2323, as applicable. Participants in the Solicitation This document is not a solicitation of a proxy from any investor or security holder. However, Pfizer, Mylan, Newco and certain of their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Information about the directors and executive officers of Pfizer may be found in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2020 and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2020 Annual Meeting filed with the SEC on March 13, 2020. Information about the directors and executive officers of Mylan may be found in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2020, and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2019 Annual Meeting filed with the SEC on May 24, 2019. Additional information regarding the interests of these participants can also be found in the Form S-4, the Proxy Statement and the Prospectus. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. 98 | Mylan Global Social Responsibility Report
