2 Preface 1. Preface The policy assigns special importance to the finance Ladies and Gentlemen, sector in handling sustainability-related challenges – 2019 marks the end of a decade, a responsibility that the savings banks in Germany and in which sustainability has become with them, the Deka Group as their Wertpapierhaus, have actively accepted. The savings banks have reemphaone of the central trends of our time. sised this in their Hamburg Declaration adopted on the Especially climate change, which is 26th German Savings Bank Day. Just like the honourable Hamburg merchant stands for what is today understood becoming more and more noticeable in a neo-German way under Corporate Responsibility – for the citizens as well as for the ecoi. e. social responsibility of companies, the orientation nomy, has brought the question of towards the common good that is deeply anchored in the savings banks is a synonym for the consistent alignhow we can shape a future worth living ment with the principles of sustainable development. to the centre stage of our society. On the political side, the EU Commission is especially active in this respect since the beginning of 2018; it has initiated numerous measures within the scope of its action plan for the financing of sustainable growth and has already implemented a large part of them in the year under review. Through this, private capital shall be directed into sustainable economic activities. Here, a particularly ambitious goal is to bindingly define as to what is a sustai­ nable economic activity – a project that is propelled under the heading “EU-Taxonomy”. Such diversion of capital into sustainable projects requires that the companies plan and implement corresponding projects. But this needs reorientation of the companies’ investment, which cannot be achieved through the EU Action Plan that is aligned with the financial economy. It is therefore not only desirable, but essential for the success of the economic transformation, that a strategy was introduced with the Green New Deal of the new EU Commission, which also focuses more strongly on the real economy and its orientation towards climate protection and sustainability. When we look at the companies however, it is already clear that not every sector and not every company will succeed with the transformation into a climate-friendly, resourcesaving future. In fact, the transformation process will have massive social and economic impact. It is important, now and as parallel to the numerous climate policy decisions as possible, which we have seen in the year under review, to also set the course for handling the social and economic consequences of climate change. Preface 3 In the year under review, the Federal Financial SuperviWith this report, we also fulfil our duty from the CSR sory Authority (Bundesanstalt für FinanzdienstleistungsGuideline Implementation Act (CSR-RUG). Since 2017, aufsicht, BaFin) was engaged in the potential economic the legally stipulated audit of the contents of the sustaiimpact of climate change on the economy. It correctly nability report is undertaken especially by exercising points out that the addressed climate-related risks for the right to commission an external audit (§ 111 para. 2 sectors and companies can also directly lead to financial sentence 4 AktG [Company Law]). The auditor has risks for lenders as well as for investors, who have invesissued the necessaryaudit certificate, so that the corrested in shares or bonds of the companies concerned. ponding legal stipulations of the CSR-RUG, the relevant sections of the German Commercial Code (§§ 289b The Deka Group has already laid the foundations for to 289e HGB) as well as the current guidelines of the systematic and comprehensive consideration of climate recognised Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards; and sustainability aspects in its business operations a the GRI content index can be found on our website few years back by integrating the sustainability strategy www.deka.de) are fulfilled. into its business strategy. In the year under review, we have implemented a whole series of concrete measures within the scope of this strategy in order to actively face the challenges of climate change and to also use the With best regards opportunities associated with it. This includes stronger anchoring of sustainability-related risks in the Risk Management of the Deka Group and the establishment of a group-wide sustainability initiative for implementation of the new regulatory requirements. This also includes our further intensified dialogue with companies, where we demand greater efforts for climate protection and sustainable development from them. Dr. Georg Stocker Chairman of the Board of Management Above all however, this includes the provision of a wide range of investment options for the investors supported by us and our partners, the savings banks, in which the risks and opportunities of climate change and sustainable development are taken into account comprehensively. We would like to inform you about these and other measures with this sustainability report. It also reveals transparently as to what progress we have made with the implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we have been supporting since 2011. By committing to its ten principles, we have undertaken to comply with human and labour rights, to protect the environment and to fight against corruption and bribery.
