= Itad is a global organisation. Our strategy, monitoring, evaluation and learning services work to make international development more effective. We generate evidence on important issues – from malnutrition to migration – to support our partners to make informed decisions and improve lives. We work with our partners and a global network of consultants to deliver a complete interdisciplinary service of the very highest standard, anywhere in the world. Our partners include foundations, public and private sector organisations, governments, corporate clients and non-governmental organisations. We know that no two organisations are alike, and every project brings new challenges, so we take an agile approach, tailoring our services to each context and every partner. I am pleased to confirm that Itad Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Itad Ltd is committed to making those principles part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations. We are also committed to engaging more widely through our work in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals which is visible throughout our work. We live in a world that faces multiple interconnected challenges, including Covid-19, climate change, poverty and inequality, population growth and migration, fragility, conflict, and closing of civic space. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to achieve a more just, inclusive and sustainable future for people and the planet. This is not a year any of us had planned for. We are incredibly proud of how our team and the business have responded to the challenges that this global pandemic has made us face. In many ways this has provided a window of opportunity to make positive change in the way we operate. We are brought together by our vision and our values which center around equality, diversity and inclusion and being environmentally sustainable. This year’s annual statement highlights the achievements we have made in advancing against the UNGC principles linked to these areas. We commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders on our website. Yours sincerely, Tim Ruffer, Managing Partner Supported by our Executive Committee: Rob Lloyd, Partner Sarah Ockenden, Chief Operating Officer Itad’s core values shape the culture of the organisation, our identity, the brand and the way we work. We expect all staff to uphold these values throughout their work. Our framework of policies called ‘Working with Itad’ explains how our values translate into policy and sets expectations of staff and those we work with. To enable clear communication and dissemination of our policies and the way we work, Itad has created a framework called ‘Working with Itad’; • Included in the framework is a statement regarding our commitment to the 10 UN Global Compact Principles which helps to reinforce and underpin our ways of working. In the framework, we state the actions that we have taken against each principle which is included in this COP. • The Framework provides guidance and support to individuals for making decisions and carrying out their work in ways that are ethical and compatible with Itad’s Values. It applies to all employees, board members, externally subcontracted suppliers. This is Itad’s third report on our progress against the UNGC principles since joining in December 2017. Throughout this year, we have continued to strengthen and develop our corporate policies and ways of working whilst responding to the challenges of COVID-19. We have learnt quickly in how we design and deliver our work in this fast-changing context and support our partners to manage and adapt their programmes and portfolios. We have also reflected on how we needed to rethink, reshape and reimagine Itad’s future. This has resulted in us crystalising our vision into the following strands; Digital & technology, Inclusivity, becoming a global Itad and tackling the climate emergency. This report provides further details on these vision strands where relevant and updates on our progress to date. We are committed to working in partnership with our suppliers and continually to review our ‘Ways of Working’ to meet best practice throughout our supply chain. We provide support to our suppliers to ensure they can meet the requirements set by the sector and have brought in enhanced supply chain due diligence processes. We have worked with our suppliers and partners throughout the year to ensure we can deliver our work in a Covid safe way. As remote data collection will be increasingly present in the evaluation practice for the foreseeable future, we have reflected on what we need to do to ensure this mode of working doesn’t breach ethical guidelines, putting participants at risk. We have established an ethics committee who review these guidelines and support the risk mitigations at a project level. We have continued to embed our enhanced risk management processes throughout our project delivery which helps us to monitor and mitigate risks concerning safeguarding, human rights, data protection, ethical conduct, and environment. As well as providing an update against the UNGC principles, this report also provides details of how we continue to engage with our clients and the sector in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. ▪ Itad recognises that the climate crisis is the defining challenge of our time. Our primary mission is to help poor and marginalised communities around the world – many of whom will be devastated by the effects of climate change. We have a moral obligation to play our part in tackling the climate emergency. ▪ We are a socially-conscious organization. We are committed to the ten UNGC principles – our primary purpose is to provide insights and drive better use of resources in international development. ▪ We have an opportunity to become a thought leader on Green MEL in our sector. We have an opportunity to showcase our thinking and position ourselves as leaders on ‘Green MEL’ in international development – helping to push for much needed change within the sector. ▪ Reducing our reliance on international travel will make us more resilient to future threats. Tragically, global heating will inevitably increase the incidence of emergencies and social upheaval around the world. Reducing our emissions will require us to build stronger international networks and capacities to work remotely, both of which will make us more resilient in the face of future crises. ▪ Reducing our carbon footprint will benefit staff wellbeing and morale. Evidence from the business community suggests that a strong commitment to sustainability makes organisations more attractive to potential employees, and helps staff feel more connected and committed to the future of the company. 1. Itad’s organisational structure and practice will reflect the diversity and inclusion we champion externally Our objective: Explore structural racism, racial inclusion in Itad and develop practical steps for action ▪ Facilitated listening and learning with Itad leaders, RD&I group & staff, targeted training and development, establish processes around recruitment & leadership development, consolidate learning 2. Itad is a ‘go-to’ for sustainable and equitable evaluation resources, thinking and practice Our objective: Facilitate movement towards fairer ways of working and acknowledge and tackle systemic racism in our sector ▪ Research, training and development; benchmark Itad’s approach to MEL against emerging good practice, revise approach to process and methodology. ▪ Review how we work with our partners, research and adopt practices consistent with research fairness and equitable partnerships 3. Itad is actively anti-racist and use our position to facilitate equitable ways of working, informed by global contextual expertise Our objective: Help increase knowledge and awareness of RI&D in our sector and keep staff abreast of global debates ▪ Facilitate knowledge exchange through hosting and participation in various events, process and publications = 1. Technical excellence in relation to gender equality embedded across our project portfolio Our objective: All projects will consistently reflect gender mainstreaming principles within the next 12 months ▪ We will have two Gender Technical Leads in each practice and the BD Unit to encourage and support other team members to address gender in technical delivery 2. Equality in relation to sex, gender identity & sexual orientation understood, promoted & support within Itad Our objective: Itad promotes equal opportunities in recruitment and progression irrespective of sex, gender identity, sexual orientation or other personal characteristics ▪ Itad has a good gender balance across all sectors and levels in the company in the next 2 years ▪ All staff feel they are treated equally and fairly ▪ Itad leadership is truly championing the promotion of equality in relation to sex, gender identity and sexual orientation internally and externally 3. Leader in evaluating gender in our markets Our objective: Itad’s gender offer is shared externally and staff consistently include technical gender equality dimensions in external engagements ▪ Itad clearly celebrates its commitments to gender normative standards (ODA act, HeForShe, Beijing ’95 etc.) ▪ Itad is recognized as a company championing gender quality both internally and externally Itad has an increasing profile as a thought leader in its field and continues to work on projects that achieve its strategic aim of making a difference. Through our work, we are able to engage with our clients and the wider sector in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. Examples of our thought leadership and work are linked below: How regular outcome monitoring makes WASH programmes more effective – “Understanding outcomes – for example, the number of people using improved water and sanitation facilities, or practising desired hygiene behaviour – is the first step in understanding whether programming for water, sanitation and hygiene is effective and whether the WASH sector as a whole is making progress towards achieving the SDGs.” Read more here. The UK’s approach to tackling modern-day slavery in Nigeria: Five missed opportunities – “I recently read the ICAI review of the UK’s approach to tackling modern-day slavery through the aid programme and it led me to reflect. The review particularly resonated with my experiences working on two programmes in the two countries reviewed, namely Stamping out Slavery in Nigeria (SoSiN) programme, and the Global Funds to End Modern Slavery (GFEMS) in Bangladesh.” Read more here. AVANTI in 2020: Adapting to the new normal – “AVANTI seeks to bridge capacity gaps by working with national governments in up to 20 countries globally to strengthen capacity in results-based management (RBM). It supports national partners, particularly national governments, to self-assess and prioritise actions for strengthening RBM. Ultimately, AVANTI aims to improve countries’ ability to measure progress against SDGs that relate to agriculture and rural development.” Read more here. Our Code of Conduct sets a professional standard that all staff and suppliers are expected to uphold. We expect all staff and suppliers to uphold ethical integrity, treat each other with mutual respect, listen to each other and be open to different views and opinions. An extract of our Code of Conduct is included below: Ethical Integrity ▪ Be independent and impartial. Any conflicts of interest or partiality will be made explicit. ▪ Safeguard confidential, sensitive and personal data acquired through the project and not use it for personal advantage or for the benefit of, or detriment of third parties. ▪ Be aware of the issues when interacting with vulnerable people and be sensitive to their needs. ▪ Be aware of differences in culture, customs, religious beliefs and practices, and any implications these may have in terms of interacting with people in the course of work ▪ Be sensitive to gender roles, and issues of disability, age and ethnicity, and be mindful of the potential implications of these differences when planning, carrying out and reporting on work. ▪ Neither offer nor accept gifts, hospitality or services which could create, or imply, an improper obligation. Leadership and team working ▪ Respect and listen to different views/opinions within a team. ▪ Communicate clearly and concisely in the most appropriate medium. ▪ Be proactive in building rapport with colleagues, key associates, partners and clients. ▪ Raise difficult issues with a view to positive resolution. ▪ Be proactive in working with and sharing lessons with colleagues. ▪ Manage own emotions and behaviour in difficult situations, ensuring own anxiety and/or frustration does not impact on others. ▪ Always act in a way which supports and upholds the reputation and values of Itad. Principle Actions/ progress Monitoring/ Next steps outcomes 1. Businesses The Company is committed to promoting the human rights No reportable instances ▪ Itad has should support and equality of opportunity for all staff and job applicants. of any adverse human established and respect the We aim to achieve a work environment free from rights incidents have working groups protection of discrimination or harassment, and in which all decisions been identified by Itad lead by a Board internationally are based on merit. All employees, whether part-time, Ltd. member on proclaimed full-time or temporary, will be treated fairly and with Gender Equality human rights. respect. Selection for employment, promotion, training or ▪ No. of reportable and Racial any other benefit will be on the basis of aptitude and capability. All employees will be helped and encouraged to H&S issues. inclusion and develop their full potential and the talents and resources ▪ No. of reportable diversity. Both of the workforce will be fully utilised to maximise the Safeguarding groups are efficiency of the organisation. issues (or other establishing a related issues) workplan with ▪ Itad is compliant with all UK employment legislation ▪ Levels of sickness measurable including the Employment Rights Act 1996, the and absenteeism outcomes. Employment Act 2002, the Equality Act 2010, and monitored by HR ▪ All suppliers to Health & Safety in Employment Act 1992. and reported to have signed ▪ Itad has an anti-bullying and harassment policy and procedure in place. senior Code of Conduct ▪ All Itad employees receive equal pay for equal work management. and completed regardless of race, caste, national origin, religion, ▪ Gender diversity online age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual monitored and Safeguarding orientation, union membership or political reported to senior training affiliation. We have an equal opportunities policy in management. completed place. where required. ▪ All Itad employees are paid at least the minimum wage, and receive pay slips; all employees receive all the benefits to which they are entitled under UK law. Principle Actions/ progress Monitoring/ Next steps outcomes ▪ Itad has a Health & Safety Policy that complies with ▪ Company UK law. refresher ▪ Itad employees receive safety training relevant to training on their job which includes safety & security training Safeguarding to for members of staff required to travel overseas. be rolled out in ▪ We provide access to an employee wellbeing Jan/ Feb 21. helpline for all staff. ▪ Ongoing GDPR ▪ We have an arrangement in place with ISOS who maturity can provide 24/7 medical and security advice to assessment to staff and consultants travelling overseas. review our ▪ All staff have received safeguarding training. The policies and aim of the training is to help all staff understand processes to what safeguarding is, responsibilities through our ensure best work and actions that we take and how to respond practice. to issues. ▪ All staff have signed Safeguarding Code of Conduct. ▪ Safeguarding Working Group established and Safeguarding Focal Points in place ▪ Data protection – All staff are trained on GDPR. Data protection risks are analysed on each project to ensure appropriate mitigations are put in place. ▪ All staff have completed Ethical training. Includes; Equality policy, anti-bribery, fraud prevention, modern slavery, environmental awareness, UNGC principles. Principle Actions/ progress Monitoring/ Next steps outcomes 2. Businesses See above. Itad also carries out due diligence of its ▪ Registration forms for ▪ New supplier should ensure supply chain ensuring they have equivalent policies and all suppliers and process to be that their own processes in place. subcontractors are rolled out in Q1 operations are completed which of 2021 with not complicit in includes equality enhanced human rights legislation. registration/ due abuses. diligence processes and training provided. Principle Actions/ progress Monitoring/ Next steps outcomes 3. Businesses should ▪ Itad employees are permitted to join a uphold the freedom of trade union and are protected under UK association and the employment law. effective recognition of ▪ Itad pays above minimum and living wage. the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should ▪ All Itad employees have full contract ▪ Employee contracts ▪ Updated uphold the elimination of documents including notice periods and are audited annually Modern Slavery forced or compulsory are free to leave our employment at any for ISO to ensure policy to be labour. time, upon agreed reasonable notice. correct templates shared with staff ▪ All Itad sub-contracts include anti-slavery are used. and suppliers and human trafficking clauses. with online ▪ Itad complies with minimum wage training. standards. 5. Businesses should ▪ Itad does not employ any children under As above. As above. uphold the effective the age of 18; date of birth is confirmed abolition of child labour. at the start of employment with passport verification and reference checks. 6. Businesses should ▪ Itad has an Equality Policy in place and ▪ Itad has uphold the elimination of adheres to all UK Equality Act 2010 established discrimination in respect legislation in recruitment and working groups of employment and employment procedures. explicitly occupation. ▪ Itad strengths framework developed to reviewing these ensure consistent performance reviews areas to develop are carried out across the business. measurable outcomes and actions. Principle Actions/ progress Monitoring/ Next steps outcomes 7. Businesses should Itad has formed an established Green Team See above for our short to Short term next support a whose mission statement is: The Green long term workplan. steps: precautionary approach Team will support Itad leadership and staff ▪ Identify carbon to environmental to integrate environmental sustainability balancing project challenges. into all our work and the decisions we and partner for make every day – as employees, consumers where it is not 8. Businesses should and citizens. possible to undertake initiatives to reduce or promote greater Carbon balancing – the impact of Covid-19 remove the environmental has meant that our carbon footprint has emission. responsibility. dropped dramatically due to the lack of ▪ Operational international travel. As detailed earlier in processes 9. Businesses should this report our ambition is to be Carbon reviewed to encourage the neutral/ negative by 2023. ensure development and environment diffusion of Printing – our operations are paperless. best practice is environmentally Printing is only done where absolutely in place friendly technologies. necessary for legal reasons. ▪ Cross-initiative work on Remote delivery – To be able to continue to technology deliver results for our partners, and offering and support them adapt to this complex new developing our reality, we drew on the work already being partnerships done by our Green Team to enable our with national facilitation work to continue remotely. suppliers Principle Actions/ progress Monitoring/ Next steps outcomes 10. Businesses should ▪ Itad has in place an anti-bribery Subcontractors sign up to • All suppliers work against all forms of policy and procedure compliant our anti-bribery statement (where corruption, including with the UK 2010 Anti-Bribery Act. or provide their own. applicable) to extortion and bribery. ▪ Itad has a whistle blowing policy have completed and procedures in place compliant Itad’s Ethical with the Public Interest Disclosure framework Act 1998. Clear reporting channel training. added to our website. ▪ The risks of corruption are considered in the design of our work. ▪ All staff have completed Itad’s Ethical framework training.
