H.E. Mr. António Guterres May 7, 2020 Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 At Beautycounter, our mission is to get safer personal care products into the hands of everyone. We are enthusiastically renewing our support of the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles outlining corporate responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. Beautycounter is known for its unparalleled safety standards. As the leader in clean beauty, we recently expanded our Never List™ to include more than 1,800 ingredients with which we will never formulate. But for us, the pursuit of clean extends beyond our products. Aligning Sourcing with Our Values We have worked hard to build a responsible sourcing program focused on ingredients with increased risks for negative environmental and human rights impacts. Beginning with packaging materials and key risk ingredients like mica, vanilla, and palm oil, we are leveraging our purchasing power to improve the lives of the people along our supply chain. We prioritize business partners who share our vision for fair labor standards and work closely with those partners to deepen our commitment to responsible sourcing, especially as it relates to forced and compulsory labor (with a focus on child labor) and human trafficking. We have strengthened our commitment to human rights and fair labor through our Supplier Code of Conduct, which delineates prohibited behaviors and offers best practices for topics ranging from antidiscrimination in hiring to anticorruption. It also requires Understanding Our Environmental Impacts compliance with all local, federal, and international laws designed to protect people from unjust working conditions, such as the California In addition to our efforts surrounding human rights and labor Transparency in Supply Chains Act. practices, we used the last year to better understand our corporate environmental impacts. With the help of a respected third-party To continue leading the clean beauty movement, we are doubling agency, we conducted a greenhouse gas emissions footprinting down on our responsible sourcing strategy, starting with mica. Widely exercise, which enabled us to focus our impact-reduction efforts used in consumer goods, mica is an important ingredient in creating within our operations and with our supply chain partners. We have high-performing color cosmetics. Earlier this year, we shared our committed to using this year to refine our understanding of the energy mica documentary highlighting both the unethical practices prevalent and water we use, as well as the waste and emissions attributable to in the industry as well as how Beautycounter is transforming our our business, throughout our supply chain. That effort will culminate supply chain to ensure we are upholding the “responsible” part of in a comprehensive map of our environmental impacts and specific our sourcing. By the end of 2020, we will have audited 100 percent goals for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water use, and of our mica suppliers while partnering with the technology platform waste sent to landfill. Sourcemap to trace who is producing our mica and where it is coming from. In addition, we have partnered with the Kailash Satyarthi In the last year, we have also transitioned to using 100% renewably Children’s Foundation, a leading on-the-ground organization generated electricity at our headquarters, and continued to offset the advocating for a world free from child labor. We are excited to share the greenhouse gas emissions from office and retail energy use, air travel, learnings and best practices from our mica sourcing efforts not only employee commuting, event production, paper use, and inbound and with other beauty companies, but with our peers in the automotive, outbound freight. Additionally, we offset 120% of our water use at our paint, and electronics industries as well. office and retail locations. Rethinking Packaging We have improved our product packaging to promote responsible consumption and minimize waste sent to landfill. Our approach has been comprehensive, working with suppliers to design packaging with fewer environmental impacts, ensuring that our on-package disposal guidance is clear and concise, and using our growing platform to advocate for consumer engagement in reuse and recycling processes. For example, in 2019 we eliminated more than 800,000 plastic parts from our packaging, avoiding significant carbon emissions and preventing these items from ending up in landfills and waterways. We are also collaborating with our contract manufacturers to develop concentrated and waterless formulas to reduce water use across the life “At Beautycounter, cycles of our products. We’re looking forward to continuing to learn from other UN Global Compact signatories on innovative product solutions. our mission is to get Advocating for Safer Products for All safer personal care Advocacy has been a key pillar of Beautycounter from the beginning, products into the and this past December I was invited to bring our message to Congress as the first clean beauty founder to testify in support of cosmetic safety and reform. On behalf of our movement, I asked Members of Congress hands of everyone.” to update the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act governing personal care product safety and empower the FDA to better protect American consumers. Beautycounter continues to support cosmetics reform in both Washington, D.C. and state legislatures as lawmakers respond to consumers’ growing demand for safer beauty products. Despite the progress we have made, we are just getting started. We look forward to collaborating with our supply chain partners, industry peers, and fellow signatories of the UN Global Compact to advance a principles-based approach to doing business. Beautycounter has always been a company focused on progress, and we will continue to work with our stakeholders to do right by the many hands that bring our cleaner and safer products to market. Sincerely, BEAUTYCOUNTER Gregg Renfrew, Founder and CEO Beautycounter
