ABOUT HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT BOOK 1 CONTENT THE REPORT Book 1 Disrupt to Sustain: Our business fundamentals Book 2 People and Planet: Our pillars of sustainability Book 3 Profit: Our corporate governance and 2019 financial statements Our vision is to be the leader in the natural rubber industry in meeting the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and we outline our efforts and achievements in this report working towards this vision. We also detail developments and initiatives moving into 2020 and beyond. The report also contains our Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) material factors approved by the Board and describes our commitment to investing in technology and innovation in our continued quest to fulfil our sustainability vision of measuring our performance across the three pillars of People, Planet and Profit. 01 Please contact us at investor@halcyonagri.com for any questions or feedback. CHAIRMAN’S WELCOME MESSAGE 3 02 05 HALCYON AT A GLANCE 4 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW THE BOTTOM LINE Financial Highlights Risk Management 26 31 06 Message to Shareholders 5 Rubber Market Notes for 2019 9 04 2019 YEAR IN REVIEW LEADERSHIP TEAM Board of Directors Senior Management 32 37 07 Our Global Footprint 12 Your Source of Mobility 15 Where does our Rubber Go 17 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, Digital Disruption 19 as well as with the Singapore Exchange’s (SGX) Sustainability Reporting Guide. Halcyon Rubber Company Group 20 This report covers the financial year of 2019 (1st January to 31st December) Corrie MacColl Group 21 HeveaPRO Case Study 24 PARTING WORDS 38 1 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 2 CHAIRMAN’S HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT HALCYON AT WELCOME MESSAGE A GLANCE Dear Shareholders, 16,000+ Welcome to the 2019 Annual Report of Halcyon Agri Corporation Limited. Our theme this year is [aggregate], [innovate] and [sustain]. In selecting this narrative, we would like to showcase the journey that lies behind us, the present day challenges we face and the possible solutions that we are working on. Looking beyond our sector, there are many new and exciting business models that have successfully created value for customers and producers alike. Our objective is the same: by leveraging our world-class asset base and our global reach, we aim to bring technology into the natural rubber sector with the aim to enhance sustainability. We all need better outcomes: Farmers require reasonable and Respected Employees less volatile prices, processors require incentives to modernise their factories, and consumers need product innovation and enhanced supply chain transparency. Modern technology holds the key to a multilateral solution, and Halcyon Agri is uniquely positioned to develop feasible solutions and drive their adoption in the sector. My greetings and appreciation go to our workers and staff, to our customers and suppliers, to our bankers and investors. We are united in our support for Halcyon Agri. I hope you enjoy this year’s report. Liu Hongsheng Market Share of Natural 11% Rubber Supplied to Chairman of the Board of Directors 100+ Worldwide Tyre Production 各位股东： 欢迎您阅读合盛2019年度报告。 我们今年的主题是[整合]、[创新]和[可持续]。 在选择这一描述时，我们想展 示我们过往的旅程、目前面临的挑战以及正在努力中的可行方案。 纵观我们的行业之外，有许多激动人心的新商业模式已经成功地为客户和生产商创造了价值。 是相同的：通过利用我们世界一流的资产基础和我们的全球影响力，旨在将技术引入天然橡胶行业，以增强 我们的目标 16% Standard Indonesian Rubber Market Share LOCATIONS 其可持续性。 我们都需要实现更高的目标：胶农需要合理、更加稳定的收入，加工商需要激励来实现工厂现 (Indonesia supplies 21% of the 代化，消费者需要产品创新和增强的供应链透明度。 现代技术是多边解决方案的关键，而合盛公司在制定可 world’s natural rubber) 行的解决方案和推动其在行业内的实施方面具有独特的优势地位。 Headquartered in Singapore, we 我向我们的各位员工、业务伙伴、银行以及投资者们致以问候和感谢！我们团结一致的支持合盛公司！希望 您能够欣赏今年的年报。 have sales offices, warehouses, terminals, laboratories, factories, 刘红生 合盛农业集团公司董事长 9% Globel Natural Rubber and Latex Market Share plantations and a wide distribution network across the world LIU HONG SHENG CHAIRMAN 38 1.3 Million mT 1.6 Million mT Production Facilities Sales Volume Production Capacity All figures above based on Halcyon Agri’s analysis of sales and customer information and IRSG data 3 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVE HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT OFFICER’S REVIEW plantations in Malaysia and Cameroon. Due to the diverging Yield vs profitability illustration over time Dear Shareholders, nature of the latex timber markets in these two countries, the Yield (mT) EBITDA (US$’000) accounting standards deemed the former a “Biological Asset”, 60,000 120,000 Building a natural rubber business requires a long-term view operate 36 factories: 19 in Indonesia, five in Thailand, two in the latter a “Bearer Plant”. While terms do not sound terribly 50,000 100,000 and steadfast financial commitment. Our original supply is Malaysia, two in Ivory Coast and eight in China. In 2019, HRC different, the implications are substantial: a Bearer Plant is 80,000 field latex, harvested from rubber trees, and the final use is a supplied the global tyre industry with 946,067 mT of natural valued at Historical Cost less Accumulated Depreciation and 40,000 40,000 rubber product, be it a tyre, a glove, or a chew toy for your dog. rubber, which equates to a global market share of around 10%. Accumulated Impairment, while a Biological Asset is carried 30,000 The business model here is to purchase raw material from at Fair Value less Cost to Sell, which is to be measured by an 20,000 20,000 In between these end-points lies the lifecycle of natural rubber. smallholder farmers, process it to HeveaPRO standard, and external valuer every year. In 2019, CMCP developed a business 10,000 Halcyon Agri has developed an integrated supply chain that then merchandise it to the global tyre industry. To turn a profit, plan to merchandise the harvested timber from our old trees (20,000) covers all critical links: plantations, processing, warehouses, this midstream business must generate sufficient processing at HeveCam into sawn timber for the furniture and building EBITDA @ US$3000 EBITDA @ US$2300 latex tanks and testing laboratories. margin in between smallholder raw material purchase plus materials industries. This benefits us in two ways: Firstly, the Yield EBITDA @ US$1900 EBITDA @ US$1700 processing costs and associated overheads, and the finished revenues of such timber are much higher than chipping the wood Our mission, however, is not simply to aggregate. Halcyon product. for biomass energy. Secondly, we are now able to harmonise the US$ Plantation cost profile over time Agri has evolved from building a world-class asset base, accounting treatment for our global plantation holdings under per mT to disrupting the way natural rubber is graded and priced. HRC produced EBITDA of US$36.5 million, after adjusting for the common Biological Asset valuation framework. The net 3,200 3,000 Technically Specified Rubber (“TSR”) is a concept that is one-off items, and required US$20.1 million in interest costs to impact of this change for 2019 is an increase in carrying value 2,800 outdated in today’s world, the quality of natural rubber is not do so. A critical measure in analysing this business is the sum for our Cameroonian plantations of US$53.3 million, which has 2,600 2,400 exhaustively defined along six parameters. Our customers of these two factors, which I refer to as ‘core operating profit’, been booked in our fourth-quarter income statement. 2,200 2,000 know this, and so do we. Besides much more granular technical which stood at US$16.4 million for 2019. Working backwards, 1,800 parameters, producers of natural rubber must adhere to a HRC generated US$17 per mT in core operating profit. “The financial performance of an 1,600 1,400 established plantation business is broader responsibility framework: the basic principle must be 1,200 to “do no harm”, and to sustain the individuals, the societies CMC caters to the global non-tyre and speciality-tyre market FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 and the ecosystems that produce this quintessential ingredient segments and operates a wide storefront covering in-house compelling, and there is no better time Price (US$1900) to grow into increased output from Immature Price (US$3000) Price (US$1700) to modern life. plantation rubber and concentrated latex as well as third party Mature Price (US$2300) All-in cash natural and synthetic rubber, again in both dry and liquid forms. maturing trees than at the bottom of the operating cost “The basic principle must be to “do no CMC consists of two units: CMC plantations (“CMCP”), which per mT price cycle.” harm”, and to sustain the individuals, owns our vast plantation holdings in Cameroon (HeveCam and Note: The data set out above are for illustration purposes only. It is Sudcam) and Malaysia (JFL), and CMC International (“CMCI”), the societies and the ecosystems that “天然橡胶种植园成熟后的财务业绩将令 important to note that the above analysis is based on historical numbers, the origination and fulfilment platform. and is not necessarily representative of future financial performance. produce this quintessential ingredient to 人瞩目。 橡胶价格现处于周期底部情况下是 提升未来产量最合适的时机。 ” CMCI typically carries the product all the way to the customers, modern life.” providing a full suite of logistics and technical services. The business model is to buy-and-sell third party products with At the time of writing, global markets are subject to extreme “责任框架：基本原则必须是“不侵害” ，并 a profit, thus supporting the financial cost of developing our Going forward, the economics of CMC will change. As the pressures, brought about by the fear about the Covid-19 virus 让参与生产这现代生活必需品的个人以及 plantation assets. Once these are mature, our plantations planted areas come on-stream, the output of CMCP will grow pandemic. Global financial and commodities markets have 相关社区和生态系统得以持续发展。” will provide meaningful volumes of product in replacement of from current levels to 46,000 mT in 2025 and will plateau at become excessively volatile, with daily movements of 5% or third party supplies, and will take the lead in profit generation 65,000 mT per annum from 2036 onwards. Once we past the more. Natural rubber markets have long faced the same issue: for CMC. cash flow breakeven point in 2021, the annual increase in algorithms dominate, and trading frequency has accelerated In this report, I would like to review three important topics: output will drive down the unit costs of production. CMCP is beyond the human capacity to make rational decisions. our asset base, our strategy to disrupt and innovate, and the CMCI sold 358,951 mT in 2019 and generated EBITDA of US$12.1 a fixed cost producer of natural rubber and latex, and as the geopolitical relevance of the sector as a whole. million. Net of allocated interest costs of US$2.8 million, CMCI unit costs decrease, our profits per tonne increase. Factor in a In natural rubber, this is particularly damaging, for two reasons: generated a core operating profit of US$9.3 million. cyclical recovery of rubber prices and the upside profit potential Part I: Our business model and the underlying asset base is virtually unlimited. 1. There is no substitute for natural rubber; it is the nonCMCP produced 19,597 mT in FY2019, 40% of which was substitutable natural ingredient in every tyre. In the 12 months ended 31st December 2019, Halcyon Agri’s harvested as concentrated latex, and generated US$12.5 million The following graphs show the development in EBITDA at 2. We rely on smallholder farmers to produce it, and their operating businesses sold 1,279,201 metric tonnes (“mT”), and in revenues. The current maturity profile of our plantations is a blended price level of US$1,700, US$1,900, US$2,300 and cost of production reflects their cost of living, of survival. generated revenues of US$1.9 billion, Earnings before Interest, still unfavourable. We harvest circa 13,500 hectares, mainly in US$3,000 per mT, as compared to 2019’s achieved sales price of They do not act rationally according to the definition of Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (“EBITDA”) of US$71.7 HeveCam, out of a total planted area of circa 37,500 hectares circa US$1,500 per mT. As you can see, the financial performance Adam Smith: a subsistence farmer tends to produce more million, Operating Profits of US$38.3 million and a Net Loss globally. The necessary plantation infrastructure at JFL and of an established plantation business is compelling, and there when prices are low, and less when prices are high: his attributable to the owners of the Company of US$1.6 million. SudCam has been almost fully developed, including a stateis no better time to grow into increased output from maturing daily income is price multiplied by volume. Low price, and of-the-art factory at SudCam, whereas neither estate has trees than at the bottom of the price cycle. he needs to produce more; high price and he can afford Halcyon Agri consists of two main operating businesses, commenced production to a meaningful degree. In 2019, due to work a little less. At current rubber futures market Halcyon Rubber Company Pte Ltd (“HRC”) and Corrie MacColl to the circumstances outlined above, CMCP produced a core The natural rubber industry is more than 100 years old, and its levels, smallholders cannot afford to continue producing, Limited (“CMC”), as well as a nascent Digital Suite of rubberoperating loss of US$16.0 million, on an adjusted basis. market place has not adapted to modern circumstances. The they are at risk. As they abandon this crop in search of related investments and projects. pricing for this product is determined on futures markets in something else to plant or do, the supply of rubber is in It is important to note that our basis of valuation for CMCP’s China, Tokyo and Singapore, which increasingly represent the peril. Rubberwood has a substantial market value, and a HRC houses our supply chain for tyre applications. This division plantation assets has changed in 2019. Up until last year, we views of macro and quant traders, and much less the domaintree, once cut down, takes seven years to be replaced. operates five geographical manufacturing platforms that had to apply two diverging accounting treatments for our specific knowledge of informed natural rubber market sellers and buyers. 5 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT OFFICER’S REVIEW v Underlying these fundamental problems are bigger picture Part III: The Belt and Road Initiative and geopolitical including natural rubber. In 1950, the Korean peninsula suffered In closing, I would like to extend my sincere appreciation to issues, which have now brought non-governmental agencies considerations a continuation of war atrocities, effectively playing host to a our many stakeholders, both internal and external. A special into our world. Externalities remain unpriced in the smallholder proxy fight between competing superpowers for access to mention goes to the NGO community, and to the people of model, as farmers technically do not pay for the land, and turn to “中国推进“一带一路”倡议的过程中，战略 raw materials. Cameroon, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, China and Ivory their governments in times of trouble. This leads to uncontrolled 性的串联了原材料的重要原产地及其新兴 Coast. You allow us to operate plantations and factories in your 消费市场。 ” deforestation when prices are high and to social distress when Tyres need natural rubber, and the world needs tyres. Military countries, you provide us with human and ecological resources, they are low. and strategic competition is bound to intensify, and China has in order to deliver on our mission to develop a truly sustainable a historical advantage in most origins of natural rubber. Over natural rubber industry. Halcyon Agri is a pioneer in looking for solutions to these In last years’ message to shareholders, I laid out my views the last 20 years, mainland Chinese entities have successfully issues. To this end, we have formulated our Digital Suite, which regarding the increasingly competitive relationship between the established majority ownership of many rubber companies, I would also like to reiterate that Halcyon supports the consists of three main pillars: United States and China. While Phase One of the “Trade Deal” including Halcyon Agri, and have funded our industry through United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) in has since been signed, the developing Covid-19 crisis has not difficult times. creating a lasting positive impact on society. As a signatory HeveaConnect (“HC”) just caused a slowdown in globalisation but has brought it to a of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), we remain committed to A digital marketplace for natural rubber, which allows for complete standstill. Social isolation, increased border security It is unlikely that any other nation can usurp China’s dominant upholding UNGC’s universal principles on human rights, labour, bilateral negotiations and trades between producers and and an outright travel ban do not make for improving global position in the natural rubber market, but I do see a chance environment and anti-corruption for all our stakeholders. consumers for perfectly specified physical rubber. A joint relationships. The superpower blame game is just starting, and that the digital dimension holds the key to a functioning global venture between Halcyon Agri, DBS Bank Ltd and ITOCHU the United States and Germany are heading for presidential rubber market, with due consideration of the ongoing viability Corporation, HeveaConnect was successfully launched in 2019 and has clocked trades worth more than US$150 million to date. and parliamentary elections respectively, later this year. Never before has the world faced a crisis of this complexity: the Covid-19 attack is simultaneously challenging established of smallholder farmers, future-proof ecological agendas and balanced geopolitical interests. ROBERT “HeveaConnect天然橡胶电子交易市场 social and behavioural norms, political systems and global financial markets. Personally, I fear that we might be witnessing MEYER 能让天然橡胶生产商和消费者就指定标准 the birth of a New World Order. CEO 的天然橡胶产品直接进行双边谈判和实物 交易。 ” Let us not forget, however, that natural rubber is essential to the way we live. In a post Covid-19 world of social distancing, mass-rapid transport systems and other shared economy Halcyon Data Centre (“HDC”) assets (vehicles, real estate and offices) represent a risk of Halcyon has engaged Siemens of Germany, a leading player contagion, and individual modes of transport might be a safer in the Industry 4.0 realm, to develop a cloud-based data way to travel. tool for TSR factories. Currently, on trial in Palembang, the HDC solution enables the streamlining of operations, In a 2015 presentation, Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, optimisation of production efficiency, and represents a great warned of the dangers of a viral attack and compared threat leap forward towards production transparency and data levels of pathogens to those of missiles. His assessment at transmission along the supply chain. The HDC system will the time proved to be eerily prescient as to the events that are be rolled out across our Indonesian processing factories in unfolding today. In responding to a viral threat, his suggestion is the course of 2020 and 2021. to mobilise the military capabilities of the major global powers, as they possess the most efficient logistical capabilities. HalcyonCoin There are two plausible applications of distributed-ledgerBe it trade-war, germ-war, or a combination of both: global technology (“DLT”) in the natural rubber business: monetising supply chains need to be reassessed and probably rebuilt. The inventory, thus making it available to a broader investor concept of Strategic Materials and Buffer Stocks will partially universe, and capturing supply chain data, such as carbon replace the notion of Just-in-Time global supplies. sequestration or improvements in energy or effluent data. In their pursuit of the Belt and Road Initiative (“BRI”), China is Both cases serve as a way to mobilise additional funding connecting critical origins of raw materials as well as emerging and capture incremental value for the upand midstream of consumer markets in a strategic way. Being a BRI member the natural rubber industry. Halcyon Agri is developing the country is the new version of being a “Most Favoured Nation” HalcyonCoin concept with leading players in the Fintech under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation. Connect, space and I am excited about the opportunities that lie but keep separate; provide access, without systematically ahead. having to merge. These digital tools will work together: HC will help to discover The natural rubber business has always been Chinese. The price premiums for rubber that meets increasingly higher earliest Singapore-based rubber baron, Mr Tan Kah Kee, sustainability criteria, HDC will help factories to continuously donated the bulk of his fortune to his erstwhile homeland, and drive efficiency and improve their carbon footprint and most successful players in the natural rubber industry have HalcyonCoin will offer incremental value and liquidity to maintained very close links to the Mainland. The Japanese responsible producers and farmers. invasion of Malaya in 1941 is manifest to their strategic ambition to safeguard access to important raw materials, 7 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 8 RUBBER HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT NOTES Rubber Market Notes for 2019 2019 saw further consolidation in the natural rubber market. Assuming that the average vehicle has five tyres (which In Thailand, some of the larger processors cut back output represents a blend of passenger cars, light and heavy trucks volumes in the face of a temporary market dislocation driven and off-the-road vehicles), the automobile industry currently by a since-bankrupted Chinese trader. In Indonesia, several old accounts for 500 million new tyres annually. The average tyre and outdated factories closed down for good due to lack of raw contains 3kg2 of natural rubber, which suggests that the tyres materials and difficulties in selling their product. In aggregate, for the automobile industry represent 1.5 million mT in annual global rubber production is currently estimated to have fallen demand, which is 15% of 9.9 million mT that the global tyre by 250,000 mT, or slightly more than 1.5%. industry is reported to have consumed in 20193 . The conclusion is that the remaining 85% of demand is the replacement tyre Global demand for natural rubber is estimated to have remained business. constant in 2019, suggesting a reduction in global inventories of circa 100,000 mT. Working backwards, this shows that each existing vehicle represents 7kg of annual demand for natural rubber, suggesting Unsurprisingly, natural rubber prices, referenced by the 1st that, on average, 4.5 tyres are replaced every two years. This position of the SICOM TSR20 contract, appreciated by circa may sound excessive for passenger cars driven in Singapore, US$200/ mT to close the year at US$1450/ mT, an increase of but makes plausible sense when considering busses, trucks 15%. This price increase took place amidst unfriendly macro and taxis – and a global context of many more bad roads than conditions: the global automobile industry is in disarray, good ones! annual auto sales estimated to have contracted by 3%, which would mark the industry’s worst performance since the Global There are several key insights here: Financial Crisis. The Trade War took its toll on global flows and sentiment, as did Brexit and the increasingly uncertain outlook 1. Existing vehicles account for 85% of the annual tyreon the German economy. industry demand for natural rubber, which makes “miles driven” rather than new car sales, the most important Supply driver of natural rubber demand. All traditional rubber-growing areas currently face adverse 2. The global vehicle parc is currently growing at a CAGR conditions, to varying degrees. Indonesia has to deal with of 4%, which means that by 2022, the replacement-tyre diseases that have affected many of its old trees, especially demand for natural rubber would have gone up by a in Sumatra, Malaysia has labour issues and Thailand has to staggering 1 million metric tonne. contend with disease in the South, drought in the North and provenance issues in the North East. Farmers have responded While the growth rate may slow down in the current to the low price levels of the past four years by not replanting, macroeconomic and geopolitical context, the trend towards and there has been very little new planting since 2013. electrification is likely to enhance the demand for natural rubber. The growth in absolute number of vehicles may slow down, but Non-traditional origins also have their lot to bear: not only are incentives will drive vehicle scrap rates and their replacement they off-limits to many Western consumers due to deforestation with electric vehicle’s. Each vehicle uses 20kg in its year of and land-grabbing allegations, but Vietnam, Cambodia and manufacture, and only 7kg for each year thereafter. Laos all face unusually dry conditions due in part to the Indian Ocean Dipole and in part due to hydro-dam projects in China If global demand for natural rubber stagnated in 2019, then and Laos. Africa and South America, on the other hand, seem this is because tyre makers and traders reduced inventories. to be unaffected by disease, weather or provenance, but they Reported stockpiles in China are down and the Thai government account for less than 5% of global supply. has all but disposed of its strategic stockpile. Latest filings by listed tyre makers show an increase in finished goods Demand inventories (due to the slowdown in OEM sales) and a decrease The global vehicle parc currently stands at 1.3 billion vehicles1 , in raw material stocks as well, the latter probably caused by and has been growing at circa 4% annually. Recent estimates the former. suggest that total vehicle production in 2019 was 92 million units, which suggests that 40 million vehicles were scrapped 1 Based on latest available data from International Organisation of Motor Vehicle in 2019, or 3.2% of global vehicle parc. Manufacturers 2 Based on surveys by BOUNCE 3 Reported by International Rubber Study Group 9 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 10 2019 YEAR IN HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT OUR GLOBAL REVIEW FOOTPRINT Investing in Sustainable Growth for an Equitable Supply Chain In our first Annual Report published in 2013, we outlined our Ultimately, the rubber tree is a carbon sequester and provider vision to be the leading global natural rubber producer on all of sustainable income (provided we can settle on an equitable fronts: quality of production, sustainability and profitability. We pricing model). It offers the world a unique product that goes were also at the time keenly aware that the rubber market was into a wide array of goods from household to medical products well known for its price volatility which did not factor in the to tyres, and where there is no substitute. true value of rubber – a non-substitutable key ingredient for the world’s mobility needs – and that the historical measure of But we cannot do this alone – in order to drive this change, global determining its price was unsustainable and would not result players must understand the need to introduce sustainability in an equitable supply chain. into the natural rubber industry and worldwide effort is required NETHERLANDS to raise the large amounts of capital needed. ZAANDAM/ TERNEUZEN Initially operating in the midstream of the global supply chain with just two factories in Indonesia, we started seeking Our Trade Flows investment opportunities in the upstream and downstream to Our scale, global diversification and trade flows are unrivalled. GERMANY bolster our existing distribution network and to ensure that our Halcyon sends 1.2 million mT of natural rubber (dry rubber ESCHBORN/ HAMBURG factories had stable access to high-quality raw material. and latex) originating in 13 countries to destinations across UNITED KINGDOM every continent. LONDON 2014 and 2015 then saw us grow via a series of acquisitions to become a global supply chain business with three core USA operations: originate, produce and distribute. OHIO/ VIRGINIA In 2016, we took a significant step by purchasing Sinochem’s CHINA natural rubber assets: factories in China together with Manufacturing CHINA HAINAN/ YUNNAN SHANGHAI plantations in West Africa, the world’s largest functioning 8% rubber plantation. The year 2018 saw us cementing our position Automotive TURKEY 82% Infrastructure 3% as the world’s leading latex and specialised rubber distributor THAILAND with the acquisition of some of the world’s oldest rubber trading 7% names, as we expanded our distribution channels in Europe and Consumer goods USA for the latex business. VIETNAM While integrating our acquired assets, we have significantly invested in the sustainability of our plantations and put in place measures to balance economic development with ecological preservation. We have also introduced schemes to ensure Our natural rubber products are an essential and irreplaceable SINGAPORE that we work alongside the local communities living in and part of: around our plantations to give them opportunities for education, Tyres Representative office empowerment and socio-economic development. Consumer goods: adhesives, beddings, balloons, condoms, and medical supplies Distribution 2019 also saw us pushing ahead with technical and digital Manufacturing essentials: compounder, vibration control, innovations across our supply chain from source to destination, conveyor belt, sealants, flooring MALAYSIA INDONESIA Tank Terminal KEDAH /IPOH/ KELANTAN KALIMANTAN/ PALEMBANG to optimise margins and seek new avenues of growth. We intend Infrastructure products: bitumen, bridge components BELAWAN & BINTAN/ JAMBI to continue our efforts in cutting-edge digital technologies along our value chain into 2020 and beyond. Halcyon’s Footprint Along the Belt and Road Initiative Plantation IVORY COAST CAMEROON The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) envisages heavy investment in With all the pieces in place, we are now in a unique position with infrastructure and commerce along historical land and maritime Lab Testing a non-substitutable product and full range of assets across the silk routes. Projects under the BRI include transportation, supply chain to positively change the natural rubber industry. energy, urbanisation and telecommunications, and natural Factories We believe that all smallholders should be enabled to form corubber is an essential component of all these. operatives in order to independently organise enough capital to rejuvenate their biological assets in line with the modern Approximately 46% of Halcyon’s rubber sales by volume serve Warehouse MALAYSIA CHINA THAILAND understanding of sustainability. the regions covered by the BRI. The 126 BRI countries closely 4,300ha 160,000mT 275,000mT match our trade flows and the locations of our assets and IVORY COAST MALAYSIA IVORY COAST Sales 1,400ha 220,000mT 56,000mT offices as well as the locations of our customers. A recent Export Region for Natural Rubber CAMEROON INDONESIA CAMEROON study by the World Bank also notes that the improvements in 32,000ha 826,000mT 55,000mT HQ supply chain efficiency brought about by the BRI would lead to Ivory Coast Cameroon Thailand Malaysia Indonesia Planted Factory Capacity long-term benefits for the rubber industry. 11 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 12 OUR GLOBAL HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT FOOTPRINT Halcyon Rubber Company Group (“HRC”) Corrie MacColl Group (“CMC”) Indonesia China Europe Accumulated over a series of acquisitions and minority buyAcquired from Sinochem in 2016, our PRC factory assets are Corrie MacColl Limited, the holding entity for the CMC Group, is We acquired JFL, which owns a total of 10,000 hectares of outs, we own and operate 19 TSR factories with a combined located in Yunnan and Hainan provinces. In total, we have eight incorporated in London and operates a small office in the city. 99-year leasehold agricultural land in 2014 and have since installed capacity of 826,000 mT annually. The centrepiece of factories here with a combined installed capacity of 160,000 almost fully developed this brownfield asset into a mixed-crop our Indonesian platform is formed by the former subsidiaries of mT per annum. Most recent valuations suggest a carrying cost The sales and marketing teams of Corrie MacColl Europe are plantation business with 4,300 hectares planted with natural the Lee Rubber Company from Singapore, which we acquired in of US$295 per mT of installed annual capacity. We are among spread across four offices, namely Zaandam, London, Hamburg rubber, and 1,600 hectares planted with partially mature oil 2014. The carrying value of these assets in our balance sheet the top natural rubber producer in both provinces. and Frankfurt. The result of the merger between the European palm. is US$105.3 million, along with goodwill on the consolidation parts of the RCMA Polymer business, Centrotrade Deutschland of US$252.1 million, which implies a valuation of US$432 Ivory Coast and the former New Continent Deutschland outfit, this is a We will start tapping the rubber acreage in 2020, and expect per installed mT of annual output. It is noteworthy that these Ivory Coast is one of our most dynamic investments and one business with unrivalled scale and reach in both Europe and this asset to yield at least 6,000 mT of natural rubber and plants are unique in that they have been ‘grandfathered’, and that has required substantial management time to reorganise the United Kingdom. 38,000 mT of fresh fruit bunch annually from 2025 onwards. are exempt from minimum local ownership rules. over the last three years. Here, we now own the entire share JFL’s combined value for its plantation and biological assets is capital of Société de Développement du Caoutchouc Ivoirien Of particular mention is the Kelvin Terminals asset in Terneuzen, US$61.0 million as at the end of this financial year. Besides our operating assets, we also own investment (SDCI), which in turn owns two factories, with a combined Netherlands. Here, we own and operate Europe’s largest tank properties such as shophouses, commercial buildings and annual capacity of 56,000 mT. As at 31st December 2019, we installation for both natural and nitrile latex, as well as a stateThailand residential real estate across Indonesia with a market value of value each metric tonne of installed capacity at US$224 in our of-the-art laboratory. Centrotrade Hatyai houses a small team that provides field US$24.3 million as at 31st December 2019. balance sheet. latex and other raw materials for a particular client with whom United States we have a broad and global relationship. It is fair to state that this Indonesian factory portfolio is unique in Besides factories, we own 70% of Tropical Rubber Côte d’Ivoire, Arguably, the flagship of the CMC Group, Corrie MacColl North both scale and reach. Structured into four regional management a small plantation company which owns a leasehold land America operates out of Norfolk, Virginia, and is the product of Cameroon clusters, our investment in Indonesia forms the core of our HRC covering 1,615 hectares, just outside the city limits of Abidjan, a successful merger between Alan L Grant, Centrotrade Rubber The centrepiece of CMC: In Cameroon, we own 90% of HeveCam, processing business. the commercial capital of Ivory Coast. We carry this land at and Momentum Technologies. the largest operating plantation in the country. Spread over a cost, or US$2.2 million in our balance sheet, and are currently total concession of circa 53,000 hectares, HeveCam consists of Thailand evaluating various options to either replant the oldest portions Dedicated teams handle end-to-end supply chain management three estates with a total planted area of circa 21,600 hectares. Teck Bee Hang Co., Ltd. is one of the oldest natural rubber of the estate, or perhaps to monetise it in other ways. for three key product groups: dry rubber, liquid latex and The balance is untouched and forms the high-conservation companies in Thailand. Established by Lee Rubber Company synthetic polymers. value portion of this asset. in 1954, Teck Bee Hang owns and operates five TSR factories Singapore with a combined installed capacity of 275,000 mT in Thailand’s The combined annual output of our Indonesian, Ivorian and The Akron, Ohio based subsidiary, Momentum Technology We also own 80% of SudCam, a brownfield project that southern provinces. In addition to these factories, Teck Bee Malaysian platforms is merchandised by Hevea Global, the very Laboratories, forms an important part of our technical support commenced in 2012, where we completed our revised planting Hang owns a portfolio of investment properties, most recently first operating entity to form Halcyon Agri. We also own New group and offers testing services across many applications. programme in 2019. Our total concession covers a size of circa valued at US$18.6 million. Besides the equity that we own Continent Enterprises, an established rubber-trading firm that 59,000 hectares, of which we have planted circa 9,800 hectares. on a standalone basis, Teck Bee Hang also owes our group trades both in-house and third-party physical rubber products, China Here, we have defined a 25,000 hectare community forest, and companies circa US$105 million, which is secured by mortgages as well as rubber futures. New Continent Enterprises is set-up Shanghai CMI Rubber is a start-up and represents CMC’s circa 10,000 hectares of high-conservation value. over most of their fixed assets. The unique financial structure with a dual function: it manages our Chinese distribution entity, intention to leverage our global client reach and technical of this asset has its roots in history and predates Halcyon’s Halcyon Agri Shanghai, and also provides risk management expertise into the PRC market. This business is based in Both assets have state-of-the-art processing plants each purchase of GMG Global Ltd in 2016. The book value of the services to other group companies. Shanghai, where it co-locates with Halcyon Agri Shanghai. consisting of a concentrated latex line, a CV line and a TSR line. factories is US$26.8 million, which works out to be US$97 per mT of installed capacity. In aggregate, Hevea Global and New Continent Enterprises Malaysia The combined value of our plantation and biological assets in have a net asset value of US$46.1 million, which they use to Centrotrade Malaysia is an established supplier of liquid latex Cameroon, as opined by Knight Frank, is US$399 million as at Malaysia merchandise almost one million mT tonnes of natural rubber into the Malaysian rubber glove industry. Formerly ED&F Man, 31st December 2019. HRC owns two SMR factories with a combined installed annually. this entity provides regional sourcing and risk management capacity of 220,000 mT per annum. The combined book value services to the world’s largest provider nation of dipped rubber of the Malaysian factories is US$19.5 million, which equates products. to US$89 per mT of installed annual capacity. 13 14 YOUR SOURCE HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT OF MOBILITY Where Does Your Source of Mobility Comes From? Natural rubber’s place in a global context Essentially, it comes from the tyres that allow your current In 2017, the European Union commission added natural rubber mode of transport to take you from A to B. As you sit behind to its list of Critical Raw Materials, the vast majority for which, the wheel of your car driving your children to school, or in the including natural rubber, the EU is dependent on imports from back of a taxi that takes you to the airport (where you board a non-EU countries. Natural rubber is simply an irreplaceable plane that would be grounded if not for its tyres), did you ever component of tyres. Different applications require different wonder what material makes up a significant percentage of levels, but natural rubber cannot be replaced. The demand those tyres? The answer is unequivocably NATURAL RUBBER. for natural rubber in passenger tyres is determined by global vehicle density as well as by total mileage driven. Global So where is this critical raw material produced? Only from vehicle density and utilisation are largely determined by GDP countries bordering the equator, with Thailand and Indonesia growth. being the largest producers. Over 90% of Indonesian raw material is produced by 2.4 million farmers with an average It should be abundantly clear to vehicle owners et al, that smallholding of about 1.5 hectares. Each rubber tree without the existence of these smallholder farmers, the produces approximately 2.5 kg of rubber per annum so mobility that they take for granted in everyday life would imagine how many millions of trees are needed to guarantee be severely compromised. As well, the very livelihood and The tyre industry consumes 9.9 million the convenience and luxury of mobility that we all take for existence of smallholders are in peril by the current poor return mT of natural rubber per annum. In granted on a daily basis. The farmer sells his cup lumps to for their labours and product. The only way to keep the world order to supply this, the world needs our factories at a price determined by a commodity futures moving is to enforce the sustainable supply of natural rubber, 4 billion rubber trees. market, over which neither we nor the farmer has control. which primarily includes ensuring that the smallholders are Given the prevailing low prices, his income is now significantly properly compensated. #DIDYOUKNOW? below the Indonesian government’s gazetted minimum wage Farmer sells his rubber to factories at a price for employees. A typical benchmark for Indonesian cost of Consumers (e.g. vehicle owners) are demanding more set by a commodity futures market, over which living is the cost of a kilo of rice. Historically one kilo of rubber sustainable products and in turn, automobile and tyre Natural rubber is considered a CRITICAL neither we nor the famer has control. would have purchased two kilos of rice. Today the reverse is manufacturers are demanding full transparency and RAW MATERIAL by the EU Commision. It is the case where two kilos of rubber are needed to purchase sustainability in respect of supply chains. But without a fair an irreplaceable component of tyres. one kilo of rice. price reflective of the efforts and investment required to produce this critical and irreplaceable product: there will be no, in the true sense of the word, sustainability. #DIDYOUKNOW? Indonesia supplies 21% of the world’s natural rubber mainly to global tyre manufacturers. 2.4 million Indonesian farmers produced >90% of the country’s raw material. Farmer taps his trees in rotation daily before sunrise. Each rubber tree gives 2.5 kg of rubber per year. A farmer needs two kilos of rubber to buy one kilo of rice. His income is now below minimum wage. 15 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 16 WHERE DOES HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT OUR RUBBER GO? Industries using our product in China Industries using our product in EMEA As the world’s leading rubber franchise, we have full control over the entire value chain: how rubber is grown, sourced, produced and distributed. Halcyon’s factories are located in most rubber-producer countries, and we are the owner of the world’s largest commercial plantations. Combined with the ability to leverage our extensive network of warehouses, terminals, laboratories and 3% 1% sales points across the world, this allows us to distribute a wide range of natural rubber grades, latex and specialty rubber for the tyre and non-tyre industries. Our top three delivery destinations are China, EMEA and USA. Our sales are mainly to the tyre industry. 11% 14% 13% 82% Origins of our rubber Delivery destinations of our cargo 76% VIETNAM OTHERS 3% THAILAND 12% OTHERS China is the world’s single largest consumer of natural rubber. The EMEA region (Europe including UK, Middle East and Africa), 16% SEA The bulk of our sales are to the automotive industry, with 26% with its mature automotive industry, accounts for 20% of the 18% 5% CHINA 33% of our China deliveries sold directly to domestic joint ventures Group’s total deliveries. Our top EMEA customers are based MALAYSIA of international tyre majors.The other significant segment of in the main regional automotive hubs of Germany, Turkey and 6% our Chinese rubber sales is to the rubber compounding and Finland, accounting for 13%, 12% and 9% of our offtake in EMEA. textile industries. While our volumes for consumer goods in the EU are lower, 3% IVORY COAST USA 17% these typically represent high-margin businesses and typical products that fall in this category include: 16% CHINA • Adhesives and tape • Footwear • Vibration control for building and non-building structures 13% 20% • Medical supplies such as gloves and catheters 38% FAR EAST EMEA INDONESIA The tyre majors in the US are our anchor customers and the Industries using our product in USA top five customers in the US account for 60% of our tyre sales Breakdown of volume by industry in the US. The US consumer business purchased our concentrated latex products and are used in dipping products such as balloons and 8% 3% 12% condoms. The thriving medical industry in the US also use our product in catheters, gloves and medical tubing. Additionally, 7% 10% our dry rubber also goes into the production of everyday 6% products such as: • Adhesives and tape 72% • Beddings – latex mattresses • Footwear We have a significant infrastructure segment, where our trading business in the US also acts as a supply chain partner to our 82% customers, sourcing for synthetic rubber used to produce bitumen emulsion necessary in the construction of roads. Tyres Consumer Goods Infrastructure Manufacturing Tyres Consumer Goods Infrastructure Manufacturing 17 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 18 DIGITAL HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT HALCYON DISTRUPTION RUBBER COMPANY Digital Disruption to Transform the Rubber Industry Sharpens Focus to Serve Global Tyre Customers In our last report, we described how technology is necessary We are currently expanding our offerings to allow for the tracking Streamlining for efficiency to reverse rubber’s declining fortunes. Technology is needed to of sustainable practices in rubber plantations and smallholder 2019 saw the re-alignment of our tyre majors business under This model also enables easy and quick deployment of tackle unsustainable pricing and create a sustainable supply rubber plots (HeveaGROW) and traceability requirements in the the umbrella of the Halcyon Rubber Company (HRC), a preresources across our production facilities, for example moving chain where all stakeholders of the value chain will benefit. sourcing of natural rubber (HeveaTRACE). This would allow all eminent supplier of natural rubber to the global tyre fraternity. raw material from one factory to the next in order to meet participants along the supply chain to trace the source of each The consolidation of global tyre majors processing and supply production volume requirements and customer needs. Halcyon is spearheading the digital evolution of rubber with batch of natural rubber, and reflecting the true value of supply platform under one roof has allowed us to optimise our market various initiatives. and demand where farmers and producers are compensated position in terms of profitability, hedging optimisation and Other benefits include optimising our raw material procurement, fairly. asset utilisation. better factory utilisation and enabling standardisation of best • The incorporation of HeveaConnect as a digital marketplace practices, allowing for more efficient resource allocation while to trade rubber from our TÜV SÜD audited and HeveaPRO Harnessing data to optimise factory operations The enlarged HRC also allowed us to offer our tyre major keeping costs down. certified factories marks the first step in our digital disruption Through continuing investment in technology and innovation, customers a wider range of rubber from different origins from of the natural rubber industry. We are working to further Halcyon aims to provide greater value to our customers over a central point. Increasing capacity at our factory in Kalimantan integrate traceability and agronomical data to expand the long term. With 38 processing facilities across different In 2019, we made a large investment in our PT Bumi Jaya (KBQ) the sustainable certification options to HeveaTRACE and regions, there is a need to centrally collect real-time data across Cluster management model processing facility in Indonesia, with the intention to increase HeveaGROW. our factories. This allows us to gain meaningful insights into We have introduced a cluster management model which our production output from 2,000 to 3,000 mT per month before • With 38 production facilities in major rubber growing our operations, optimise our processes and reduce operational decentralises management for quicker decisions and to ultimately reaching a monthly capacity of 5,000 mT. We also areas, we have collaborated with Siemens and launched costs and risk. encourage better communication and problem solving. This invested in new equipment for the wet and dry lines and in the an ambitious digitisation programme to build the next approach enables the sharing of best practices between HRC’s hanging sheds. generation of our data centre. We collaborated with Siemens to build the next generation factories and benchmarking to the highest standards, and • In Indonesia – which suppliers 21% of the world’s natural Halcyon Data Centre (HDC 2.0) which is currently being piloted encourages management to hone their leadership abilities by As Kalimantan is a relatively low cost region for raw materials, rubber – we have also embarked on a digital programme to in one of our Indonesian factories. The platform is a cloud-based granting them ownership of unit-based goals. we hope to be able to offer more products from this factory to connect directly with smallholders to facilitate transportation IoT operating system connecting key factory infrastructure with our customers. from farm to factory, and to provide better pricing visibility to the digital world. Managers can spot real-time information and smallholders, thus improving their livelihoods. quickly work to resolve any issues that occur during processing, Smallholders from areas around our factory would also benefit and use the data to share best practices. IoT devices will as we will be able to offer them better pricing as we buy in A digital marketplace for sustainable, traceable rubber be deployed to capture operational ESG data for process larger volumes, reducing our reliance on intermediaries for 2019 was a watershed year for us with the launch of the optimisation and external accountability. raw materials and enhance our outreach to the smallholders. HeveaConnect platform. The platform aims to promote greater price transparency in the natural rubber market, and to move We expect to launch HDC 2.0 in the second quarter of 2020. away from reference-based price fixing, which remains opaque and unrepresentative of sustainable pricing requirements. The We are also working on another IoT project with Siemens biggest losers under the current pricing mechanism are the to capture environmental data such as water and energy six million subsistence smallholders who are now affected by consumption, and working environment conditions. This will crippling costs, bad weather and diseases. enable us to optimise our consumption of natural resources, automate data collection, and also improve workplace health Since its launch in April 2019, the platform has at time of and safety. writing handled in excess of 100,000 mT of spot cargo deals and efforts are underway to increase adoption and add other Connecting to smallholders to improve transparency tradable instruments (such as Long Term Contracts). The We have embarked on a digitisation programme to develop a coming launch of the HeveaConnect Mobile application will mobile application for smallholders to gain visibility on offer also allow users to negotiate and confirm sales terms on the prices of procurement stations around them. The app would go. There are on-going trials to introduce automated production allow smallholders to have direct access to a procurement data capturing to reduce input error, using Internet of Things point closest to their farm, agree on a fair price, and seamlessly (IoT) technology. arrange transportation to the factory directly with us. Proactive engagement and collaboration with stakeholders and Apart from tracking the movement of rubber all the way to our key NGOs have resulted in initiatives to drive improvement in factory, it also contains information such as weight, dry rubber the livelihood of smallholders. Together with their input, we are content and price. We are at the initial stage of this initiative setting governance guidelines and frameworks to shape the and the target is to roll it out in Indonesia by the end of 2020. future of the industry. 19 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 20 CORRIE HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT MACCOLL Sustainable Agro-Industrial Plantation Our technical advisory services Our plantation yields As a market leader, we actively engage at all levels of the The plantation business is a long-term investment, as each general and administration costs. A decreasing unit cost leads In our 2018 Corporate Report, we introduced our version of an standards development process with leading organisations. planted rubber tree requires an average of six years to mature to an increase in profit at a stable price environment. improved future for the natural rubber industry: the return of the To this end, our technical and laboratory services teams are before we can start tapping to yield the first drop of latex. agro-industrial plantation with an updated framework of social actively participating with ASTM International, an international The profits will start to accrue as the plantation ramps up its In terms of financial return, please refer to Figure 3 for an inclusion and environmental conservation. standards organisation that develops and publishes voluntary production, weighing down unit cost, mostly fixed in nature. The illustration on the evolution of unit costs at different maturity technical standards for a wide range of materials, products, time horizon of investment in rubber trees is illustrated based profiles. In the initial period, the unit costs are relatively high at We have invested significantly in these plantations so that systems, and services. Participation in these committees on CMCP’s plantations in Cameroon. US$1,800, mainly due to the plantation areas that have recently we can develop an eco-system that would in many ways that cover broad range of segments which our customers are turned mature but does not yield sufficient latex and revenue, resemble a social enterprise, where thousands of people servicing helps us network, support and address their concerns, As noted in Figure 1, the expected plantation yield from our by extension, to cover the fixed operating costs. and their dependents are invested economically and socially. including in the areas of sustainability. We have also been Cameroon plantation in FY20 is approximately 18,000 mT From the smallholders we buy our raw materials from, to our actively providing input to improve new and existing standards upon plantation maturity of 42%. Following the progressive As the plantation mature, the cost absorption starts to improve employees and their dependents, and to the villagers living on sustainability issues, to an ISO advisory group. maturity of our rubber trees, the yields start to ramp up and following a ramp-up of yield, representing the declining costs in the communities surrounding our plantation. This social are expected to double in five years. Subsequently, as the of the plantation, which eventually stabilises at US$1,250 at enterprise produces a globally unique product for profit, for all We actively investigate and keep track of developments plantation progresses into peak production upon full maturity full maturity. stakeholders, not just our shareholders. in alternative natural rubber and bio-based materials. This by FY34, the yields will start to plateau at approximately 65,000 includes guayule, Russian dandelion and plastics derived from mT per annum. Applying the price of US$1,700 per mT, representing the blended Our product is marketed globally through a network of specialist plant sources. For guayule, we intend to focus on distribution, average historical prices for past five years, across a 20-year sales teams across North America, Europe, Southeast Asia development of standards, and a special focus on medical A rubber tree has an expected life cycle of 25-30 years upon the horizon, the plantation is expected to break even in 2021, as the and China. Similar to the pricing structure of chemicals and device manufacturers. For bio-based plastics, we view these as commencement of tapping, and upon the end of its economic ramp-up of yield generates sufficient revenue beyond breakeven pharmaceuticals, the rubber sold through Corrie MacColl is a potential additive to speed up end-of-life landfill or disposal useful life, it is harvested for conversion into lumber and a new period at estimated 26,000 mT. As the unit cost stabilises, the adapted to each customer’s needs and actual demand, and cycles and as a possible zero waste packing material for rubber tree will then take its place. This represents the emergence of incremental yield generates better profit to the Group. reflects its true operational and production cost. bales and pallets. immature areas in FY39 again, as the earlier cohorts of trees have reached the age of 30 years and the replanted trees will The profits of plantation business are most sensitive to Corrie MacColl also supports our customers with a full logistical Expansion of client capabilities with new equipment and a have no returns for the next six to seven years market prices given that they maintain full control over its suite of distribution assets, including access to a technical 1,200 sq. ft lab cost structure. A US$100 swing in price will affect the EBITDA advisory team and laboratories across the world. Following a $1 million investment, Momentum Technologies The all-in cash operating cost consists of plantation costs, by approximately 25%. Laboratories (MTL) expanded its offerings with new equipment processing costs, selling and distribution costs as well as Water wheel and ram pump at our JFL plantation in Malaysia and a 1,200 sq. ft testing lab. The Ohio-based natural rubber Utilising the steep slopes and streams at our plantation located and latex facility now spans 7,000 sq. ft. Figure 1 in Ulu Nenggiri in Malaysia, we built a waterwheel to capture Expected EBITDA Illustration of expected EBITDA over the next 20 years water and generate electricity for irrigation at our oil palm The third-party testing laboratory is A2LA/ISO 17025 certified, (US$’000) plantation. The waterwheel generates 3-5 kW of electricity in and tests more than 90 different ASTM methods. The expansion 35,000 the remote parts of our plantation, sufficient to supply power for has allowed MTL to offer construction product testing, including street lighting for to improve safety and security. For irrigation, for polymer-modified asphalt, roofing materials and coatings 30,000 the water flows through a hydraulic ram pump, which uses the and below-grade coatings. The new equipment in the laboratory stream’s kinetic energy to pump part of the water volume to include a new rubber process analysis, a Wallace plastometer, 25,000 collection tanks at the top of the hill. Mooney viscometer, a tensile machine, compounding mixer and a mill. 20,000 Ram pumps achieve the seemingly impossible task of pumping water to a higher height without the need for added energy The expansion allows MTL to find new methods of integrating 15,000 input. This provides a unique method of utilising water sources natural rubber and latex into the paving and roofing materials in hilly areas. Initial tests have shown that the pump could raise industry, advancing on their accreditation to perform MiamiDade 10,000 water by up to 200 metres. The stored water is then channelled County and Energy Star testing for roofing materials. This and distributed via gravity to the oil palm crop. Consistent investment will also see greater supply chain efficiency for the 5,000 irrigation of up to two litres per day per plant is expected to global teams. increase yield by 20% compared with standard production in hilly areas. There are plans to grow MTL further globally, with plans underway for sites in The Netherlands and Cameroon. (5,000) FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 FY31 FY32 FY33 FY34 FY35 FY36 FY37 FY38 FY39 FY40 Mature Trees Immature EBITDA @ US$1,700 trees Please note the data set out above are for illustration purposes only. It is important to note that the above analysis is based on historical numbers, and is not necessarily representative of future financial performance. 21 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 22 CORRIE HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT HEVEAPRO MACCOLL CASE STUDY Figure 2 Yield vs maturity over time Redefining The Industry to Develop a Higher Quality and Sustainable Product mT 70,000 The HeveaPRO industry standards were developed in 2015 and are designed to be a product level management system to ensure the sustainability of natural rubber. The standards further ensure consistently high-quality products and efficient operations of crumb 60,000 rubber processing facilities. They have been peer-reviewed by third party certification bodies and leading tyre majors. Quality: the standards incorporate the 12 core principles of the Global Platform for Natural Rubber (GPSNR) and supplier codes of 50,000 conduct of tyre companies and have been referenced to leading international management systems adopting both a process and system-based approach. 40,000 EHS: stringent EHS standards means that factory workers can carry out their daily operations in a safe and healthy environment, increasing their productivity and reducing lost time. The standards also mitigate environmental impact and reduce the carbon footprint. 30,000 Supply chain security: ensures that finished goods and final products are delivered in a secured manner to the customer’s doorstep. Benefits include reduced inspections & fines, fast flow of security-compliant cargo at national borders, priority business resumption and front-of-line privilege for inspection of containers. 20,000 Social responsibility: addresses community needs and ensures they are empowered to share grievances. 10,000 Addressing the UN SDGs and Sustainability Policy Requirements The standards have 1,227 audit checklist points and cover: FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 FY31 FY32 FY33 FY34 FY35 FY36 FY37 FY38 FY39 FY40 • 260 points that address 15 of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Social Responsibility and Supply Chain Security addresses 25 common features found in tyre majors’ sustainable procurement policies and practices Mature Trees Immature Yield trees • 84 audit points supporting GPSNR’s desire to define sustainable natural rubber for the industry The standards mitigate ESG-related supply chain risks and create greater transparency within the natural rubber supply chain. They also address upstream issues of smallholders livelihood enhancement and community engagement. Figure 3 Cost profile vs maturity over time US$ 1,900 1,800 18 13 51 Sustainable Development Goals 1,700 1,600 1,500 1,400 Total of 260 checklist questions 1,300 30 29 77 addressing 15 of the 17 goals 1,200 1,100 1,000 “Considering the current social requirement of the United Nations SDGs, evaluating the sustainability of processing factories are FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 FY31 FY32 FY33 FY34 FY35 FY36 FY37 FY38 FY39 FY40 essential to the natural rubber industry. Immature HeveaPRO standards incorporate ISO standards on quality, environment, health and safety and social responsibility as well as Mature Trees trees All-in cash operating cost per mT customer requirements and security standards such as C-TPAT and other relevant international guidelines on sustainability. ITOCHU considers HeveaPRO the best standard to ensure the level of sustainability for the factory.” Please note the data set out above are for illustration purposes only. It is important to note that the above analysis is Mr. Yajima Hisashi, President Director, PT. Aneka Bumi Pratama (A member of ITOCHU Group) based on historical numbers, and is not necessarily representative of future financial performance. 23 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 24 HEVEAPRO FINANCIAL CASE STUDY HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT HIGHLIGHTS Driving Impact and Continual Process Improvement Financial Performance Review Quality control Key business developments The standards focus on three pillars of the quality system to achieve sustainable quality: (1) defect prevention (FMEA, Control Plan, SPC & Prioritised Reduction Plan), (2) early detection (Final QC, Product Audit) and (3) recovery (8D Problem Solving Approach). In 2019, we have made significant strides to place ourselves in pole position to be a sustainable disruptor in the natural rubber industry: These pillars ensure continual improvement in process and product quality performance. • Creation of the world’s leading tyre majors supply platform In view of the recent development in the natural rubber market, as well The implementation of these standards has resulted in a reduction in internal product nonconformity rates and cases of quality as the anticipated convergence in the quality and sustainability requirements at the consumers’ end, we have combined our tyre complaints and rejection. These have in turn resulted in better customer-supplier relationships. majors processing and supply assets (previously placed under Sinochem International Natural Rubber Overseas (SINRIO) Group and Halcyon Rubber Company (HRC) Group respectively) into a singular global platform under the now enlarged HRC Group. Environment, health and safety The standards aim to reduce occupational injuries, occupational disease incidences, lost day rates, absenteeism, minimise negative • Sustainable and responsible monetisation of harvested old trees Sustainable usage of all parts of Corrie MacColl’s assets in environmental impacts and improve overall factory productivity. They ensure continual and progressive improvement in environmental, Cameroon, maintained under well-developed sustainable practices, the plantations have approximately two million trees due for health and safety performance. Since the implementation of the standards, there have been reduced injury lost day rates leading to replanting over the next four years. Realising the opportunity in the sustainable plantation-sourced rubberwood in USA, Europe and improved operational efficiency. Workplace fatalities remain at zero. Factories have also been able to reduce total overtime manChina, which now no longer permit the importation of non-certified tropical hardwoods, the Group will process harvested rubber hours and has led to increased productivity and reduced manpower costs. trees as part of a replanting programme into rough sawn tropical lumber for global furniture and construction industries. The standards have reduced water-use and increased water-recycling rates resulting in increased process efficiency: year-on-year • Digital disruption initiatives gaining market traction HeveaConnect has commenced trading in April 2019 with circa 80,000 mT (with reduction in GHG Scope 1 & Scope 2 (purchased electricity) emissions and emissions intensity have been recorded. The standards a total contract value of US$120 million) being traded through the platform in FY2019. have also seen processing facilities significantly scaling up the use of biomass as a renewable energy source in their reduction and concurrently reducing and phasing out of the use of coal. Processing facilities are being pushed towards decarbonising their energy • Future-proofing production process Continuous investment in technology and digitalisation of production processes, in which we portfolio and transit from non-renewables to renewables. have allocated US$0.5 million for the development of Halcyon Data Centre 2.0, and trial implementation of Internet of Things (IoT) technology in our Indonesia factories. Data-driven improvement and innovation Data-driven process change and improvement. The Halcyon Data Centre captures and stores measurable and verifiable processing Selected key financial statistics data. The Halcyon Data Centre is a decentralised database for individual factories with standardised data collection modules. These stand-alone modules cover each stage of the rubber production process and allow processing facilities to opt-in or opt-out according to their needs. This gives factories increased access to production information and allow them to implement data-driven 2019 2018 2017 improvement within processes as well as increase the overall quality of data recorded in crumb rubber processing facilities. Sales volume mT 1,279,201 1,432,335 1,227,027 The digitalisation of the HeveaPRO Factory Traceability System Revenue US$m 1,907.7 2,141.0 2,158.4 The Halcyon Data Centre remains the most robust system that captures and stores modularised information on crumb rubber facility EBITDA US$m 71.7 36.2 64.9 processing parameters. To complement that, the HeveaPRO QR Code Factory Traceability System was implemented to provide customised pallet information. Found on the pallet itself, it allows a customer to download the product test report by scanning the QR Core operating profit1 US$m 47.2 22.6 56.1 code and entering a unique access code. Besides test reports and processing parameters, the QR code can also provide information Operating profit US$m 38.3 4.5 59.2 relating to raw material composition and sourcing origins which forms a key aspect of product traceability and transparency – a key sustainability requirement of all tyre majors. Return on assets 2 % 3.7 2.0 4.0 Return on equity 3 % 12.2 6.2 9.5 By harnessing IoT technology, the HeveaPRO Factory Traceability System includes real-time collection of processing data. IoT sensors will collect information on key processing and environmental parameters which improves data accuracy and reduces the Return on capital employed4 % 6.3 3.2 5.2 risk of human error. Notes Collecting Real-time Manufacturing Data using loT sensors for Sustainable Manufacturing 1. Core operating profit = EBITDA less working capital interest Washing/size reduction: pH, turbidity, electricity usage, water consumption, contamination level 2. Return on assets = EBITDA divided by total assets Drying: Temperature, humidity, dwell time, outputs 3. Return on equity = EBITDA divided by total equity (excluding perpetual securities) Baling: Weight, quantity, surface contamination, metal contamination, light intensity, hand tools control 4. Return on capital employed (ROCE) = EBITDA divided by (term debt plus total equity (including perpetual securities of US$148.7 million)) Laboratory: Plasticity, mooney viscosity, dirt, VM, ash, nitrogen, dry rubber content (DRC) HeveaPRO further promotes data transparency. Buyers of HeveaPRO rubber enjoy peace of mind knowing that processes and data in the factory have been audited by a third party and the production data is readily available for verification. With the most mature standards in the industry, HeveaPRO has built a foundation for harmonised standards. It provides a hands-on approach to guiding processors to implement standards for consistent and positive results. The Halcyon Data Centre allows for the aggregation of robust data to prove the sustainability credentials of HeveaPRO rubber. 25 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 26 FINANCIAL HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT HIGHLIGHTS Sales volume Revenue and ASP (in mT) Performance by segment 1,432,334 2,500 2,000 US$M unless CMC Group HRC Group Corporate Total 1,279,201 2,141.0 2,158.4 1,227,027 1,800 otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2,000 1,907.7 1,600 Sales volume (in kmT) 378.5 388.9 946.1 1,076.2 1,279.2 1,432.3 1,400 Revenue to third party 595.0 626.3 1,312.7 1,514.7 1,907.7 2,141.0 US$ in millions US$ per mT 1,500 1,200 Gross profits 30.7 46.3 76.6 72.2 107.3 118.5 1,000 Operating profit/(loss)* 45.4 14.3 8.0 2.3 (15.2) (12.0) 38.3 4.5 1,000 800 EBITDA * 54.5 20.8 30.0 23.9 (14.2) (11.9) 71.7 36.2 600 *Adjusted for management fees 500 400 CMC Group HRC Group 200 Bottom line contribution of the segment towards the Group’s Segmental operating profits, adjusted for the management fee, operating profit have improved from previous year, mainly driven have also improved as compared to the previous year, owing 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 by the recognition of fair value gain on biological assets relating to the benefits from its recalibration of sales strategy, allowing Revenue (lhs) ASP (rhs) to our Cameroonian plantations as aforementioned. effective capturing of sales premium, which is reflected in the improvement in unit margins. This was set off by the lower Profitability (US$ in millions) The gain was set off by lower contribution margins from the sales volume, caused by overall market slowdown as well as 150.6 distribution business, as the extended period of wintering in raw material scarcity induced by the outbreak of tree diseases. 118.4 Thailand and Vietnam have caused a spike in latex input costs, 107.4 and to remain elevated for the rest of the year. This is further 59.2 aggravated by an overall slowdown in regional markets caused 46.6 by uncertainty surrounding Brexit as well as the US-China trade 38.3 4.5 war that lingered throughout the year, resulting in our customers 3.3 to be more cautious in their procurement. (17.0) Gross Profit Operating Profit Profit before tax Corporate 2019 The segment covers the key administrative and support functions for the Group. Operating loss increased from US$12.0 million in 2018 2017 FY2018 to US$15.2 million in FY2019, mainly due to the absence of the one-off forex gain in FY2018 of US$6.6 million, that arose following the liquidation of a dormant subsidiary. Excluding the one-off gain in FY2018, the reduction in corporate costs represents the Group’s effort in seeking efficiency in the midst of a challenging operating environment. 2019 presented highly challenging market conditions for the movement in gross profit. This is mainly contributed by the Halcyon, with the confluence of weakened demand, tight supply recognition of fair value gain on biological assets of US$52.7 and low prices, causing the sales volume to contract by 10.7% million arising from the reclassification of our Cameroonian from 1,432,335 mT in FY2018 to 1,279,201 mT in FY2019. rubber plantations from bearer plant. The improvement in infrastructure surrounding our Cameroonian plantations The reduction in volume directly resulted in FY2019 revenue of catalysed the commercialisation of our harvested rubber US$1,907.7 million, to be 10.9% lower than US$2,141.0 million trees, have caused the trees to be accounted for as biological recorded in the preceding financial year. The Group’s average assets. The fair value gain is set off by circa US$7.8 million of selling prices have remained stable (US$1,495 in FY2018; one-off expenses, mostly incurred to address the post-merger US$1,491 in FY2019), compared to a slight elevation of average integration matters of the Group. SICOM prices from US$1,365 per mT in FY2018 to US$1,406 per mT in FY2019, with the latter mostly buoyed by the price Net financing costs increased by 63.4% from US$21.3 million to rally in Q4 2019 amid market realisation of supply shortage. US$34.8 million, mainly due to the redemption of US$150 million perpetual securities in April 2019 with proceeds from loans Despite the slight increase in average selling prices, the and borrowings, further compounded by the higher effective prevailing price levels are considered to be under constant interest rates. suppression, and it is reflected in the unit gross profit that remain compressed (US$83 in FY2018; US$84 in FY2019). The efficiency of deployment of our resources in funding our Therefore, the decrease in gross profit from US$118.4 million operations have seen the relevant metrics, return on assets, in FY2018 to US$107.4 million in FY2019 is volume-driven. return on equity and return on capital employed to record yearon-year improvements. Operating profits of the Group have increased from US$4.5 million in FY2018 to US$38.3 million in FY2019, in contrast to 27 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 28 FINANCIAL HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT HIGHLIGHTS Financial position Investing cash flows Financing cash flows The Group’s net assets have decreased from US$735.9 million in December 2018 to US$589.0 million in December 2019 mainly due Net cash used in investing activities has come down significantly, Net cash generated from financing activities has reduced from to the redemption of US$150 million perpetual securities in April 2019, set off by the foreign currency translation gains following from US$201.2 million in FY2018 to US$65.5 million in FY2019. US$228.4 million in FY2018 to US$38.7 million in the current the strengthening of the local currency against US Dollars. This is largely due to the substantial completion of the asset buyyear, as the Group inherited a lower debt base from FY2017, and-build programme in the previous year, where the Group has where the proceeds from the perpetual securities issuance The Group continues to maintain a stable funding base, where financing tenors are matched, cash balances are unencumbered and acquired Corrie MacColl and the five Indonesian rubber factories. as well as the disposal of SIAT S.A., a former associate, have fixed assets are sustainably financed. In addition, the capital expenditures have reduced from US$78.7 been used to pare down working capital loans. In FY2018, the million in FY2018 to US$68.2 million in FY2019, mainly driven Group redrawn the proceeds from working capital facilities to The table below summarises the management’s assessment of the Group’s capital structure: by the Group’s ongoing efforts in reviewing the efficiency of its finance the working capital investments of the newly acquired immature upkeep costs, as well as the cost benefits following businesses. In FY2019, as the perpetual securities have been (US$ million) Balance at Balance at Notes: the Group’s announcement of cessation in new planting at the refinanced by term debts, the remaining cash inflows are mainly 1. Working capital employed for the Group is 31 Dec 19 31 Dec 18 end of FY2018. The annual cost for immature upkeep will reduce the drawdowns to fund net working capital. defined as the sum of operational trade and other Working capital employed1 595.0 542.1 receivables, net derivative assets, pledged deposits, progressively along with the maturing of the plantations. inventories, assets held for sale, netted off against Working capital loans 572.6 520.5 trade and other payables. % Efficiency of Working Capital Funding 96.2% 96.0% 2. Operational long term assets of the Group is defined as intangible assets, PPE, plantation and biological Operational long term assets2 1,017.4 936.2 assets, and other non-current assets and right-ofuse assets, net off against non-current liabilities. Capital structure management Term debts 551.1 391.6 3. Cash and cash equivalents adjusted to working % Fixed Asset Gearing 54.2% 41.8% capital employed. Our treasury management Our financing profile 4. Non-core assets mainly made up of investment Treasury management is carried out by the business units, and Halcyon has access to different sources of financing. We decide Cash and cash equivalents3 55.6 122.9 properties. coordinated by Group treasury function, in accordance with on the financing approach that is best suited for our prevailing 5. Gearing = (Term debts plus perpetual securities) Non-core assets4 44.7 46.8 established policies and guidelines. Policies and guidelines business needs, bearing in mind the risk of concentration. divide total equity (excluding perpetual securities) Total equity (excluding Perpetual Securities) 589.0 587.2 6. NAV per share = Total equity (excluding perpetual have been regularly updated to take into account changes in Hence, we have a diversified source of financing and borrow securities) divide total shares outstanding the operating environment. Working capital requirements and on both a secured and unsecured basis. Perpetual Securities 148.7 (1,595,011,941 shares) capital expenditures are funded by a mix of short-term and Total equity (including Perpetual Securities) 589.0 735.9 longterm loans. As of 31st December 2019, the Group had total bank borrowings Gearing5 0.94 times 0.92 times of US$1,123.7 million, comprising: We closely monitor relevant emerging regulations which may Net asset value (NAV) per share 6 US$0.37 US$0.37 potentially impact the way that we obtain our finances or • Working capital loans of US$572.6 million (51%): These introduce any operating constraints. We are kept updated of are mainly related to the financing of working capital turn, Working capital funding efficiency continues to maintain at 96% levels, in line with the management’s strategy to have its working the latest development in debt markets and to arrange new in which the cash conversion cycle typically takes a lead capital assets (which are mostly liquid) to be fully funded by working capital loans. financing as opportunities arise. Our consistent approach time of circa 90 days. has helped us in building a strong working relationship with • Term loans of US$551.1 million (49%): These loans bear Fixed asset gearing increased from 41.8% in December 2018 to 54.2% in December 2019, mainly due to the redemption of the perpetual the banks. a repayment tenor of more than one year, and drawn to securities, which are equity in nature, being financed partially by term debts, and the remaining through the existing cash balances. finance our investments into factory assets and plantations. This was set off by the increase in asset base due to continuous investment into immature upkeep across our plantation platform. Cash and cash equivalents, as well as undrawn committed facilities, are available for drawdown at short notice. Cash flows Our capital management US$ in millions 2019 2018 In managing our capital structure, we try to find the right balance between shareholders’ funds and external borrowings in order to Operating cash flow before working capital changes 15.3 33.3 maximise shareholders return. Changes in working capital (30.0) (57.6) In achieving the optimal capital structure, we may either renew and refinance existing borrowings, obtain new borrowings, or deleverage Payments of taxes and working capital loan interests (26.9) (28.6) by way of rights issue, capital raise at subsidiaries level, as well as opportunistic disposal of non-core assets. Net cash flow from operating activities (41.6) (52.9) Net cash flow from investing activities (65.5) (201.2) Having access to flexible and cost-effective financing allows us to quickly respond to opportunities. In our view, the Group has Net cash flow from financing activities 38.7 228.4 adequate sources of financing to meet our business requirement in the foreseeable future. We also use a combination of shortNet changes in cash and cash equivalents (68.4) (25.7) term and long-term debts in financing our operations, depending on the cash flow profile of the prevailing investments. Most of our drawdowns are in US dollars, being the underlying currency of natural rubber trades. Operating cash flows Operating cash flows before working capital changes decreased from US$33.3 million in FY2018 to US$15.3 million in FY2019, in line with the decline in sales volume as aforementioned. In spite of that, net cash used in operating activities improved from US$52.9 million in FY2018 to US$41.6 million in FY2019, due to the partial release of net working capital invested in previous year upon the acquisition of new businesses. 29 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 30 RISK BOARD OF DIRECTORS HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT MANAGEMENT Risk is intrinsic to our business and risk management is imperative to business sustainability. The Group proactively manages risks and embeds the risk management process into the Group’s planning, decisionmaking process as well as its day-to-day operations. Our risk registers are reviewed continuously to ensure any necessary risk treatments are addressed and updated. The risk registers are presented to the company’s Audit Committee, highlighting significant risks, measures taken by the management and residual risk exposures that have an impact on the Group. Our risk management policy is enhanced on an ongoing basis to match the expanded scale and scope of our business. RISK CAUSE IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES • Utilise different future markets and physical markets to Weather, currency movements, mitigate PRICE RISK future market activities, market Exposure to price volatility directly • Daily reports on market Fluctuations in the price of natural interventions, political and impacts the Group’s profitability positioning to facilitate rubber and rubber products geopolitical disruptions management’s decisionmaking processecisionAlan Nisbet Randolph Khoo making process Lead Independent Director Independent Director • Transact only with credit CREDIT AND COUNTER • Adverse market movements • Customer defaults resulting in worthy customers or Mr Alan Nisbet is a highly experienced accountant and One of Singapore’s foremost lawyers, Mr Randolph Khoo PARTY RISK and change in supply and loss of revenue counterparties serves as Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the is Independent Director and Chairman of the Nominating Customer defaults and demand equation • Breach of counterparty • Periodic review of credit terms Audit Committee. He joined the Board in 2013 and is also in Committee. He joined the Board in 2013 and is also part of the counterparty’s failure to • Inadequate screening of the obligation resulting in granted the Remuneration, Nominating, as well as the Strategy and Audit and Remuneration Committees. meet contractual obligations customer and counterparty additional costs • Credit insurance to protect Investment Committees. His other current roles include: against potential default He is currently the Deputy Managing Director for Dispute LIQUIDITY RISK • Manage liquidity by matching • Principal at Kanni Advisory, a consultancy firm Resolution at Drew & Napier LLC and also heads the disputes Insufficient working capital Insufficient liquidity to fund’s sources and usages • Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee practices of its China, India and International Trade Desks and Longer lead time for resulting in inability to meet consistently meet obligations • Maintain sufficient headroom of Ascendas Property Trustee Pte Ltd Private Client Services Group. His other current roles include: working capital obligations on time which as well as to cater to changing on unutilised committed (the trustee-manager of Ascendas India Trust) impacts the Group’s reputation business models banking facilities at all times • Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration • Advocate and Solicitor of the Supreme Court Singapore, a Committee and member of the Audit and Risk Management Notary Public and a Commissioner for Oaths • Matching of cash availability Comittee at KrisEnergy Limited • Panel Arbitrator, Singapore Institute of Arbitrators Interest rate hikes could increase INTEREST RATE RISK Macroeconomic outlook, with the repayment terms of • Independent Director of Keppel REIT Management Limited • Panel Arbitrator, Shanghai Arbitration Commission, Shanghai the Group’s financing costs, which Fluctuation in interest rate currency movement, political and facilities (the manager of Keppel REIT) International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission and would negatively impact the for loans and borrowings geopolitical disruptions • Actively monitor interest rate • Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Shenzhen Court of International Arbitration Group’s results as well as liquidity trends Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited • Panel Arbitrator and the Malaysian Institute of Arbitrators • Panel Arbitrator, Chinese Arbitration Association, Taipei Mr Nisbet was a member of the Institute of Singapore Chartered • Panel Arbitrator, Institute of Modern Arbitration of the Inadequate hedging and • Monitor exchange rate Accountants until his retirement. He graduated with a Diploma Russian Federation Macroeconomic outlook, FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK unfavourable movements movements on an ongoing basis currency movement, political and of Business Studies (Accounting) from the Caulfield Institute • Panel Arbitrator (Foreign National), Indian Council of Fluctuation in forex rates in exchange rates resulting in • Employ hedging instruments to of Technology, Melbourne, Australia. Arbitration geopolitical disruptions FX losses manage the exposure if required • Fellow of arbitral institutes of Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, India and New Zealand Inefficient asset utilisation and • Member of the International Bar Association, Society of In-house team of experienced Unpredictable planting/ lost profits as the Group would International Law (Singapore), Law Society of Singapore and BIOLOGICAL ASSETS RISK plantation staff, supported by the replanting conditions (e.g. soil have to procure from third party the Singapore Academy of Law Suboptimal performance of services of qualified professionals and weather conditions, sources to make up for the biological assets as required for planting/ plant diseases and pests) suboptimal yield of Mr Khoo graduated with a Bachelor of Law from the National replanting matters existing trees University of Singapore with various academic prizes. • Leverage the expertise Socio-economic and political and knowledge of local development (e.g. issues of management and consultants SOCIAL AND POLITICAL RISK Improper management of such labour laws, human rights, to actively monitor the social Risk of changes in socio-economic issues could tarnish the Group’s environmental protection) that and political risks and political climate reputation have serious impact on local • Ensure effective risk mitigation population measures are implemented in a timely manner • Consult with internal and LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISK Not updated with changes of Failure to comply with local laws external legal advisors The Group operates in many legal and regulatory requirements and regulations may results in the • Proactively engage in different geographic locations in respective geographical Group being involved in litigations discussions with local with diverse cultures and locations pertaining to claims and disputes • governments, regulators and local customs industry leaders 31 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 32 BOARD HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT OF DIRECTORS Liew Choon Wei Simon Lam Jeremy Goon Liu Hongsheng Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Chairman Mr Liew Choon Wei is Independent Director and Chairman of Mr Simon Lam Chun Kai is Independent Director appointed Mr Jeremy Goon contributes his extensive experience in Mr Liu Hongsheng brings decades of experience in business the Remuneration Committee. He was appointed to the Board to the Board in 2019. He brings many years of corporate sustainability issues in his role as Independent Director. He and human resources to his roles as Halcyon Agri’s Nonin 2014 and also sits on the Audit and Nominating Committees. experience, particularly in the petroleum and petrochemicals was appointed to the Board in 2017. Mr Goon has management Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Strategy and He joined Ernst & Young LLP in Singapore in 1979 and was industries, and has served as: experience in edible oils processing operations, trading, brand Investment Committee. He joined the Board in 2017. He is Audit Partner for its largest real estate, commodities, banking, management, marketing and sustainability and has held several currently Director and Chief Executive Officer of Sinochem media, hospitality and retail clients before retiring in 2013. His • Chairman of Shell Companies in Singapore senior positions in the Kuok Group of Companies since 2002. International Corporation Ltd. His previous posts include: current roles include: • Chief Executive Officer at CNOOC and Shell Petrochemicals He also serves in various capacities in trade organisations Company Limited such as the Malaysian Palm Oil Association, Malaysian Palm • Vice President at Sinochem International Corporation Ltd • Independent Director at Frasers Hospitality Asset • Venture Director of Shell Eastern Petrochemical Complex Oil Council and Tropical Forest Alliance 2020. His current roles • Senior Vice President at Sinochem International Corporation Management Pte Ltd (manager of Frasers Hospitality • Chief Executive Officer at Jurong Aromatics Corp, Singapore include: Ltd, Chemicals Segment Real Estate Investment Trust) and Frasers Hospitality • General Manager at Sinochem International Corporation Ltd, Trust Management Pte Ltd (trustee-manager of Frasers He has previously sat on the boards of a number of government • Chief Sustainability Officer of Wilmar International Limited Logistics Business Division Hospitality Business Trust), member of the Audit Committee, and industry bodies, including: (“Wilmar”) and Executive Director of Wilmar’s Plantation • Deputy Head of Human Resources at China’s Ministry of Remuneration Committee and Nominating Commitee Operations, and also heads the Corporate and Investor Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation • Independent Director, Chairman of the Nominating Committee • Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Relations functions of Wilmar • First Secretary of the Economic and Commercial Counsellor’s and member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration • Science Centre Singapore • Director and General Manager of the FFM Berhad (“FFM”) Office at the Chinese Embassy in Thailand Committee of F J Benjamin Holdings Ltd • International Chamber of Commerce and also serves as Chairman/Director of FFM’s subsidiaries • Independent Director at The Hour Glass Limited, Chairman • Energy Market Authority of Singapore and associates Mr Liu holds a bachelor’s degree in Philosophy from Peking of its Audit Committee and member of the Nominating and • Hertel Group, Netherland University and an executive master’s degree in Business Remuneration Committee • Royal Vopak, Netherland Mr Goon holds a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Management Administration from Shanghai Maritime University. • Fellow Chartered Accountant of the Institute of Singapore • Sinochem International Corporation Ltd Science & Law from Keele University, United Kingdom. Chartered Accountants Mr Lam received his tertiary education at Adelaide University, South Australia, and is a Chartered Member of IChemE, United Kingdom. 33 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 34 BOARD HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT OF DIRECTORS Robert Meyer Pascal Demierre Executive Director & Executive Director & Qin Jinke Wang Wei Chief Executive Officer Chief Corporate Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Robert Meyer is Halcyon Agri’s Chief Executive Officer. He Mr Pascal Demierre is Halcyon Agri’s Executive Director Mr Wang Wei is a seasoned investor and investment analyst also serves as Executive Director and sits on the Strategy and and Chief Corporate Officer, a member of the Audit and Mr Qin Jinke joined the Board in 2018 and is a Non-Executive who was appointed to the Board in 2017 as a Non-Executive Investment Committee. He founded Halcyon Management Remuneration Committees. He co-founded Halcyon Agri and Director. He has been with Sinochem International Corporation Director. He serves as Managing Director of the China-Africa Partners Pte Ltd, the precursor to Halcyon Investment joined the Board in 2010. He is responsible for all corporate Ltd for nearly 20 years and is now its Chief Financial Officer. Development Fund’s (CADFund) Infrastructure and Energy Corporation Pte Ltd, in 2004. In 2010, Mr Meyer co-founded matters, including mergers & acquisitions, legal, corporate He joined Sinochem in 2001 and has held senior positions in Investment Department. He is presently Director at HNA & Halcyon Agri. As Chief Executive Officer, Mr Meyer is in charge governance, corporate structuring, information technology, its auditing, finance and accounting departments, including: CADF Logistics, Nanjing Ocean (CM) Co. Ltd and Ansogli Power of formulating and executing the business strategy of the human resources and general administration. He also holds (Ghana) Ltd. His previous roles include: Group, and of overseeing its day-to-day management. appointments in other organisations, including: • Deputy Chief Financial Officer • General Manager of the Finance Department • Consultant with APCO Worldwide LLC (Beijing) Mr Meyer graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Business • Independent Director at The Hour Glass Limited • Vice General Manager of the Finance Department • Consultant with KPMG Huazhen LLP Management from the European Business School, Schloss • Council member at Alliance Française, Singapore • General Manager of the Accounting and Tax Office Reichartshausen. Prior to his business studies, Mr Meyer • Chief Financial Officer at Metallurgy and Energy Division Mr Wang holds a master’s degree in International Relations, and complete commercial banking apprenticeship with Dresdner Mr Demierre graduated with a Bachelor of Law (Upper Second) • Assistant General Manager of the Auditing Department a Bachelor of Arts in International Economics and Trade, from Bank AG in Hamburg, Germany. from King’s College London, in the United Kingdom. He also the China Foreign Affairs University. He is also an alumnus of obtained a graduate diploma in Law from the National University Johns Hopkins University-Nanjing University, Center for Chinese of Singapore. and American Studies. 35 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 36 SENIOR MANAGEMENT HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT PARTING WORDS Ode to Rubber which in turn depend on ……. A personal view Once the patient arrives at the hospital, the wheels on the As we drive or are driven from our houses to our workplaces trolley also have a natural rubber component and of course, the do we ever ask ourselves about the origin of the materials that doctors and nurses attending to the patient be it in the ER or in are used to produce the tyres that give our cars, buses or taxis the operating theatre will use a plethora of items, gloves, tapes, the mobility to arrive at our destination? masks all with an irreplaceable natural rubber component. As we decorate our living rooms in preparation for our children’s In the vast majority of applications, there is no material that birthday parties and wrap their birthday or Christmas presents one can use to substitute natural rubber, yes there is synthetic do we ever ask ourselves the origin of the materials that are rubber and whilst it certainly is a component of a tyre, natural used to produce the balloons or the adhesive wrapping tape? rubber represents approximately 20% to 35% respectively of The list goes on – surgical gloves to protect us from infection the total of materials used in the production of passenger and Andrew Trevatt Jeremy Loh Chief Commercial Officer when we are being examined by doctors and nurses, simple truck tyres. Chief Financial Officer things like elastic bands that we probably do not give a Corrie MacColl Group moment’s thought to but all of which form an invaluable and “In the vast majority of applications, Mr Jeremy Loh is the Chief Financial Officer at Halcyon Agri Mr Andrew Trevatt is a co-founder of Halcyon Agri and has essentially irreplaceable part of our everyday lives. there is no material that one can use to and is responsible for the Group’s financial affairs, including corporate finance, treasury and capital management. overseen the daily commercial affairs of the Group since 2010. He has more than 30 years of experience in the natural rubber The answer is, of course, NATURAL RUBBER substitute natural rubber” industry, having worked in various rubber and commodityThe list is endless and too long to list in this summary but one He joined Halcyon Agri in 2016 as the Deputy Chief Financial related companies in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, the There are of course many things that in this day and age would final application that many of our lay readers may not have Officer and brings with him almost 20 years of financial United States of America and Singapore. appear irreplaceable but I hazard to say that life without any of known about is the production of natural rubber damping control and risk expertise to the Group. His work experiences the aforementioned products is truly unimaginable. bearings which are effective in providing protection to structures include senior roles at international banks and auditing firms Mr Trevatt has now taken on the role of Chief Commercial from the damaging effect of earthquakes. in Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia. Officer for the CMC Group and is responsible for implementing But where does this incredible natural product start its humble and managing its overall commercial and sales strategies. life and how does its life’s journey begin. What journey does it So where is this summary leading to? Mr Loh holds a bachelor’s degree in Accounting from Monash undertake to become an integral and irreplaceable component University Malaysia. of the countless and essential products, a fraction of which Much of what I have written is fairly obvious and known to are highlighted above, and without which our lives would be most if not all of us but what, in all likelihood, is not known to immeasurably poorer? the majority of consumers of all the products mentioned in this article? As we chart this journey allow us to draw a brief parallel with our own journey through life. What is it that is probably only known to the millions of farmers or smallholders whose livelihoods and whose family’s Like all living organisms, both humans and natural rubber go livelihoods depend on this irreplaceable item? To the processor through various stages of life until they become fully mature. of the rubber at the hundreds of rubber processing factories Some of us grow up to become doctors, teachers, pilots and in Asia and Africa and to the manufacturers of the finished Mr Eng Kiat Ng joined Halcyon Agri in 2013 as Chief Financial all manner of vocations. Similarly natural rubber plants after products? Officer. In addition to his CFO’s role, Mr Ng also oversaw the many years of nurturing and care become trees which in turn Group’s operations in China and Indonesia between 2017 and produce a raw material that ends its life as a component of I will tell you what it is! It is that while the price of natural rubber 2018. He was appointed Group Operating Officer in mid-2018 tyres, surgical gloves, balloons, adhesives ……. is to a degree determined by the laws of supply and demand, where he was overall responsible for the Group’s operations. the actual pricing mechanism for rubber has little to do with the So let’s describe the journey of natural rubber from beginning cost of producing latex, the first step in the value chain – i.e. the In late 2019, Mr Ng assumed the role of Managing Director for to its final destination as a finished product. We start with a tiny cost of producing the raw material for which the smallholder HRC Group and is responsible for the overall performance of seed that is potted and after two months has grown into a small has made a six to seven year investment nurturing the small Halcyon Agri’s global tyre-focussed processing and distribution plant ready to take up residence in the ground. From there it is seed to grow into a mature adult that produces latex from which platform. nurtured, fed and generally cared for, just as one would our own all of the aforementioned products are derived. You would be child and to develop that analogy further the journey that from shocked, or at least you should be, to learn that the average Mr Ng graduated from the Multimedia University in Malaysia a tiny seed to plant to tree to maturity ready to produce latex income for a smallholder in Indonesia is significantly lower in 2002 with a bachelor’s degree (Honours) in Accounting. He which in turn becomes raw material ready to be processed into than the government’s gazetted minimum wage, a minimum is also a member of the Association of Chartered Certified a semi-finished product before finding its way to a factory for its wage by the way of the princely sum of US$ 215 per month. Accountants and the Institute of Singapore Chartered final destination as a tyre, surgical glove or balloon is analogous A benchmark for income used to be one kilo of rubber would Ng Eng Kiat Managing Director Accountants. with the life of a human being – from embryo to being born, to buy two kilos of rice – the staple diet of Indonesians. At today’s Halcyon Rubber Company Group school, to university to becoming a useful and integral member prices, prices that have prevailed more or less for the last three of society as a doctor, nurse, paramedic……. years, one needs approximately two kilos of rubber to buy one kilo of rice. Can you imagine life without paramedics? But how does the paramedic get to an emergency to attend to a patient? yes by ambulance and the ambulance’s mobility depends on tyres, 37 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 38 PARTING WORDS HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT Our Commitment for Sustainable Rubber “While the price of natural rubber is “Farmers need a reward for their As the world’s leading natural rubber company, we can drive chain. We are also a participant of the BOUNCE platform which to a degree determined by the laws of efforts for them to lead a sustainable industry and consumer change for an equitable natural rubber is an advocacy movement launched to raise awareness of the supply and demand, the actual pricing life without which they will eventually industry where suppliers, manufacturers and stakeholders can work together to develop and adopt a set of sustainability shortcomings of the natural rubber industry among consumers, and to open avenues to communicate the need for change back mechanism for rubber has little to do abandon their smallholdings” standards for the production of a crucial raw material needed along the natural rubber supply chain. Halcyon is also adopting with the cost of producing latex, the first across a wide range of sectors (transport, health and leisure the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). step in the value chain” My final plea, therefore, and I know it one extremely close to to name a few). While demand is unstoppable, unsustainably The 17 Sustainable Development Goals are a universal call to the heart of Halcyon’s CEO, Robert Meyer, is to work towards low rubber prices have left a significant impact on the natural action to improve the livelihoods for everyone across our value de -commoditising rubber. Let’s make it a price based on cost rubber farmers’ livelihoods as well as increased environmental chain and protect the planet and safeguard our environment So what is the pricing mechanism for natural rubber? of production and one that gives the farmer a decent return. pressure. for future generations. Rubber is prices based on a number of commodity futures Book 2 in this report details our pillars of sustainability (People As a founding member of the Global Platform for Sustainable markets, in the commercial centres of Shanghai, Tokyo and “Let’s make it a price based on cost of Natural Rubber (GPSNR), we joined the multi-stakeholders and Planet) which outlines why we are uniquely positioned production and one that gives the farmer Singapore. Commodity markets are by their very nature to lead the conversation about sustainable growth to ensure rubber community to lead improvements in the socioeconomic speculative vehicles to the degree that the Shanghai rubber an equitable supply chain where both the farmer and the end futures market (SHFE) can trade more in one day than the total a decent return” and environmental performance of the natural rubber value consumer will profit equally. annual production/consumption. I was told many years ago that 95% of the turnover on the Tokyo rubber futures market It certainly is not rocket science to create a value mechanism (TOCOM) was speculative. all the way along the chain that gives every participant in that chain a fair return for their investment and labours. Yes this may Synthetic rubber (SBR) – a major component of tyres on the well kill the rubber futures markets but should we as consumers, other hand, is priced based on the raw material that is used or human beings for that matter, really care more about that to produce the semi-finished product. There is no commodity than the plight of the smallholders and the future supply of this futures market for SBR hence the speculative element is essential ingredient? After all, there are many other commodity minimal compared to its close cousin natural rubber. markets and financial instruments for the followers of charts and algorithms to ply their “trade”. I am due to retire in the middle of 2020 having been in the rubber business for 50 years. In that time I have worked for With that, I bring to a close what started as a small commentary a trading company, a plantation company and for the last 10 and ended as maybe a long-winded plea for change. I thank you years for Halcyon Agri details of which I do not have to describe for taking the time to read these thoughts which I emphasise as they are more than adequately covered in this report but are my own personal thoughts and are not to be seen as those whose business is inextricably linked to the natural rubber of Halcyon Agri. smallholders. In these 10 years, with the exception of two and DEMAND SUSTAINABLE RUBBER a half years of exceptionally high prices, I have seen the lot of our upstream partners go from bad to worse. Sustainability is a word we hear bandied around and quite rightly so but sustainability should also encompass price. Farmers need a reward for their efforts for them to lead a sustainable life leonard peter without which they will eventually abandon their smallholdings, convert them to cash crops or seek jobs in what is becoming an infrastructure driven economy in Indonesia. Where then the raw material for those irreplaceable products or what price will we have to pay for these essentials of our life? silvio beschizza managing director 39 [aggregate] [innovate] [sustain] 40 HALCYON AGRI 2019 CORPORATE REPORT BOOK 1 HALCYON AGRI CORPORATION LIMITED 180 Clemenceau Avenue #05-02 Haw Par Centre Singapore 239922 www.halcyonagri.com
