UN global compact communication on progress report Statement from Frontmatec management As a leading provider of advanced food processing equipment, we are aware of our impact on the global sustainability. We acknowledge we have an active part to play in feeding the growing global population, while using less resources. Our contribution towards this goal is to continuously design and develop solutions that maximizes the yield of each raw material and eliminate meat that could be used for human consumption from going to waste. Our path towards this goal is through intensified R&D in automation; introducing new technologies, such as robots and artificial intelligence. Not only does it provide a higher yield and increases the food safety inside the meat plants, it also improves ergonomics for the operators with less heavy lifting and repetitive work, thereby increasing the health and safety levels inside the meat plants. Food safety is also a global concern, which we take seriously and are actively working to improve. We do this through developing hygiene solutions for food plants and by applying sound design principles in all our work with a continued focus on ergonomics and easy to clean equipment with minimum risk of cross contamination. With increased focus on automation, we are becoming a much more data driven company that is offering smart and increasingly intelligent solutions. We want Frontmatec to be a company where people are safe at work; and not just in Frontmatec locations, but equally at the plants where we provide our solutions. Frontmatec will continue to work with the ten principles and in this report, you can read about how we work with sustainability and our contribution to the UN Sustainability Development Goals. Frontmatec Executive Group Management About Frontmatec Group ApS Frontmatec Group delivers customized solutions of the highest quality based on years of experience and true craftsmanship. The company is the highly experienced partner that customers count on for every step of the journey – from the initial design phase to the after sales service. Key design criteria across all our business units are: ▪ Animal welfare ▪ Ergonomics ▪ Hygiene ▪ Meat quality ▪ Yield optimization Given the diversity of the combined product portfolio and differences in geographical market requirements, Frontmatec has structured its operations into the following business units: Human rights Continued support for human rights principles Frontmatec respects human rights and supports the UN Guiding principles on Human Rights. Frontmatec has not made huge changes to the Human Rights due diligence, and will continue focusing on the work with GDPR. During 2020, we will assess other fields where we can make a positive impact on our work with Human Rights. Principle 1 Frontmatec still has the same goals in regards to human rights. We want Businesses should support Frontmatec to be a company where employees want to come and work for and respect the protection us, build a career here and at the same time, feel safe. of internationally proclaimed Externally we also have a huge focus on Human Rights, since we are a human rights; and supplier to the global food industry and see ourselves as an enabler to help feed the world with animal protein. With an increasing global population, the demand for protein will continue to rise. Principle 2 This is a challenge, as agriculture and food production are major contriMake sure that they are not butors to greenhouse gasses. We are pleased to see that many of our complicit in human right abuses customers have launched ambitious sustainability programs and we want to contribute for them to reach their targets. We do this through automation and development of innovative solutions that optimizes the yield. Doing so we get ‘more from less’ – in principle, more people can be fed from the same production level when the output is fully utilized and less goes to waste. Assessment, policy and goals In 2018, the focus was General Data Protection Rules and has been in 2019 where we have our focus on remaining areas within GDPR. In the 2018 COP, we have stated that we wanted to conduct Binding Corporate Rules [“BCR”], but, after a more specific due diligence, Frontmatec has chosen to focus on a different approach and create intercompany data processing agreements between the Frontmatec entities. The policies regarding GDPR made and implemented during 2018 are still assist the employees in regard of sorting, deleting and storing personal in place, and are updated once a year if needed. We also make sure all data and make sure that agreements with third parties are in place. new employees are aware of the policies and our goal is that all employees During 2020, the GDPR team shall extend to all other entities conduct their work in content with our GDPR principles. Therefore our goal in Frontmatec where GDPR is a mandatory regulation. is to maintain our work on an ongoing basis and make sure that all entities are involved. Furthermore, during 2020, the Frontmatec compliance team will assess other fields in Frontmatec business where Human Rights are of importanIn 2019, we acquired a new company in Spain and started up a new ce and evaluate if any actions needs to be conducted in this matter. This production factory in Romania. Frontmatec is focused on implementing the includes an assessment of our third parties relations, etc. GDPR program in these entities as well. On an external basis, Frontmatec will continue the automation and develFrontmatec has the high focus on GDPR in regard of the negative impact opment of innovative solutions that optimizes the yield and hereby contriany breach of noncompliance can have for our business; not only in an butes to zero hunger in the world. economical way but also in regards to reputation towards our customers, business partners and mostly our employees’ safety in regard of their Measurement of outcomes personal data. The goal is to have a better structure and governance on In 2019, the goal for Frontmatec was that all employees have been introduFrontmatec Group level. ced to GDPR policies and understands the importance of it and their rights in connection with processing of their personal data. This is still a goal, Furthermore, during a legal due diligence, we have found out that one and as stated above, Frontmatec is setting up a GDPR team that will on a of Frontmatec entities acquired in 2018 did not pay minimum wage or day to day basis make sure all employees are aware and understand the overtime for overtime work conducted. Frontmatec management reacted content of Frontmatec GDPR policies. Therefore, GDPR awareness is still promptly on this noncompliance and rectified the noncompliance issue a major focus area and will continue to be on an ongoing basis. immediately. For us, it is important that all employees are treated correct and fairly also in regard of payment for their work and effort. Implementation and what remains to be done Already in 2018 and through 2019, Frontmatec has published and actively informed the employees on the work with GDPR. In the entities in Denmark, a GDPR team has been established, making sure to provide day-to-day need awareness regarding GDPR and rights and responsibilities of employees. Never the less, the GDPR team shall Labor rights principles High engagement in developing a healthy workplace and a high responPrinciple 3 sibility as a company is a key factor to a strong and successful business. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Assessment, policy and goals recognition of the right to collective In 2019, the goal for Frontmatec was to keep the low percentage on sickbargaining; ness among employees and during 2019 to reduce lost hours caused by work related injuries pr. 1 million hours by 10 %. Principle 4 After closer evaluation, Frontmatec has chosen to focus on the numbers in a different way, as stated below. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Frontmatec takes safety very seriously and a good environment is the main task in day-to-day business. Given that, we will work to set acceptable KPI to work with as follows: Principle 5 Action KPI Status Target 2020 The effective abolition of child labor; The overall sickness and Monitoring the absense must be at or below 2.0% overall sickness 2.48% <2.0% (sickness days as absense percentage of total Principle 6 number of workdays) The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Action KPI Status Target 2020 To meet future challenges, our industries and infrastructure must be The overall lost upgraded. For this, Frontmatec launched an innovation campaign in 2019. Monitoring the hours caused by overall lost hours work related injuries During the campaign, Frontmatec was looking to harvest the potential from caused by work 7209 hours <7000 hours pr. 1 million hours related injuries pr. the whole organization, and give everyone, regardless of organizational must be lower than 1 million hours 7000 hours unit, department and location, the opportunity to contribute with ideas that will further develop the processes in slaughtering, cutting, deboning and trimming, within both pork and beef. Since it was a very ambitious This will be done by ongoing evaluations and improvement at the produccampaign with a tight deadline, selected people were active participants, tion site where an improvement is needed and can contribute to a safer but Frontmatec encouraged all, who had ideas they believe could become working environment. future products or solutions to attend. It is the intention of Frontmatec to obtain the applicable rules and norms The innovation campaign was also instrumental in implementing a new about both physical and psychological work environment. global R&D process, elevating new innovations across all our business units using a common process with a clear governance structure. It has All applicable safety rules must be kept, not only when working within proved highly efficient in bringing cross-functional and cross-border teams Frontmatec, but also when working with customers and other business together for development of new innovative solutions. partners. All entities have a local work environment and security handbook, and emergency response plans. Our equipment is compliant with the safety and legal requirements of the countries it is marketed. This includes both mechanical and electrical, with declaration of conformity such as CE. Equipment comes with a full operator manual with safety measures described for both machine description, operator usage, maintenance and cleaning. Environment Principle 7 Assessment, policy and goals Business should support a We will comply with environmental legislation, including through ongoing training and monitoring. precautionary approach to environmental challenges We will work systematically to continually improve environmental performance, to reduce our impact on the environment and to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 8 Frontmatec continues the work with Environment principles by minimizing Undertake initiatives to promote the transport cost and pollution in this matter by providing company cars for greater environmental responsibility employees to use free, and made it an obligation for employees to travel together in every situation possible. Principle 9 Furthermore, to minimize unnecessary traveling by car, train, airplane etc. Frontmatec employees use online meetings on a regular basis, so we in Encourage the development and that way can have meetings online internally and with customers whenever diffusion of environmentally friendly possible and whenever a face-to-face meeting is not necessary. technologies Frontmatec also works together with the suppliers to ensure that our products are compliant with the REACH and RoHS obligations and that no harmful substances are exposed to the consumers and the workers handling the products throughout the supply chain. Frontmatec also develops products to ensure that no animals suffer any harm during production of our products. Slaughtering animals is a necessity to provide protein for an increasingly One of the companies moved the location in the middle of the year, and growing population. However, it must be done with respect and without at the same time reducing the production level. Meanwhile, on a Group causing stress and pain to the animals. level, Frontmatec had an acquisition of a company and established another production location. At Frontmatec, animal welfare is a top priority. Not only in respect of the animal but also in delivering a high quality meat product. Healthy and stress Now the Frontmatec focus is the production, the Products, and their impact free animals are the most critical components for quality meat. Frontmatec on environment. Moreover, the high focus on animal welfare and develslaughtering solutions are based on the highest possible animal welfare, oping solutions to increase the welfare as much as possible in every step from the point of arrival to the slaughter plant, to the point of rendering the possible. animal dead. For pigs, we promote group handling in the lairage area, resting pens with access to water and an automatic drive system to guide groups of pigs to the CO2 stunner. Here they will be transferred into a controlled area of CO2 concentration where they will quickly become unconscious and not feel being put to death by sticking and de-bleeding. Implementation and what remains to be done In 2019, we implemented KPI’s for use of water, use of electricity and use of heating. Unfortunately, the measurement was not successful and misleading due to many internal changes on a Group level during 2019. Anti-corruption principles Principle 10 Assessment, policy and goals Business should work against Frontmatec still means what was stated in our 2018 COP. Frontmatec recognizes Corruption and Bribery as barriers to sustainable development corruption in all its forms, and free trade, and we support all work against corruption, including extorincluding extortion and bribery tion and bribery. Implementation and what remains to be done Frontmatec has implemented a policy regulating the zero tolerance approach Frontmatec has. It is important to state that Frontmatec acknowledges small business gifts and reasonable entertainment (including meals) are acceptable ways to build relationships and generate goodwill between business partners, but shall be carried out in a transparent manner and according to Frontmatec guidelines. Frontmatec will still continue the work against corruption including extortion and bribery, and during 2020 the main focus is to make an assessment of the business, business partners and recognize, if any, business areas exposed to high risk. This will help and improve the work against bribery, etc. Measurement of outcomes In 2018, measurements have been conducted, and based on the measurement, the outcome company goal for 2019 was as follows: Zero confirmed incidents in whistleblowing scheme. Frontmatec can state that there has been no cases/incidents in the whistleblowing scheme. For Frontmatec, this is a very positive outcome, but this does not mean Frontmatec will stop working for the fight against corruption, including extortion and bribery. Legal requirements Section reference 99A Readers Guide Reference to section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act Sustainability definition Section 99a (1) Frontmatec reports on all areas of the sustainability definition, including human rights, employee relations, environmental and climate impact and measures to fight corruption. Human rights principles In regard of Human Right principles Frontmatec is fo-cused on having focus on being open and accommodating workplace and hereby respect human rights. Frontmatec is an international workplace, and we can in no way accept discrimination based on race, religion, gender, age, disability or any other kind. The risk is that discrimination would affect our ability to retain and at-tract employees as well as damage our reputation. During 2018, there have been no reporting of non-compliant behavior and management is not aware of such. Labor rights Principles Frontmatec is an international workplace with production sites in different parts of the world. Having strong focus on work environment the main concern is this matter is having serious work related injuries at our productions site due to lack of security and similar. It is important that our employees feel safe during their work at Frontmatec. Health and safety as well as workers councils have a significant role in maintaining and further develop this area. Implementation of KPI measurement is another approach implemented to track situations/development regarding work related injuries. CSR policy Not focusing heavily on security and other relevant approach can have In Frontmatec, we want to add value and take responsibility for the way negative impact on the ability to maintain our dedicated work force, which our business affect society at the same time delivering the best top quality would affect the production and business in general. equipment and services to our customers. Fundamentally, we want to behave responsibly as individuals and as a company. Environment At Frontmatec, we are aware of our environmental obligations, though the The CSP policy constitutes the framework for our activities and for our assessment is that this is a low risk area due to the nature of our production profile as an attractive employer and business partner. and business. Any breach of the environmental legislation could harm our reputation and our business. Supplier Code of Conduct Frontmatec has a history of working closely with suppliers. Our procureAnti-Corruption principles ment teams build relationships with suppliers, ensuring that they provide Having strong focus on compliance in this important matter it is the assesthe best value in regards to quality, delivery and costs. sment that the related risk is low. The primary risk for Frontmatec is that our employees engages directly or indirectly in bribery and/or corruption. Frontmatec is committed to adhere to the UN Global Compact, the world’s Frontmatec is an International company with enti-ties located in various largest sustainability initiative, integrating ten principles in the areas of huparts of the world and where business and execution of projects are, in man rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption into its operations. some matters conducted at places where bribery and corruption is more Moreover, we are committed to advancing the Compacts ten principles in common. When Frontmatec conducts its business, there is a zero toleranour sphere of influence, including the supply chain. ce and Frontmatec will not in any situation accept corruption and/or bribery. Besides the negative consequences for the local society corruption and/or Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the expectations we have to our bribery could harm Frontmatec’s reputation and its business. Therefore, business partners in regards to the ten principles. Frontmatec ensures that employees are trained, assesses risk when conducting business and are aware of how important it is to avoid any situation Fraud Prevention Policy of non-compliance. To ensure a safe conduction of payment, and secure fraud handling from 3rd partied. All employees on high level have signed a documented accepDescription of policies Section 99a (2) ting implementation and awareness of the policy. Frontmatec has the following policies in place: Legal requirements Section reference 99A Readers Guide Reference to section 99a of the Danish Description of policies Section 99a (2) Financial Statements Act continued Anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy In Frontmatec, it is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and etchical manner. We take zero-tolarence approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and reltionships. In order to maintain a high level of integrity and credibility in all our external relationships, we have adopted this policy. All employees on high level have signed a documented accepting implementation and awareness of the policy. Sanctions policy The Frontmatec Group is committed to conducting its business in accordance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The Frontmatec Group strives to operate with integrity and to maintain the highest ethical standards. The primary objective of this Policy is for Frontmatec Group to maintain a sanctions policy in order to meet its obligations under the Sanctions Obligations or Sanctions Laws and Regulations effective in relevant jurisdictions of business operations of the Frontmatec Group. This Policy applies to all employees, which includes permanent and interim employees, management, executive management and any person who represents the Frontmatec Group in any way. Where it is required, eg. Anti-Bribery, Suppliers, Sanctions a 3rd party’s due diligence is conducted. Sexual harassment policy The purpose of this policy is to make it clear to everyone that Frontmatec Continually a training and awareness is conducted to relevant employees Group and its companies [Frontmatec] are clearly distancing themselves in regard of anti-bribery, Fraud, sanction, GDPR and other relevant matters. from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is illegal and nobody should All policies are supported by Frontmatec whistleblower solution. Reference be exposed to it. This policy provides guidelines for prevention and action is made to the introduction part – letter to our stakeholders. should sexual harassment occur. Sexual harassment is considered any form of unwanted verbal, nonverbal or physical behavior with sexual unWork with sustainability Section 99a (2)(4) dertones and discrimination for the purpose or effect of violating a person’s Reference is made to sections of every principle stated above. dignity, in particular by creating threatening, hostile, degrading, humiliating or unpleasant climates. Business model Section 99a (3)(1) Reference is made to the introduction part of the report – Letter to General data protection policy, processing of employees personal our stakeholders. data The purpose of the policy is to inform the employees about their rights and how Frontmatec collects, process and disclose personal data in connection Key risk Section 99a (3)(2) with, during and after the employment. A description of the key risks (if any) has been stated into each of the relevant sections. Frontmatec wants to protects and respect other natural persons’ fundamental rights and freedoms, including natural persons’ right of protection of their KPI’s Section 99a (3)(3) personal data. Reference is made to report and KPI’s stated above in the report. Sustainability definition Section 99a (2)(2) Means of reporting Section 99a (5) Reference is made to sections of every principle stated above. Frontmatec has decided to provide a separate sustainability report, which is available for download from the website at: System and ”due diligence process” https://www.frontmatec.com/media/4987/frontmatec-cop_2019.pdf Section 99a (2)(3) For all policies Frontmatec makes on an ongoing basis an assessment stating minimum requirements. Our fundamental beliefs Frontmatec and all its employees share a common set Our promise of beliefs that defines us a business. It describes the Our customers can expect high quality solutions that are approach of both management and each individual innovative and at the forefront of technology, yet thoroughly towards our customers, business partners and colleagues tested and highly reliable to secure minimum down-time and across organizational and national borders. maximum productivity. We deliver to our promise – every time. What we deliver We deliver customized solutions of the highest quality based Our heritage on years of experience and true craftsmanship. We are the Our business is built on in-depth knowledge of the fields we highly experienced partner that customers count on for every work in and long-term relations with our customers. Quality, step of the journey – from the initial design phase to the after dedication, reliability, and personal service run in our blood. sales service. Time is of the essence – we react promptly and professionally when dealing with any issues. How we work Our culture is based on a strong work ethic and an unyielding dedication to the customer. We are a proud and flexible team that is closely knit and we keep our feet on the ground. We pose an unrivaled expertise of our industry and each one of us take our responsibility for our deliveries seriously. Frontmatec develops world-leading customized solutions for automation in the food industry, other hygiene sensitive industries and the utilities industry. We are especially renowned for our high-quality systems for the entire value chain of the meat industry – from carcass grading, slaughter lines, cutting and deboning lines, hygiene systems and control systems, to logistics and packaging. Barcelona, Spain Lünen, Germany St. Anselme, QC, Canada Phone: +34 936 438 00 Phone: +49 2306 7560 680 Phone: +1 418 885 4493 E-mail: barcelona@frontmatec.com E-mail: luenen@frontmatec.com E-mail: quebec@frontmatec.com Beckum, Germany Moscow, Russia Tandslet, Sydals, Denmark Phone: +49 252 185 070 Phone: +7 495 424 9559 Phone: +45 744 076 44 E-mail: beckum@frontmatec.com E-mail: moscow@frontmatec.com E-mail: tandslet@frontmatec.com Birmingham, UK Rijssen, the Netherlands frontmatec.com Phone: +44 121 313 3564 Phone: +31 886 294 000 E-mail: birmingham@frontmatec.com E-mail: rijssen@frontmatec.com Grodzisk Mazowiecki, Poland Shanghai, China Phone: +48 227 345 551 Phone: +86 215 859 4850 E-mail: grodzisk@frontmatec.com E-mail: shanghai@frontmatec.com Kansas City, MO, US Skive, Denmark Phone: +1 816 891 2440 Phone: +45 975 250 22 E-mail: kansascity@frontmatec.com E-mail: skive@frontmatec.com Kolding, Denmark Smørum, Denmark Phone: +45 763 427 00 Phone: +45 445 037 00 E-mail: kolding@frontmatec.com E-mail: smoerum@frontmatec.com Corporate_V1_2020_EN
