United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Sustainability Report 2019 We Promote Sustainability Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 1 Contents 3 // FOREWORD Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators 10 // STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Living Corporate Responsibility 21 // PROMOTION REPORT Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients 28 // GREEN BONDS NRW.BANK.Green Bonds 2019 46 // ECO-BALANCE Protecting the Climate and the Environment 55 // HUMAN RESOURCES Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees 67 // CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Showing Commitment to Society This is an unofficial translation of the Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 (German Sustainability Report 2019) and is provided for convenience purposes only. In the event of any ambiguity, the German text will prevail. Foreword by the Managing Board Dear Readers, If we want future generations to enjoy the same standard of living we are enjoying today as well as an environment worth living in, we must protect both the climate and the environment. For this reason, and out of our own conviction, we support and assist companies and municipalities in improving the economic, environmental and social living conditions in North RhineWestphalia in our capacity as the promotional bank for NRW. We have been fully committed to this important task for many years. Based on our holistic understanding of sustainability, we also follow the ten recognised principles of the UN Global Compact. We are happy to provide information on the sustainable orientation of our Bank. The contents of our report for 2019 are based on the requirements of the German Sustainability Code and on EU Directive 2014/95/EU. Our banking operations are entirely climate-neutral. Unavoidable emissions are compensated by the use of certificates. Our sustainability guidelines are implemented in NRW.BANK‘s set of rules and regulations and are refined on an ongoing basis. These rules and regulations set out in detail what we do to ensure that we operate sustainably as a promotional bank, taking into account economic, environmental, social and ethical aspects, now and in the future. This includes, for example, our dealings with customers, but also the increasingly strong concentration of our promotional business on sustainable enterprises and enterprises that are embarking on the transformative path towards greater sustainability. This way, we are advancing and shaping the transformation to a sustainable economy. Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword 3 Our corporate culture is characterised by forward-looking and sustainable cooperation. This includes further ­training opportunities as well as career prospects within NRW.BANK. Our dealings with each other are based on mutual respect. Independent studies confirm that we are among the best employers in Germany, e.g. the ­“LEADING EMPLOYERS Germany 2019” award. A survey on the best German companies offering vocational ­training commissioned by the Focus Money magazine shows that we create the best professional conditions for our trainees with a view to securing the next generation of skilled labour. Finally, the occupational compensation fund for North Rhine-Westphalia has confirmed the excellent quality of our occupational and health protection measures. We promote what moves NRW – by providing the right promotional products and advisory services. In 2019, our sustainably oriented business model again achieved a strong result. As in the previous year, the volume of new commitments amounted to € 10.3 billion. We place a special focus on our Green Bonds, which offer investors the opportunity to deploy their capital in ecological and sustainable investments. In 2019, we placed our 7th and 8th Green Bond, each with a volume of € 500 million, to refinance climate and environmental protection projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. Over their ten-year term, all projects will save a total of around 2.6 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents, according to estimates by the Wuppertal Institute. The following pages of our Sustainability Report will give you a detailed idea of what we do to improve the lives of future generations in economic, environmental and social terms. We wish you informative reading and are happy to introduce you to the aspects of our sustainable activities as a promotional bank. The Managing Board of NRW.BANK Eckhard Forst Gabriela Pantring Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Chairman of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword 4 Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators NRW.BANK is the promotional bank of North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW). In the context of subsidised housing construction, NRW.BANK advises the Its mission is to support its owner, the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, approval authorities of the responsible municipal or local governments as in the completion of its structural and economic policy tasks. In its three well as prospective developers and owners on the possibilities to make promotional fields, Economy, Housing and Infrastructure/Municipalities, social housing construction modern, flexible and profitable using the right NRW.BANK uses a wide range of promotional tools – from low-interest promotional programmes. promotional loans to equity financing to advisory services. It cooperates with all banks and savings banks on a competition-neutral basis. The clients Municipal financing also forms part of NRW.BANK’s public mission. The of NRW.BANK benefit from favourable conditions as well as from long Bank is the ideal partner of the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities, maturities and fixed interest periods. The Bank secures access to promo­ which it supports with advisory services and promotional products also in tional loans through optional liability releases for on-lending house banks. times of low interest rates. The Bank is a strong and reliable partner to small and medium-sized This is already the fifth time that NRW.BANK publishes a separate Sustainaenterprises in North Rhine-Westphalia and supports them with the right bility Report which is based on the criteria of the German Sustainability products in any phase of their lifecycles. Code. This ensures that the progress made is presented in a transparent manner. Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword 5 Sustainability Balance Economic Performance Indicators 2019 2018 2017 Unit Financial performance indicators Total assets 149,235 149,083 147,584 € millions Equity capital pursuant to the German Commercial Code (HGB) 17,984 17,984 17,983 € millions Net interest and net commission income1) 737 698 722 € millions Administrative expenses 263 249 219 € millions Operating result 195 196 395 € millions Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio 43.52 41.56 41.34 % Leverage ratio 2) 11.08 11.15 11.37 % Liquidity coverage ratio > 100 > 100 > 100 % NRW.BANK.Green Bonds (new issues) Volume 1,000 500 500 € millions Maturity 10 10 10 years Focus Energy Energy Energy Second party opinion ISS ESG oekom research oekom research Capture of CO2 equivalents per year 260 614 804 t/€ m Promotional fields (new commitments) Economy 2,737 3,592 3,667 € millions Housing 2,624 2,215 2,609 € millions Infrastructure/Municipalities 4,930 4,487 5,359 € millions Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword 6 Sustainability Balance Social Performance Indicators 2019 2018 2017 Unit Employee structure Number of permanent employees 1,392 1,365 1,319 employees Share of women of total workforce 51.9 51.9 52.2 % Share of women in management positions 34.1 32.9 31.1 % Share of part-time employees in total workforce 38.0 33.5 32.6 % Turnover ratio 3.7 2.9 3.9 % Average period of employment 16.6 16.6 16.3 years Average age 45.7 45.4 45.0 years Additionally: temporary employees 40 36 33 employees Additionally: apprentices/trainees 52 49 47 employees Vocational and further training Participation in internal seminars 1,030 753 1,121 employees Participation in external seminars 564 524 404 employees In-house trainers 209 202 192 employees Balance of work and family life Part-time employees 529 457 430 employees Executives working part-time 69 47 42 employees Employees on leave according to BEEG and LGG3) 40 35 41 employees Corporate citizenship Total 0.8 0.8 0.8 € millions Science & Education 46 48 45 % Society & Social Affairs 19 14 16 % Arts & Culture 35 38 39 % Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword 7 Sustainability Balance Environmental Performance Indicators 2019 2018 2017 Unit Greenhouse gas emissions4) Total emissions 2,009 1,861 1,902 t CO2e thereof direct emissions (Scope 15)) 521 423 442 t CO2e thereof indirect emissions (Scope 25)) 501 459 489 t CO2e thereof indirect emissions (Scope 35)) 987 979 971 t CO2e Emissions per employee 1.36 1.28 1.33 t CO2e thereof offset6) 100 100 100 % Building energy Total electricity consumption 6,105,858 5,918,385 5,678,066 kWh thereof from green electricity 100 100 100 % Electricity consumption per employee 4,128 4,075 3,977 kWh Total heating energy 5,525,128 5,060,700 5,386,870 kWh Heating energy per employee 3,735 3,484 3,773 kWh Business travel Total kilometres travelled 4,984,679 4,736,230 4,620,434 km Kilometres travelled per employee 3,370 3,261 3,236 km Paper Total paper consumption7) 30,096 34,437 38,389 kg Paper consumption per employee7) 20.3 23.7 26.9 kg Recycled paper ratio8) 71.5 72.3 61.2 % Waste Total9) 139.8 125.8 125.0 t Recycling ratio 73.4 69.7 72.6 % Waste per employee 95 87 88 kg Full-time equivalents For the calculation per employee 1,479 1,452 1,428 employees Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword 8 Sustainability Balance Sustainability Ratings ISS ESG imug MSCI ESG Prime (C) positive (BB) AA Credit Ratings (long-term) 2019 2018 2017 Fitch Ratings AAA s AAA s AAA s Moody’s Aa1 s Aa1 s Aa1 s Standard & Poor’s AA s AA– p AA– p As at 30 April 2020 1) As of fiscal 2016, interest effects from provisions not related to the banking business (mainly provisions for pensions and provisions for additional benefits) are no longer recognised in net interest income but in other operating income. The prior year figures were adjusted accordingly. 2) Pursuant to Disclosure Report 3) As of 31 December. Does not include employees who work part-time during parental leave. They are shown under “Part-time employees”. 4) The conversion factors correspond to the 2018 VfU update version 1.3. The figures for 2017 have been recalculated accordingly. 5) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions. – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. 6) NRW.BANK offsets its CO2 emissions by using certificates from global wind park projects. 7) Office paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials 8) In percent of total paper consumption 9) Only office waste, excl. kitchen and other waste Abbreviations: CO2e: carbon dioxide equivalents; kg: kilogramme; km: kilometre; kWh: kilowatt hour; m: million; t: tonnes Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword 9 // STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Transparent, responsible and conscientious dealings with its owner, its customers, its employees, its business partners and society form the basis of the sustainable operations of NRW.BANK. The Bank is committed to living up to its corporate responsibility and to evolving it in a far-sighted manner across all areas of the company. Living Corporate Responsibility In accordance with the law under which it was founded as the promotional The essential cornerstones of the sustainability efforts pursued by bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK accepts its corporate NRW.BANK include transparent and responsible relations with its owner, responsibility. Its activity is geared to the principle of sustainability, which customers, employees and society at large. NRW.BANK lives up to this it has defined as follows: “Sustainable development is development that commitment based on its Public Corporate Governance Code. In addition, meets the needs of the present generation without compromising the NRW.BANK has defined the core elements of its corporate mission in its ­ability of future generations to meet their own needs”.1) Sustainability is corporate mission statement. a central guiding principle and a key criterion for NRW.BANK’s decisions on business policy. It is reflected in all phases of NRW.BANK’s corporate Sustainability Guidelines activities, starting from its strategic and business policy decisions to the To make further progress in the field of sustainability, NRW.BANK shaping of its range of products and services down to the implementation ­introduced Sustainability Guidelines in early 2018, which govern the of specific financings, its capital market activities and the advisory services Bank’s approach to sustainability and its continuous further development. it provides. NRW.BANK understands the economic, environmental, social Their purpose is to document the already established sustainability and ethical aspects of sustainability as being inextricably linked. In ­processes and to anchor them more firmly in the organisational structure accordance with its sustainability strategy, NRW.BANK specifically and Bank-wide strategy of NRW.BANK. The Sustainability Guidelines ­promotes such projects and programmes which are designed to improve ­define the entrepreneurial approach of the Bank, taking sustainability the economic and environmental living conditions, social development as aspects into account. Besides the economic viability of the projects funded well as environmental and climate protection in North Rhine-Westphalia. by NRW.BANK, compliance with the interests of its customers and with all other aspects of sustainability are key preconditions for the Bank’s promotional activities. The specifications in the Sustainability Guidelines define detailed rules for NRW.BANK’s treatment of controversial business practices (e.g. human rights violations, child labour, violations of labour law, environmental ­b ehaviour, economic behaviour and animal testing) and controversial ­business fields (e.g. arms industry, illegal gambling, controversial business activities relating to the environment, nature and animals). 1) Source: Brundtland Report, 1987 Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 11 An updated version of the Sustainability Guidelines came into force on In pursuing the objectives derived from NRW.BANK’s overall strategy, the 1 April 2020. A new aspect is the stronger concentration of our promotional Bank is guided by the following overall principle: “The Bank’s activities are business on sustainable enterprises and enterprises that are embarking on geared towards sustainability. The details are outlined in the Sustainability the transformative path towards greater sustainability. Against this backGuidelines of NRW.BANK.” Considering the latter and based on the Sustain­ ground, the specifications for the promotional business have been further ability Guidelines of NRW.BANK, objectives for the further development of developed. Their scope of application now also comprises all commercial sustainability are determined annually for a four-year period. They represent programmes according to the house bank principle. the fields of action in which the Bank wants to achieve further progress in its sustainability efforts by taking suitable measures and which should have Sustainability Objectives a positive influence on the future of North Rhine-Westphalia. The promotional strategy is at the core of the overall strategy and describes fundamental objectives and measures with the help of which NRW.BANK supports the State of North Rhine-Westphalia in its structural and economic policy tasks. To underpin NRW.BANK’s efforts to make a contribution to achieving the climate and environmental targets set by the Federal Republic of Germany and the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, the current promo­ tional strategy primarily encompasses the further development of the promotional offerings aimed at protecting resources, increasing efficiency and implementing the energy transition. This further development always takes place on the basis of trusting communication in close coordination with the competent state ministries. Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 12 Sustainability Objectives and Activities 2019–2022 Save for one exception, NRW.BANK was able to achieve the objectives and measures planned for 2019. A. Living Corporate Responsibility Sustainability objective Activity Period Status Intensify the dialogue with the Engage in a regular and open exchange within the context of a continuously evolving stakeholder dialogue Ongoing stakeholders that are relevant for Employee survey on sustainability – Review the possibility to include employee proposals in the objectives development sustainability Ongoing process Expand sustainability-related topics on the Internet Ongoing Expand sustainability-related topics on the intranet 2019 Further expansion of sustainability communications Examine signing of the UN-PRI 2019 Sign the declaration of compliance with the German Sustainability Code (Deutscher Nachhaltigkeitskodex – DNK) 2020 2020 for the preparation of the Sustainability Report Further develop the NRW.BANK’s Sustainability Guidelines Ongoing Further development of sustainabilityRegular exchange on sustainability-related topics with other market players (at conferences, forums, bilateral meetings) Ongoing related topics within NRW.BANK Support the EU Sustainable Finance Action Plan 2019 B. Shaping Sustainable Promotion for Customers Sustainability objective Activity Period Status Consistently consider sustainability aspects as part of the development of promotional products Ongoing Intensify sustainability-related advisory services for customers 2019 Strengthen and expand sustainable Develop an adequate offering regarding the cross-sectional theme “Energy/Environmental Protection” 2019 promotional products Improve the future viability of social infrastructure and municipal finance 2019 Create more affordable housing through the promotional field “Housing” 2019 C. Further Development of Sustainable Capital Market Business Sustainability objective Activity Period Status Strengthen and expand the Annual issuance of a Green Bond Ongoing sustainable capital market business Increase the Green Bond portfolio to € 300 million by 2020 (previously: € 200 million by 2020) 2020 2020 Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 13 D. Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees Sustainability objective Activity Period Status Further expand employer branding for the target group of trainees/apprentices Ongoing Continue revising and offering the „Grundsätze für die Zusammenarbeit, Kommunikation und Führung“ 2019 (principles for cooperation, communication and leadership at NRW.BANK) workshops for long-serving executives Improve the working conditions for people with disabilities / Further anchoring of inclusion 2019 in 20201) Requirement-oriented further development of an introductory presentation on NRW.BANK’s sustainability policy for 2019 Further development of a new employees and trainees/apprentices value-oriented corporate culture Strengthen/expand the active feedback culture 2019 Intensify contacts with people on leave in preparation of their return 2020 2020 First Aid refresher courses 2022 Optimise NRW.BANK’s internal further training offerings Ongoing Control the ongoing implementation of measures from the Equal Treatment Plan 2019-X 2019 Continue the flexible working time schemes Ongoing Expand the possibility to achieve a Participate in “audit berufundfamilie” (job and family audit) Ongoing better balance of work and family life Evaluate and possibly continue/adjust mobile working possibilities 2019 Continuation and target-oriented further development of annual activities relating to diet, exercise, relaxation and Ongoing prevention Regular health check-ups by the company doctor Ongoing Further development of health ­management offerings Offer more activities aimed at health promotion 2019 Establish a digital health platform for employees 2019 Optimise the ongoing health promotion offerings by considering employees’ interests and the latest medical findings 2020 2020 1) The aim was to update the inclusion agreement in 2019. The final draft of the inclusion agreement is currently under final discussion and the first implementations are already taking place. It will be signed in the course of the year. Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 14 E. Protecting the Climate and the Environment Sustainability objective Activity Period Status Con­ stantly Increase the share of recycled paper Ongoing high level1) Optimise the company’s Increase the digitisation of processes (authorisations, applications) Ongoing consumption/save resources Raise awareness for the use of resources Ongoing Refrain from printing the Annual Report; make it available in a digital format 2019 Change the payslip to a digital format 2019 Introduce a fully digital applicant management 2019 Review the possibility to introduce reusable coffee mugs in the Förderbar/Tresor bistros 2019 Further development of sustainable Increase the use of sustainable consumables Ongoing procurement Adopt and further develop sustainability aspects in the standard contracts Ongoing Review the possibility to serve “fairtrade”/organic coffee at conferences in the Förderbar/Tresor bistros 2019 Strengthen environmentally-friendly Certification as “bicycle-friendly company” Ongoing mobility Provide e-car charging stations for employees 2019 F. Showing Commitment to Society Sustainability objective Activity Period Status Annual blood donation campaign in cooperation with the Red Cross Ongoing Constant alignment of corporate responsibility with current corporate Repeat typing campaign in cooperation with the Bone Marrow Donation Centre in Düsseldorf Ongoing citizenship topics Promote young up-and-coming artists Ongoing 1) The share of recycled paper in NRW.BANK‘s total consumption has shown a very positive trend over the past years (2017: 61.2% / 2018: 72.3%) and stabilised at 71.5% (–0.8%) in 2019. Despite the consolidation of the ratio, total paper consumption declined noticeably by 4.3 t compared to 2018 (to 30.1 t), mainly because of the digitisation of processes. Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 15 The objectives and activities of NRW.BANK for the years 2020-2023 are the main input from this dialogue was discussed and assessed from a published on NRW.BANK’s Sustainability Portal. The systematisation of ­feasibility and efficiency perspective. The relevant insights gained from the the objectives and activities is based on the sustainability principles set stakeholder dialogue were either implemented at short notice or were out in NRW.BANK‘s Sustainability Guidelines. integrated into the Sustainability Guidelines or included in the sustainability objectives and activities of NRW.BANK. Sustainability as a Part of Strategic Management Considering sustainability to be a central leitmotif, NRW.BANK does not Sustainability Communications regard the implementation and further development of this issue as a The Annual Financial Report and the Non-financial Report are important ­separate process but as an integral component of strategic management communication tools used by NRW.BANK to supply its stakeholders with and thus as a general principle of overarching importance in the Bank’s transparent information about its corporate responsibility. The present strategy. On the basis of the Bank’s generally decentralised organisation, Sustainability Report and the restructured Sustainability Portal on the responsibility for specific operational aspects relating to sustainability lies Bank’s website provide additional information. Sustainability communicawith the relevant departments. As part of a central coordination function, tions transparently document the progress and effects of NRW.BANK’s the Strategy and Research Department ensures that the necessary framesustainability efforts. NRW.BANK uses all available communication options work conditions and regulations are in place and transfers current market to implement the guiding principles of its Sustainability Guidelines. developments into the Bank. Reflecting the universal responsibility approach, important sustainability aspects are discussed by the management circle, Statutory Framework and Internal Regulations which is composed of the Managing Board of NRW.BANK and the heads The consideration of the sustainability principle is firmly anchored in of all business units. It monitors, in particular, the implementation of the the Bank’s statutes (section 5, para. 1) and in the Act on NRW.BANK objectives as well as the discussion and definition of the further develop­(section 3, para. 1). Special aspects resulting from the framework con­ ment of the Sustainability Guidelines, also taking input from major stakeditions of NRW.BANK such as “Verständigung II”, the public mission holders into account. The participation of all business units in this established and the house bank principle are also taken into account. In addition, control process ensures that the different points of view are considered. the Bank has developed internal policies addressing various aspects of sustainability at NRW.BANK. Stakeholder Dialogue In the context of the preparation of the Sustainability Guidelines, Labour Standards and Human Rights NRW.BANK decided to expand the regular exchange with its stakeholders. Compliance with human rights and with the labour standards that are The consideration of external input is considered a key aspect in the applicable in Germany as well as the rejection of child and forced labour further development of the sustainability issue. In the stakeholder dialogue are a matter of course for NRW.BANK and has been anchored in its of 2019, current developments in the field of sustainability were intensively ­Sustainability Guidelines. discussed with relevant stakeholders. At the Bank’s Strategy Conference, Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 16 Equal Opportunities and Principle of Non-discrimination In addition, they carry out Bank-specific risk analyses to assess the To offer its employees a fair and good working environment, the Bank appropriate­ness and effectiveness of the principles, resources and processes attaches importance to mutual respect and avoiding discrimination. This is and refine and update them. They assist the Managing Board in all com­ why equal opportunities and the principle of non-discrimination are laid pliance-related matters and regularly report to the latter. down in the Sustainability Guidelines and in special internal guidelines. The promotional bank pursues a preventive approach to raise awareness Compliance and Money Laundering Prevention of compliance matters. It has established a set of detailed, written internal The business model of NRW.BANK hinges on its owner, its employees, Compliance Regulations as well as mandatory regular training courses on customers, business partners and the public trusting in its expertise, compliance, money laundering prevention as well as the ‘other criminal ­p erformance and integrity. The Bank is committed to compliance with acts’ (sonstige strafbare Handlungen) as defined in the German Banking regulatory and statutory provisions as well as with internal requirements, Act (KWG) for all its employees. which forms the basis for such trust. Both locations of NRW.BANK have the same risk profile with regard to the Compliance-related topics are implemented in accordance with the Minimum above-mentioned risks. Requirements for Risk Management (MaRisk), the Anti Money Laundering Act (GwG) and the Securities Trading Act (WpHG). Data Protection To ensure that data are handled responsibly and confidentially in the c­ ontext The Compliance Department, which forms part of the Risk Control unit, of its business activity, NRW.BANK has regulated all activities in the area is the central body that is responsible for addressing these tasks. The Bank of data protection and banking secrecy in a set of written policies and has appointed a Compliance Officer (MaRisk, WpHG) as well as Money ­instructions. Laundering and Operational Risk Officers as well as deputies for exercising the various Compliance functions. They report directly to the Managing The Bank meets its statutory training obligations relating to data protection Board and are bound by instructions only from the latter in performing and information security towards its staff. their tasks. Corruption Prevention The tasks of these Officers primarily include: development, communication Besides its regulations on compliance, anti money laundering and data and review of the Bank-wide Compliance and Money Laundering Prevention protection, NRW.BANK’s set of written policies and instructions also include framework, managing the compliance risk whilst taking other risk types general instructions and regulations relating to other criminal acts as defined into account, such as reputational and operational risks. in section 25h of the Banking Act (KWG). These are addressed at all em­ ployees of the Bank and include the prevention of corruption. Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 17 NRW.BANK has also established effective processes for receiving and nomic, environmental (e.g. environmental protection, energy efficiency) as ­pursuing reports of suspicious behaviour. In the event of infringements well as social and ethical aspects. Taking this into account, contractors are or the detection of other criminal acts, the central function established in requested to ensure that they and their subcontractors comply with the Risk Control unit in accordance with section 25h KWG takes action. It receives potential reports and coordinates the entire process relating to human rights as in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights by reports of suspicious behaviour and risk notifications relating to money the UN General Assembly (first published on 10 December 1948) laundering and other criminal acts. Charges are filed by the Legal unit only as well as in consultation with the central function. the resulting definition of human rights according to the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany; There was no evidence of infringements or reports of suspicious behaviour the prohibition of child and forced labour under the UN Convention at NRW.BANK in the reporting year, nor were any fines or non-monetary on the Rights of the Child (CRC) of 1989/1990; penalties imposed on NRW.BANK. the protection against systematic/discriminatory labour law violations according to the ILO Core Labour Standards; Sustainable Procurement the principles of gender equality; NRW.BANK is committed to the economic, economical, efficient and the provisions of the Federal Nature Conservation Act, the Environ­sustainable procurement of goods as well as construction and other mental Damage Act and the Animal Welfare Act as well as ­s ervices. All purchases are made in accordance with the applicable with ­European and national laws on corruption, bribery, fraud, ­regulations of public procurement law. ­accounting fraud, anti-trust violations, money laundering, insider trading and tax compliance. NRW.BANK places orders which exceed the EU thresholds in accordance with the Act against Restraints on Competition (GWB), the Procurement In the context of its procurement policy, the Bank integrates environ­ Regulations (VgV), the Construction Contract Procedures (VOB/A), the mental aspects also into the procurement of office materials as well as the North Rhine-Westphalian Act on Compliance with Collective Agreements ordering and logistic processes. An example is the carbon neutral sending and Procurement (TVgG-NRW) as well as the Minimum Wage Act (MiLoG). of mail through NRW.BANK’s participation in the GOGREEN programme NRW.BANK has decided to implement a structured procurement process of Deutsche Post DHL Group. In the reporting year, NRW.BANK again also for orders that do not exceed the EU thresholds for tenders as of an demonstrated its commitment to assuming responsibility towards society amount of € 25,000. at its two locations in Düsseldorf and Münster, where the Bank promoted the employment of disabled people by commissioning workshops for dis­ In this context, sustainability is always a central guiding principle and a abled to provide such services as laundry and cleaning. key criterion for NRW.BANK’s decisions on business policy. As part of its business activities and when awarding contracts, the Bank considers ecoSustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 18 Public Corporate Governance Code Initiatives and Memberships Being a promotional bank, NRW.BANK is very much committed to trans­ In accordance with its Sustainability Guidelines, NRW.BANK contributes ­ parent and responsible action towards the public, its guarantor and owner to the tasks identified also outside its own business activity. The Bank is as well as investors, customers and employees. This commitment is based a signatory of the following sustainability-relevant initiatives and/or the on the Public Corporate Governance Code, as last amended on 1 July 2019, voluntary commitments for sustainable corporate activity developed by with which the members of the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board the latter: and the Board of Guarantors fully identify. Building on this basis, the Bank publishes an annual Report on Public Corporate Governance to inform Diversity Charter about material corporate governance developments. This report is con­ Green Bond Principles tained in the Financial Report and is additionally published as a separate Social Bond Principles document on NRW.BANK’s website. ICMA Sustainability Bond Guidelines UNEP Finance Initiative For many years, the Bank has implemented transparency and responsibility United Nations Global Compact in its dealings with its target groups. In early 2006, NRW.BANK was one of VfU e.V. the first public-sector companies in Germany to adopt a Public Corporate Governance Code and to officially commit itself to this standard of corporate As an ordinary member of the Association of German Public Banks (VÖB) governance. and the European Association of Public Banks (EAPB), NRW.BANK actively participates in working groups and panel discussions on sustainability, Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining sustainable finance and green bonds. The Bank’s staff council represents the interests and needs of the employees of NRW.BANK based on the North Rhine-Westphalian State Staff Representa­ Sustainable Products tion Act (LPVG NRW). In 2019, the staff council again monitored compliance NRW.BANK continuously optimises its business activities with regard to with applic­able laws, regulations, collective bargaining agreements as well sustainability and has anchored these efforts in its Sustainability Guide­ as labour agreements and informed the employees of both head offices at lines. The focus is placed on the core business segments and, hence, on the annual staff assembly. the integration of the individual sustainability issues in its promotional products in order to design sustainable promotion for clients. Being an institution under public law, NRW.BANK is subject to the collective bargaining agreement for the private sector and the public banking industry. Special attention is paid to sustainability risks and to compliance with the It implements the collectively agreed results for its employees under collecSustainability Guidelines also when launching new products. The Bank has tive agreements. This is also done on a voluntary basis for the majority of established an internal process in which each new promotional product of employees not covered by collective agreements. NRW.BANK is checked for compliance with sustainability values. Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 19 Responsible Marketing The Bank is firmly committed to treating customer information confidentially. The Bank’s Data Protection Officer is involved in SUSTAINABILITY all dialogue-based marketing ­measures based on customer data RATINGS to ensure responsible marketing. In compliance with the provisions Rating agencies specialising in sustainability have rated NRW.BANK’s performance in fields of the TVgG NRW, NRW.BANK such as environment, society and governance for several years. In 2019, the Bank again scored considers important aspects of good ratings. corporate responsibility when making purchases or placing orders Rating agency ISS ESG, for instance, rates the sustainability of issuers on a scale from A+ to D–. in the context of its marketing NRW.BANK scored a “C” rating, with the additional “Prime” rating thus classifying the Bank as activities. a sustainable investment. This means that the Bank’s rating is only three notches below the best sustainability rating “B” in the peer group. The Bank’s advertising materials also reflect its commitment to With a “positive (BB)” rating, NRW.BANK ranks within the top five of the 19 promotional and sustainability and include, for development banks analysed in the 2019 imug sustainability rating of bank bonds. In the peer instance, articles made from re­ group excluding the supranational development banks, it remains in second place. MSCI ESG has cycled or renewable, biodegradable given the Bank an “AA” sustainability rating. Vigeo Eiris and Sustainalytics also regularly assess materials. the sustainability of the Bank. In addition, DZ BANK awarded NRW.BANK with the “sustainability seal” in its “EESG” rating. Sustainability Ratings ISS ESG imug MSCI ESG Prime (C) positive (BB) AA Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy and Governance 20 // PROMOTION REPORT NRW.BANK’s products and services are designed to secure the standard of living and to improve climate and environmental protection in North Rhine-Westphalia. In addition, the Bank supports a balanced social ­development in the North RhineWestphalian regions. The aim is to strengthen the stability of society. Accordingly, all of NRW.BANK’s ­promotional activities make a con­ tribution to the development of enterprises and municipalities in North Rhine-Westphalia. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 21 Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients Sustainable behaviour is a key objective of NRW.BANK’s business policy As defined in the Act on NRW.BANK, municipal loans and promotional and means the equal consideration of social, economic and environmental loans to central, regional and local governments as well as to public-sector objectives and ethical matters. Most importantly, the sustainability special-purpose associations and subsidised housing construction proob­jective shapes and guides NRW.BANK’s promotional offerings. For its grammes are typically extended directly by NRW.BANK. promotional business the Bank uses the full range of lending tools and steps in when banking and lending expertise is required for the promotion Focus of the Promotional Business process. Particular use is made of promotional loans with low interest rates NRW.BANK’s promotional business is qualitative and theme-oriented. The and/or long-term fixed-interest options, risk sharing with house banks as promotional services are provided in three promotional fields, Economy, well as the provision of equity and mezzanine capital. In 2019, NRW.BANK Housing as well as Infrastructure/Municipalities, which, in turn, are divided recorded a volume of new commitments of € 10.3 billion. For detailed into individual promotional themes. The promotional strategy complements information on the promotional business, please refer to the chapter “The NRW.BANK’s focus on specific promotional fields and provides additional Promotional Business of NRW.BANK” in the financial report. central guidelines for the Bank’s promotional business. These guidelines contain selected aspects covering all promotional fields to secure the Apart from the provision of funds, forward-looking and requirement-­ effective­ness and efficiency of promotion. At this stage, the promotional oriented promotion increasingly requires customer-oriented advisory strategy comprises three guidelines: “European Promotion”, “Digital ­services. NRW.BANK has therefore built its advisory services and solutions Promotion” and “Networked Promotion”. into a second, equally important pillar of its business. Specific objectives and measures have been defined for each of the guide­ Partnership and Cooperation lines. The “European Promotion” guideline is designed to ensure that the NRW.BANK cooperates with other financial and promotional institutions in potential opened up by the new EU promotional period (2021–2027) is a spirit of partnership. NRW.BANK conducts its commercial promotional leveraged. The “Digital Promotion” guideline explicitly addresses the business in cooperation with the banks and savings banks in a competition­growing demands made on promotional banks to further digitalise their neutral manner based on the “house bank principle”. According to this promotional business. The “Networked Promotion” guideline describes the principle, the Bank has no direct contacts with its clients but extends its Bank’s positioning as an active partner in promotional networks to increase promotional loans via banks and savings banks, which act as intermediaries. the visibility of the funding portfolio and to generate ideas for promotion and synergies. Objectives and measures have also been defined for each of the promotional themes; they are put into practice using specific promo­ tional offers. Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion Report 22 NRW.BANK’s offerings in the promotional field “Economy” cover the full The promotional field Infrastructure/Municipalities covers financing and lifecycle of small and medium-sized enterprises. Besides the general advisory services supporting the solid capitalisation of municipalities and ­promotion of SMEs, the Bank has placed a focus on the effective promotion the implementation of infrastructure projects. NRW.BANK promotes both of investments in the protection of resources or in increasing corporate public and private projects for the improvement of infrastructures. Among energy efficiency. Targeted support for start-ups and innovations is other purposes, its products effectively support infrastructure measures ­another special promotional theme of NRW.BANK. The promotional field designed to implement Germany’s energy transition. Housing comprises NRW.BANK’s offerings for the promotion of new housing construction and the modernisation of existing housing stock. The aspects of energy transition and environmental protection relate to all When buildings are modernised, special attention is paid to energy three promotional fields of NRW.BANK, albeit with different facets and ­efficiency aspects as well as to barrier-free design and suitability for the promotional measures. The Bank has pooled the corresponding products elderly. In this context, the subsidised housing construction programmes and services in the individual promotional fields in a separate theme named are of special importance. The respective promotional measures are geared Energy Transition / Environmental Protection. Promotional funds in the towards the State of North Rhine-Westphalia’s annual housing promotion total amount of € 1.6 billion were made available in these promotional programme (Wohnraumförderungsprogramm, WoFP) which breaks down themes. the state government’s general promotional policy concepts into concrete promotional measures. Performance Indicators in the Promotional Business NRW.BANK’s objectives are primarily geared to providing the State of North Rhine-Westphalia with long-term support in performing its Volume of New Commitments by Promotional Fields in € millions ­structural and economic tasks. Due to NRW.BANK’s public mission as the promotional bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, development and promotion is the primary business objective and the volume of new commitments Infrastructure/ Economy represents a key performance indicator. The volume of new commitments Municipalities 2,737 comprises the commitments for promotional funds made in the current 4,930 fiscal year. Defined budget values exist for this and all other key per­ formance indicators and are regularly subjected to plan/actual comparisons Housing as well as scenario and forecast analyses in order to provide appropriate 2,624 control stimuli. NRW.BANK additionally records other special promotion-typical per­ formance indicators for its promotional business. The number of funded residential units, for instance, is a performance indicator for its subsidised housing construction operations and is reported regularly. Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion Report 23 In the various special programmes of the Bank for the promotion of To complement the NRW.Mikrodarlehen programme, NRW.BANK is ­environmental protection, innovations and society, suitable additional ­developing an innovative combination consisting of microfinance and promotion-related information such as the purpose of the funded environ­external crowdfunding via a digital platform. mental projects is documented in addition to the promotion volume. The NRW.BANK.Digitalisierung und Innovation programme is available to The use of promotional funds is always linked to certain promotional con­ support small and medium-sized companies’ digitisation investments and/ ditions, whose compliance is secured by NRW.BANK especially in cooperaor investments in adding new, technologically advanced products to their tion with the house banks. Compared to more broadly based programmes, product ranges or in the adoption of high-tech production processes. the Bank’s special programmes are characterised by comprehensive proThe programme comprises two separate promotional modules to finance motional conditions in that they offer higher promotional amounts. digitisation projects and to support process, procedural and product innovations in small and medium-sized enterprises. This NRW.BANK promo­ Economic Development tional solution effectively complements the digitisation drive initiated by NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and NRW.BANK.Universalkredit are the the State of North Rhine-Westphalia. The product is complemented by two programmes with the highest volumes. The latter is aimed at both the NRW.BANK.Innovative Unternehmen programme. It provides special established SMEs and company founders. Under these programmes, promotion for the proprietary development and production of innovative ­interest-subsidised loans in the total amount of € 1.6 billion were granted products, processes and services and offers favourable terms and con­ to some 4,100 enterprises for investments and working capital in 2019. ditions as well as an obligatory 70% liability release for the on-lending house bank. The programme thus takes account of the fact that it is often Like NRW.BANK.Universalkredit, NRW.BANK.Gründungskredit is targeted difficult for innovative companies to raise loans because of a lack of unenat business start-ups and young companies. More than 1,000 start-up and cumbered collateral. growth projects received funding under this programme in 2019, with loans totalling approx. € 257.7 million. Micro start-ups receive customised NRW.BANK supports seed financings of business start-ups and young promotion through NRW.Mikrodarlehen. As this programme focuses on companies in high-technology sectors by offering equity-strengthening the viability of the concepts and the personality of the founder, projects solutions through its Seed and Venture Funds, which have a combined may be financed also without proof of equity capital or the usual collateral volume of € 310 million. These funds make an important contribution to required for bank loans. This makes it possible for formerly unemployed reducing the high market inefficiencies in the German venture capital people to set up their own businesses. In view of the increasing capital market, thus providing important stimulation for innovation and the future requirements in this start-up segment, the maximum loan amount was competitiveness of North Rhine-Westphalia. In the venture capital segment, increased (from € 25,000 to € 50,000) and the maximum term of the loans the Bank acts as a co-investor to finance newly established technology-­ extended (from six to ten years) at the beginning of 2020. oriented companies in sectors such as information and communication technology, life sciences, medical engineering, microsystems technology and cleantech. Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion Report 24 The seed funds operate on a fund-of-funds basis. Currently NRW.BANK Industry Structure in % invests in 13 regional seed funds, which, in turn, have made investments NRW.BANK.Venture Funds and NRW.BANK.Seed Funds in 106 high-tech start-ups. Microsystems technology 1 For several years, start-ups and newly established companies in the digital sector have benefited from effective support in the form of equity investBiopharmaceuticals 6 ments which are granted in addition to investments by business angels. ICT 34 Cleantech 9 Since the beginning of 2020, this promotional offering has been open also to applicants from industries outside the digital sector. It complements the Medical engineering 15 win NRW.BANK Business Angels Initiative, in the context of which the Bank helps capital-seeking innovative companies gain access to business Biotechnology 15 angels. Other 20 NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit is a central offering to support the energy system transition and to promote environmental protection in the field of economic development. The loan offers strongly interest-subsidised terms Enterprises may also receive low-interest financing for research and for investments with clear ecological merits. These terms were noticeably ­development projects falling under the “Masterplan Elektromobilität Nordimproved once again in early 2020. To qualify for promotion, borrowers rhein-Westfalen” (North Rhine-Westphalia’s Electromobility Masterplan). must prove that their projects will permanently increase energy efficiency To make North Rhine-Westphalia the leading federal state in the field of by at least 20% or resource efficiency by at least 6%. Replacement investelectromobility and to encourage the purchase of clean vehicles, potential ments with lower efficiency increases are eligible for promotion only on the for optimisation is continuously being exploited in the corresponding basis of certified environmental protection processes (e.g. PIUS Check or ­promotional programme. In 2019, a focus was placed on adding loans with environmental management system). aid-free interest rates to the existing range of loans. This will enable a larger group of applicants to benefit from support. Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion Report 25 Housing Promotion As a complement to its subsidised housing construction activities, As part of its subsidised housing construction activities, NRW.BANK made NRW.BANK grants low-interest loans under the NRW.BANK.Gebäude­ available new commitments of € 937.9 million (previous year: € 923.4 million) sanierung programme to support projects for raising energy efficiency as for the creation of affordable, high-quality housing for low-income earners well as barrier-free refurbishment measures for privately owned buildings. in 2019. This promotion is designed, among other things, to increase the Since early 2019, NRW.BANK has also granted loans for the construction supply of housing also in densely populated areas characterised by rising and purchase of privately used residential properties with a very long rents. A total of 8,513 residential units were funded in 2019 within the fixed-interest term. A social component in this new offer is ensured by scope of the Bank’s subsidised housing construction activities. basing the income thresholds for eligible applicants on the federal government’s child-related construction grants. At € 675.9 million, some 5,500 rent-controlled and occupancy-controlled rental housing units accounted for the bulk of the promotional funds spent Infrastructure and Municipal Promotion on subsidised housing construction; this also includes the creation of To support the expansion of the infrastructure in North Rhine-Westphalia, ­d ormitories for students and places in care homes for people with dis­ NRW.BANK offers both customised, individual financing solutions and abilities. Another focus was placed on the construction and acquisition of standardised promotional programmes. Individual financing solutions are owner-occupied housing. Modernisation measures in the existing housing provided for both corporate financings and project financings. stock primarily comprise investments aimed at preserving and creating an adequate housing quality. These include energy-efficient building standards, To avoid diesel bans and improve air quality, NRW.BANK offers a separate the removal of barriers, protection against burglary as well as digital promotional sub-programme with particularly favourable conditions for housing and building technology including an attractively designed clean air measures as part of its broad-based promotional programme for environ­ment. Within the framework of the promotion of neighbourhoods, municipal investments. Projects eligible for promotion under this sub-­ the combination of different promotion modules facilitates the developprogramme include the conversion of municipal vehicle fleets to vehicles ment of residential areas meeting specific local needs. Neighbourhood-­ without combustion engines, municipal transport infrastructure improverelated measures (e.g. playgrounds, recreation rooms, local mobility ment projects or urban development measures, such as the installation of ­services) are also eligible for funding. bicycle stations, that benefit air pollution control. Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion Report 26 As part of the NRW.BANK.Gute Schule 2020 programme launched in For several years, NRW.BANK has actively supported the renaturation of cooperation with the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK makes the River Emscher, for which the Bank makes available long-term loans. In available € 500.0 million p.a. during the period from 2017 to 2020 for addition to these infrastructure development and promotion programmes, long-term loans to finance municipal investments in the refurbishment, NRW.BANK again was a reliable partner to the North Rhine-Westphalian modernisation and expansion of the municipal school infrastructure. The municipalities in the reporting year. Its municipal loans and liquidity loans offering provides fixed quotas for each individual municipality. To prevent to North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities made an important contribution investments from failing because of the financial situation of a municipality, to ensuring the municipalities’ ability to act. The Bank moreover supports the State of North Rhine-Westphalia supports the municipalities by the municipal sector with a wide range of advisory services. taking over their interest and principal payments. In addition, municipal school operators and school associations continue to benefit from the Trusting Customer Relationships NRW.BANK.Moderne Schule programme, which provides long-term loans Potential recipients of promotional loans increasingly inform themselves for the construction and modernisation of school buildings. independently about available promotional options and hence expect promotional banks to provide targeted and objective information about Infrastructure improvements require not only public-sector investments promotional funds. NRW.BANK has therefore optimised its internet but also private investments. NRW.BANK.Infrastruktur is a programme ­presence on an ongoing basis over the past years. designed to raise private capital for low-interest financing of projects in a wide range of different fields such as environmental protection, urban development, social affairs or education and qualification. In addition, NRW.BANK has special programmes to support, for instance, the preserva­ tion of monuments, flood protection measures as well as investments in sports facilities. On 1 November 2019, NRW.BANK assumed the approval function for the “Moderne Sportstätten 2022” subsidy programme ­relaunched by the State of North Rhine-Westphalia as a complement to its established range of loans for sports facilities with a view to offering promotion from a single source. Investments in plants for the generation, storage and distribution of ­energy are promoted under the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme. In 2019, promotional loans with a total volume of € 225.5 million were granted under this programme, which were mainly used to finance wind turbine generators, partly in citizen wind farms. Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion Report 27 // GREEN BONDS Green Bonds issued by NRW.BANK allow ­investors to participate in ecological projects, which, in turn, generate sustainable yields for the Bank’s investors. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 Strategie 28 NRW.BANK.Green Bonds 2019 In 2013, NRW.BANK was Europe’s first regional agency to successfully launch a green bond. Since then the Bank’s issues of at least one Green Bond per year have established a close link between NRW.BANK’s environ• Climate benefits to be maximised by allocating projects to mentally oriented promotional business and its own funding activities in the portfolio based on the highest carbon footprint reduction the international capital market. • Loans and the issue itself are closely linked: (Re)financing of loans that are not older than twelve months The funds raised under the Green Bond programme are exclusively used to at the time of the issue of the SPO (second party opinion) fund previously identified promotional projects in North Rhine-Westphalia All projects are “live” that have a special environment and climate benefit. No risk of “green default”. The maximum term of the issue is determined by the shortest loan maturity Internal designation of the loans Loan portfolio remains unchanged during the term of the issue Green Bond Principles define the framework Comprehensive one-off reporting NRW.BANK.Green Bonds are Use of Proceeds Bonds ISS ESG research confirms the sustainability of the projects Projects are selected by the Green Bond Team (second party opinion) In selecting the asset pool to be refinanced, NRW.BANK The Wuppertal Institute prepares impact analysis; reporting ­applies the following criteria: about the projects and their environmental benefits is trans­ • All selected projects have to support North Rhine-West­ parent phalia’s climate and sustainability strategy as well as the UN The NRW.BANK.Green Bonds 2019 are a material element of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) NRW.BANK’s Non-financial Report. This report was submitted • Eligible fields include “Climate Mitigation” and “Climate to a voluntary review by the auditor and deemed lawful and Adaptation” or SDGs 3, 6, 7, 11, 13 and 14 appropriate in light of the result of the audit. • Focus on climate protection Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 29 NRW.BANK substantially increased its lending in support of environ­ To be eligible for selection under the Green Bond programme, projects mentally friendly projects. The interval between the Green Bond issues has must have a commitment date within the past twelve months from the issue been reduced from twelve to seven months. 2019 was the first year to see of the second party opinion (SPO) and match the defined themes. The the issue of two € 500.0 million Green Bonds. focus is on contributing to the State of North Rhine-Westphalia’s climate protection policy, supporting adaptation to the unavoidable implications of climate change and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs 3, 4, 6, 7, 11, 13, 14 and 15). UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS – TAKING A NEW VIEW Source: Azote Images for Stockholm Resilience Centre Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 30 The measures supported by the Green Bonds thus serve to reduce and The year 2019 saw NRW.BANK publish its Green Bond Framework, in avoid adverse environmental influences on the climate (mitigation) and to which the Bank clearly defines its Green Bond concept in a manner that is manage the consequences of climate change (adaptation). As the main transparent and comprehensible to investors. Moreover, the Framework emphasis is on climate protection, the selection of the projects primarily embeds the Bank’s Green Bond issues in its mission, its general sustain­ focuses on the highest carbon savings to be expected. ability efforts and its funding strategy. Between them, the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds issued to date have a total Focus on the Environmental Impact volume of € 3.8 billion, of which € 3.0 billion was outstanding as of NRW.BANK has assessed the environmental impact of its Green Bonds 31 December 2019. since 2015 with the aim to publish the CO2 emissions that have been saved and/or avoided by investing in its Green Bonds on an annual basis. Since the issue of the 2015 NRW.BANK.Green Bond, the Wuppertal Institute for Overview of all NRW.BANK.Green Bonds (volume in € millions) Climate, Environment and Energy has been NRW.BANK’s competent 500 ­partner for analysing the positive environmental impact. NRW.BANK has 84% 61% 100% 86% 78% 81% published a detailed impact analysis report in cooperation with the latter 400 since 2016. 300 The Wuppertal Institute prepares the analyses in accordance with the recommendations of the Harmonized Framework for Impact Reporting, 200 which were developed by multilateral development banks under the 39% ­umbrella of the GBPs. This framework permits the preparation of a trans100 parent and comparable impact analysis of green bonds as recommended 22% 16% 19% by the GBPs. 14% 0 2019 – 2029 2019 – 2029 2018 – 2028 2017 – 2027 2016 – 2026 2015 – 2025 High Sustainability Ratings for NRW.BANK.Green Bonds #2 #1 The clear concept closely aligned to the Green Bond Principles, the maturity, Maturity the good ESG rating of the issuer and the significant environmental benefit of the (re)financed projects are reflected in the high sustainability ratings Energy Water of NRW.BANK.Green Bonds. On a scale from D– (poor) to A+ (excellent), ISS-oekom has given four bonds outstanding in 2018 a B+ rating. Due to the high proportion of wind power, the Green Bond 2017–2027 has a very Since 2014, the ecological benefit and quality of the projects selected for high environmental benefit and is consequently rated A-. ISS ESG discon­ the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds have been analysed and assessed by ISS ESG tinued with its bond ratings in 2019. NRW.BANK.Green Bonds are thus in (formerly ISS-oekom), an independent sustainability rating agency. These the top quantile of all bonds rated by ISS ESG. The liquid Green Bonds of SPOs confirm their consistently sustainable concept and com­pliance with NRW.BANK are issued exclusively in euros in order to create a green euro the requirements of the Green Bond Principles (GBP). benchmark curve in the long term. This will enable the Bank to illustrate a Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 31 potential price difference between the green NRW.BANK curve and the A good € 275 million was spent on water management. The main focus regular NRW.BANK benchmark curve. The current maturities are five to was placed on the renaturation of the River Emscher, which accounted for ten years. Based on experience to date, a price difference of up to three approximately € 150 million. The remaining € 125 million was used to basis points – for example in the form of lower new issue premiums – is upgrade municipal wastewater treatment plants. gradually emerging in favour of green bonds. The projects chosen were earmarked by NRW.BANK as Green Bond #1-2019 NRW.BANK.Green Bonds 2019 and #2-2019. In the reporting year, an internal selection process identified eligible ­projects from the energy area with a total volume of € 725.0 million. At ISS ESG confirmed the sustainability and environmental benefit of these approximately € 365 million, the focus was once again on renewable projects through a positive second party opinion. ­energies. A good € 140 million was directly invested in wind power. Closely related to this is an amount of € 200.0 million for the expansion of green On the basis of this asset pool, NRW.BANK successfully issued its seventh grids for the transport of renewable onshore energy and € 25.0 million that and eighth Green Bond in February and October 2019, each with a volume was extended for the rehabilitation and expansion of a hydropower pump of € 500.0 million and a term of ten years. reservoir. The energy-related refurbishment of university clinics and residen­t ial buildings accounted for around € 252 million. Loans for the expansion of electromobility and the modernisation of local public transport accounted for a good € 108 million. Number of Promotional Volume Area Field Topic Projects Funded in € m Energy Mitigation Clean Transport 203 108.2 Energy Mitigation Renewable energy 63 364.4 – thereof green grids 1 200.0 – thereof hydropower pump reservoir 1 25.0 – thereof onshore wind energy and PV systems 61 139.4 Energy Mitigation Energy efficiency 1,128 251.8 – thereof modernisation of public facilities 4 209.0 – miscellaneous 1,124 42.8 Water Adaptation River renaturation 1 148.5 Water Adaptation Municipal climate projects 70 127.1 Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 32 Summary of the Environmental Impact of the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds NRW.BANK.Green Bond #1-2019 NRW.BANK.Green Bond #2-2019 Field “Climate Adaptation” – Rebuilding the River Emscher Single largest water management project in the EU to implement CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year the European Water Framework Directive € € Project period: almost three decades to the “Blue Emscher” in 2020 1 year 1m 260 t 1 year 1m 260 t Conversion of the river and its affluents into semi-natural waters with a positive impact on biodiversity and other eco-system services € € Creation of a modern sewage system: 132 pump stations, five sewage 1 year 500 m 130,000 t 1 year 500 m 130,000 t treatment plants as well as one central sewage sludge plant and 87 rainwater treatment plants Direct participation of citizens 10 1.3 m t CO2 10 1.3 m t CO2 Significant increase in biodiversity years years NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2015 CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year € € € € 1 year 1m 614 t 1 year 1m 804 t 1 year 1m 685 t 1 year 1m 540 t € € € € 1 year 500 m 307,000 t 1 year 500 m 402,000 t 1 year 500 m 342,500 t 1 year 500 m 270,000 t 10 3.0 m t CO2 10 4.0 m t CO2 10 3.4 m t CO2 10 2.7 m t CO2 years years years years Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 33 Environmental Impact Analysis for the NRW.BANK.Green Bond #1-2019 In the reporting year, the Wuppertal Institute again determined the positive GREEN BOND #1-2019 SAVES environmental effect of the selected projects in the field of “Climate Mitiga­tion” with a total volume of € 306.0 million. 1.3 MILLION TONNES OF CO2 Field “Climate Mitigation” The projects financed in the field of “Climate Mitigation” by the EQUIVALENTS NRW.BANK.Green Bond #1-2019 help reduce or even avoid negative environmental influences on the climate. The projects relate to: It has been calculated that these projects avoid greenhouse renewable energy (wind energy and photovoltaics), gas emissions of approximately 1.3 million t of CO2 equivagreen grids for the transport and distribution of renewable energy, lents over the 10-year term of the NRW.BANK.Green Bond the renovation of residential buildings, #1-2019. This is equivalent to the CO2 storage capacity of a the modernisation of university hospitals and managed forest the size of Berlin. Measured by the size of the clean transport. Green Bond asset pool of € 500.0 million, approx. 260 t of CO2 equivalents are saved per € 1.0 million per year. Breakdown of Project Financing Volume in the Field “Climate Mitigation” (€ 306 m) in % CO2 equivalents avoided through a € 1 million investment over a ten-year Clean transport 2 period in tonnes Building modernisation (private) 4 25,000 Renewable 22,500 24,194 energies 75 Building modernisation 20,000 (public) 19 17,500 15,000 12,500 10,000 7,500 5,000 2,500 0 133 311 Renewable Building Clean transport energies modernisation Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 34 Onshore wind turbine generators once again proved to be the most efficient Field “Climate Adaptation” form of investment for the avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions in the An amount of € 195.0 million was invested in adaptation measures. The Green Bond (2,065 tonnes of CO2 per year and per € 1.0 million). All invest­ renaturation of the River Emscher was supported with € 68.5 million. ments will continue to avoid greenhouse gases also beyond the maturity of Emschergenossenschaft reports on the progress made in the renaturation the Green Bond. of the Emscher system. The newly built onshore wind farms with a total output of 134.2 MW in­ Central Emscher Sewer Completed cluded in the Green Bond asset pool at an amount of € 27.9 million were Around € 148.5 million from the two 2019 Green Bonds was used to realised with a promotion portion of 100%. They produce an estimated ­refinance measures implemented by Emschergenossenschaft for the con134.2 GWh of electricity per year. These wind parks avoid 0.95 million version of the River Emscher. In 2019, the funds thus again enabled a large tonnes of CO2 equivalents over a period of ten years. number of water engineering measures, each of them with the aim of achieving a sustainable, ecologically renewed river landscape in the This was the first time that a Green Bond was used to refinance the con­ ­Emscher region. struction of a “green” grid. NRW.BANK contributed € 200.0 million to support the construction of the “Ultra Netz” grid, through which renew­ Important milestones were reached. The main focus was on the completion able energy generated in northern Germany is transported to North of the large, modern sewer along the Emscher (AKE). The last parts of the ­Rhine-Westphalia and from there to Baden-Württemberg. This grid avoids in total 84 kilometres sewer were completed in 2019. The completion of 377 tonnes of CO2 equivalents over a period of ten years. the sewer was the indispensable prerequisite for the development of the Emscher into a renaturalised river landscape. The Bank used funds in the total amount of € 58.0 million from its Green Bond to support the modernisation of university hospitals. Of this amount, Another focus of investment is the construction of new, modern sewers an estimated € 29 million is directly invested in energy efficiency upgrades for the large inflows of the Emscher, of which 86% of the 423 km were (50% of the promotional amount). Compared to existing buildings, the completed in 2019. This means that a total of roughly 449 km of new, greenhouse gas emissions are thus reduced by approx. 5,900 tonnes of CO2 ­modern sewers have been built in the Emscher region to date, which equivalents over a period of ten years. ­ensure a separation of clean and waste water. Residential buildings were energetically upgraded with the help of Flood Protection Expanded € 15.0 million. As a result, 1,700 t of CO2 equivalents were saved over a As urban water management systems, the new water bodies also include period of ten years compared to the existing housing stock. the necessary rainwater treatment plants. Retention capacities of 237,388 cubic metres were created. To prevent flood levels as a result of The use of buses powered by fuel cells (funds used: € 5.0 million) allowed heavy rainfalls, 2,776,700 cubic metres of flood retention basins have been 2,600 t of CO2 equivalents to be saved over a period of ten years. built. According to Emschergenossenschaft, as a result flood damages worth almost € 2 million p.a. have been avoided. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 35 Biodiversity Doubled Municipal enterprises or municipal utilities use the funds from the Green Of the 328 km of rivers and streams in the Emscher system, 139 km have Bond 2019 to finance measures: already been renaturalised and are developing so well that they are ­demonstrably enabling a new urban biodiversity. To date, 1,300,522 square for the supply of drinking water, metres of real wetlands (water areas, floodplains and adjacent land areas) for rainwater management have been created. This is equivalent to the size of 182 football pitches. for flood management, The number of species counted here has doubled to just over 800 since for waste water treatment, 2011. for the operation of sewage treatment plants and the maintenance of sewer networks. A Blueprint for Other Industrial Regions The Emscher renaturation was the largest fluvial project in the EU28 in At least 4.1 million people live in the catchment area of the 20 water 2019. The large-scale project supported with the proceeds from the Green ­management enterprises that have been granted loans for the supply Bonds is not only shaping the entire Ruhr region, it also serves as a blueof clean drinking water and/or for proper wastewater treatment. The print for similar projects in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the USA. € 86.8 million in loans granted are highly granular. Municipal Climate Projects Besides the Emscher and Seseke rivers, the left bank of the Rhine water Reporting on such projects is the responsibility of NRW.BANK. The Green management association with its catchment area between the Niers and Bond #1-2019 served to refinance € 127.0 million in municipal climate the Rhine as well as the Wupper and Ruhr water management associations projects. These loans were made to 23 end borrowers. The use of the funds are also financed within the context of the river management activities. The focuses on the provision of drinking water and on wastewater treatment. A use of funds here focused on the implementation of the EU Water Framesecond focus is on water management cooperatives, which are supported work Directive 2000/60/EC as well as flood protection and dam managein performing their tasks by funds from the NRW.BANK Green Bond 2019. ment. Measures by the three water cooperatives are being supported with a total amount of close to € 40 million. The projects are assigned to the following SDGs: Besides the water management projects, smaller loan volumes are being SDG 6 clean water and sanitation channelled into: SDG 11 sustainable cities and communities SDG 13 climate action  forest management, for the reforestation of a stable near-natural SDG 14 life below water mixed forest. Rare trees are also protected in this context. The entire forest management is PEFC-certified;  geothermal energy and LED lighting. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 36 Breakdown of Project Financing Volume in the Field GREEN BOND #2-2019 SAVES “Climate Mitigation” (€ 420 m) in % 1.3 MILLION TONNES OF CO2 Clean transport 25 EQUIVALENTS Renewable energies 32 Building modernisation (private) 7 Building modernisation It has been calculated that these projects avoid greenhouse (public) 36 gas emissions of approximately 1.3 million t of CO2 equivalents over the 10-year term of the NRW.BANK.Green Bond #2-2019. This is equivalent to the CO2 storage capacity of a managed forest the size of Berlin. Measured by the size of the Green Bond asset pool of € 500.0 million, approx. 260 t of CO2 CO2 equivalents avoided through a € 1 million investment over a ten-year equivalents are saved per € 1.0 million per year. period in tonnes 15,000 13,500 14,184 12,000 Environmental Impact Analysis for the NRW.BANK.Green Bond #2-2019 10,500 In the reporting year, the Wuppertal Institute again determined the positive 9,000 environmental effect of the selected projects in the field of “Climate ­Mitigation” with a total volume of € 420.0 million. 7,500 6,000 Field “Climate Mitigation” 4,500 The projects financed in the field of “Climate Mitigation” by the 3,000 NRW.BANK.Green Bond #2-2019 help reduce or even avoid negative ­environmental influences on the climate. The projects relate to: 1,500 0 194 300 renewable energy (wind energy and photovoltaics), Renewable Building Clean transport repair and extension of a hydropower pump reservoir; energies modernisation renovation of residential buildings; modernisation of university hospitals and clean transport. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 37 In relation to the pro-rated financing, onshore wind turbine generators An amount of € 29.8 million included in the Green Bond asset pool (with have proven to be the most efficient form of investment for the avoidance an estimated promotion portion of 90%) originates from the NRW.BANK. of greenhouse gas emissions in the Green Bond (982 tonnes of CO2 per Gebäudesanierung programme. Compared to the existing housing stock, year and € 1.0 million). All investments will continue to avoid greenhouse the modernisation of residential buildings in North Rhine-Westphalia helps gases also beyond the maturity of the Green Bond. save another 6,100 tonnes of CO2 equivalents over the ten-year term. ­Details as well as information on the precise method and presentation of The newly built onshore wind farms with a total annual output of 176.3 MW the results in accordance with the Harmonized Framework for Impact included in the Green Bond asset pool at an amount of € 105.7 million Reporting can be found in the impact analysis prepared by the Wuppertal were realised with a promotion portion of 100%. These wind parks avoid Institute. 1.2 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents over a period of ten years. Field “Climate Adaptation” The Bank uses funds in the total amount of € 152 million from its Green An amount of € 80.0 million was invested in adaptation measures. The Bond to support the modernisation of university hospitals. Of this amount, funds were used to support the renaturation of the River Emscher. The an estimated € 76 million is directly invested in energy efficiency upgrades Emschergenossenschaft prepared a report on the 2020 river renaturation (50% of the promotional amount). Compared to existing buildings, the of the Emscher system which is included in the Green Bond #1-2019 greenhouse gas emissions are thus reduced by approx. 15,000 tonnes of ­section. CO2 equivalents over a period of ten years. A hydropower pump reservoir was maintained and expanded with an amount of € 25.0 million. At an assumed efficiency level of 70%, the 45 MWh capacity expansion alone avoids 45,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. The use of modern trams and electric buses allowed 5,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents to be saved over a period of ten years. Here, an amount of € 103.0 million with a promotion portion share of 28% was invested. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 38 Green Bond Projects Green Bond funding is used to promote sustainable energy provision and manufacturing methods. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 39 Wind energy for 14,000 people Bürgerwindpark Social Projects Benefit from the Wind Park ­Olfen GmbH ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE The rotors of two wind power turbines are turning in Olfen on the border to Haltern. What is special about this wind park is that it was co-financed by farmers from Olfen, in addition to support from the NRW.BANK.Energie­ infrastruktur programme. Local residents were able to participate in the wind park by investing a minimum of www.gelsenwasser.de € 5,000 and in return received a “Bürgersparbrief”, a savings bond, which guarantees relatively high interest rates. The farmers hold 33.3% of Bürgerwindpark Olfen GmbH, a special purpose vehicle established for the project. Stadtwerke Haltern and Gesellschaft zur Nutzung regenerativer Energien in Olfen mbH hold 16.6% and 50.1%, respectively. Every year, the operating company distributes € 5,000 for social projects in Olfen. GELSENWASSER AG was responsible for the erection of the wind park and is also in charge of operational management. The investment of a good € 10 million was spent on two 207-metre-high type E-115 wind power turbines from Enercon. Together they produce 15 million kWh of electricity per year – enough for some 14,000 people. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 40 10 minutes to refuel Regionalverkehr Köln Largest Fuel Cell Hybrid Bus Fleet in Europe GmbH (RVK) ELECTROMOBILITY They emit only water vapour, have a range of 350 km and can be refuelled within ten minutes: Regionalverkehr Köln GmbH (RVK) is putting 35 new fuel cell hybrid buses on the road. The transport company will thus operate the largest fleet of this emission-free and virtually silent drive system in Europe. The buses will operate in the www.rvk.de Rhein-Sieg district on the left bank of the Rhine, the Rheinisch-Bergischer district and in the city of Hürth. RVK invested € 25 million in the purchase of the fuel cell hybrid buses and the construction of two hydrogen filling stations in Meckenheim in the Rhein-Sieg district and in Wermelskirchen in the Rheinisch-Bergischer district. The NRW.BANK.Elektromobilität programme, which was refinanced via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond, helped finance the project. Chemical companies from the region supply the hydrogen for the operation of the buses. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 41 140 megawatts of power within minutes ENERVIE – Storage Device for Renewable Electricity ­Südwestfalen Energie und Wasser AG The Rönkhausen hydropower pump reservoir pumps water into a high-level reservoir and generates electricity when the water flows down again. The power plant thus ideally complements the fluctuating power generation from wind and the ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE sun. The roughly 40-year-old plant in Finnentrop has now been completely renovated and modernised. An amount of € 25 million was invested by the owner, the newly founded PSW Rönkhausen GmbH & Co. KG, whose 50% shareholders www.enervie-gruppe.de are Mark-E, a member company of the ENERVIE Group, and Stadtwerke Aachen. Financial support for the project came from the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme, which was refinanced via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond. As part of the renovation, the complete waterproofing of the upper basin, which has the size of 25 football pitches, was renewed. The two pump turbines and two ball valves were subjected to a general overhaul. In addition, the capacity of the basin was expanded. Within minutes, the plant provides a capacity of 140 MW; if the upper basin is full, this capacity can be maintained over a period of five hours, if required. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 42 The 979 runs on electricity Stadtwerke Electric All Down the Line ­Oberhausen GmbH (STOAG) The bus line 979 connects Oberhausen with the neighbouring city of Bottrop. In a cross-city project, Stadtwerke Oberhausen GmbH (STOAG) has now completely electrified this connection in cooperation with Vestische StraßenELECTROMOBILITY bahn GmbH. All four vehicles of the line have been given their own distinctive design to make the joint project visible to the outside world. The buses are therefore not painted in the usual STOAG colours (green and yellow), but www.stoag.de in striking blue and white. In addition, each bus features landmarks from Oberhausen and Bottrop, making them real eye-catchers. STOAG has purchased three electric buses with quick-charging battery systems especially for the project. The charging energy is tapped from the existing DC voltage network of the tram and is fed back to the vehicles via current collectors after each circulation through already existing charging devices. The project partners financed the purchase of the three STOAG electric buses under the NRW.BANK.Elektromobilität programme. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 43 NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio by Countries in % NRW.BANK continues to expand the Green Bond investment portfolio ­launched in 2017. The Bank is no longer merely an issuer of green bonds France 11 but also actively invests in such bonds for its own investments. Germany 12 Benelux 9 The Bank’s target to establish an NRW.BANK.Green Bond investment portfolio with a volume of at least € 200.0 million by 2020 was reached Ireland 33 already in late 2018. Consequently, NRW.BANK has raised its target to Nordic countries 18 at least € 400.0 million by the end of 2020. To qualify for this portfolio, bonds have to meet the Green Bond Principles Rest of the world 17 and publish corresponding reports. In addition, the environmental benefit of the bond must be determined by a second opinion or certificate meeting the standards of the Climate Bond Initiative. NRW.BANK primarily invests in climate protection and climate adaptation projects. In order to maximise NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio by Sectors in % the contribution to climate protection, light green bonds as defined in the CICERO Shades of Green are not purchased. Promotional banks 10 As of 31 December 2019, the portfolio amounted to as much as € 306.6 million and comprised bonds from the following sectors or countries/regions with maturities until 2031. Banks 54 Sovereigns 33 Corporates 3 Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 44 Maturity Structure of the Green Bond Investment Portfolio in % The impact analyses of the issuers are based on different frameworks. The Nordic Public Sector Position Paper on Green Bonds Impact Reporting is used most frequently; issuers also use the MDB Harmonized Framework 35 for Impact Reporting or national benchmarks. Because of the great heterogeneity of the reporting methods and the benchmarks used for comparison, 30 aggregation does not make sense. 25 Sustainability Criteria for the Investment Portfolio Since 2018, NRW.BANK has evaluated its investment portfolio in accord­ 20 ance with the MSCI sustainability criteria using a traffic light system. This sustainability traffic light indicates the MSCI-compliant sustainable share 15 in the total investment portfolio by means of the colours red, yellow and green. The traffic light system is monitored via a daily report. 10 In 2019, the Sustainability Guidelines were firmly anchored in NRW.BANK‘s 5 product information sheets and in the municipal business. 0 Taxonomy-based Green Promotion Curve Established 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 In mid-December 2019, NRW.BANK established an internal Green Promotion Curve. Based on this curve, NRW.BANK offers funding for particularly environmentally friendly projects. These preferential conditions are available The issues in the NRW.BANK.Green Bond investment portfolio are green to projects that comply with the EU taxonomy. This makes NRW.BANK one bonds whose funds raised are used by the issuers to invest in environmenof the first promotional banks to use the EU taxonomy in its operations tal projects, e.g. to promote renewable energy, sustainable buildings, low with the aim of realising (even) more environmentally friendly projects. The carbon transport and (waste) water management. As 13 of the 27 bonds projects financed are automatically eligible for refinancing under the Green were issued in the reporting year, no report for these bonds is available yet Bond. for investors. Impact analyses are available for the bonds issued before 2019, with one issuer reporting only every two years. Taking into account the bond maturing in 2019, reporting is available for 14 bonds. The investment volume of these bonds amounts to € 129.0 million. These bonds (co-)finance a large number of projects around the world. Sustainability Report 2019 Green Bonds 45 // ECO-BALANCE For many years, NRW.BANK has been committed to the responsible use of our natural resources and the protection of our environment and climate. The Bank verifies the sustain­ability of its activity on an ongoing basis to ensure that it continues to improve. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 46 Protecting the Climate and the Environment NRW.BANK actively supports the political and social sustainability efforts In late 2019, NRW.BANK moved into additional premises in Düsseldorf. and is doing everything possible also within the Bank to conserve resources This space is not taken into account, as no operating data are available and ensure sustainable operations. The Bank thus helps implement the yet. North Rhine-Westphalian government’s guiding principle of sustainability. Data Collection and Reference Values The Bank uses resources consciously and carefully to reduce carbon emisAs the data are collected in accordance with the VfU standard, they can sions from its operations to a minimum. It is the Bank’s declared objective be compared with data of companies applying the same standard. The to vigorously cut the use of resources and to largely offset unavoidable basis is formed by the VfU’s revised guidelines in conjunction with the impacts to the extent possible. To ensure that the positive trend in its conversion factors of the 2018 update 1.3 of 6 January 2020. The data ­environmental performance indicators continues, the Bank pays attention presented here represent an extract from the 2019 eco-balance, which to resource-efficient and energy-efficient technology, uses district heat and was prepared by consulting firm wertsicht GmbH, Düsseldorf. In order to energy-efficient IT hardware in all its buildings and sources 100% certified enable a direct comparison with previous years, the CO2 values for 2017 green electricity from run-of-river hydropower plants. were recalculated using the conversion factors of the 2018 VfU update. This may result in deviations from the data published for 2017. These are For 13 years, NRW.BANK has prepared a balance sheet of its environ­ solely attributable to the updated conversion factors. mental data and consumption figures in accordance with the standards of the Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability in The number of employees provides the basis for the formation of relative Financial Institutions (VfU e. V.). environmental performance indicators (consumption per employee). Part-time employees are added up to full-time employees, and external Scope and Period of Reporting employees working temporarily for the Bank are covered for the duration To prepare its eco-balance for 2019, NRW.BANK has determined the of their employment. ­environmental impacts resulting from its business operations. Until the end of 2019, the Bank operated at two locations in Düsseldorf and at a Staff numbers of 1,4791) for 2019, 1,4521) for 2018 and 1,4281) for 2017 building complex in Münster. were taken as the basis. The reporting period corresponds to the calendar year. The consumption To calculate water consumption per employee/day the number of working and flow data (input and output) were collected for the period from days was fixed at 250 days. 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. Information relating to vehicles and employees is stated as of the reporting date 31 December 2019. The floor space data correspond to the status of the existing buildings as of 31 December 2019. 1) Staff numbers are rounded to full employees. Sustainability Report 2019 Eco-Balance 47 Building Energy The recommendation to use video and telephone conferences and to travel Resource-efficient energy sources such as certified green electricity from by public transport is an important factor in reducing emissions from run-of-river hydropower plants and district heat from combined heat-and business trips. power units are the most important elements of NRW.BANK’s sustainable building management efforts. These high environmental standards are 90.8% of the rail trips are classed as carbon neutral due to Deutsche Bahn implemented at all of the Bank’s locations. In addition, the photovoltaic AG’s carbon mitigation programme and are included in the CO2 balance at systems in Münster produced roughly 13 MWh of electricity to cover the a reduced conversion factor. The remaining 9.2% are business trips by Bank’s own requirements in 2019. Overall, NRW.BANK makes a point of local public transport and the Thalys (altogether 113,438 km), which are using energy-efficient technology. counted at the full conversion factor for carbon emissions according to the VfU standard. Energy Consumption 2019 2018 2017 As in the previous years, multi-leg flights1) were broken down into segkWh kWh kWh ments for the reporting of short-haul and long-haul flights. Heating energy – total 5,525,128 5,060,700 5,386,870 With regard to NRW.BANK’s fleet of 85 company vehicles, the carbon – per employee/year 3,735 3,484 3,773 emissions of 74 of these vehicles have been recorded in accordance with Electricity the Worldwide Harmonized Light-Duty Vehicles Test Procedure (WLTP), – total 6,105,858 5,918,385 5,678,066 which was introduced for new vehicles in September 2018. For eleven – per employee/year 4,128 4,075 3,977 company vehicles initially registered before September 2018, the manu­ facturer’s data that were valid at the time of initial registration according to In 2019, NRW.BANK’s consumption of heating energy was up by approxithe New European Driving Cycle (NEDC) have been recorded. For the ecomately 9.2% on the previous year. The specific indicator per employee rose balance of the previous year 2018, the manufacturer’s data were still used by 7.2%. The increase in heating energy consumption affected only one for all vehicles. As the WLTP measuring method shows significantly higher building and was due to a defective controller in the district heating transaverage exhaust gas values than the manufacturer’s data determined fer system. ­according to NEDC, the average carbon emissions factor of the vehicle fleet for 2019 is 159.8 g/km, which is 20.6% higher than for 2018 (132.5 g/km). Electricity requirements were up on the previous year, namely by 3.2% in absolute terms and by 1.3% per employee. This change is within the usual Ongoing expert advice on the selection of new company cars (e.g. hybrid fluctuation range and is attributable to usage-specific conditions. vehicles) remains an important element in finding the best possible compromise between the necessary mobility of NRW.BANK’s employees and Business Travel their efforts to actively protect the climate. NRW.BANK’s success hinges on good contacts with its clients and the maintenance of its business relationships. Business trips are therefore indispensable. However, NRW.BANK has issued travel guidelines to minimise the environmental impact of employees’ travelling activity. 1) Multi-leg flights comprise transfer flight and main flight. Sustainability Report 2019 Eco-Balance 48 Average CO2 Emissions of the Company Cars in g/km Share of Means of Transport in % 160 100 159.8 13 14 13 6 7 7 150 75 56 58 61 140 50 130 25 132.5 129.3 25 21 19 120 0 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Rail Road Short-haul flights Long-haul flights NRW.BANK’s employees travelled a total of 4,984,679 kilometres on b­usiness trips in 2019. This is equivalent to 3,370 km travelled per em­ ployee. Compared to the previous year, the total kilometres travelled thus The breakdown of travel activity by mode of transport shows that the share increased by 5.2%, while the kilometres travelled per employee were up of rail travel increased noticeably in 2019 compared to the previous years by 3.3%. (from 20.5% in 2018 to 24.6% in 2019). Car travel continues to account for the largest share of total travel (56.5%), while the share of air travel declined Business Travel 2019 2018 2017 to 18.9% (previous year: 21.1%). km km km Paper Rail 1,227,187 968,843 897,897 For the 2019 eco-balance, NRW.BANK recorded all paper used in the Road1) 2,815,788 2,768,741 2,823,098 ­offices including printed matter (e.g. letterhead), envelopes and com­ Short-haul flights 278,189 321,492 320,051 munication materials (e.g. annual reports, brochures, flyers, etc.) as well Long-haul flights 663,515 677,154 579,388 as the external printed output. Total 4,984,679 4,736,230 4,620,434 Total consumption in 2019 amounted to 50.0 t (previous year: 57.1 t), while km per employee 3,370 3,261 3,236 per-capita consumption reached 33.8 kg (previous year: 39.3 kg2)). As a 1) Total kilometres travelled on business trips with the Bank’s cars, rental cars and private vehicles result of employees’ growing awareness and the increasing digitisation of business processes, total paper consumption could thus once again be reduced (by 12.4%). 2) The per-capita weight in the previous year’s report was incorrectly stated as 42.5 kg. Sustainability Report 2019 Eco-Balance 49 The table below exclusively shows the consumption of office paper. Even For the comparison with the previous year, the share of recycled paper excluding envelopes and printed matter, there was a clear reduction by in all paper types used excl. envelopes was determined for the last time. 12.6% in absolute terms and by 14.2% per employee: Recycled paper accounted for 78.3%, which represents an increase by 0.5 percentage points on the previous year. Office Paper Consumption1) 2019 2018 2017 Water kg kg kg Water is a precious resource and NRW.BANK is actively promoting its Total 30,096 34,437 38,389 sparing use. The Bank’s sanitary facilities use grey water from the air kg per employee 20.3 23.7 26.9 scrubbers and recooling systems and thus ensure that this water is reused. 1) Office paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials When retrofitting or buying new technical equipment, water-saving technology is considered besides other environmental aspects. Besides the quantity consumed, the quality of the paper used is also an The following figures show the total water consumption, which also includes important item in the eco-balance. To determine the share of recycled the water consumption of the kitchens at the locations in Münster and at paper, the total paper consumption was also included in the overview. In Kavalleriestraße in Düsseldorf. 2019, recycled paper accounted for 71.5%, down 0.8 percentage points on the previous year. Absolute water consumption across all locations was up by 6.3% on the previous year, while per-capita consumption increased by 4.4%. This is Paper Types of mainly due to extended requirements under official regulations as well as Total Paper Consumption 2019 2018 2017 to weather-related factors, which affect, for example, the water consump­ tion for the recooling systems and the irrigation of green areas. % % % Recycled paper 71.5 72.3 61.2 Process and Drinking Water 2019 2018 2017 Primary fibre paper, ECF1) (incl. wood-free) 10.9 10.7 10.5 Total consumption 25,056 m³ 23,564 m³ 19,841 m³ Primary fibre paper, FSC and Daily consumption PEFC2) 17.6 17.0 28.3 per employee1) 67.7 l 64.9 l 55.6 l 1) Elemental chlorine-free (ECF) 1) To calculate water consumption per employee, the number of working days was fixed 2) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification at 250 days. (PEFC) schemes Sustainability Report 2019 Eco-Balance 50 Waste Waste Volume 2019 2018 2017 The 2019 eco-balance covers the following waste types: paper (incl. t t t ­documents shredded), mixed packaging, food residues, waste fats, green Waste paper 24.7 27.8 29.3 waste, glass, residual waste, sludge from the company’s own water treatDocument shredding 65.1 46.5 51.0 ment, mixed scrap, electronic waste, batteries, data carriers, bulky waste, Residual waste 39.6 40.5 34.2 oily waste and fluorescent lamps. DSD (“Green Dot”) 10.4 11.0 10.5 Total1) 139.8 125.8 125.0 The specific average weights of the waste fractions determined for the kg per employee 94.5 86.7 87.6 individual sites in 2017 were also used to determine the weight quantities Recycling ratio1) 73.4% 69.7% 72.6% in 2019 as the composition of the waste remained unchanged. 1) Excl. other and kitchen waste Where available, the concrete quantities and weights supplied by the waste management service providers for individual waste disposal processes were again used for the evaluation. The recycling ratio was calculated conservatively. Some of the data on the recycling of residual waste/mixed industrial waste are not yet available. In Taking the waste types mentioned as well as the empirically determined this case, the quantity in question was not counted towards the recycling conversion factors into account, the Bank produced a total of 279.2 t of ratio. waste in 2019 (previous year: 258.2 t). This is equivalent to 188.7 kg of waste per employee (previous year: 177.8 kg). The efficient use of office paper is also reflected in a reduced amount of waste paper to be disposed of. Total waste and waste per employee thus rose by 8.1% and 6.2%, ­respectively. This increase is mainly due to the fact that a larger number Coolant and Extinguishing Agent Losses of old files were shredded in the external warehouse as well as to a temFor the purpose of improved reporting, NRW.BANK decided to include porary increase in the number of files shredded in the context of the CO2e emissions from coolant and extinguishing agent losses in the ­restructuring of office space. ­reporting period for the first time in 2019. These losses were 20 kg for the R134a coolant and 44 kg for the R449a coolant. The following table shows the amounts of waste produced exclusively as a result of the banking activity and excluding waste primarily produced in conjunction with the operation of the kitchen: Sustainability Report 2019 Eco-Balance 51 Greenhouse Gases CO2e Emissions by Producers in % NRW.BANK’s CO2 balance covers all the above-mentioned environmentally relevant consumption figures and wastes as well as the quantity of emer100 11 7 7 gency power diesel used summarised in a single performance indicator. This performance indicator, which is based on CO2 equivalents (CO2e) is an 75 55 59 58 important variable for assessing the Bank’s environmental performance. 50 For the 2018 and 2019 eco-balances, the conversion factors of the VfU standard (2018 updates, versions 1.2 and 1.3) were used as the basis for 25 32 32 33 the calculation of the CO2e emissions. In order to ensure comparability, the emission values for 2017 were recalculated with the updated factors. This 0 2 2 2 may result in deviations from the data published for 2017. 2019 2018 2017 Electricity Heating energy incl. emergency power diesel CO2e Emissions 2019 2018 2017 Business travel Other kg CO2e kg CO2e kg CO2e Electricity 42,107 41,407 39,814 In 2019, NRW.BANK emitted a total of 2,009 tonnes of CO2e. Heating energy incl. emergency power diesel 643,681 589,880 626,625 This is equivalent to 1,358 kg of CO2e per employee. Compared to the Business travel 1,099,573 1,092,825 1,094,701 previous year, this represents an increase by 7.9% in absolute terms and Paper 54,284 61,933 67,143 by 6.0% per employee. Drinking water 16,612 15,623 13,155 Waste 62,820 59,527 60,645 Adjusted for emissions resulting from coolant and extinguishing agent Coolant and extinguishing losses, which were included for the first time for 2019, the increase between agent losses 90,068 – – 2018 and 2019 was 3.1% in absolute terms and 1.2% per employee. Total emissions 2,009,144 1,861,195 1,902,083 CO2 e/employee 1,358 1,281 1,332 Besides the inclusion of coolant and extinguishing agent losses, the increase Offset by climate certificates 2,009,144 1,861,195 1,902,083 in heating energy consumption also contributed to the increased emissions Total 0 0 0 in 2019. This increase affected only one building and was due to a defective controller in the district heating transfer system. Sustainability Report 2019 Eco-Balance 52 Direct and Indirect CO2e Emissions at NRW.BANK in 2019 According to VfU (Update 2018, Version 1.3) Greenhouse Gas Sources Scope 11) Scope 21) Scope 31) Total kg CO2e kg CO2e kg CO2e kg CO2e Electricity 42,107 – renewable 40,516 40,516 – photovoltaic plant 1,590 1,590 Heating energy 643,681 – district heat 501,571 128,514 630,086 – emergency power diesel 11,356 2,239 13,595 Travel 1,099,573 – rail 5,570 5,570 – rail, carbon-neutralised 10,469 10,469 – road, company car 419,449 317,324 736,773 – road, rental car 185,142 185,142 – short-haul flights 47,880 47,880 – long-haul flights 113,739 113,739 Paper 54,284 – recycled paper 38,672 38,672 – primary fibre paper (ECF, TCF, FSC, PEFC) 15,612 15,612 Water 16,612 16,612 Waste 62,820 – waste incineration 58,749 58,749 – special waste 4,071 4,071 Coolant and extinguishing agent losses 90,068 – R134a 28,600 28,600 – R449a 61,468 61,468 Total 520,873 501,571 986,700 2,009,144 kg CO2e/employee 1,358 1) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – but their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions. – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category (Scope 3):  all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics/transport, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. Sustainability Report 2019 Eco-Balance 53 Avoiding Preferred to Offsetting The analysis also covers the emissions resulting from postal communicaSince 2013, NRW.BANK has consistently aimed to make its banking tion with clients. NRW.BANK sends its mail in a carbon-neutral way via ­operations carbon-neutral. In this context, top priority is attached to Deutsche Post DHL Group and Brief und mehr GmbH & Co KG. Carbon ­avoiding emissions from being generated in the first place. To achieve this emissions resulting from this transport totalled 15.88 t in 2019. These aim, the Bank has implemented the above-described measures for many emissions were neutralised by the purchase of certificates, with which years – including the use of certified green electricity, environmentally climate protection projects were supported. friendly district heat, recycled office paper and grey water from air ­scrubbers and cooling systems as well as providing expert assistance when it comes to choosing new company cars. Unfortunately, not all emissions are avoidable in spite of the savings ­measures. NRW.BANK therefore decided in 2013 to neutralise unavoidable emissions caused by its banking operations with the help of certificates from the NRW.BANK Climate Certificate Programme. These certificates stem from climate protection projects in developing and emerging countries and help to achieve the highest possible CO2 savings in relation to the financial expenses incurred in the process. The CO2e emissions of 2,009 t produced in 2019 were voluntarily offset by the Bank by using certificates from a wind farm project in Inner Mongolia (People’s Republic of China). Sustainability Report 2019 Eco-Balance 54 // HUMAN RESOURCES As a public-law institute NRW.BANK has a special responsibility to act as a role model for a sustainable human resources policy. This comprises all aspects from offering future-proof training to balancing work and family life to ensuring equal opportunities and implementing a modern health management. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 55 Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees The knowledge, commitment and performance of the staff are important factors which underpin the long-term success of the Bank’s business ­activity. The strategic objectives of the Bank’s Human Resources activities therefore include winning and retaining qualified employees and preserving their performance to ensure that NRW.BANK can successfully fulfil its tasks as the promotional bank for North Rhine-Westphalia now and in ­future. Award-winning In the context of the Bank’s human resources strategy, this overriding goal vocational training involves three fields of action which ensure that all activities and measures support the accomplishment of the strategic objectives: In a survey conducted on behalf of Focus Money under the securing junior staff, title “Germany’s best providers of vocational training in 2019”, facilitating development and NRW.BANK was voted one of the companies offering the best maintaining employees’ performance. vocational training. Scoring 91.9 of 100 points, the promotional bank achieved a similarly good result as in previous years. The high relevance of these goals is not least reflected in the fact that the strategic fields of action and the medium and long-term objectives derived In addition, NRW.BANK supports the Fair Company initiative, from them form part of the Bank’s overall strategy. which focuses on interns, working students, job starters and trainees. As a “Fair Company”, NRW.BANK is primarily Securing Junior Staff committed to reliable quality standards and verifiable rules “Securing junior staff” sums up NRW.BANK’s commitment to training for interns. young people and improving their qualifications. To ensure that junior staff can integrate smoothly into the Bank’s existing workforce, their training is carefully aligned with the Bank’s needs in general and the individual ­departments’ needs in particular. This constant balancing leads to changes in the number of apprenticeships and traineeships as well as to amendments in terms of the course curricula and the job roles the young people are ­trained for. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 56 In 2019, NRW.BANK was again able to fill all available positions in the three This includes challenging tasks and growing independence, which traineeships it offers: ­en­courage professional and personal growth, as well as the possibility to get to learn new topics and to assume more demanding tasks. This is why Four school-leavers were signed up for a banking clerk traineeship, the aspects of independence, development and recognition are key topics two each in Düsseldorf and Münster, in the annual planning and feedback meetings between executives and six young people opted for the dual study course Bachelor of Arts ­employees. In addition, every employee may initiate an exchange about ­“Finance & Banking” and their individual development opportunities and the necessary implementafour enrolled in the dual study course Bachelor of Science “Business tion steps independently of the appraisal process. Information Systems”. Realising development opportunities means above all taking on new tasks Given that NRW.BANK trains young people to cover its own requirements, and responsibilities. To ensure that this can be done on the largest possible permanent employment contracts are offered to all apprentices who comscale, NRW.BANK fills vacant positions according to the motto “internal plete their apprenticeships with good results. In 2019, six trainees from promotion is preferable to external hiring” wherever this is possible. Where the “banking clerk” traineeship and three from the dual study course this cannot be done, vacant positions are advertised externally. “Business Information Systems” were taken on as regular employees. The colloquium for the “Finance & Banking” study course is scheduled for the As a result, 85 employees changed their positions due to redeployments beginning of 2020. in 2019. As internal staffing usually results in a new vacant position, a ­consistently pursued internal staffing policy is ideally suited to offer the In view of the age structure of NRW.BANK’s workforce, the Bank continues Bank’s own employees the widest possible range of career development to pay great attention to its objective to “secure junior staff”. The Bank opportunities within the Bank. Moreover, 16 employees returned to the wants its trainees and apprentices to replace at least part of the employees Bank from parental leave or from leave granted under the State Equal who will leave the Bank due to age in the coming years. ­Opportunities Act (Landesgleichstellungsgesetz) in 2019. Facilitating Development As NRW.BANK’s headcount continued to grow in 2019, it was not possible In order to ensure their long-term retention, NRW.BANK offers its to fill all vacancies without hiring external staff. junior staff – as well as all its other employees – numerous development opportunities and prospects. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 57 Vacant Positions Filled in 2019 External hiring 59 Internal changes 85 Permanent employment of temporary Staff 13 Employees returning from Employment after the parental leave (excluding completion of short leaves) 16 training programmes 9 Age Structure1) in % 25 20 15 10 5 0 up to 20 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years years years years 2019 2018 2017 1) Excluding employees on parental leave as well as employees under temporary contracts Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 58 Age-related resignations will remain at a similar level in the coming years A comprehensive catalogue of regular seminars covers a range of professional as a result of the workforce’s age structure. Forward-looking planning subjects both at basic and specialist level, aspects of methodological and ­ensures that measures to retain expertise within the Bank are taken at behavioural competence as well as structured and multi-layered leadership an early stage. In accordance with the Bank’s strategic objective, these skill acquisition. This catalogue has been developed and refined in recent ­foreseeable resignations will be used to offer junior staff suitable career years, with current professional subjects being added in response to actual development opportunities. demand on an ongoing basis. Life-long Learning Internal Seminar Attendance by Topic Knowledge and experience are indispensable when it comes to grasping and mastering new challenges. NRW.BANK provides a wide variety of HR 1,200 development measures to support its employees in this respect. After the 210 1,000 ­initial training, NRW.BANK assists employees, for instance in obtaining the 285 above-mentioned qualifications and degrees by bearing (part of) the study 800 345 and examination fees. In 2019, 24 employees obtained such a degree with 163 249 600 support from the Bank, including nine Bachelor and eight Master degrees. 134 44 205 In the reporting year, the offerings made under this development programme 400 125 448 were further expanded again, with the Bank now also supporting Bachelor 359 361 200 of Arts – Management & Digitisation and Master of Science – Business Consulting & Digital Management degrees. 0 2019 2018 2017 In addition, NRW.BANK offers its employees a comprehensive range of Specialist Management IT Methods/Behaviour ­seminars for professional and personal growth. Most of these seminars are held internally1). Over time this form of training has proven to be a great 1) Internal seminars are all events organised exclusively for the Bank’s employees at NRW.BANK’s special request and whose contents and concepts closely meet the Bank’s specific requirements success and has met with a very positive response from all employees due and needs; such seminars may be held by in-house or external trainers. to the high quality of courses offered and how pertinent they are to the Bank’s needs and requirements. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 59 The internal catalogue of seminars comprises 84 different subjects, for More than 60% of NRW.BANK’s executives have meanwhile completed the which 141 seminars were organised in the reporting year. The diversity final module. In order to support an ongoing consideration and discussion of the topics covered was once again expanded compared to the previous of leadership issues, the Bank regularly offers workshops on related topics year. The number of participants was also noticeably higher than in the for this target group. Since 2015, joint work in these workshops has focused previous year. The very high number of participants in the reporting year on the defined “Principles for Communication, Cooperation and Leadership was primarily due to special measures such as the IT training courses on at NRW.BANK”. In 2019, the final workshops on “Constructive Cooperation” the use of SharePoint offered by NRW.BANK. In the reporting year 2019, were held. These workshops also addressed the requirements and options two out of three seminar participants took part in NRW.BANK’s internal of NRW.BANK’s appraisal system, which was revised in 2018. The offerings ­seminar programme. for executives are rounded off by supplementary measures enabling executives to handle special leadership situations. To train its executives, NRW.BANK offers them a multi-part systematic executive development programme, completion of which is mandatory. Individualised seminars were offered also for other employee groups. Apart In addition to an entry module, there are two follow-up modules for more from the still popular workshop series for employees aged 50+, the “Strengths experienced executives. All modules comprise several days of training Seminar”, which focuses on the strengths of the individual and on positive which are spread over a longer period of time to enable participants to attitudes, is also highly appreciated. A seminar for women gives inspirations ­process developments and improve the transfer of learnings into practice. and strategies for more efficient and less stressful handling of the dual For the launch date in April 2019, the content of the central module ­roles typically fulfilled by women, namely as members of the workforce on ­“Building up and Developing Leadership Expertise” was revised by a new the one hand and as family managers on the other. Cross mentoring for team of trainers and adapted to the current requirements of the executives ­women in management and junior management situations, which was at NRW.BANK. ­offered for the first time in 2019, is designed to further promote equal ­opportunities for women. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 60 In 2019, another focus was placed on employees’ moderation skills. All Equal Opportunities and Fair Working Conditions ­modules of the moderation training series were conducted for the first For many years, NRW.BANK has time. In addition, training courses on NRW.BANK’s new project manage­pursued a policy of supporting the ment system were developed, taking into account agile and hybrid methods. ­balance of work and family life and In addition to the extensive range of internal offerings, the employees of promoting equal opportunities. In NRW.BANK may also take part in seminars organised by external providers. 2015, this NRW.BANK policy received The absolute number of external seminar participations increased slightly the “berufundfamilie” certification. compared to the previous year. More than 80% of these seminars were The 2018 re-audit confirmed that professional seminars that are only relevant for a limited number of em­ NRW.BANK may bear the certificate ployees, which means that it would have been uneconomical to organise for another three years. Aspects that were regarded as particularly positive them internally. include the self-management of working time, the individual and flexible part-time schemes, the possibility to assume management roles also when working reduced hours and, last but not least, the comprehensive range of Ratio of Internal and External Seminar Attendance child care services such as places in day nurseries, emergency and holiday care options as well as a childcare allowance. Employees whose relatives 100% are in need of care receive support in the form of advice and services for 564 524 404 their care and support. 75% 1,121 These offerings especially for children below school age assist young 1,030 50% ­f amilies in balancing work and family life. The same is achieved by the 753 ­significantly expanded possibilities for alternating teleworking, which were 25% introduced after a two-year test phase with the adoption of the “Use of ­Mobile Work at NRW.BANK” labour agreement in June 2019. Another 0% offer aimed at improving the balance of work and family life – ten days of 2019 2018 2017 additional leave in return for a salary waiver – was extended in 2019 to Internal External ­include the option of taking only five days. In 2019, NRW.BANK also published its first Equal Opportunities Plan. The new measures to promote equality between women and men and to improve the balance of work and family life were drawn up along the lines of the ­t arget agreement for re-auditing. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 61 The equal opportunities statistics for 2019 confirm the high acceptance Changes in the Share of Women and Men in Executive Positions in % and success of the support offered. As more and more employees are ­t aking advantage of the flexible and individualised working hour schemes, 100% the percentage of part-time employees once again picked up to 38% as 34 33 31 of 31 December 2019 (previous year: 34%). The average working hour 75% ­percentage of women and men working part time amounted to 72% and 69 66 67 86%, respectively. The share of executives exercising their functions on 50% a part-time basis climbed to 27%. These high percentages show that the options offered for making weekly or even annual working hours more 25% ­f lexible are popular with employees and are used extensively. 0% The share of women in executive positions across all management 2019 2018 2017 levels including the Managing Board increased from 33% to 34% as of Men Women 31 December 2019. The Bank maintained the tried-and-tested measures – ­especially the effective targeting and promotion of female young talent – of the previous years to increase the share of women. According to the NRW.BANK’s Equal Opportunities Officer is closely involved in the current ­guidelines for the filling of executive positions, women have to be in­ activities aimed at improving the development opportunities for women. creasingly considered for such positions. At 40%, the continuously This applies in particular to social, organisational and personnel-related ­growing share of women in positions without leadership responsibility measures including job offers, selection processes and job interviews. She and not covered by collective agreements forms a good basis for this. was involved in drawing up NRW.BANK’s first Equal Opportunities Plan in an advisory capacity. She also presented and distributed the Plan to the Bank’s executives. NRW.BANK’s Equal Opportunities Officer also serves as the designated complaint recipient within the meaning of the German Equal Treatment Act (AGG). Should, in spite of the measures taken, employees be disadvantaged or harassed because of their ethnic background, gender, religion, belief or handicap, age or sexual identity, they may contact the complaints unit. As in the previous years, no incident was reported to the complaints unit in 2019. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 62 A fair and adequate remuneration system is one of the working conditions that have a notable impact on the satisfaction and the loyalty of the em­ ployees. Since its inception, NRW.BANK has, in consensus with its owner, focused its remuneration system and remuneration parameters on the ­promotional and development tasks performed by it. Accordingly, its ­remuneration strategy is derived from the Bank’s overall strategy taking into account its statutes, corporate culture and values. For a detailed ­presentation of the remuneration strategy, please see the Financial Report NRW.BANK is one of the “LEADING EMPLOYERS in Germany”. 2019. In an independent study covering almost 9,000 companies, the Bank made tenth place in the “banks / financial services” In accordance with the requirements of the Remuneration Transparency Act (EntgTranspG), the Bank’s “Report on Equal Opportunities and Equal segment. In the “banking” sector, the promotional bank for Pay” (in German), which was published for the first time in the notes to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia was even ranked eighth the 2017 M ­ anagement Report, describes the measures taken to promote among the 7,770 companies surveyed. NRW.BANK achieved equal ­opportunities for women and men in terms of the filling of vacant the highest ratings in the “value understanding” and “talent ­positions, personnel development and work-life balance and how structural communication” categories. On a scale of one to five, it scored inequalities in the remuneration policy are excluded. The latter is ensured, four in each of these categories. The best employers were in particular, by means of a job appraisal that is exclusively based on the selected from over 70,000 companies. ­requirements of the respective position, i.e. irrespectively of the person. In doing so, the Bank bases its decisions regarding positions covered by collective agreements on the r­ equirements of the basic collective agreement for private sector and p ­ ublic-sector banks (“Manteltarifvertrag für das private Bankgewerbe und die öffentlichen Banken”) and for positions Maintaining Performance not covered by collective agreements on external remuneration com­ parisons. Occupational Safety and Health Management Good working conditions and exemplary health and safety policies form part of NRW.BANK’s corporate responsibility. For many years, the Bank has implemented this in the context of its occupational health management system, which has been continuously expanded and adapted to its needs since 2006. Services range from a company doctor to a social worker ­offering confidential help to a variety of offerings revolving around such ­topics as preventive medicine, nutrition and sports. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 63 For NRW.BANK, health means much more than just the absence of illness. The Bank’s diverse health management offerings, which are usually free, Its health promotion activities therefore aim to encourage healthy behaviour are available to all employees. Since February 2019, all internal health and reduce avoidable strains in the workplace. Therefore, the focus is on ­promotion measures have been pooled on a central, digital health platform. the question “what keeps people healthy in the long term”? Besides comprehensive information, the platform offers employees the ­opportunity to easily and flexibly book external health and fitness courses. An important tool to identify strains in good time is a systematic hazard NRW.BANK subsidises the participation in certified prevention programmes analysis. All employees are regularly asked about potentially hazardous with up to € 150 per employee per year. As a bicycle-friendly company, ­circumstances and stress factors at work. In order to obtain a more comNRW.BANK offers its employees the perfect infrastructure for cycling to prehensive picture, the focus is placed on varying topics when the survey and from work. To support this activity and thus promote physical wellis repeated. Thanks to the collaboration between the responsible persons – being, employees of NRW.BANK are given the possibility to lease a bicycle. especially the Occupational Safety Officer, the Occupational Medical ­Service, the staff council, the Social Officer, building management as well Under the motto “Wir für andere” (we for others), employees of as the managers and executives – any strains identified by the survey are NRW.BANK also make health-related contributions to society, e.g. as part usually eliminated in an unbureaucratic way. of the annual blood donation campaign organised in cooperation with the German Red Cross at both Bank locations, in which a large number of NRW.BANK has established two working groups to address health pro­ ­employees participate every year. In cooperation with the Bone Marrow tection to the benefit of all employees: Donation Centre in Düsseldorf, NRW.BANK gives its employees the con­ stant opportunity to have their bone marrow typed by the company doctor. The Occupational Safety Committee advises the Bank on all matters of Since 2019, all employees have been offered a short training course to occupational safety as well as accident prevention. Its members com­refresh their first-aid skills in cooperation with “Die Johanniter”. All current prise representatives of the Bank, the staff council, the Occupational occupational health and safety measures as well as NRW.BANK’s future Medical Service, the representatives of the severely disabled, a Safety plans are detailed in the annual health report which is published on the Officer and the Occupational Safety Officer. Bank’s intranet. The Health Working Circle further develops the strategic health ­management and decides concrete measures. In addition to the Preventive check-ups, no matter how expertly planned and performed, ­human resources staff responsible for health management, the regular cannot entirely prevent illnesses. NRW.BANK’s post-illness reintegration meetings are attended by the Occupational Medical Service, the social management system – an offering aimed at defining individualised measures counsellor, the Occupational Safety Officer, the representatives of the matched to the working environment through personal talks with employees severely disabled as well as a representative of the staff council. To affected by illness – helps employees restart work after long illness and ensure that the services provided by the staff restaurant can also be stabilise their health in the long term. The Bank is very much aware of the reasonably integrated, the catering services unit is also invited to the sensitive personal issues touched by this process and attaches the utmost Health Working Circle depending on the occasion. importance to respecting the discretionary decision of the people affected to accept or reject this option as well as to ensuring absolute confidentiality and data protection. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 64 Flexible Annual Working Hours Flexible Working Lifetime NRW.BANK offers its employees very flexible agreements to reduce their Especially against the background of the age structure and the expected regular working hours. In addition, the Bank provides two more possibilities retirement of a large number of specialists within the course of a few years, that allow employees to increase the flexibility of their working time: NRW.BANK developed a regulation governing the old-age part-time work scheme in 2018. This has several advantages for both the Bank and its Since 2013, NRW.BANK has offered its employees the option to take workforce: NRW.BANK will have a better possibility to control and manage up to two months of unpaid leave of absence in addition to the paid critical age-related staff departures as well as the necessary know-how ­vacations. This option was used by twelve employees in the reporting transfer. Successor planning will be possible over a longer-term period, year. ­allowing the Bank to offer specific development opportunities to qualified The possibility to take five or ten additional days off per year against junior staff at an earlier stage. Old-age part-time work also caters to em­ a corresponding reduction of the salary is very popular among the ployees’ wish for a flexible transition into retirement. While twelve em­ workforce. 202 employees, i.e. 14% of the workforce, took advantage ployees went into partial retirement in 2019, a further eleven employees of this possibility in 2019. applied for old-age part-time work in 2020. Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 65 NRW.BANK Personnel Figures as at 31 December 2019 2019 2018 2017 absolute in % absolute in % absolute in % Active employees, total 1) 1,392 100% 1,365 100% 1,319 100% by sex – women 723 51.9% 708 51.9% 688 52.2% – men 669 48.1% 657 48.1% 631 47.8% by company location – Düsseldorf 977 70.2% 963 70.5% 926 70.2% – Münster 414 29.7% 402 29.5% 393 29.8% by type of employment – full time 863 62.0% 908 66.5% 889 67.4% – part time 529 38.0% 457 33.5% 430 32.6% by function group – management (incl. Managing Board) 255 18.3% 252 18.5% 244 18.5% – specialists/project workers 626 45.0% 596 43.7% 553 41.9% – case workers 411 29.5% 410 30.0% 419 31.8% – secretaries 46 3.3% 50 3.7% 46 3.5% – non-commercial functions 48 3.4% 51 3.7% 51 3.9% – special functions2) 6 0.4% 6 0.4% 6 0.5% by remuneration – collective pay 850 61.1% 841 61.6% 823 62.4% – non-collective pay 542 38.9% 524 38.4% 496 37.6% Total average age (in years) 45.7 45.4 45.0 Average period of employment (in years) 16.6 16.6 16.3 Total departures 51 3.7% 39 2.9% 51 3.9% – due to termination 26 1.9% 18 1.3% 17 1.3% – due to age 25 1.8% 21 1.5% 34 2.6% Additionally: temporary employees 40 36 33 Additionally: apprentices and trainees – trainees 1 0 2 1) excluding employees on leave according – apprentices 51 49 45 to BEEG and LGG, excluding apprentices/ trainees as well as employees under – thereof new apprenticeships 14 14 19 temporary contracts – completed apprenticeships 12 9 7 2) Staff council members released from their – hiring rate (unlimited) 75.0% 100.0% 100.0% duties Sustainability Report 2019 Human Resources 66 // CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP NRW.BANK is aware of its social responsibility. Every year, it supports projects from the fields of “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society & Social Affairs” that contribute to society and the quality of life in North RhineWestphalia. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 67 Showing Commitment to Society NRW.BANK also lives up to its corporate responsibility through its con­ In this context, the Bank strives to ensure the social and regional balance tributions to public and community life in North Rhine-Westphalia. Suitable of its activities in North Rhine-Westphalia. The corporate citizenship measures are supported in accordance with the Bank’s “Guidelines for ­budget is divided into the following three categories: “Science & EducaCorporate Citizenship and Other Services” (in German) adopted by the tion”, “Arts & Culture” and “Society & Social Affairs”. Supervisory Board. The Bank is committed to making its decisions on grants and sponsorships transparent and comprehensible. In 2019, NRW.BANK spent a total amount of € 841,000 on donations, ­sponsorships or memberships in North Rhine-Westphalia. Some of these The Bank has established a fixed internal process for the allocation of projects are presented below. funds. The Bank documents requests for project support in a central place, votes on them according to uniform assessment criteria and submits them Science & Education to the Managing Board for decision on a quarterly basis. The Managing The Bank’s concept of corporate citizenship calls for the promotion of Board decides on subsidies on the basis of these decision requests and creativity and ideas as well as education-related topics for a young target thus has ultimate responsibility within the Bank for the allocation of funds. group. The Bank consequently focused on sponsorships related to education in 2019 and supported several projects from the field of “Science & An essential prerequisite is that the funds granted are used to finance Education”. The most important funding projects, apart from cooperation projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. with universities, were: The Executive and Nomination Committee is the supreme control body for EDUCATION Y Bildung. Gemeinsam. Gestalten. e. V., Düsseldorf the allocation of the corporate citizenship funds. Before the beginning of Since 2015, NRW.BANK has supported the state programme of the NRW each fiscal year, NRW.BANK submits a budget for all activities under the Ministry for School and Education developed by EDUCATION Y in cooperation Corporate Citizenship Programme to the Committee for approval and out­ with UNICEF on “primary school children’s rights”. Teachers and educational lines the projects planned up to that point. After the end of each fiscal year, staff are trained in implementing the participatory idea of the UN Convention NRW.BANK reports in detail to the Executive and Nomination Committee on the Rights of the Child in schools using suitable formats such as the on the use of the corporate citizenship funds. installation of class councils. The idea is to offer school children effective development opportunities, to allow them to assume responsibility by As part of its commitment to society and under its remit as a promotional helping to shape their own learning process and to give them protection. bank, NRW.BANK endeavours to shape a subsidiarity-based and projectrelated collaboration with its partners. Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Citizenship 68 School Cooperations in Düsseldorf and Münster sextet played at NRW.BANK’s company restaurant in Münster as part of Since 2007, NRW.BANK has financed study and job orientation workshops the annual “CHAPEAU classique” music festival launched in 2011. The at four schools, namely Cecilien-Gymnasium and Hauptschule St. Benedikt concert was organised by the Bank in co­operation with Gesellschaft zur in Düsseldorf as well as Freiherr-vom-Stein-Gymnasium and Hauptschule Förderung der Westfälischen Kulturarbeit e. V. (GWK), Münster. GWK Coerde in Münster. Pupils are given the opportunity to discover their own promotes excellent young artists and organises cultural events in Weststrengths, talents and interests for their future careers. Parents are involved phalia in the fields of art, music and ­literature. in the project and learn how to assist their children in finding the right occupation. The Bank also finances a state-wide further training programme For the eleventh consecutive year, NRW.BANK organised two evening for teachers to enable them to advise their pupils effectively with regard to concerts in the foyer of its Düsseldorf building in cooperation with the their career choices. “düsseldorf festival!” held annually in September. The first concert in 2019 starred the “Daniel Gracía Trio”, while the second concert was performed Schlaun-Forum e. V., Münster by the “H A U S” jazz quartet. NRW.BANK employees volunteered at these Since 2011, the Bank has supported the “Schlaun Competition” for students concerts, serving beverages and snacks to the guests. The proceeds from from the 5th semester as well as graduates up to the age of 35 of the fields the sale of drinks and snacks plus a € 3,000 donation by the Bank, i.e. a of study of urban development, architecture, landscape planning and civil total of € 6,745, were donated to JeKits. The “JeKits – Jedem Kind Instruengineering. Every year, a new location is chosen for which urban planning mente, Tanzen, Singen” foundation doubled this donation to support music and development solutions are to be found. One of the objectives of the schools in NRW. competition is to encourage creative young talent to come up with new ideas for the creation of forward-looking, energy-efficient and sustainable NRW.BANK.Kunstpreis housing as well as with adequate solutions to the traffic situation in In accordance with its arts policy, NRW.BANK has sponsored up-and-­ ­currently problematic city centres. Münster Bahnstadt Süd has been coming artists since 2010. Since 2017, the Bank has awarded an annual ­chosen as the location for the 9th Schlaun Competition 2019/2020, where art award at all state art schools in North Rhine-Westphalia. a former general cargo station will be redeveloped. The principals of the participating colleges and universities nominate Arts & Culture ­students or graduates who graduated no more than six months ago for the NRW.BANK’s sponsoring activities in the field “Arts & Culture” focused categories “Painting & Graphic Design”, “Photography & Media Design”, on the promotion of young talent. “Sculpture & Installation” and “Performance”. The winners of the art award are chosen by a jury of renowned regional arts experts. At a festive exhibiConcerts by Young Artists and Corporate Volunteering tion opening ceremony held at NRW.BANK in Düsseldorf in October 2019, In the reporting year, the Bank again supported cultural events at its two the patroness, Minister Isabel Pfeiffer-Poensgen, awarded prize money in locations by making available its premises: In October, the “Ensemble 87” the total amount of € 33,000. Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Citizenship 69 Lit.COLOGNE, Cologne Employee Commitment / Christmas Activity For many years, the Bank has supported the Lit.COLOGNE literature event, Since 2017, NRW.BANK has made available a total annual amount of which has reorganised its offerings for children and young people. Since € 20,000 to support the honorary work of its employees in charitable 2018, NRW.BANK has therefore sponsored the “Lit.Kid.COLOGNE” format, ­organisations. In 2019, amounts of € 4,000 each were donated to the which is specifically aimed at this target group. ­following institutions: the association “Das frühgeborene Kind Münster” cares for and informs relatives of risk and prematurely born children in Society & Social Affairs Münster. “Vereinigung der Freunde des Gymnasiums Korschenbroich” NRW.BANK attaches special importance to promoting responsible offers an IT club where pupils learn programming. “Förderverein Aktion ­behaviour in socially relevant areas. In 2019, a focus was placed on comLuftballon e. V.” of the paediatric clinic at Lukas Hospital in Neuss provides mitments for project requests on nature conservation and environmental additional therapeutic care for children. The cafeteria association of the protection. Maria Montessori Comprehensive School in Meerbusch is implementing the project “Healthy fresh cuisine for school children and teachers”. The Eine Welt Netz NRW – Eine Welt Mobil in Münster “roterkeil e. V.” association in Greven supports the project “Network For nine years, the Bank has supported the “Eine Welt Mobil” project in against child abuse and child prostitution of the Dortmund MitternachtsMünster. The network helps teach pupils and kindergarten kids responmission”. sible and social behaviour. The main topics addressed are climate protection and ideas for resource-efficient living. In 2019, the donation Besides the measures described above, which merely serve as examples, helped to fund some 50 uses of the “Eine Welt Mobil” (one world van). NRW.BANK supported many other projects in the fields of “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society and Social Affairs” in Schutzgemeinschaft Deutscher Wald NRW 2019. In accordance with the “Guidelines for Corporate Citizenship and The Bank supported two tree planting projects in North Rhine-Westphalia, Other Services” set by the Supervisory Board, NRW.BANK made neither in the context of which some 7,500 trees were planted in Duisburg and direct nor indirect donations to political parties or party-related foundaMünster. Moreover, the employees of NRW.BANK were made aware of tions in the reporting year. Moreover, the Bank places no advertisements forest and nature conservation in NRW and actively involved in the project. in their publications. Kreisimkerverband Düsseldorf im Imkerverband Rheinland e. V. / Apsis e. V., Münster In keeping with its commitment to sustainability, the Bank has promoted the protection of bees in Düsseldorf and Münster since 2017. Bees are of great ecological importance as they make a significant contribution to the preservation of wild and cultivated plants and their yields. Local bee protection additionally supports the urban biodiversity. In 2019, two workshops for employees in Düsseldorf were organised, among other things. Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Citizenship 70 NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Münster Responsible Photo Credits Kavalleriestraße 22 Friedrichstraße 1 (under press law) Front/back cover: Naj/stock.adobe.com; 40213 Düsseldorf 48145 Münster Caroline Gesatzki, p. 3 Christian Lord Otto, Düssel­dorf; Phone +49 211 91741-0 Phone +49 251 91741-0 Head of Communication p. 10 weerachaiphoto/­Fotolia.com; Fax +49 211 91741-1800 Fax +49 251 91741-2921 NRW.BANK p. 21 zapp2photo/­Fotolia.com; p. 28 Tom Wang/Fotolia.com; p. 40 Gelsenwasser AG; Investor Relations www.nrwbank.de Concept, Design p. 41 Regionalverkehr Köln GmbH (RVK); Phone +49 211 91741-5555 info@nrwbank.de vE&K Werbeagentur p. 42 Christian Lord Otto, Düsseldorf; investorrelations@nrwbank.de GmbH & Co. KG, Essen p. 43 STOAG Stadtwerke Oberhausen GmbH; twitter.com/nrwbank p. 46 silver-john/Foto­lia.com; p. 55 Jacob Sustainability Lund/Fotolia.com; p. 67 Coley Christine/­ Unsplash.com Phone +49 211 91741-8081 nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de Sustainability Report 2019 71
