Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Introduction Contents 3 Strategy Business Foundation 07 27 37 CEO’s Message 09 Leaders in Conversation 29 Message from the Chair 39 Leading Transformation of the CSR Committee Value Creation Model 13 in the New Normal Sustainability 41 Integrating Diverse 15 Japan Business 31 Resources Corporate Governance 45 International Business 34 Connecting Diverse 19 Stakeholders CFO’s Message 23 Data Financial Data Summary 53 ESG Data Summary 55 Corporate Data 59 Financial Report2020 (Can be viewed as a PDF ﬁle.) https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/sustainability/reports/2020/pdf/2020_ﬁnance.pdf Provides the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2019–IFRS Consolidated Results– 1 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Editorial Policy Editorial policy Organizations covered • This integrated report explains the Dentsu Group’s operating performance for the reporting Dentsu Group Inc. and Dentsu Group period and introduces the Group’s strategies and initiatives to create value over the medium companies to long term. Information related to efforts to enhance sustainability is also arranged within an ESG framework, taking increased disclosure requirements into account. • Target audience Publication date All stakeholders including shareholders and investors. July 2020 (Next edition scheduled for publication in Reference guidelines August 2021) • International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) The International Integrated Reporting Framework Contact info • Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Group IR Ofﬁce • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) Dentsu Group Inc. Period covered by the report https://contact.group.dentsu.com/m/en_ir Centered on activities during FY2019 (January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019), but also describes some activities from preceding or more recent periods. Forward-looking Statements This integrated report contains statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Dentsu Group Inc. or its management with respect to the results of operations and the ﬁnancial condition of the Dentsu Group. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. The information contained in this integrated report identiﬁes important factors that could cause such differences. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Dentsu Group disclaims any obligation to update or publicly announce any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reﬂect future events, conditions, or circumstances. Website Introduction Corporate Website https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/ In addition to company information, the website introduces activities conducted by Group companies worldwide. IR Website https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/ir/ Provides the latest IR information, including IR news and earnings materials. Integrated Report 2020 HTML Version https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/sustainability/reports/2020/ The HTML version enables readers to browse the integrated report 2020 based on keyword searches. 2 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 On January 1, 2020, we embarked on a new start as Dentsu Group Inc. The ability to connect human resources in countries and organizations across the globe, and to access diverse perspectives, will lead to innovations from everyone, everywhere. The new dentsu will work as one team to create a wealth of new value for our clients. 3 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Diversity One Platform: Innovation from 66,000 Staff The Dentsu Group, a corporate group which encompasses over 1,000 group companies in more than 145 countries and regions, employs over 66,000 people with specialized knowledge and experience in their ﬁeld of business. They all are connected in our open, ﬂat, cross-border organization. As we accelerate the creation of a diverse and open-minded culture, we are creating new value for our clients and society. 4 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Collaboration One Platform: Integrating All Our Capabilities Reﬂecting the idea of “Open Teaming,” we form ﬂexible teams with external partners to develop integrated solutions for our clients. As an open organization, we generate borderless creativity, innovation, and collaboration. 5 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Sustainability Linking Consumers to Corporates for a Sustainable Society Climate change, sustainable production and consumption, diversity, and other social issues are impacting society globally. Utilizing our resources to connect consumers, corporates, and society, the Dentsu Group provides solutions that drive society-wide innovation. Art installation created by an NGO and Dentsu that serves as a wake-up call to end plastic pollution The screen display of a smartphone equipped The “ONE DAY FOR CHANGE” community activity globally organized by the Dentsu Group with the AI-based app TUNA SCOPE, which can instantly determine tuna quality from the cross-sectional scan of a tuna tail. “Project Revoice,” a voice cloning initiative from the ALS Association that promotes cutting-edge digital speech synthesis technology to beneﬁt people living with ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and their families 6 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Strategy 7 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Contents CEO’s Message p. 09 Value Creation Model p. 13 Integrating Diverse Resources p. 15 Connecting Diverse Stakeholders p. 19 CFO’s Message p. 23 8 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy CEO’s message Value Creation Meets New Group Structure Toshihiro Yamamoto Representative Director President & CEO 9 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 has been required in the past. This is an Accelerating business transformation opportunity for us to realize new ways of creating The COVID-19 pandemic and the multitude of value and highlight the true value of the Dentsu ensuing crises have forced corporates, society, Group, with this year as the starting point. The and consumers to rethink conventional norms. essence of the Group’s value creation is its ability Many of our clients and business partners are to integrate diverse capabilities and entities, so as experiencing a growing need to innovate to realize distinctive solutions. products and services, client experiences, and In January, we reorganized the Group under a touch points with consumers in COVID-19 and pure holding company structure, in order to more post COVID-19 society. rapidly develop our ability to create new value. In order to achieve our goals in these difﬁcult Transitioning to a ﬂat group structure has and uncertain times, we are accelerating our enabled us to leverage the diversity of our Group business transformation, the pillar of which is the companies through “Open Teaming,” designed evolution of our value creation model. to foster collaboration, creativity, and innovation While innovation is already a key issue for many across borders. businesses, it now needs to go far beyond what Value Creation Model Growth of Society See p. 13 for details Growth of Clients Connecting Integrating Diverse Diverse Stakeholders Resources Value Creation Corporate Governance Mission Vision Values Megatrends / Social Change 10 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy CEO’s message The new structure enables us to simultaneously The United Nations has stated that its increase efﬁciencies and direct business Sustainable Development Goals can only be transformation. At the same time, we will realized through global partnerships and continue developing our CSR, governance, and cooperation. In recognition of this, the Dentsu risk management foundations to support Group creates value by connecting and integrating sustained growth. our clients with diverse stakeholders, such as media, sports organizations, and content holders. We believe that this approach to value creation Diversifying resources, connecting stakeholders can bring our clients added worth, while at the same time contributing to society. To transform how we do business, we are diversifying our in-house capabilities and external Environmental, social, and governance resources, integrating them to drive our (ESG) criteria clients’ growth. To go beyond the conventional scope of The Dentsu Group will develop our value creation marketing communications solutions, we are model under a new Group management structure integrating our diverse competences across to apply the strategy of cross-boundary “Open media, creative, data analytics, systems integration, Teaming”; to extend our diversity and collaboration, sports, and entertainment. This enables us to and connect our clients to a universe of support transformation across the whole spectrum stakeholders; and to create and deliver value in a of our clients’ marketing and business needs. way that only the Dentsu Group can. To do this, it is The Group is developing a “Teaming Platform” essential that we evolve our ESG foundation that that will produce internal synergy to power the supports this transformation. ﬂow of talent, capabilities, knowledge, and While contributing to the environment and services. This creates value in individual projects, society through the services we provide our new knowledge, and competence among people customers, we are also reinforcing our CSR throughout the Group. activities. Under the stewardship of a new CSR The second evolution of our value creation committee, comprising members from various model is in how we connect and integrate clients Group companies, we will coordinate CSR activities and their diverse stakeholders to create solutions throughout the Group under a common strategy. that support the sustained growth of our clients. The Dentsu Group has much to contribute to a As the need for clients to contribute to society new society that faces diverse global risks. With becomes an increasingly important management our creativity, innovation, and ability to produce issue, the Group will deliver solutions that integrate solutions, we believe the Group’s CSR can add the growth of our clients with that of society. signiﬁcant value at this very difﬁcult time. We will 11 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Truly Global Scale 145+ 66,000+ Number of Number of countries and regions Group employees (End of December 2019) (End of December 2019) direct our CSR to that end. new value for our clients and society. Lastly, as the “Teaming Platform” allows integration The Dentsu Group will work with our clients to across the Group and enables us to connect bring sustainable growth to society. To do so, we stakeholders, Group governance will become will drive three things: the business transformation increasingly important. Thus, we will set up a that develops around our new value creation governance structure that will earn the trust of our model, the evolution of our Group CSR, and clients, as well as of consumers and society. governance. We ask the Group’s stakeholders for As a global Group operating in more than 145 their continued understanding and support. countries with in excess of 1,000 corporate entities and 66,000 employees, we seek to share a common culture and openly and transparently connect with our stakeholders to earn their ﬁrm Toshihiro Yamamoto trust. We aspire to be a Group where each and Representative Director every one of us feels the joy of being able to create President & CEO 12 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy Value Creation Model Diversity and Integration Driving value creation for our clients and society To remain connected to clients and society, it is important to have a higher sense of purpose as we work to resolve business issues and urgent societal problems. The Dentsu Group has constructed a cyclical value creation process, by means of which we make a difference to society and ﬁnd deeper meaning in what we do by ensuring sustainable growth and simultaneously enhancing corporate value. Growth of Society Dig ita l in ity clu u al sio n eq in | of In te n ce se rg Ab en Growth of er at Clients io | na ies lc oh iet soc esi on ive | Fa i r a n d i n c l Connecting Integrating Sustain us Diverse Diverse Stakeholders Resources able con | Value Creation sumpti on a y nom nd eco t i ve ra Corporate Governance p ro du en e Mission cti o g Re Vision n Values | | G en de y om co ra n nd e ra on ar q cia b c le ro ua Ze lity Megatrends / Social Change 13 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Client Growth, Societal Growth Bringing together Group companies that embrace sustainable consumption and production, gender and diversity, and developing business that connects a racial equality, as well as the acceptance of different wide range of stakeholders, the Dentsu Group creates values. By addressing the resultant new social issues new enterprises, functions, and brands for clients to and creating new cyclical value, the Dentsu Group help maximize their growth. serves as a platform for contributing to a sustainable We believe this leads to economic revitalization, and prosperous society. Relationship with Stakeholders Combining the Group’s assets—including media, and are linking these assets to our clients. Our creative, data and analytics, systems integration, sports, governance system serves as a foundation to support as well as entertainment—we provide Integrated both stakeholders and clients, in order to earn a high Growth Solutions that support the transformation and degree of trust among clients, partners, and society. growth of business. Our more than 66,000 Group employees are At the same time, we are increasing the diversity of connected to our distinctive culture in order that, our staff through collaborations and groupings that go through openness and transparency, they might earn beyond the boundaries of individual Group companies, the trust of our clients. Megatrends and Social Issues In addition to climate change and other environmental to these megatrends creates an opportunity for both problems, demographic changes, growing societal our business and for society. The response is an disparities and divisions, as well as the COVID-19 important element in the achievement of sustainable pandemic, the world is approaching a turning point. corporate growth. The need to transform business models in response 14 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy Integrating Diverse Resources Driving client value by integrating diverse resources In recent years, corporates have sought sustainable growth by applying transformative digital principles to marketing and business activities. Marketing partners thus must solve a wide range of issues beyond traditional marketing, involving strategy to execution. In response to these needs, the Dentsu Group provides Integrated Growth Solutions. Advertising Agencies Consultants Tech Vendors Transformation and Growth Strategy Digital Transformation Systems Integration CRM (Data and Analytics) Marketing Technology Creative (Brand Experience / CX / Commerce) Media / Data-driven Media Content and Sports Marketing Beyond Marketing Communications As markets mature, corporates increasingly are ﬁnding it To buttress the sustainable growth of client a challenge to attain sustainable growth. At a time when it companies, the Group will provide clients with extensive is essential to engage in a variety of activities and support for their growth strategies, the development of constantly innovate, the Dentsu Group is going beyond databases and marketing platforms that support their advertising and other conventional services in the areas growth, as well as the execution of marketing of marketing and communications to offer a wider range communications. These areas have always been among of services and contribute to the sustainable growth of the Group’s strengths. client companies. Traditionally, we have provided information systems, Above all, we will focus on expanding and upgrading among other services. Now we plan to expand our services to bring about digital transformations in offerings, so as to extend and develop our CRM and digital marketing. The development of digital strategies is transformation capabilities through the Merkle brand and expected to accelerate, as society adapts to post other outstanding global network resources, in order to COVID-19 life accelerating digitalization. continue to provide integrated solutions to our clients. 15 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Dentsu Group Creating New Value, Integrating Resources In an era of rapid commoditization, constant innovation is that could not be addressed on an individual basis. also required in terms of measures aimed at corporate To realize these new integrated solutions, the Dentsu growth. We believe we cannot contribute sufﬁciently to Group will develop its traditional integrative capabilities the sustainable growth of our clients by simply providing to create Open Teaming. This will be the foundation for high quality services in a wide range of areas. promoting collaboration within the Group, across Thus, the Dentsu Group also offers integrated companies and national borders. marketing solutions based on our outstanding execution By realizing Integrated Growth Solutions that only the and creativity. We plan to advance our capabilities to Dentsu Group can provide, offering new value to clients, integrate resources in a wide range of areas beyond and contributing to sustainable growth, the Group marketing communications, thereby creating new value. aims to become an indispensable partner to all Not only can optimization be achieved by integrating our clients. resources but, by creating solutions that combine different ﬁelds of business, it is possible to resolve issues 16 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy Integrating Diverse Resources Driving client value by integrating diverse resources CASE 1 Health Project for All The Japan Professional Football League (J.League) was facing a challenge: how to become involved in regional revitalization. J.League sponsor Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company, meanwhile, sought to become a partner in health promotion or health activities, while at the same time becoming involved in the revitalization of regional communities. Through its efforts, the insurer planned to develop and expand sales opportunities nationwide. The Health Activities Project addresses both Promoting health in communities. challenges, working with the J.League to promote a healthy life in society. Attractive sports opportunities are provided, allowing participants to beneﬁt from J.League assets suitable for people of all ages to use in improving their health. In addition, events are organized and apps made available that increase people’s interest in J.League activities. Meiji Yasuda Life, meanwhile, provides its customers with insurance products that offer cash refunds on a portion of their insurance premiums, depending on the results of health checks. The Dentsu Group is contributing to the creation of these ongoing relationships. Integrating Dentsu Group Resources Website introducing easy exercises for everyone Dentsu Overall planning and producing Information Dentsu Sports Services Partners International-Dentsu Activation J.League management walking app development Dentsu Digital Dentsu Tec J.League ofﬁcial app Campaign execution planning, management and management and sales reform promotion 17 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 CASE 2 Jins Holdings Business Design Dentsu Inc. has teamed up with the Jins Holdings Inc. as Chief Strategy Ofﬁce to promote the formulation and execution of strategies addressing various management issues. To this end, Dentsu is investing in the Jins workplace business Think Lab—built on the idea of concentration, or close mental attention—and the joint promotion of business development. At the same time, it is supporting growth in Hitoshi Tanaka (left), CEO of Jins Holdings Inc., talks with Shingo Yamahara of Dentsu Business Design Square. the core Jins eyewear business and the revitalization of Maebashi City in the Kanto area by Jins CEO Hitoshi Tanaka. Dentsu’s partnership with Jins CEO Tanaka spans more than 10 years, during which time Dentsu has lent its support in the area of communications design for the branding of the JINS PC (renamed JINS SCREEN). Our role is that of a business design partner: we help determine how to create new value and realize internal transformations to achieve that end. CASE 3 Holistic customer management transformation journey had the objective to build a no-friction ecosystem that drives engagement with the program with Swiss luxury watch brand digital-savvy customer, anytime, anywhere. It aimed to give the customer a unique experience; the sales associate the Isobar helped a Swiss luxury watch brand to create a holistic ability to attract, engage, and convert; and the sales customer management program that connected both representative the assurance to have the right product in online and ofﬂine shoppers with the brand. The digital the right place at the right time. Isobar set an open and never-ending communication and engagement channel between the customer and CRM the brand, with improved operational capabilities in an omnichannel real-time reality. In addition, it built the program with a minimum viable product (MVP) approach to connect tools, and to automate tasks and online interactions. As a result, we produced a CRM for retail execution and NEW SALES clienteling* integrated with a new sales app, POS solutions APP and a new e-warranty QR code solution based on blockchain technology. RETAIL The program also empowered boutique staff with a CLIENTELING EXECUTION user-friendly and digital-led way to capture client data with omnichannel interactions, and provided real-time LOCAL POS information for all stakeholders, in cloud and personalized SOLUTIONS content as well as services through marketing automation. * Clienteling: The sales technique of forming personal relationships with clients based on their habits and preferences. E-WARRANTY 18 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy Connecting Diverse Stakeholders Creating New Value for Society by Connecting Diverse Stakeholders Throughout its history—which dates back some 120 years—the Dentsu Group has prided itself in its ability to connect stakeholders and combine elements to generate new value. This we shall continue to do and, as a company engaged in comprehensive communications, help to realize an abundant society. World Expo At the Japan World Exposition held in Various national Osaka in 1970, Dentsu carried out governments Advertising Media work under contract to the Japanese At the time of our founding, we governmental agency organizing the event. At the same time, we were Corporations established communications and advertising departments jointly with extensively involved in the event newspaper publishers. The idea was to through work it did on behalf of Organization render them support by offsetting news domestic and foreign exhibiting committee distribution fees and advertisement corporations, as well as for placement fees. participating overseas governments. Over the years, newspaper publishers have grown as advertising media, and have contributed to the establishment of an ecosystem comprising news agencies, newspaper publishers, advertisers, and consumers. News distribution Newspaper publishers Advertisers 1901 1910 1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 Sponsored Sports The 1964 Tokyo Olympics were covered Sports by live color television broadcasts and newspaper stories that electriﬁed the entire nation. This enabled Dentsu to Broadcasting demonstrate, to the Japanese advertising industry, the business potential of sporting events. Marketers Commercial Broadcast Television Having carefully researched technological Television advances in the United States, Dentsu was broadcasting conﬁdent that the age of television technologies broadcasting would come to Japan. We worked with newspaper publishers to Newspaper create private broadcasting stations and publishers contributed signiﬁcantly to the establishment of a business model based on advertising revenue for Advertisers commercial broadcasting stations. 19 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 AI to Determine Quality Dentsu Group focused on the fact that skilled tuna brokers Brokers determine the quality of a tuna by examining cross-sections of the tail. To address the dwindling number of master tuna merchants and their successors, it was decided that their skills General trading and techniques would be well served if passed on using AI. companies Through deep learning achieved by observing the composition of tuna tail cross-sections, AI determines the quality of a given tuna based on a cross-sectional tail scan. At the Summit At the 2019 G20 summit meeting held in Osaka, Dentsu supported conference facility construction, Modern Art international media center operations and By combining the traditional Japanese Noh Japanese technologies in the exhibition space, theater with event space design making full conveying Osaka’s attractiveness and providing use of the latest technologies, Dentsu created hospitality including dinner parties for government a new world without losing the distinctive ofﬁcials and foreign media, all of which contributed impact of either the theater or technology. This to the summit’s success. resulted in an impact far greater than generally would have been expected. Japanese government Traditional artisans Local governments Advanced engineers Private sector partner companies 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 New Spectator Experience In order to make it easier to understand fencing Sports groups matches where it is difﬁcult to clearly see decisive moments with the naked eye, technologies such as machine learning have been used. This helps Creative technologists onlookers visualize the trajectory of each sword* and the players’ biometric data. Meanwhile, the volume of applause and cheering are shown on a screen, capturing the excitement at the venue. This has resulted in a new spectator experience that allows one to experience the strategies of both fencing offense and defense. *Fencing tracking and visualization system: Rhizomatiks Regional Revitalization Dentsu advocated a U-turn Local governments policy—Let’s Go Back to Ono—to address concerns about the dwindling population of Ono City, Local students Fukui Prefecture. Accordingly, the historical castle town’s history and charm were depicted, using Town revitalization posters and photo albums created leaders in cooperation with town revitalization leaders and local high school students. They helped Dentsu produce materials to showcase the area’s potential. 20 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy Connecting Diverse Stakeholders Creating New Value for Society by Connecting Diverse Stakeholders FOCUS 1 Rugby World Cup 2019TM Photo by Francois Nel World Rugby via Getty Images During the Rugby World Cup 2019 in Japan, we supported a successful tournament by connecting not only rugby fans around the world, but also various stakeholders, including World Rugby, the Japan Rugby Football Union, and the Rugby World Cup 2019 Organizing Committee, as well as corporate sponsors, broadcasters, newspaper publishers, and local governments. The tournament created tremendous excitement and attracted attention around the globe. Dentsu’s event management team realized the ideal approach to event management for the future by promoting ticket sales using CRM and digital measures tailored to attract fans and potential spectators, creating an exciting event venue bringing spectators together while making extensive use of social media and mass media advertising. Dentsu Group companies in Japan and overseas leveraged their respective ﬁelds of expertise and combined their integrated capabilities to allow a broad range of people in various areas to beneﬁt from signiﬁcant value. Connecting Dentsu Group Diverse Stakeholders through the Rugby World Cup Rugby World Cup 2019 Organizing Committee World Rugby Created excitement Japan Rugby Football Union surrounding rugby Joint activation Corporate sponsors with client companies Government Tournament Mass media operations support, use of cutting-edge technologies Fans Social media 21 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 FOCUS 2 Hokkaido Ballpark In 2019, Dentsu Inc., in conjunction with Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters Baseball Club Co., Ltd., and NH Foods Ltd., established the new company Fighters Sports & Entertainment Co., Ltd., which owns and operates a new baseball stadium for the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters. This company embodies the new baseball stadium and Hokkaido Connecting Dentsu Group Diverse Stakeholders for Regional Revitalization Ballpark F Village construction plan scheduled to open in 2023. The site will be the symbol of Hokkaido. Hokkaido residents The project, more than simply being another Urban baseball business, represents a new form of urban Co-creation development development designed to enrich people’s lives. of value Local government centered around Hence, in addition to the stadium itself, there with various the Hokkaido will be commercial facilities, event sites, a park, partners Ballpark Regional communities and other amenities in the Hokkaido Ballpark. By attracting crowds, the site will create new value for Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters the local community. Next-generation live entertainment Fans Media FOCUS 3 Budweiser and Jackie Robinson’s 100th birthday In 2019, Dentsu Group helped Budweiser honor Jackie Robinson in the US on the occasion of his 100th birthday as a way of reinforcing the importance of diversity and inclusion in sports. We helped share Jackie Robinson’s story to a whole new audience and generation. We created a powerful ﬁlm directed by Spike Lee that draws a parallel between the late forties and the present times, delivering an impactful message about diversity and inclusion. Additionally, a limited edition Budweiser bottle, posters, and a promotional baseball all embodied the spirit of the campaign, integrating several unique design elements, such as the unity of black and white reminding us of the break of the color barrier, the red stitches (the color of Budweiser) that unite the two parts, Jackie Robinson’s signature, and his legendary number. Forty-two cents from every limited edition Jackie Robinson Budweiser sold during the season was donated to the Jackie Robinson Foundation to support its efforts across the country. The campaign had a huge impact, being commented on in major media channels and connecting our brand to the baseball domain and, at the same time, revived an important part of history to appeal the importance of diversity and inclusion. 22 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy CFO’s Message Strengthening Digital Capabilities Continued transition to digital Digitalization has been a focus for the Dentsu Group for the past decade—and digital advertising, data, CRM, and digital solutions remain the fastest growth areas for the Dentsu Group. We continue to successfully transition our business, increasing our exposure in these areas and solving bigger problems for our clients that go beyond marketing. Arinobu Soga The International business has long been focused Director and Executive Ofﬁcer on the high-growth digital domain and now generates 60% of its revenue less cost of sales from digital work. The Japan business reached 29% of its revenue from digital work in 2019, meaning that as a Group almost 50% of our revenue less cost of sales is digital on a consolidated basis. Japan: evolving our business as a growth partner for our clients Throughout the Dentsu Group’s 120-year history, our business in Japan has maintained a large share of the domestic market. As a leading Japanese company with a solid domestic business in the world’s third-largest advertising market, Dentsu Group is said to be unlike any other global agency group. We continue to draw on our expertise from across Percentage of Consolidated Revenue Less Cost of Sales Generated by Digital Domain International business Consolidated Japan business (%) 70 61 60 58 60 52 47 46 48 50 43 43 37 40 34 31 29 30 22 24 19 20 20 17 10 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 23 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 the Japan network to form dynamic teams, able to New business model solve our clients’ issues at speed. As a result of providing our clients with innovative and integrated The Group’s International business now generates solutions, the Group has established a high degree 60% of the Group’s revenue less cost of sales, with of trust with many clients. We believe we can deliver gross proﬁt almost doubling within seven years sustainable revenue growth by supporting digital following the acquisition of Aegis Group. transformation for our clients in Japan. In 2019 however, Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) In 2019, the organic growth rate* of revenue less delivered organic growth of -1.9%. These results were cost of sales in Japan was +0.4% year on year. The adversely affected by underperformance in ﬁve key growth in digital-related services continues to offset markets (Australia, Brazil, China, France and the UK). the transition of the traditional media business into The underperformance of these markets resulted in a digital. The Group saw a signiﬁcant increase in sales decision to implement a restructuring program to in the digital, marketing, and promotion domains. return the business to growth and allow margin Within the digital domain, we saw signiﬁcant delivery for 2020 and beyond by reducing costs business expansion through a capital and business by ¥13.0 billion per annum. The restructuring alliance with the VOYAGE GROUP, resulting in a accelerated the transformation to our new business +26.4% growth in digital domain. model, to deliver integrated solutions to our clients, Finally, in the fourth quarter of 2019, the Rugby and ensure our services are easier to navigate. World Cup Tournament in Japan was a huge success, The new business model streamlines the business starting a new sports movement throughout Japan. into three Lines of Business (LoBs): Creative, Media This demonstrates how the Dentsu Group can bring a and CRM. This simpliﬁcation ensures the business is positive impact on our society through a deep set up around our clients’ needs—to win, keep, and understanding of our clients, their customers, and grow their best customers by being idea-led, society itself. By drawing on our diverse capabilities data-driven, and tech-enabled. across the Group, we are able to demonstrate our Regionally, the Americas showed a strong ability to deliver change at scale. performance with +2.4% organic growth. A number * Organic growth rate: Internal growth rate excluding the effects of of key clients were won in the US market through the exchange rates and M&A. Share in Japanese Advertising Market Three Lines of Business Based on advertising spending 27.7% in Japan in 2019. Percentages are calculated on the basis of the CREATIVE MEDIA CRM No. 1 Share Dentsu Group’s Japan Business sales by category. 24 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Strategy CFO’s Message implementation of the Integrated Growth Solutions these cost actions to continue in 2020, improving strategy. Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) margins over time. reported -0.7% organic growth with seven markets in the region delivering positive growth. The M&A accelerating strategy Asia-Paciﬁc (APAC) region reported -12.3% organic growth driven by underperformance in the Chinese The Dentsu Group continues to use M&A as an and Australian markets. accelerant of our strategy, whereby acquisitions We saw success with new business wins in 2019. allow our Group to gain scale, capabilities, and DAN delivered an industry-leading performance for geographical inﬁll in areas of high growth. media net new business with $4.3bn of billings added. We continue to invest in high-quality growth businesses and in 2019 a total of 13 new acquisitions were signed. Two of the largest deals were Ugam Improving operating margin and MuteSix. Ugam, a data and analytics company Consolidated operating margin in 2019 was 15.0%, providing offshore services in data analytics ﬁelds, down 140 basis points year on year, due to planned joined Merkle while MuteSix, a direct-to-consumer investments in the development of human resources, marketing agency, joined iProspect. enhancement of IT infrastructure in Japan and upfront investment in the digital domain. In the Paradigm shift provided by data International business the margin fell due to revenue pressure in the APAC region. Marketing that analyzes and utilizes large amounts of Margin improvement is a key priority across the diverse data to dramatically improve the efﬁcacy of Group going forward. In the International business, a advertising has the potential to fundamentally newly appointed Cheif Operating Ofﬁcer will continue change the industry’s business model. to transform our internal operations to drive The Dentsu Group acquired a majority stake in proﬁtable growth in 2020 and beyond. In Japan a Merkle in 2016. Merkle has ﬂourished under Dentsu’s number of initiatives started in the fourth quarter of ownership and now contributes almost a quarter of 2019 delivered some margin improvement. I expect revenues within the International business. Merkle Compound Annual Growth Rate of Revenue Total Mergers and Acquisitions in International Business Less Cost of Sales over Three Years; 177 Comparison with the Peers 164 13 30 134 9.5% 31 103 45 5.0% 58 Competitors’ 2.9% 34 average 2.0% 24 1.0% -1.0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Dentsu Aegis A B C D Network (International business) 25 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 has transformed DAN’s client proposition, allowing its strong balance sheet. We are in an excellent us to offer fully integrated services and solutions position in terms of our ability to procure funding. across the marketing mix alongside our Creative and The Group remains well capitalized with a strong Media offerings. balance sheet and a AAcredit rating from Japan’s In March 2020, we announced the accelerated Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I). buy-out of the remaining shares of Merkle. The purchase of these shares has brought the Group two Delivering strong shareholder returns major beneﬁts. Firstly the deal will deliver single-digit EPS accretion for FY2020, and secondly it will allow Group management recognizes investment as an DAN to accelerate the ﬁnal stages of the integration important means of achieving growth and it remains of Merkle into the wider group. a priority for capital allocation. We view sustainable corporate value growth as the greatest return we can provide shareholders and all other stakeholders. Solid ﬁnancial foundation critical We believe that efforts related to shareholder Amid increasing uncertainties surrounding the postreturns are linked to stakeholder trust in, and digital world, the age of AI, and living with COVID-19, expectations for, the Group. In 2019, we carried out we believe the Group can play a critical role share buybacks of approximately ¥30.0 billion. In facilitating digital transformation among our clients future, we will continue to make every effort to and their customers. Our solid ﬁnancial foundation provide comprehensive shareholder returns that enables us to make decisions faster than ever and combine continuous and stable dividends with the achieve innovation without fearing change. Investments ﬂexible acquisition of treasury stock. will enhance competitiveness which, in turn, will I am keenly aware that maximizing balance sheet generate cash and help the Group maintain a healthy proﬁts and exceeding the level of returns expected ﬁnancial position. If this virtuous circle is maintained, I by shareholders are important missions of the CFO. believe we can achieve sustainable growth. Thus, we will strive to ensure that management At present, the Dentsu Group has a solid reputation responds to stakeholder expectations. for its ability to generate positive cash ﬂows and for Ratings Information Cash Dividend per Share Dentsu Group has received high ratings from the following credit rating agency. (Yen) 100 95 95 Long-term Short-term 90 90 85 debt debt 80 75 Rating and Investment Information, AAa-1+ Inc. (R&I) 60 40 For further information, please visit the agency’s website. Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) 20 https://www.r-i.co.jp/en/index.html 0 Dec. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Forecast) 26 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Business 27 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Contents Leaders in Conversation Leading Transformation in the New Normal p. 29 Japan Business p. 31 International Business p. 34 28 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Business Leaders in Conversation Leading Transformation in the New Normal Jacki Kelley, CEO, Dentsu Aegis Network Americas and Yoshihisa Suzuki, Executive Ofﬁcer, Dentsu Inc. discuss the Dentsu Group’s challenges, opportunities, vision and commitment in this never-before environment. Jacki Kelley Yoshihisa Suzuki CEO, Executive Ofﬁcer, Dentsu Aegis Network, Dentsu Inc. Americas Jacki has been a recognized and lauded leader in the advertising and Yoshihisa Suzuki initially joined Dentsu Inc. in 1990. He spearheaded and media industry for over 25 years. Jacki joined Dentsu Aegis Network in led numerous business areas such as the Marketing Division, the 2019 as President, Chief Client Ofﬁcer DAN US and was appointed to Business Creation Division, and the Promotion Division. Under his CEO, Dentsu Aegis Network Americas in January 2020. Jacki serves on leadership, ‘People Driven Marketing’, the integrated framework for the boards of Ad Council, FreshPet and Comic Relief USA and has been aggregating and advancing the Dentsu Group’s marketing methods has honored with the United Way of New York City’s Power of Women to been deployed. He was the former President of Dentsu Digital Inc. from Make a Difference Award, as well as number one on Business Insider’s 2017 to 2019, and was newly appointed as an Executive Ofﬁcer of Dentsu 30 Most Powerful Women in Advertising list. Inc. in 2020, energizing the strategy of Dentsu’s digital transformation. Envisioning the new normal post COVID-19 doing so we create value not only for clients but also for society as a whole, a new normal in value creation. Kelley The past few months have brought our business and people to test, as the pandemic, economic, and Diversity and integration: The strengths of societal storm impacted our professional and the Dentsu Group personal lives in a way few of us had anticipated or experienced in modern history, but I have always been Suzuki I believe the current situation will bring out the an optimist. While it may seem difﬁcult to speak of best in the Dentsu Group because we are a partner optimism in the face of so many devastating and that can solve unforeseen challenges, with a reputation heartbreaking moments, I believe we will emerge of being able to make the impossible, possible. We stronger as an organization, more resilient and have exceptional expertise both online and ofﬂine, compassionate as leaders and individuals. sophisticated analytics, outstanding creativity, and Suzuki I agree. We must look beyond the distress and the unique competence as a solutions producer see these issues as opportunities for a fundamental integrating diverse competencies and executing with structural transformation. We are well equipped to a commitment to results. In moving toward a new ideal help our clients move toward a world where business post COVID-19, this will make a substantial contribution growth relies on the ability to realize a business to our clients’ success. structure that integrates online and ofﬂine, and to Kelley The challenges in the Americas markets were realize new work, consumption, and experiences that intensiﬁed by the social and political events in addition offer a new level of efﬁciency and satisfaction. By to the public health and ﬁnancial crisis felt by the rest 29 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 of the world. We have been able to rise above this Kelley Our role as an agency group will shift more and challenge as a truly global company. The Dentsu more toward helping our clients’ business sustainably Group comes from a lineage of diversity and inclusion thrive for the long term. Businesses will not be able to in our workforce and our biggest strength lies in selfgrow in isolation but rather can succeed as part of a reﬂection and continuous, relentless improvement, connected society of inclusive partnerships, industry with Kaizen being a key part of our heritage. alliances, and joint ventures with the public sector. We We are doubling down our commitment to our must bolster our current mandate of delivering growth employees, clients, and society, to be more transparent, solutions by introducing integrated solutions that bolder, and braver in building a world-class workplace address unmet needs in society while simultaneously that reﬂects our values and the communities we serve; creating enterprise value. By putting society, and the driving sustainable growth through innovation; and communities in which our client‘s businesses operate at delivering idea-led, tech-enabled and data-fueled the center of our work, we can help brands intersect with brand transformation at a global scale. culture in a far more meaningful way than most do today. Leading the transformation of marketing The power of global collaboration Kelley Like many of the greatest leaps in business and Kelley While the global crisis is undeniably tragic and technology, major transformations take place in bursts the Americas take a heavy hit in many ways, we are during a short period of time, driven by pivotal events. fortunate to have the ability to leverage our global In this time of change, we help our clients to fast-track presence, and to learn from our regional markets that business-critical transformations through holistic are ahead of us, such as APAC and EMEA. This has strategies, end-to-end commerce solutions across our proven invaluable in this unprecedented environment media, creative, and CRM LoBs, bridging online and where traditional marketing playbooks are often ofﬂine customer experience; identity platforms built inadequate. While being sensitive to our clients’ for the cookie-less world; powerful alliances to deliver conﬁdentiality, we are also able to pool our collective true integration in marketing; as well as purposeand experience working with clients globally so that our data-driven creativity that communicates at the clients can come out of this ahead of the game. We are individual level while driving results at scale. especially excited about the collaboration around Suzuki Dentsu sees marketing as founded in people. sports and entertainment where Dentsu’s legacy We develop data-driven marketing that can deliver business provides meaningful differentiation for the optimum solutions for achieving client goals through rest of the world. leveraging insights into people, creativity that sparks Suzuki The same issues are constantly being shared changes in people’s feelings and behavior, and algorithms somewhere else in the world, and since the COVID-19 that optimize marketing investments. Knowing our crisis, this has become even more evident. To make clients’ customers and potential customers will lead to the world a better place, clients will be restarting from higher ROI on the part of our clients and enhance their zero and will require speed. Marketing in the customers’ engagement as marketing will provide connected age will be about the speed of being the information that they need and is more relevant to ﬁrst to establish a de facto standard, with more clients them. When we are able to comprehend customers using the knowledge gained to improve. The Dentsu even further with data available in the 5G era, we will Group will be a forerunner in sharing common issues be able to cultivate new relationships with them. around the world including solutions and knowledge. 30 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Business Japan Business Dentsu Japan Network Our Vision with the digitalization of television. In addition, we plan to develop a wide range of digital solutions beyond those of the communications domain, so Hiroshi Igarashi that we might better understand client marketing issues and President & CEO support them as they work to digitalize all marketing channels. Dentsu Japan Network Our efforts here will include mass advertising to increase interest; expanding e-commerce capabilities on client websites; and developing methods for the online retention of users who purchase clients’ products. Further, we will provide solutions related to digital Developing integrated solutions utilizing transformations using technology linked to advanced analysis of Dentsu’s proprietary user behavior data, as well as the allocation of diverse assets advanced analysis and issue resolution capabilities, focused Business Overview on client product production and distribution processes. Japan represents the Dentsu Group’s largest market. In ﬁscal Our fourth area of focus will be the advancing of solutions 2019, it accounted for 40.5% of the Group’s revenue less cost using existing and new platforms, as well as promoting of sales, and 51.5% of its underlying operating proﬁt. With services that integrate a broad range of resources. advertising as our core business, our services go beyond We will take on the challenge of establishing our position marketing communications to provide integrated client support. as a partner in the transformation of client business. And, in This year, in line with our transition to a holding company addition to client product advertising and publicity, we will structure, the Dentsu Group underwent restructuring and provide assistance in a number of ways. In tandem with formed an in-house company, Dentsu Japan Network. The product development, including business design and market network represents more than 130 Group companies and creation—reﬂecting the global environment, regional communities, approximately 20,000 employees. and other stakeholders—we will commit even more deeply to The aim of the restructuring was to develop integrated the success of client products and services. We will provide solutions that resolve challenges by organically linking and business development know-how to support new management integrating our Group companies and employees. challenges and changes facing clients, as well as solid support for transformations in corporate culture and the reorganization Expanding Digital Capabilities of organizational and business processes. Digital infrastructure has assumed greater importance In the new normal society, themes that will remain recently, due to its support for social services amid the important include the continued health of each employee of COVID-19 pandemic. As society is being transformed, changes Dentsu Japan Network, the promotion of workstyles that make in human behavior are accelerating and society is moving all business processes effective, and the establishment of a toward the next stage. corporate foundation where individuals can continue to grow. We believe that supporting client business growth is in line Through the expansion of capabilities that contribute both with our efforts to resolve social issues, and so we will continue to the growth of society and clients, as well as to the creation of to focus our efforts on expanding our digital capabilities. opportunities for individual growth, we will do our utmost to Based on advances in the traditional advertising domain, realize the sustainable growth of Dentsu Japan Network. we will propose new ways of using traditional media, starting Performance Japan/International Revenue Ratio Revenue Less Cost of Sales of Japan Underlying Operating Proﬁt of Japan Business Business / OPM* Underlying operating proﬁt OPM Japan (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (%) 40.5% 88,801 400,000 361,902 369,258 380,366 90,000 80,268 30 72,000 72,488 300,000 24.5 20 54,000 21.7 200,000 19.1 36,000 10 100,000 18,000 International 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 59.5% Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec *OPM: Operating margin 31 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Overview of core operating companies Dentsu Inc. Key Person sports, and content development. Dentsu provides the best integrated solutions to accurately grasp global changes while contributing to client growth. Norihiro Kuretani In recent years, amid ongoing environmental changes Director, Executive Vice resulting from digitalization and globalization, it has become President increasingly difﬁcult for client companies to solve the complex challenges they face. Our employees have a rich array of creativity and follow a Aiming to Become the Leading Marketing code of conduct that ensures all work is thorough and complete. We create and implement highly sophisticated Company solutions, based on the most advanced data and technology With marketing communications at the core of its activities, platforms, while collaborating with powerful partners in and Dentsu Inc. is the largest unit within the Dentsu Group. Since outside the Group. its founding, it has helped build the Japanese advertising Our medium-term objective is to become the world’s No. 1 market together with media and partner companies, and marketing company. As demand grows for the formulation of supported the growth of clients’ businesses. plans and implementation of measures to enhance the At present, Dentsu consults with and supports advertisers experiences provided along the customer journey, and in and media content companies who are trying to achieve order to realize the creation and expansion of clients’ business reformation and digital transformation, along with businesses, Dentsu will provide and integrate e-commerce, other clients. The company also prioritizes the planning and CRM, business designs, and digital transformation, in addition implementation of such marketing communication efforts as to conventional advertising communications. digital marketing, creative, media, PR, promotions, events, Information Services International-Dentsu, Ltd. Key Person ISID’s strengths are deep insight into corporate and social issues, and the ability to propose and implement solutions that make use of advanced technologies. Up to now, ISID has worked with Japanese ﬁnancial institutions and blue-chip companies in the manufacturing industry, providing advanced Ryoichi Nawa IT solutions to reﬂect the changing business environment. President, CEO & COO ISID provides clients with total support for IT-related management issues, from consulting services to system planning, design, development, maintenance and operations, Creating New Business Models Based on as well as high value-added and unique IT solutions in areas including ﬁnancial services, HR, accounting, manufacturing, the Vision of Humanology for the Future and digital marketing. Information Services International-Dentsu, Ltd. (ISID) was Humans and technology are what ISID values most and established in 1975 as a joint venture between Dentsu and the what drive its competitiveness. In line with the company General Electric Company in the US. In November 2000, ISID vision—Humanology for the future: Bringing people and was listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange technology together to shape the future—ISID develops and is the only systems integrator in the Dentsu Group. ISID solutions leveraging AI, IoT and other cutting-edge develops business at six ofﬁces in Japan and four ofﬁces technologies, while supporting digital transformation within overseas (North America, Europe, China, and Southeast Asia) companies and society by creating new business models and collaborates with numerous global partners to support along with partner companies and clients. client businesses in Japan and abroad. 32 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Business Dentsu Digital Inc. Key Person produces the best experiences at all customer contact points, and is continuously expanding the fan base of corporations and brands. Second: the introduction of IT platforms. These serve as the base for promotions and the development of appropriate Soichi Kawakami data environments. President Third: digital transformation consulting. This transforms the business and organization of client companies. Dentsu Digital creates a close global collaborative A Growth Partner in the Coming Age of structure with mega-platform and technology companies to build business foundations that will generate innovations Digital Marketing amid societal changes. Amid dramatic upheavals in the global economy, as also in Through co-creations with the Dentsu Group’s 130 society and people’s lives, the digital transformation of companies in Japan, 880 overseas companies, and 66,000 companies is becoming essential. colleagues, Dentsu Digital brings new opportunities for client Against this background, Dentsu Digital was established company business expansion. It always strives to provide the in July 2016. Supporting the digital marketing efforts of over best digital solutions. 600 companies, it is one of Japan’s largest digital marketing Dentsu Digital leverages its employees’ advanced companies, with 1,500 employees whose average age is expertise and passion to drive the creation of synergies 32 years. between global talent, knowledge, and technologies on one In the rapidly evolving digital world, the Company is hand, and further business expansion on the other. focused on strengths in three business areas that are at the As we continue to aspire to digital marketing innovation core of its multifaceted support for corporate growth. and evolve to meet future challenges, we aim to become the First: the promotion of next-generation marketing. Making best business growth partner for our client companies. full use of the latest technologies and data, Dentsu Digital Dentsu Live Inc. Key Person development and operations that support lifestyle changes; conducting entertainment and arena operations; and is involved in both space development enterprises and next-generation city branding businesses. The Company retains a large number of event space Seikyo Son specialists, who collaborate with numerous partner companies President & CEO that have noted expertise, enabling us to be among those organizations with the most know-how, experience, and knowledge in Japan. Advanced Event Space Know-how We offer highly advanced one-stop production services, from planning to implementation, construction, design, Resolving Client Issues behavioral data analysis, and digital marketing integration. To accelerate our growth strategy in the promotion domain, Many of our employees have the safety management training Dentsu’s former Event and Space Design Division was outlined in the Construction Business Act, enabling us to integrated with the Dentsu Tec event and space-related enhance project quality and safety. departments to create Dentsu Live Inc., which commenced Going beyond the core business domains of events, operations in January 2017. spaces, and exhibition video content, we create greater At present, Dentsu Live is resolving client issues by experience value, while seeking to develop business through providing a one-stop service inclusive of event and space the optimal combination of entertainment, sports, content, development planning, design, production, construction, and IP businesses to engage in events, construction, and and operations. operational execution. We also focus on enhancing In addition to conventional event and space development competitiveness through the creation of business centered on activities, the Company is developing live marketing, leading the real-time use of cutting-edge technologies and new to the cultivation of loyal customers; using cutting-edge technological research. technologies to improve experience value; undertaking store 33 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 International Business Dentsu Aegis Network Our Vision Expanding our capabilities We also invested in areas that created the best structure and Tim Andree environment, supported by efﬁcient and globally consistent Director and Executive Vice processes, including best-in-class technology, to reduce President, Dentsu Group Inc. duplications, complexity, and cost. Executive Chairman & CEO, M&A continued to be an accelerant to our strategy and we Dentsu Aegis Network welcomed 13 new companies including Ugam, a global leader in data and analytics. We became much more focused, prioritizing high-growth markets and segments such as digital creative, data, CRM, and loyalty, that have great synergy 2019: A year of transformation opportunities and strong cultural alignment. The year 2019 was one of transformation. In January 2019, I took on responsibility as the CEO, in addition to my role as Making it real for our people and their communities Executive Chairman of Dentsu Aegis Network and Executive Ensuring that our most critical asset, our people, remain at the Vice President of Dentsu Inc. This afforded me two beneﬁts: to heart of our business is a key priority. Connecting with one get even closer to our clients and our people. another and having a common purpose is important to our The transformation agenda was established to drive success, especially when driving transformation. sustainable, proﬁtable growth and combine the breadth and Embedding a common social purpose is equally important. depth of DAN’s capabilities to deliver world-class clientEngaging with our communities and delivering against our centric solutions. social impact goals allows us to create a deeper connection to It was a year of making it real by re-assessing ourselves and our role in society. planning for change. We supported our global charity Malaria No More to raise $14bn and launched Isobar Good which leverages our skills Making it real for our clients and expertise to drive measurable social impact for In order to deliver better services for our clients and businesses. We collaborated with clients to create experience for our people, transformation was required. We #BrandsForGood to help transform the role of marketing in order streamlined our offerings around three Lines of Business: to make sustainable living more aspirational for consumers. Creative, Media and CRM. This provided our people with Finally, we reported our strongest environmental sharper focus on delivering world-class services and performance yet and are now powered by renewable energy integrated solutions for our clients. in 90% of our ofﬁces globally. The new structure was designed around our client needs, ensuring our services are easier to navigate, globally Journey to one dentsu consistent and, therefore, set up to help our clients win, The year 2019 was a big step in our journey to become a more keep, and grow their best customers—by being data-driven, integrated global organization that delivers world-class tech-enabled, and idea-led. services to our clients. By working together and leveraging the strength we have in Japan, our goal is to deliver sustainable growth for all of our stakeholders in the years to come. Performance Japan/International Revenue Ratio Revenue Less Cost of Sales of Underlying Operating Proﬁt of International Business International Business / OPM* Underlying operating proﬁt OPM Japan (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (%) 40.5% 600,000 516,052 563,852 559,772 80,000 75,146 72,963 68,361 20 60,000 15 400,000 14.6 40,000 12.9 12.2 10 200,000 20,000 5 International 0 0 0 59.5% 2017 2018 2019 Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec 2017 2018 2019 Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec *OPM: Operating margin 34 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Business Simplifying our Business As part of our long-term strategy, we recognize that the Simpliﬁed Lines of Business Model traditional agency model is no longer ﬁt for purpose as client Sales, Solutions and Client Management demands are changing. Our business model must evolve to deliver integrated solutions and world-class services. And we must shift gears toward medium-term margin improvement CREATIVE MEDIA CRM and long-term sustainable growth. ENTERTAINMENT & SPORTS Our new business model is designed around our clients, Americas recognizing all elements of the customer lifecycle—to win, Markets keep, and grow our clients’ best customers by being idea-led, data-driven, and tech-enabled. This will accelerate APAC our ability to deliver globally consistent, integrated solutions Markets for clients, ensuring our services are easier to navigate. This in turn will drive long-term sustainable growth and EMEA medium-term margin improvement. Markets We now organize our services into three Lines of Business (LoB): Creative, Media and CRM across the Americas, APAC, and EMEA. CRM Line of Business Key Person consistent double-digit growth, even amid signiﬁcant market disruption propelled by the collapse of third-party cookies and increasing privacy concerns. As we move toward David Williams competing with today’s digital transformation powerhouses, Global CEO, CRM, Dentsu Aegis we will deﬁne a new equation, where data transformation + Network and Chairman, digital transformation = customer experience transformation. Merkle Group Inc. Adding strength to our value proposition are our alliances with partners, such as Google, Adobe, Salesforce, Oracle, and others. Through these relationships, we are tapping into the growth of enterprise experience technology and Cloud Today’s most successful brands are built by providing superior services to enable the total customer experience for the customer experiences across sales, service, and marketing. brands we serve. The future of this “connected customer experience” is highly The CRM LoB’s go-to market strategy is centered around personalized, informed by data, and powered by technology. four broad categories: The market opportunity for CRM Line of Business is in the • Customer Experience Enablement: Strong technology development of data-driven strategies that help the best capabilities grounded in data management and identity and brands in the world deliver these hyper-personalized underpinned by deep expertise in enablement technologies. experiences to maximize customer value, solidify customer • Customer Experience Activation: Performance media and loyalty, and ultimately deliver competitive advantage. This is creative solutions informed by data and delivered through Dentsu’s fastest-growing LoB, having doubled in revenue over a collection of brands that have world-class capabilities in the past four years. Anchored by Merkle, the network’s largest the ﬁeld. agency brand, the CRM LoB is a matrixed structure that • Analytics: Plugged into both the enablement and activation operates at the intersection of our service lines and the distinct sides of the framework, we deliver analytics through those industries we serve. Our skilled people-based marketing technology platforms and use it to derive targeted insights experts understand the unique needs of our clients, the and measurements. market challenges they face, and the solutions needed to gain • Consulting and Strategy: Transformation and technology competitive advantage. consulting help brands understand how they should Merkle is organized regionally, spanning the Americas, organize for success and develop program-level strategies EMEA, and APAC, with near-term Americas expansion plans to enable the total customer experience. that include Canada and Latin America. Our global clients rely Going forward, this LoB will continue to develop new on our deep knowledge of the distinct market needs and capabilities relating to customer experience transformation regulatory requirements of every locality in which we operate. consulting and business case modeling. We have our sights Our strengths in ﬁrst-party data, combined with identity set on becoming the market leader enabling and activating resolution, data management, marketing technology, data the total customer experience. Our future customers will be sciences, loyalty, CRM, personalization, and performance CEOs and members of the broader C-suite who are looking media/creative services, have created differentiation against for meaningful business outcomes that create revenue, cost an evolving competitive landscape. As a result, we have seen savings, and ultimately shareholder value. 35 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Creative Line of Business Key Person consistently across all business touch points. Creativity is about connecting the dots to enable meaningful integrated solutions across touch points and Jean Lin transformation initiatives, united by the same “North Star” Global CEO, Creative, Dentsu and belief. Aegis Network and Global Executive Creativity today goes beyond advertising and communication. Chairman, Isobar It is about delivering Idea-Led Experiences: ideas that matter, that create competitive advantage, that propel businesses to the future; experiences that change culture and behaviors, that enable engagements and transactions, that enhance Our mission is to build a world-class global creative and trust. Strategic Ideas are the glue that connects the belief experience offering with innovation and technology at its system of a business with behaviors. When you know what you heart—an offering that can differentiate our clients’ businesses believe, you know how to behave. with competitive advantage and drive sustainable growth, We craft compelling idea-led experiences, made for the beyond effective advertising. The newly-formed Creative line digital age and delivered at global scale. of business brings together all branding, content, design and We create an effective team with strategic branding experience capabilities outside of Japan, including our two experts from dentsumcgarrybowen, and digital marketing global agencies dentsumcgarrybowen, and Isobar. This and experience expertise from Isobar, to deliver creative robust idea-led practice unites over 12,000 like-minded experiences at scale across the consumer journey. people, to deliver brand and experience transformation for I believe that at Dentsu Aegis we have the most creative our clients at a global scale, across more than 50 markets thinkers, makers, innovators and technologists, with inclusion worldwide. and respect for our teams from many different cultures and The role of marketing and how brands are built has been markets. It is this diversity of people and disciplines that fundamentally shifted by new technology adoption, people’s creates more innovative thinking and the ability to solve a changing behavior, and refreshed expectations. In this new broader set of problems in a more creative way, working in world, businesses need to differentiate with authenticity more partnership to help clients all over the world to win in the than ever and consumers want to see authenticity of behavior experience economy. Media Line of Business Key Person integrate brand and performance marketing, media and CRM, and culturally-relevant content. By bringing our media and performance agencies into an integrated business, we have Peter Huijboom removed artiﬁcial barriers, allowing clients to quickly Global CEO, Dentsu Media & reallocate spend to generate both long-term brand value and Global Clients, more immediate business performance. Dentsu Aegis Network The establishment of the Media Line of Business also allows us to adopt a more systemic approach to sharing capability and leveraging best practices across our agencies. Creating a framework for our agencies to join forces and Our Media Line of Business provides clients with a diverse leverage best practices and talent more quickly allows us to range of services to help brands maximize the effectiveness, make more impactful media investments. Similarly, we are relevance, and performance of their largest marketing utilizing our media partner relationships to generate bigger, investment, media. We deliver these capabilities through our more innovative solutions. award-winning media agencies Carat, Vizeum, and As we move forward in 2020, we are helping our clients to dentsuX; our globally recognized digital performance agency navigate the most challenging year in a generation with media iProspect; and our dedicated out-of-home agency and marketing budgets under pressure from the pandemic. Posterscope. In 2019, our agencies topped several of the most However, we remain committed to delivering for our clients on trusted global media agency rankings as we continued to our joint transformation journey. In many ways, COVID-19 is expand our relationships with global marketers. At the heart of accelerating many of the digital trends around which we have our success is our commitment to helping clients manage the been building our strategy for over half a decade—harnessing ever-increasing complexities of media, data, customer unique data-fueled insights to build more relevant and advocacy and privacy while maximizing business outcomes. accountable media experiences. Finally, we believe media has Within our own business, we are evolving the way our a real opportunity to redeﬁne its value and impact, binding agencies operate by centralizing key technology and communities, cultures, and people together through shared investment functions, building an integrated brand portfolio experiences. This is exactly the kind of mission that has been strategy, and leveraging automation to manage costs. These the foundation of the Dentsu Group for over 100 years. efforts are all aligned to evolving client needs for solutions that 36 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Foundation 37 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Contents Message from the Chair of the CSR Committee p. 39 Sustainability p. 41 Corporate Governance p. 45 38 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Foundation Message from the Chair of the CSR Committee Sustainability of Dentsu and Society Overcoming challenges by leveraging our creative power and engaging with society Shun Sakurai Representative Director and Executive Vice President Facing the emergence of global risks The world is facing a major challenge in 2020. The damage caused by the COVID-19 pandemic is far more serious than we imagined, not only in terms of health, but also in terms of the impact on the economy. We need to rebuild and, in doing so, build a resilient, inclusive, and sustainable economy. In the 2020 edition of the Global Risk Report published annually by the World Economic Forum (WEF), the spread of infectious diseases, such as this one, is highlighted as a major risk. However, environment-related items, such as abnormal weather and failure of climate change countermeasures, remain among the most likely to occur in the future. I am convinced that these risks are not unrelated to our daily life under the current economic model. Pursuing business models that generate societal and economic value Social and economic performance have often been seen as difﬁcult concepts to reconcile. However, by involving a wide range of stakeholders and collaborating to address these issues, we believe that it is possible to create new innovations beyond the traditional framework of CSR measures. 39 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 We have set tackling social issues as one of the axes that will help us realize our new medium-term management plan. A business model that pursues both the resolution of social issues and the generation of proﬁts is essential to our growth strategy, and we plan to develop multiple proﬁt models that can be shared within the Group in the future. Developing a Group-wide sustainability strategy Among the social issues we are facing today are those that are closely related to the business activities of the Group, such as climate change, diversity, as well as sustainable production and consumption. By focusing on these areas, we will maximize Group resources and create solutions through collaboration with various stakeholders. Following the adoption of a new holding company structure in January 2020, the CSR Committee was reorganized to form a conference structure consisting of members from Group companies including Dentsu Japan Network, Dentsu Aegis Network, Dentsu Inc., ISID and Carta Holdings, Inc. who will integrate the CSR activities of their respective companies to formulate a Group-wide sustainability strategy for the year 2030. We will continue to explore global macro-economic trends through the lens of our most material impacts, and the opportunity we have to resolve these issues. Overcoming global issues along with our stakeholders A global sustainability leader aims to solve global issues through alliances that transcend existing frameworks with a long-term perspective. Our Group has set greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2050, which are accredited by the Science Based Targets initiative, and we have made a commitment to procure renewable United Nations Global Compact energy across our global markets. We are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact and RE100 and are co-founders of #BrandsforGood, helping us to promote sustainability initiatives not only within the Group but also with companies in other industries. In addition, Common Ground, which works with the United Nations and major advertising holding groups, continues to support Malaria No More, a Science Based Targets certiﬁcate non-governmental organization dedicated to malaria control. As we pursue these activities, it is essential that all of our 66,000 Group employees consider the role we play in society, demonstrate their creativity through their businesses, and create innovation to deliver social RE100 impact. It is only by working together, with our employees and our stakeholders, that we will overcome this challenge. 40 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Foundation Sustainability Sustainability Initiatives Helping create an economy that works for all Climate change, biodiversity loss and inequality are global environment in which everyone can thrive. But we have a megatrends reshaping our world. In 2019 we saw a powerful role to play that goes beyond our own operations signiﬁcant increase in both awareness and activity across all and physical impacts. Every day, all over the world, our stakeholder groups, with employees, investors, clients, and work inﬂuences the way that people think, feel and act. Our consumers all calling for change. Business and brands have aim is to use our ideas and data to highlight opportunities, no choice but to respond. Our industry is no exception. We inequalities, innovations, and solutions to society’s greatest are committed to decarbonizing our business operations challenges. As a Japanese company, we plan for the and supply chain. And as an employer of 66,000 people, we long term, which means creating regenerative solutions invest in the health and wellbeing of our people and that deliver positive impact for our business, society and are passionate about creating a diverse and inclusive the environment. Our priorities In December 2019 we established a new board committee Group. An assessment of our material risks and for the Dentsu Group focused on CSR and sustainability. opportunities has highlighted key strategic focus areas This committee is chaired by Shun Sakurai and is made up where we can make the biggest impact. The results include of senior executives from across the Group, including climate change, sustainable consumption and production, Dentsu Japan Network, Dentsu Aegis Network, Dentsu Inc., diversity and inclusion, and human and digital rights, ISID, and Carta Holdings, Inc. The committee meets including ethics, data privacy, and security. We believe quarterly in 2020 with the primary objective of setting a COVID-19 will accelerate interest in these areas as long-term, integrated sustainability strategy for the Dentsu stakeholders look to rewire the economy. CSR Promotion Structure Dentsu Group Inc. Group Executive Management Committee CSR Committee Information Services Dentsu Japan Dentsu Aegis CARTA Dentsu Inc. International-Dentsu, Network Network HOLDINGS, INC. Ltd. (ISID) 41 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Climate Change In 2019 we achieved our strongest environmental equivalent, as a KPI on all executive scorecards directly performance, reducing our overall Scope 1 and 2 carbon impacting their remuneration. To further decarbonize our emissions by 46.3% since 2014, putting us on track to value chain, we joined forces with Bristol University, Sky, deliver our 2030 science-based target. This was driven and the BBC to launch DIMPACT—a ground-breaking primarily by switching 89% of our international operations collaboration to map the carbon impacts of digital value to renewable electricity, reinforcing our commitment to chains. In 2020 we will be building on this work to better RE100 and helping to drive market demand for renewable understand and reduce our emissions across our value energy. Our goal is to switch all the Dentsu Group to chain. Overall, we cut the total Scope 1 and 2 emissions renewable electricity by 2030. Ofﬁce consolidation and 23.0% this year to 33,962 tons of CO2 while the Scope 3 the introduction of new collaboration technology also results were 87,194 tons. contributed, while we delivered a signiﬁcant decrease in For more detailed environment performance data, the use of paper, water, and waste. Business travel however please refer to the ESG Data Summary (p. 56). has increased across the Group. In response, DAN has included a target to reduce air travel, measured in CO2 Environment Performance Indices FY2019 CO2 emissions / FTE CO2 emissions Ratio of renewable electricity (Scopes 1 and 2) Compared with FY2014 Scopes 1 and 2 in international operations 0.53t-CO e 2 46.3% less 89% Sustainable consumption and production We recognize the role that we play in driving consumption. change their behavior. This is fundamentally reimagining In 2019 we collaborated with Sustainable Brands and some the way brands create value and engage with customers of our biggest clients to launch #BrandsForGood, a new around sustainable living. global movement to transform the role of marketing and advertising and make sustainable living more aspirational for consumers. Through #BrandsForGood we aim to unite marketers and brands to encourage consumers to adopt nine sustainable behaviors. These behaviors combine both societal and planetary needs with consumer research that indicates which messages members of the public are most likely to respond to positively, ultimately making them 42 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Foundation Sustainability Promoting diversity and empowering women True creativity and innovation happen when teams of research. And in collaboration with the Association of diverse individuals come together. We champion individuality, National Advertisers, we helped found #SeeHer, the goal of and the unique perspectives and remarkable talent that which is to increase the percentage of accurate portrayals come with it. In 2019 we saw an increase in females in senior of women and girls in US advertising. The values of respect, leadership positions across our global markets. This equality, inclusion, and diversity necessary for healthy and includes the appointment of Anna Moulton, Global HR peaceful communities are the same values we cultivate Director, to the role of Executive Ofﬁcer, Dentsu Group Inc. among our employees in 145 countries. We will be We also promoted Jacki Kelley to the role of CEO, prioritizing this area of our strategy moving forward. Americas, and Jean Lin to the role of CEO, Creative Line of Business. One third of our most senior roles in our International business are held by women. We are committed to extending this gender balance to our Japan operations but recognize there is more to do. Today, 14.5% of senior leaders across the Dentsu Group are women. Our focus on diversity extends beyond our organization. In 2019 we launched Female Foundry, our global mentorship program for female-founded start-ups, in India, South Africa, Mexico, and Chile, creating powerful programs built on insights generated through iProspect’s Hear Her Voice Respect for Human and Digital Rights Data privacy and protection, along with responsible media, continue to remain a top priority for our business and our clients. In 2019 we became a strategic partner to the Global Alliance for Responsible Media (GARM) a global collaboration of agencies, media platforms and industry associations to rapidly improve digital safety and drive accountability across the industry. We are also a founder of the Conscious Advertising Network whose mission is to stop advertising abuse by highlighting the conscious choices advertisers can make to ensure good practices. Partners in the Global Alliance for Responsible Media 43 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Common Ground In 2016 we helped launch Common Ground to drive to achieve the SDGs. We continue to drive awareness delivery of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development through our research, by team SDGs across Dentsu Japan Goals (SDGs). Today we have reached over 1.67 billion Network, into consumer trends and attitudes to the people through related campaigns. This includes our SDGs, including our recently published survey of the partnership with Malaria No More, with whom in 2019 we Japanese market. helped raise an additional $14 billion for malaria research, as well as campaigns for our clients that align to the SDGs, in particular in areas relating to health and wellbeing, inequality, and empowering women. In 2019, we launched Isobar Good, an initiative that uses Isobar’s skills, expertise, and methodologies to drive measurable social impact and Key ﬁndings of SDGs survey (January 2020) SDGs awareness rate among Recognition rate of lifestyle behaviors related to realizing the SDGs Japanese consumers Moving away Sharing Circular 29.1% from plastic Minimalism economy economy 70.3% 54.0% 40.7% 33.9% https://www.dentsu.co.jp/en/news/release/2020/0427-010046.html Message Comment on the results of the SDGs survey These are very encouraging survey results. The habits—moving away from plastics, using reusable fact that more than 40% of students are aware of eco-bags and doing more teleworking—which the Sustainable Development Goals speaks to the all contribute to reducing the pressure on excellent work done integrating the SDGs in the the environment. At the same time, the social school curricula in Japan. Young people are a components of the SDGs—like gender equality crucial target audience, and it would be great to or supporting marginalized communities such see more schools around the world follow Japan’s as immigrants—deserve equal attention and Martina Donlon example and teach students about the SDGs. urgency. We have ten years left to achieve Acting Chief, Sustainable It is also promising to see that a majority the SDGs by the 2030 target date. Everyone Development Section Department of Global of respondents are ready to put the SDGs everywhere can do their part to help build a fairer, Communications into practice, through changes in their daily more sustainable world. United Nations External Evaluation For the fourth consecutive year since 2016, we have been selected for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Paciﬁc Index. We have also been highly evaluated by CDP (scored Ain 2019) and EcoVadis, as well as being included in indexes such as FTSE4Good. 44 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Foundation Corporate Governance Dentsu Group Corporate Governance As of March 27, 2020 Basic Perspective The pursuit of optimal corporate governance is critical for 2. Considering the interests of stakeholders, including achieving Dentsu’s goal of creating new social values and shareholders, and cooperate with them appropriately. sustainable societies. We aim to achieve sustainable growth 3. Appropriately disclosing company information and and enhance corporate value by ensuring transparent, fair, ensuring transparency. rapid, and decisive decision-making, as well as the effective 4. Enhancing the effectiveness of the supervisory function allocation of management resources. To this end, we will of the Board of Directors concerning business execution. continue to improve corporate governance by: 5. Engaging in constructive dialogue with shareholders 1. Respecting shareholders’ rights and ensure their equal who have an investment policy that conforms to the midtreatment. to long-term interests of shareholders. Corporate Governance Structure Dentsu Group Inc. Dentsu Japan Network (In-house company in Dentsu Group Inc.) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Report Cooperation Audits Nomination Advisory Committee Audit and Supervisory Committee Board of Directors Advise Compensation Advisory Committee Report Explanation Audits Requests Selection/Supervision Delegates Delegates cooperation Internal Control and Risk Committee Explanation Delegates Representative Director Group internal auditors, etc. Group Executive Management Committee CSR Committee Independent Auditors Selection/Supervision/ Audits Audits Delegates Executive Ofﬁcers Audits Dentsu Japan Network Dentsu Aegis Network Dentsu Japan Network Board Audit Committee Dentsu Aegis Network Board Audit Committee Dentsu Japan Network Dentsu Aegis Network Internal Control and Risk Committee Risk Committee Dentsu Japan Network Dentsu Aegis Network Investment Committee M&A Committee Dentsu Japan Network Dentsu Aegis Network Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Dentsu Japan Network Dentsu Aegis Network Transaction Committee Compensation Committee Group Companies in Japan Overseas Group Companies Corporate Governance-related Information Committee Chairperson (Chair) Independent outside directors: 4 members (33.3%) Principle 4.8 (Effective use of independent outside directors) Board of Directors 12 members 8 11 9 10 12 3 6 1 2 4 5 7 Principle 4.11 (Requirements for ensuring Female directors: 2 members (16.7%) Non-Japanese directors: 3 members (25.0%) director efﬁcacy) Audit and Supervisory 9 10 11 12 8 Principle 4.8 Committee (Effective use of independent 5 members outside directors) Independent outside directors: 4 members (80.0%) Nomination Advisory 7 9 10 11 1 Committee 5 members Principle 4.8 Outside directors: 4 members: (80.0%) (Effective use of independent outside directors) Principle 4.10 Compensation 9 10 11 1 2 (Use of arbitrary mechanisms) Advisory Committee 5 members Independent outside directors: 3 members (60.0%) 45 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 For details, please see the Corporate Governance Report on our website. https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/about-us/common/pdf/governance_202001_en.pdf Director Skills Matrix Responsibilities and Attributes Main skill Secondary skill Director Specialization and Features Business Supervisory Corporate Business Management Organization/ execution function strategy strategy resources Finance Accounting Legal affairs Human resources 1 Toshihiro Yamamoto Representative Director 2 Shun Sakurai Representative Director 3 Tim Andree Director 4 Hiroshi Igarashi Director 5 Arinobu Soga Director 6 Nick Priday Director 7 Gan Matsui Outside Director 8 Izumi Okoshi Director / Audit and Supervisory Committee Member 9 Toshiaki Hasegawa Outside Director / Audit and Independent Supervisory Committee Member 10 Kentaro Koga Outside Director / Audit and Independent Supervisory Committee Member 11 Etsuko Katsu Outside Director / Audit and Independent Supervisory Committee Member 12 Simon Lafﬁn Outside Director / Audit and Independent Supervisory Committee Member 46 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Foundation Corporate Governance Initiatives Aimed at Enhancing Efﬁcacy of Governance As of March 27, 2020 Board of Directors’ Effectiveness and Self-Evaluations To ensure the ongoing effectiveness of the Board of The analysis and evaluation for FY2019 indicate that the Directors, a questionnaire was submitted to all Board composition, operation, and items deliberated by the members pertaining to the efﬁcacy and appropriateness of Board of Directors were generally appropriate. It is noted the Board’s supervision of management. Responses to this that sufﬁcient deliberation had been conducted through questionnaire were analyzed and evaluated by a third party. the exchange of opinions, conﬁrming that the Board The Board of Directors received a report from the Board of maintained efﬁcacy and appropriateness in its supervision Directors Secretariat regarding these results, which were of operations. In the future, the Group will strive to make used to analyze and evaluate the overall effectiveness of improvements on the issues identiﬁed in these areas, in the Board. order to further improve the Board of Directors. Main Issues and Improvement Measures in FY2019 CEO Successor Development Plan Formulated polices and speciﬁc plans for the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee Group Company Management Continued to implement monitoring system revisions Supervision Providing Information Necessary Held meetings comprising mainly outside directors who were provided with information on for Strategy Deliberations markets, industry trends, and other topics Training for Directors and Executive Ofﬁcers Directors and executive ofﬁcers are provided with training and continuous opportunities to acquire the knowledge essential for executing their duties in order to properly fulﬁll their given roles. Speciﬁc Examples of Training Position When appointed After appointment Directors and • Training on Dentsu Group Inc. management, business and • Regular study seminars as opportunities to acquire the Executive Ofﬁcers ﬁnancial strategies, related important matters and laws latest information regarding best practices and • Discussion related to identifying and formulating megatrend-related issues solutions to Dentsu Group issues • Explanation of Dentsu Group Inc. business, • Regular provision of information related to business Outside Directors organizational structure, etc. issues, etc. Internal Control System The Dentsu Group Internal Control System encourages policies, Dentsu Group Inc. and other Group companies compliance among directors, executive ofﬁcers, and formulate rules and develop manuals to inculcate a employees, while at the same time supporting continuous thorough awareness of proper business execution among all corporate development as Dentsu meets its social employees through training and other activities. responsibilities. The Dentsu Group Code of Conduct* is There are business-related check items for risk management positioned as a shared behavioral code to ensure that and compliance, while a broad range of inspections are directors, executive ofﬁcers, and employees of Dentsu and conducted. The items checked include the appropriateness its subsidiaries carry out their duties in compliance with the of rules; whether business is conducted in accordance with law, regulations, and the Company’s Articles of Incorporation. the rules; and if reporting of, and responses to, problems are The code also ensures that business is conducted prompt, in order that issues might be identiﬁed and issues appropriately, while the Internal Control and Compliance improved. We also establish internal control mechanisms at Committee works to maintain and improve internal controls. Group companies to maintain and enhance corporate value In accordance with Internal Control and Risk Committee throughout the entire Dentsu Group. * Dentsu Group Code of Conduct https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/about-us/governance/codeofconduct.html 47 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 For details, please see the Corporate Governance Report on our website. https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/about-us/common/pdf/governance_202001_en.pdf Messages from Newly Appointed Directors In January 2020, Dentsu Inc. transitioned to the pure holding company Dentsu Group Inc., which serves as a “Teaming Company” and the foundation on which resources and assets are managed, with a view to realizing business model innovation strategies at a global level to accelerate growth. The Board of Directors and the Audit and Supervisory Committee aim to further improve corporate governance by establishing a system for auditing and supervising business execution by the Dentsu Group, Dentsu Japan Network, and Dentsu Aegis Network. In my position, I am expected to engage in audits and provide advice from a management perspective, based on my role in areas such as the devising of strategies for Izumi Okoshi new businesses. The worldwide spread of COVID-19 has caused those of us in Director/Audit and Supervisory management to face a crisis of which we have no prior experience. However, Committee Member having the resilience to withstand all manner of challenges, we view this crisis as an opportunity for change and advancement. We intend to engage in bold, proactive management amid renewed demand for sustainable growth that beneﬁts society. In this increasingly uncertain environment, we will audit and supervise from multiple perspectives, including compliance, risk management, and capital soundness. This will allow us to ensure agile management and quick decision-making, based on our principles of corporate governance. Having now been part of the Dentsu Group for seven years, it is a privilege to join the Group Board at a time of such rapid transformation for the industry and our company. As the Group looks to further integrate its diverse capabilities, the breadth of my experience across the Group will provide a clear lens through which to contribute to the future direction of the Group. I have been CFO of the International business, Dentsu Aegis Network, for seven years and was CFO of Aegis Group plc for four years prior to the acquisition. I am currently a member of the Dentsu Group Executive Management Committee and CSR Committee, as well as a member of the Executive Committee, M&A Committee and a number of other management forums at Dentsu Aegis Network. I am passionate about creating an organization that allows our people to Nick Priday thrive and deliver the highest quality services and solutions to our clients. Director Driving ever closer alignment between the Japan and International businesses, through the concept of one dentsu, will bring long-term, sustainable success over time, centered around both our clients and our people. I have a clear understanding of the importance of delivering value for all of our stakeholders, including our shareholders. I look forward to serving the Group and those shareholders going forward. 48 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Foundation Corporate Governance Initiatives Aimed at Enhancing Board of Director Transparency As of March 27, 2020 Director Appointment and Dismissal When nominating directors who are not members of the Directors shall be nominated by the Board of Directors, Audit and Supervisory Committee, the representative which will take into consideration the opinions of the directors—the individual in a Japanese company who has outside directors. When nominating directors who are the company seal and represents it in transactions—will members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, the submit the proposed names and, to ensure transparency, representative directors will submit a list of proposed explain to the independent outside director members of names and, after they have been approved by the Audit the Audit and Supervisory Committee the reasons for and Supervisory Committee, the Board of Directors shall having selected the nominees, and their suitability. decide on the new board members. Corporate Ofﬁcer Compensation System The Dentsu Group Inc. determines the appropriate for Audit and Supervisory Committee members and compensation for Directors as well as Audit and Supervisory Directors on one hand, and the Group’s performance and Committee members based on corporate value, scale, and corporate value on the other. compensation levels, referencing compensation market The plan is designed to promote shared interests with survey data from external specialized institutions. stakeholders, while raising awareness among Audit and The Company introduced a new policy stipulating a Supervisory Committee members and Directors. The latter performance-based stock compensation plan as a mediumCompany members contribute to the sustainable growth, to long-term bonus that was approved at the 170th Ordinary and enhance the mediumto long-term corporate value, of General Meeting of Shareholders, held in March 2019. the Group. The plan clariﬁes the relationship between compensation Corporate Ofﬁcer Compensation Items Applicable by Director Position Director type Base salary Annual bonus Mediumto long-term bonus Internal directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members* ✓ ✓ ✓ Outside directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members ✓ Internal directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members ✓ Outside directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members ✓ * Indicates members who concurrently serve as executive ofﬁcers. Compensation Ratios (1) If performance indicators meet standard values: Mediumto Fixed compensation: 60% Base salary Annual bonus long-term bonus 100% 5% Variable compensation: 40% 60% (2) If performance indicators are below the lower limit: Base salary Fixed compensation: 100% 100% Variable compensation: 0% (3) If performance indicators are above the upper limit: Mediumto Fixed compensation: 40% Base salary Annual bonus long-term bonus 100% 5% Variable compensation: 60% 145% Note: In principle, non-Japanese director compensation is remitted by overseas subsidiaries, and thus is not applicable to the above. Cross-shareholding Ownership Policy With regard to Dentsu Group cross-shareholdings, the basic which the Dentsu Group is invested. policy is to sell or otherwise decrease holdings of shares In line with this basic policy, every year the Board of determined to be of minor signiﬁcance from the Directors examines the individual company shares of all perspectives of whether dividends and other related proﬁts cross-shareholdings held by the Group from a mediumto are in excess of the target cost of capital for the acquisition long-term perspective, carefully examining the objective, price, as well as whether holding the shares contributes to economic rationale, and other factors to verify the maintaining or strengthening transactional relationships or appropriateness of said shareholdings. promoting joint business ventures with the companies in 49 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 For details, please see the Corporate Governance Report on our website. https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/about-us/common/pdf/governance_202001_en.pdf Messages from Outside Directors On January 1, 2020, Dentsu Inc. adopted a pure holding company structure and became Dentsu Group Inc. We have welcomed two new International members to the Board of Directors, increasing our diversity. The creation of a Group governance system and the realization of effective governance are seen as among the most important issues facing the Dentsu Group, which now has 66,000 employees in 145 countries and regions around the world. Viewing itself as a “Teaming Company,” Dentsu Group Inc. aims to maximize and optimize Group company business and ﬁnancial synergies, while contributing to the resolution of global issues by collaborating with a variety of stakeholders. Etsuko Katsu To maximize Group corporate value, achieve sustainable growth, and optimize the allocation of an abundant array of diverse internal resources, Independent Outside Director/ outside directors must strengthen their independent monitoring of business Audit and Supervisory Committee Member execution. As an Audit and Supervisory Committee member, and leveraging my knowledge of ﬁnance, the global economy, and management at companies and universities, I will collaborate and cooperate with the Company’s Internal Audit Ofﬁce and its auditors, in an effort to enhance the value creation process. Even given that the post COVID-19 world is seeing signiﬁcant changes, I have high expectations that the Dentsu Group will continue to drive global value creation. I am delighted to have joined the Dentsu Group Board, which has become more diverse, with three non-Japanese members. This is very important as the Group grows its international operations, which make up 60% of Group revenue. Although many issues are the same throughout the Group, there are signiﬁcant differences in how markets and businesses work in different continents and countries. This means that a diverse board is better able to guide a business as globally spread as Dentsu Group. The role of the Audit and Supervisory Committee (ASC) is crucial in our corporate governance. It reviews ﬁnancial reporting, control and risk management. This is an area in which I have had relevant experience with many companies. I am a qualiﬁed accountant, have served as a CFO in a FTSE-100 company, chaired several UK-listed and private companies, and chaired the Simon Lafﬁn audit committee for a number of public companies. The ASC of course has Independent Outside Director/ wider responsibilities than a Western-style audit committee, in auditing the Audit and Supervisory Committee Member performance of the duties of the representative and other executive directors. We need to ensure that the board promotes the company’s sustainable growth and improves corporate value, proﬁtability, and cash efﬁciency with appropriate risk-taking. I can assure shareholders that the ASC is very active in fulﬁlling this role! Dentsu Group is in very interesting, and at times challenging, markets across the world. We face many different and changing challenges, not least in the current year of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is the role of the Board to keep up to date with these challenges and to enhance the Group as markets change. Dentsu Group continues to develop its corporate governance to respond to these challenges. I look forward to contributing fully to the board in fulﬁlling its duties. 50 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Our Foundation Corporate Governance Compliance and Internal Control Promotion Compliance Promotion System Establishment of Compliance Line Dentsu formulated the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, In addition, Dentsu Japan Network (DJN) set up a according to which directors and executive ofﬁcers who Compliance Line for the reporting of internal violations in the discover violations of prevailing laws or who encounter other public interest, and an external contact point handled by an serious compliance-related issues are required to report outside law ofﬁce was established to ensure that those their ﬁndings immediately to the Executive Committee, seeking consultation or reporting violations are in no way Internal Control and Risk Committee, as well as the Audit and penalized. Moreover, the booklet Compliance Digest was Supervisory Committee. To maintain and improve the level distributed to all DJN companies and training was of employee compliance and ensure employee awareness conducted to promote an understanding of compliance. of compliance-related issues, rules and manuals are developed and training programs conducted. Internal Control Promotion Structure Dentsu Group Inc. Audits Audit and Supervisory Board of Directors Committee Group Executive Internal Control and Report Report Management Committee Risk Committee Dentsu Aegis Network Board Dentsu Japan Network Board Reporting of Reporting of important important items items Dentsu Japan Network Dentsu Aegis Network Dentsu Aegis Network Dentsu Japan Network Internal Control and Risk Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Company Company Company Audits Dentsu Aegis Network Dentsu Japan Network Audits Company Company Company C B A Risk and Audit Team Internal Audit Ofﬁce A B C Note: Gray lines and arrows indicate reporting lines for Audit and Supervisory Committee members. 51 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Establishment of Speak Up! Rejection of Antisocial Forces Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) established an internal The Company and all Group enterprises set up a Basic reporting program, called Speak Up!, for reporting any Policy on the Rejection of Organized Crime Groups and incident of concern or that raises suspicions of wrongdoing Other Antisocial Forces, thereby articulating their in the workplace. Employees can make a report to line determination to take a ﬁrm stand against antisocial forces, managers, HR staff or senior managers, or they can follow as groups and individuals seeking economic proﬁt through internal grievance procedures. Appropriate legal and/or violence are known in Japan. Business partners have been disciplinary action will be taken against perpetrators of asked to take the same action. fraud and other wrongdoing. For details regarding this policy, please refer to: DAN also employs Safecall Limited, an independent https://www.dentsu.co.jp/en/csr/compliance/compliance.html specialist that employees can contact anonymously on the phone, by email, and through a website, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and in a number of languages. Tax Behavior Principle The Dentsu Group formulated its Tax Mission Statement and Tax Strategy to maintain consistency with Dentsu Incident of concern or suspicion of wrongdoing Group business strategies and activities, corporate values within the workplace and social responsibilities, as well as to maintain and improve Group value by taking appropriate tax positions • Bullying or harassment and paying taxes as appropriate. • Theft or fraud For details regarding tax behavior principles, please refer to: • Bribery and corruption https://www.dentsu.co.jp/en/csr/compliance/respectforlaws.html • Information security breaches (e.g., loss or theft of personal/ sensitive data) • Abuse or inﬂation of expenses • Non-compliance with contractual obligations • Accounting and tax malpractice Corruption Prevention Response The Dentsu Group instituted anti-corruption policies to ensure that we conduct business in an honest, fair, and transparent manner. In compliance with bribery regulations in the countries and communities around the world where we do business, Dentsu Group is proscribed from involvement in corrupt acts designed to enable the Company to obtain unfair proﬁts. In order to meet our social responsibilities and conduct sound business activities, we shall strive always to cultivate compliance awareness through in-house training. Bid to End Bribery by Group Companies Abroad DAN provides compliance training on the intranet for Group companies outside of Japan, the participation rate of which is 90％ and more. As a follow-up, each company also holds its own training sessions and strives to raise employee awareness regarding bribery. 52 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Data Financial Data Summary Consolidated Financial Data (Millions of Yen) 2014*1 2015*1 2016 2017 2018 2019 Proﬁt and loss statement Turnover 4,642,901 4,990,854 4,924,933 5,187,300 5,357,278 5,146,802 Revenue 725,886 818,566 838,359 928,841 1,018,512 1,047,881 Revenue less cost of sales 676,882 761,996 789,043 877,622 932,680 939,385 Operating proﬁt (loss) 137,558 128,212 137,681 137,392 111,638 (3,358) Proﬁt (loss) before tax 139,004 126,739 132,918 149,662 148,751 (42,769) Proﬁt (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent 81,409 83,090 83,501 105,478 90,316 (80,893) EBITDA 178,883 175,454 184,064 194,073 171,406 160,280 Underlying operating proﬁt*2 133,402 160,438 166,565 163,946 153,229 140,751 Underlying net proﬁt*3 89,179 113,388 112,972 107,874 97,419 76,120 Balance sheet Total assets — 3,066,075 3,155,230 3,562,857 3,638,488 3,795,729 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent — 1,068,216 932,742 1,093,211 1,047,619 974,977 Cash ﬂow Net cash ﬂow from operating activities — — 143,585 141,557 133,049 79,957 Net cash ﬂow from investing activities — — (156,161) (85,531) (61,382) (76,051) Net cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities — — 2,539 1,226 57,522 (7,803) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period — — 242,410 305,760 416,668 414,055 Number of employees — 47,324 55,843 60,064 62,608 66,400 Number of consolidated subsidiaries — 760 844 911 976 1,004 *1 2014 and 2015 are reported on a pro forma basis. *2 Underlying operating proﬁt: KPI to measure recurring business performance which is calculated as operating proﬁt added with amortization of M&A related intangible assets, acquisition costs, share-based compensation expenses related to acquired companies and one-off items such as impairment loss and gain/loss on sales of non-current assets. *3 Underlying net proﬁt (attributable to owners of the parent): KPI to measure recurring net proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent which is calculated as net proﬁt (attributable to owners of the parent) added with adjustment items related to operating proﬁt, revaluation of earnout liabilities/M&A related put-option liabilities, gain/loss on sales of shares of associates, tax-related and NCI proﬁt-related and other one-off items. Note: The Group has adopted IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” from the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018, and IFRS 16 “Leases” from the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2019. The ﬁgures for prior years are not restated and based on the former standards. 53 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 (%) 2014*1 2015*1 2016 2017 2018 2019 Organic growth rate*2 — 7.0 5.1 0.1 3.4 (1.0) Japan — 3.9 4.5 (0.3) 2.1 0.4 International 10.3 9.4 5.7 0.4 4.3 (1.9) Operating margin*3 19.7 21.1 21.1 18.7 16.4 15.0 Japan 24.2 26.0 26.8 24.5 21.7 19.1 International 15.3 16.9 16.2 14.6 12.9 12.2 Return on equity*4 (ROE) 8.2 7.7 8.3 10.4 8.4 (8.0) Underlying ROE*5 9.0 10.6 11.3 10.6 9.1 7.5 Return on assets (ROA)*6 — — 4.3 4.5 4.1 (1.2) Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (Equity ratio)*7 — 34.8 29.6 30.7 28.8 25.7 Basic earnings per share (yen) 282.31 289.95 292.85 373.11 320.39 (287.92) Basic underlying proﬁt per share (yen) 309.26 395.67 396.20 381.58 345.59 270.94 Cash dividend per share (yen) 55 75 85 90 90 95 Dividend payout ratio*8 19.5 25.9 29.0 24.1 28.1 — Underlying dividend payout ratio*9 17.8 19.0 21.5 23.6 26.0 35.1 *1 2014 and 2015 are reported on a pro forma basis. *2 Organic growth rate represents the constant currency year-on-year growth after adjusting for the effect of business acquired or disposed of since the beginning of the previous year. *3 Operating margin = Underlying operating proﬁt ÷ Revenue less cost of sales x 100 *4 ROE (IFRS) = Proﬁt for the year attributable to owners of the parent ÷ Average equity attributable to owners of the parent based on equity at the beginning and end of the ﬁscal year x 100 (Fiscal year-end before alignment across the Group means March) *5 Underlying ROE = Underlying net proﬁt (attributable to owners of the parent) ÷ Average equity attributable to owners of the parent based on equity at the beginning and end of the ﬁscal year x 100 (Fiscal year-end before alignment across the Group means March) *6 ROA (IFRS) = Proﬁt before tax ÷ Average total assets based on total assets at the beginning and end of the ﬁscal year x 100 *7 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent = Equity attributable to owners of the parent ÷ Total assets *8 Dividend payout ratio = Cash dividend per share ÷ Basic earnings per share x 100 *9 Underlying dividend payout ratio = Cash dividend per share ÷ Basic underlying proﬁt per share x 100 Organic Growth Rate Operating Margin Consolidated Japan International Consolidated Japan International (%) (%) 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 -5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Return on Equity (ROE) / Underlying ROE Cash Dividend per Share / Dividend Payout Ratio / ROE Underlying ROE Underlying Dividend Payout Ratio (%) Cash dividend per share Dividend payout ratio 15 (Yen) Underlying dividend payout ratio (%) 100 50 10 80 40 5 60 30 0 40 20 -5 20 10 -10 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 54 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Data ESG Data Summary Consolidated Data Governance Data 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 As of March 2020 Directors 9 12 12 12 12 12 Outside directors (independent outside directors) 3(3) 3(3) 4(4) 4(4) 4(4) 5(4) Ratio of independent outside directors (%) 33.3 25.0 33.3 33.3 33.3 33.3 Female directors 1 1 2 2 2 2 Ratio of female directors (%) 11.1 8.3 16.7 16.7 16.7 16.7 Board of Director meeting attendance rate (%) 91.9 95.4 96.9 98.0 96.9 * Attendance rate of independent outside directors at Board of Director meetings (%) 83.3 96.1 96.3 98.5 93.8 * * Not calculated as 2020 is in progress. Social Data Number of Employees (Each year-end) December December December December December 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Consolidated employees 47,324 55,843 60,064 62,608 66,400 Employees and Managers* As of December 2019 Grand total Male Female Female Component Employees 66,400 34,460 31,940 48.1% Dentsu Inc. 7,071 4,765 2,306 32.6% Dentsu Japan Network except for Dentsu Inc. 12,771 8,248 4,523 35.4% Dentsu Aegis Network 46,558 21,447 25,111 53.9% Managers 3,261 2,787 474 14.5% Dentsu Inc. 805 744 61 7.6% Dentsu Japan Network except for Dentsu Inc. 1,929 1,684 245 12.7% Dentsu Aegis Network 527 359 168 31.9% * Calculated as Managers within Dentsu and domestic Group companies and Ofﬁcer class within DAN. Community Activities Dentsu Japan Dentsu Aegis Consolidated Network Network Donations (Yen) 808,054,171 664,412,477 143,641,694 Participants in volunteer activities 14,941 513 14,428 Hours spent participating in volunteer activities 78,247 5,994 72,253 55 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Environmental Performance Data 2017 2018 2019 CO2 emissions (tons) 113,134 113,791 121,156 Dentsu Inc. 28,991 27,624 37,071 Dentsu Japan Network except for Dentsu Inc. 16,443 16,223 19,584 Dentsu Aegis Network 67,700 70,045 64,500 CO2 emission intensity (tons per FTE) 2.11 1.88 1.89 Scope 1 (tons) 5,611 4,981 4,888 Dentsu Inc. 452 104 89 Dentsu Japan Network except for Dentsu Inc. 417 322 255 Dentsu Aegis Network 4,742 4,555 4,544 Scope 2 (market-based, tons) 48,573 39,130 29,074 Dentsu Inc. 20,287 18,868 16,821 Dentsu Japan Network except for Dentsu Inc. 8,258 7,645 7,381 Dentsu Aegis Network 20,028 12,617 4,873 Scope 3 (tons) 58,949 69,679 87,194 1. Purchased goods and services 2,396 2,087 1,481 5. Waste generated in operations 1,110 1,627 1,246 6. Business travel 52,603 62,253 79,417 7. Employee commuting 2,841 3,713 5,049 Amount of waste (kg) 6,665,499 7,884,635 6,456,545 Dentsu Inc. 2,884,696 2,196,440 1,751,954 Dentsu Japan Network except for Dentsu Inc. 1,444,553 1,550,789 1,494,591 Dentsu Aegis Network 2,336,250 4,137,406 3,210,000 Water consumption (m³) 458,786 806,030 776,321 Dentsu Inc. 133,048 125,331 128,459 Dentsu Japan Network except for Dentsu Inc. 143,299 148,063 187,349 Dentsu Aegis Network 182,439 532,636 460,513 Scope and Method of Calculation • Excluding some Dentsu Group companies • Based on the calculation standards of WRI (World Resources Institute) GHG Protocol • For CO2 emissions, Categories 1, 5, 6, and 7 were calculated for Scope 3 • The volume of waste generated (in kg) is the sum of general waste and industrial waste (including waste oil, waste plastic) • The volume of water resources used is the sum of municipal water and gray water at the Tokyo Head Ofﬁce, and the municipal water used at the Kansai Branch Ofﬁce and Chubu Branch Ofﬁce • For improved accuracy, the values of the previous ﬁscal years have been revised Third-Party Assurance LR Independent Assurance Statement The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Relating to GHG and Social Data of Dentsu Group within Dentsu Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited Integrated Report 2020 for the Calendar Year 2019 assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Dentsu Corporation in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. LR’s approach LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with ISAE 30000 and ISO 14064-3 for GHG emissions Terms of engagement data. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LR) was commissioned by Dentsu Corporation (“the Company”) to engagement: provide independent assurance on its greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions data and social data within its Dentsu x Auditing the Company’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, Integrated Report 2020 (“the report”) for the calendar year 2019, that is, from 1 January 2019 to 31 December omissions or mis-statements in the report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling 2019, against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification; professional judgement of the verifier using ISAE3000 and ISO14064-3:2006 for GHG emissions data. x Interviewing with key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the report; x Sampling datasets and tracing activity data back to aggregated levels; Our assurance engagement covered the operations and activities of the Company and its consolidated x Verifying the historical GHG emissions data and records for the calendar year 2019; subsidiaries in Japan and overseas and specifically the following requirements: x Teleconferencing with key peoples in Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. in London to assess whether the data x Verifying conformance with the Company’s reporting methodologies for the selected dataset: management systems have been effectively implemented; and x Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data listed below: x By implementing a “No Visitor” Policy due to the global infection spread of COVID-19, the interview and The rate of women in leadership, the amount of donations, the verification for Dentsu Creative X Inc. and Dentsu Digital Inc. were conducted remotely via Microsoft GHG emissions data 1 2 Teams. x Scope 1 GHG emissions (tonnes CO2e) x Scope 2 GHG emissions (Market-based and Location-based) (tonnes CO2e) Observations x Scope 3 GHG emissions (Category 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8) (tonnes CO2e) The Company should further demonstrate the completeness, accuracy and reliability of its future environmental and social data reporting. Regarding Scope 3 GHG emissions, This is particular to establish Social data the number of participants in volunteer activities, the robust internal data control systems at consolidated subsidiary levels. x The rate of women in leadership (%) 3 x The amount of donation (Japanese kYen) LR’s standards, competence and independence x The number of volunteers LR implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements x The total hours of attendance of the volunteers (hours) for ISO 14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021-1 Conformity assessment – Requirements for Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of the Company’s suppliers, contractors and hours spent participating in volunteer activities, and CO2 bodies providing audit and certification of management systems – Part 1: Requirements that are at least as any third-parties mentioned in the report. demanding as the requirements of the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. LR’s responsibility is only to the Company. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. The Company’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and data and information within the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior which the report is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of the emissions (greenhouse gas emissions) from the Dentsu management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. Company. This is the only work undertaken by LR for the Company and as such does not compromise our independence LR’s Opinion or impartiality. Based on LR’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the Company has not, in all material respects: Signed Dated: 15 June 2020 x Met the requirements above Group are veriﬁed, and certiﬁcation is provided (left), by x Disclosed accurate and reliable environmental and social data which is disclosed in the report and as summarised in Table 1 and 2 below. Norihiko Kinoshita LR Lead Verifier 1 On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty. 2 10th Floor, Queen's Tower A, 2-3-1 Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, JAPAN Environmental data for 6 subsidiaries that were directly invested in CY2019 are not covered in the scope. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd (LRQA). 3 LR reference: YKA4005213 The number of women in management positions at Dentsu Aegis Network is calculated based on the number of officers and above. Page 1 of 3 Page 2 of 3 56 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Data ESG Data Summary Individual Data Dentsu Inc. Employee-related Data As of December Number of Employees (Each year-end) Average Age of Employees 2019 December 2015 December 2016 December 2017 December 2018 December 2019 Total 40.9 Dentsu Employees 7,261 6,799 6,927 6,921 7,071 Male 42.8 Female 37.0 New Graduates Hired Average Number of As of December April 2016 April 2017 April 2018 April 2019 April 2020 Consecutive Years Served 2019 Total 144 145 145 141 123 Total 13.8 Male 88 82 84 73 67 Male 16.1 Female 56 63 61 68 56 Female 9.1 Female Component (%) 38.9 43.4 42.0 48.2 45.5 Number of Employees by As of December Number of New Graduates and Mid-career Personnel Hired Generation* 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Under 30 years of age 1,141 Total 152 176 244 240 68 30–39 years of age 2,309 Male 108 115 158 158 50 40–49 years of age 1,897 Female 44 61 86 82 18 50–59 years of age 1,437 Female Component (%) 28.9 34.7 35.2 34.2 26.5 Over 60 years of age 287 Total 7,071 * Includes employees on temporary assignment but does not include accepted temporary assignees. Employee Composition*1 As of December 2019 As of March 2020 Male Female Total Male Female Total Executive ofﬁcers, others*2 45 4 49 30 2 32 Managers 1,587 166 1,753 1,608 168 1,776 Non-managers 2,391 1,079 3,470 2,292 1,049 3,341 Contract employees 313 368 681 310 376 686 Clerical staff 0 490 490 0 482 482 Partners / senior staff 174 44 218 170 43 213 Part-timers, others*3 51 34 85 51 35 86 Seconded from other entities 204 121 325 196 116 312 Total 4,765 2,306 7,071 4,657 2,271 6,928 *1 Employees on temporary assignments are excluded. *2 Includes senior corporate advisors, special advisors, and executive ofﬁcers (excluding Director and Corporate Auditor). *3 Indicates permanent part-timers, nonpermanent part-timers, and employees of overseas branches. Employee Engagement Survey Survey of the Company and Work (%) January 2016 January 2017 January 2018 January 2019 Q. Have you gained experience and knowledge made possible only by working at Dentsu? 94.4 93.2 92.3 92.9 Q. Are you proud to work at Dentsu? 86.8 80.2 78.4 80.0 Q. Going forward, do you want to continue working at Dentsu? 75.6 73.5 72.1 72.6 Health and Safety Health Checkup Rate 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 76.1 95.5 96.6 95.4 97.2 Note: Period of data collection: Nine months spanning April–December 2015 57 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Work–Life Balance Average Number of Paid Vacation Days Taken 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 8.4 11.2 12.8 13.2 12.6 Male 7.5 10.2 12.1 12.9 12.2 Female 10.6 13.9 14.5 14.0 13.4 Leave Taken (%) 42.0 56.0 64.0 66.0 62.8 Note: Period of data collection: Nine months spanning April–December 2015 Employees Taking Childcare Leave, Reinstatement Ratio 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 81 81 106 155 232 Male 15 31 47 102 164 Female 66 50 59 53 68 Reinstatement ratio (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Total Hours Worked per Year (Per Non-manager Employees)*1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 2,187 2,166 2,031* 2 1,952 1,903 *1 Following the change in management of working hours, the number of actual working hours was revised in FY2017. *2 Including management positions from FY2017. Leveraging Diverse Human Resources Employment Rate of People with Disabilities (%)* June 2016 June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 June 2020 Total 2.04 2.07 2.14 2.35 2.38 * As of June of each year, total of four companies under the special subsidiary system (Dentsu Group, Dentsu Solari, Dentsu, Dentsu Works), until 2019, three companies combined (Dentsu, Dentsu Solari, Dentsu Works) Number of Post-retirement Rehires 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 53 46 51 58 67 Male 44 35 41 53 55 Female 9 11 10 5 12 Compliance Compliance Line Reports (Cases)* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Dentsu Total 15 7 9 24 17 * Total from Dentsu and Group companies in Japan. Dentsu Aegis Network As of December Average Number of As of December As of December Average Age of Employees 2019 Consecutive Years Served 2019 Employees by Age (%)* 2019 Total 34.0 Total 4.0 Under 30 years of age 35.8 30–39 years of age 38.2 40–49 years of age 16.7 50–59 years of age 5.9 Over 60 years of age 1.0 * Excludes certain employees. 58 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Data Corporate Data Subsidiaries and Afﬁliates As of December 31, 2019, the Dentsu Group includes 1,004 consolidated subsidiaries and 96 afﬁliated companies accounted for by the equity method. Consolidated Subsidiaries Dentsu East Japan Inc. Carta Holdings, Inc.*² Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 52.8% Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe Description of Business: Advertising in the Description of Business: Group management GmbH Kanto and Tohoku regions as well as Shizuoka strategy policy formulation and general Geographic Area: Germany and Niigata prefectures corporate operations Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu West Japan Inc. Information Services International-Dentsu, Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Ltd.*² *³ Dentsu Aegis Network France SAS*³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: France Description of Business: Advertising in the Equity Held by Dentsu: 61.8% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Chugoku region and Shikoku as well as Equity Held Indirectly: 0.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Hyogo, Ishikawa, Fukui and Toyama Description of Business: Information systems prefectures building; software sales, and support for Aegis International Holding Company BV*³ various business areas Geographic Area: Netherlands Dentsu Kyushu Inc. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Dentsu Works Inc. Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Description of Business: Advertising in Kyushu Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu McGarry Bowen, LLC*³ Description of Business: Environment-related Geographic Area: USA Dentsu Hokkaido Inc. consulting, building management, real estate Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan services and business consulting services Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Advertising in Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd.*³ 360i LLC*³ Hokkaido Geographic Area: United Kingdom Geographic Area: USA Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Meitetsu Communications Inc.*¹ Description of Business: Headquarters of the Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Dentsu Group’s global business, which Equity Held by Dentsu: 50.0% Dentsu Aegis Network US Holdings, Inc.*³ oversees operations outside of Japan Description of Business: Total advertising Geographic Area: USA services, specializing in promotion and out-ofDentsu Aegis London Ltd. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% home media Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% The Goal Inc. Merkle Group Inc. Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: USA Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Aegis International Ltd.*³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 74.6% Description of Business: Fashion and Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held Indirectly: 74.6% accessories industry advertising Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Agenciaclic Midia Interativa S.A.*³ Dentsu Ad-Gear Inc. Geographic Area: Brazil Geographic Area: Japan Portman Square US Holdings Ltd.*³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 66.7% Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Description of Business: Advertising Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% company specializing in out-of-home media Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Dentsu Aegis (Shanghai) Investment Co., Ltd. and store promotions Geographic Area: China Aegis Group Participations Ltd.*³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Digital Inc. Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Beijing Dentsu Advertising Co., Ltd. Description of business: Consulting, Geographic Area: China Aegis Toriton Ltd. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% development and implementation, management Geographic Area: United Kingdom and operation in all digital marketing domains Aegis Media Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd.*³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Live Inc. Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Singapore Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Aegis GPS Holdings Ltd.*³ Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: United Kingdom Description of Business: Planning and Dentsu Aegis Network Australia Holdings Pty. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% production of events, support of operations Ltd.*³ Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% related to event spaces, etc. Geographic Area: Australia Aegis Finance Ltd. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Tec Inc. Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Aegis Network Australia Pty. Ltd.*³ Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Description of Business: Planning and Geographic Area: Australia production for sales promotions, events, DAN Regents Place Finance Limited*³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% commercials, print, etc. Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% and 967 other companies Dentsu Direct Marketing Inc. Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan *1 Although Dentsu’s ownership is 50% or less, the Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% company is considered a subsidiary because Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe Dentsu exerts effective control. Description of Business: Provision of solutions Holding GmbH *2 Company that submits an annual securities related to direct and digital marketing Geographic Area: Germany report *3 Speciﬁed subsidiary 59 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 Afﬁliated Companies Accounted for by the Equity Method Video Research Ltd. D2C Inc. Septeni Holdings Co., Ltd.* Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 34.2% Equity Held by Dentsu: 46.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 21.0% Description of Business: TV audience rating Description of Business: Specializes in digital Description of Business: Integrated Group surveys, radio audience rating surveys, advertising and marketing for NTT Docomo company management through shareholdings and other research and other advertising products and other means and 93 additional companies * Company that submits an annual securities report Information for Shareholders (As of December 31, 2019) Dentsu Group Inc. Stock Exchange Listing Transfer Agent (Launched on January 1, 2020) Tokyo Stock Exchange, First Section The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Securities code: 4324 4-5, Marunouchi 1-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Corporate Headquarters 100-8212, Japan 1-8-1, Higashi-shimbashi, Minato-ku, Capital Tokyo 105-7050, Japan 74,609.81 million yen Internet Address Phone: +81-3-6217-6600 https://www.group.dentsu.com/en/ Total Number of Shares Issued Contact Info 288,410,000 Investor Relations Department, General Meeting of Shareholders Group IR Ofﬁce, The Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders 1-8-1, Higashi-shimbashi, Minato-ku, is held in Tokyo in March each year. Tokyo 105-7050, Japan https://contact.group.dentsu.com/m/en_ir Share Information (As of December 31, 2019) Breakdown of Shareholders by Type Major Shareholders (Top 10) Percentage of Percentage of Number of Number of Number of Total Number of Major Shareholders Total Number of Shareholders Shares Held Shares Held Shares Issued Shares Issued Japanese ﬁnancial institutions 87 92,127,100 31.94 The Master Trust Bank of 35,565,100 12.84 Japan, Ltd. (Trust accounts) Japanese securities ﬁrms 46 9,628,864 3.34 Kyodo News 18,988,800 6.86 Other Japanese corporations 623 76,661,473 26.58 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Japanese individuals (Trust accounts) 16,280,700 5.88 and others 39,437 52,330,525 18.14 (Including treasury stock) Jiji Press, Ltd. 16,178,680 5.84 Foreign institutions and individuals 637 57,662,038 19.99 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 9) 8,907,000 3.22 Total 40,830 288,410,000 100.00 Group Employees’ Stockholding 6,047,569 2.18 Association Yoshida Hideo Memorial 4,984,808 1.80 Foundation Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. 4,929,900 1.78 Northern Trust Co. (AVFC) Sub A/C 4,408,818 1.59 American Clients TBS Television 4,000,000 1.44 Notes: 1. The number of shares held by each trust bank includes shares related to trust services. 2. The Company holds 11,522,056 treasury shares but is excluded from the major shareholders listed above. 3. The Percentage of Total Shares Issued is calculated excluding treasury shares. 60 Dentsu Group Integrated Report 2020 1-8-1, Higashi-shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7050, Japan Printed in Japan
