Sustainability Report 2020 CLEAN ENERGY SMART KEPCO CLEAN ENERGY Report Overview SMART KEPCO Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) has been publishing its Sustainability Report every year since 2005 to review its sustainability management activities and achievements, and to transparently provide relevant information to various stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2020 We have integrated our Sustainability Report and Annual Report since 2019, and the Sustainability Report 2020 (hereafter the “Report”) is characterized by its configuration of contents based on ESG issues in order to actively respond to social concerns about the environment, society, and corporate governance. In the process of publishing the Report, a materiality test was conducted to measure stakeholders’ interests and business impacts, and we report in detail on material issues that have been selected as key topics derived from the materiality test. Reporting Guidelines This Report follows the Core Option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. We have also referred to ISO 26000, the principles of the UN Global Compact and the international integrated reporting framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) in compiling this Report. The financial standards and definitions presented in this Report conform to the Korean-International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). In addition, this Report includes recommendations of the Task-force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the industry standards of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) were referenced to reflect material issues of the electric power industry. Reporting Period This Report is based on activities and achievements from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. As for qualitative activities related to several major topics, we have included data up to the first half of 2020, and this Report shows data for the past three years (2017-2019) to identify trends in the case of major quantitative achievements. Both financial and nonfinancial information is presented based on the fiscal year according to the company’s disclosure system, and information that does not meet the above standards is marked with a separate comment. Scope of the Report This Report has been prepared based on KEPCO’s domestic and international sustainability achievements. Some of the economic and environmental data include that from six power generation companies (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd, Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd, Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd, Korea Western Power Co., Ltd, Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd, and Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd), fully owned by KEPCO. The financial information is based on the K-IFRS’s independent financial statements, and the contents of the consolidated standards are marked with separate comments. Independent Assurance This Report has been verified for its reliability through an independent assurance process conducted by a professional verification organization, the Korea Sustainability Investing Forum (KoSIF). A detailed assurance statement can be found on pages 114-115 of this Report. CONTENTS CEO Message 04 OVERVIEW KEPCO ESG Highlights 08 KEPCO Profile 10 06 Status of KEPCO Group Companies Value Chain of the Electric Power Industry 12 14 SUSTAINABILITY COVID-19 Response 18 KEPCO Strategy 20 16 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment 24 26 Impact Valuation Management 28 PERFORMANCE B Business 32 30 Creating Future Growth Engines 33 Electrical Infrastructure and Service Innovation 44 E Environmental 50 Responding to Climate Crisis 51 Environmental Management 60 S Social 62 Social Value Realization 63 Job Creation 64 Pursuing Shared Growth 66 Supply Chain Management 70 Safety and Health Management 72 Human Resource Cultivation 74 Corporate Culture Innovation 76 Social Contribution Activities 78 G Governance 82 BOD and Decision-making 83 Ethical Management 86 Human Rights Management 90 Risk Management 92 APPENDIX Sustainability Data 95 GRI Standards Index 108 94 TCFD Index SASB Index 112 113 Independent Assurance Statement 114 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement 116 Memberships and Awards 117 04 Sustainability Report 2020 CEO Message Dear customers and the general public, shareholders, partners, and all of our stakeholders, I would like to express deepest appreciation to all of you for keen interest and continual support toward KEPCO. It is my great privilege to publish our 16th Sustainability Report through communication and cooperation with our stakeholders. 05 CEO Message We extend our gratitude to respected shareholders, our customers and the general public who have been with us, to our partners for their warm-hearted interest in and support for KEPCO, and to all of our stakeholders. The year 2020 will be remembered as a year when safety around the world was seriously threatened. With COVID-19, uncertainty and volatility has increased explosively. As non-face-to-face transactions and online demand expanded, the importance of digitalization has become more important than ever. It was a time to ponder on how to prepare for the company’s sustainable development. Going forth, KEPCO will continue to make efforts to become the first mover that leads the global trend in “energy transition” and “digital transformation”. In addition to enhancing financial performance, we will do our best to gain the trust of our customers and shareholders in the areas of ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance). First, we will lay the foundation for sustainable growth. KEPCO will lead the rapidly growing new energy industry by securing future technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data, and the Internet of Things, etc. In addition, we will further enhance our competitiveness in the new & renewable energy sector to generate stable profits in domestic and foreign markets. Furthermore, we will continue to increase our financial soundness by rationally changing the electricity tariff system and improving synergies among power group companies. Second, we will improve the efficiency of power supply and the quality of customer service. We will improve the efficiency of power supply by speeding up the digital transformation and take a leap forward from being an energy provider to being an energy platform operator. In addition, we will provide more convenient and diverse services by reforming existing policies and systems to customers. Third, we will increase our capability to respond to climate crisis. We will continue to work to reduce the emissions of fine dust and carbon dioxide by bringing together the power of group companies. We plan to focus more on the R&D of environment-friendly technology and steadily expand our investment in renewable energy generation projects. Furthermore, we will strengthen our efforts to promote the energy transition. Fourth, we will keep upholding the values of safety and integrity. In order for a company to grow steadily, above all else, it must uphold the values of safety and integrity. Based on the mindset of respect for humanity, KEPCO will create a good company to work for, a transparent and ethical company and a company you can trust. We will faithfully fulfill our social responsibilities, such as job creation, shared growth, and consideration for the underprivileged. KEPCO intends to continue to develop into a competitive global company while maintaining the balance between profitability and public interest. We will listen to various opinions from all the stakeholders including shareholders and customers while more actively communicating with them. We ask for your continued trust and support for KEPCO. Thank you. September 2020 JongKap Kim President & CEO of KEPCO OVERVIEW KEPCO creates clean and safe energy. 08 10 12 14 KEPCO KEPCO Status of Value Chain of the ESG Highlights Profile KEPCO Group Companies Electric Power Industry 08 Sustainability Report 2020 KEPCO ESG Highlights E Being Selected by CDP as an Outstanding Company in Responding to Climate Change for Four Consecutive Years KEPCO was listed in the ‘Carbon Management Sector Honors’ in the energy & ENVIRONMENTAL utility sector for the fourth consecutive year at ‘2019 CDP Korea Climate Change Awards’ in April 2020. Over 8,000 companies around the world participated and disclosed their carbon management information in 2019. KEPCO also 1 transparently disclosed strategies to respond to climate crisis, greenhouse gas emission data and endeavors to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. By doing this, KEPCO proved its status as an outstanding company in carbon management as it received the award for four consecutive years from 2016 to 2019. KEPCO will continue to strive to improve the corporate value and lead responding to global climate crisis by actively disclosing carbon-related information to global investors. S Energy Valley Agreement Concluded with More than 430 Companies KEPCO has been working with local governments to promote the energy valley project to create a growth pole for the future energy industry by attracting companies and research institutes in the energy sector. This not only contributes SOCIAL to the national economic development and job creation but also boosts the local 3 economy. As of the first half of 2020, the number of companies that KEPCO has attracted for investment in the energy valley is a total of 465, which is 93% of the initial goal of 500. Alongside creating 10,628 new jobs, it is estimated that the amount of cumulative investment has reached KRW 2.63 trillion. KEPCO will make its utmost effort to reach its target of 500 companies by 2020 and will support them for stable settlement in diverse ways such as providing excellent personnel through customized training courses and optimizing financial support system. G Established the Ethics & Compliance Committee With the aim to strengthen the driving force for ethical and law-abiding management, KEPCO newly established the Ethics & Compliance Committee GOVERNANCE chaired by the CEO, consisting of five standing directors and three external members in 2019. The Ethics & Compliance Committee deliberates on the ethical 5 and law-abiding management plan, checks and evaluates the performance, and proposes and supports for further development. With the aim of improving KEPCO’s ethical management, the Committee was held three times in the first half of 2020, and is obligated by rule to meet once each in the first and second halves of the year. KEPCO recognizes ethical management as an important issue that’s directly related to the organization’s existence and will meet the demand for improving transparency and fairness from external stakeholders. KEPCO ESG Highlights 09 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX The Issuance of Global Green Bonds for Two Consecutive Years and Korean Won-Denominated Sustainable Bonds In June 2020, KEPCO became the first Korean company to issue USD 500 million worth of green bonds for two consecutive years. Based on oversubscription that was more than 10 times higher than initially offered, KEPCO’s green bonds achieved a recordlow interest rate among five-year maturity global US dollar bonds in Korea. Funds raised through these green bonds will be used for investment in the domestic and overseas new and renewable business, the construction of electric vehicle charging infrastructure, 2 the expansion of new and renewable-linked facilities, and energy efficiency projects aimed at the reduction of national GHG emissions. In addition, in October 2019, KEPCO was the first energy company in Korea to successfully issue KRW 200 billion worth of Korean won-denominated sustainable bonds, which will be used for socially responsible investments such as eco-friendly projects, job creation, and investment in SMEs. In the future as well, KEPCO will take the lead in responding to climate crisis and creating social value through the active issuance of ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) bonds. Launched the Social Value Committee KEPCO defines “Social Values” as ‘values that can contribute to the public interest and community development in all areas of society, economy, and environment, etc.’ and further established the ‘Social Value Comprehensive Plan’ consisting of five core values and twenty strategic tasks to realize social values at all stages of the value chain. The Social Value Committee, launched in 2019, consists of eight executives and five external 4 members, and has Chief Business Management Officer as the chairperson. The committee periodically assesses the direction of social value realization through examining its policies and performance of implementation tasks, as well as by proposing development plans. As a representative public corporation, KEPCO will communicate with a wide range of various stakeholders based on the harmonization of public interest and profitability, and will actively strive to fulfill corporate social responsibility. Being Selected as the Best Organization for Self-Audit Evaluation by the Board of Audit and Inspection KEPCO was selected as the best organization in the public sector in recognition of its achievements in the self-audit activity at the ‘2019 Self-Audit Awards Ceremony’ conducted by the Korea Board of Audit and Inspection. Auditors carried out an in-depth examination of audit activities on 624 organizations, including public corporations and quasi-governmental organizations. KEPCO was recognized as the organization performing 6 the best self-audit activities, and has achieved the highest grade for four consecutive years. In addition, the ‘Audit for SPCs performing new energy business’ practice presented by KEPCO at the ‘Self-Audit Contest’ received the Grand Prize, ranking first among the 624 organizations participating in the evaluation. By sharing audit resources with other institutions and strengthening the system for collaboration, KEPCO will take the lead in building a society of integrity so that all public institutions can be trusted by the public. 10 Sustainability Report 2020 KEPCO Profile KEPCO Overview KEPCO is a market-based public corporation established to promote the development of electric power sources, to stabilize the electricity supply and demand, and to contribute to the development of the national economy. KEPCO is leading the energy industry in and out of Korea through ceaseless innovation and challenges in order to stably supply high-quality electric power and strengthen global competitiveness. As of 2019, we stably supplied power to 23 million households nationwide. The annual accumulative power sales volume stood at 520,499GWh, of which 56% was used for the industrial sector, 22% for the general sector, 14% for the residential sector and 8% for other sectors. Corporate Profile Total Assets Sales Amount Number of Employees Power Sales Volume (Consolidated) (Consolidated) (Full-Time Positions) KRW 197.6 trillion KRW 59.2 trillion 22,979 persons 520,499 GWh Company Name Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) Date of Establishment January 26, 1898 Address 55, Jeollyeok-ro (120, Bitgaram-dong) Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, Republic of Korea CEO JongKap Kim Areas of Business Power Resource Development, R&D, Electric Power Generation·Transmission·Substation·Distribution and Sale, Overseas Business, etc. Form of Business Government-Invested Institution Paid-in Capital KRW 4.1 trillion (US $3.4 billion) Korea Development Bank 32.9% Underlying Shares American Depositary Shareholder Structure and Shares Government 18.2% Listing Receipts (ADR) Listing Stock Listing Outstanding National Pension Fund 7.9% (As of Dec 31, 2019) KRX (Korea Exchange) NYSE (New York Stock Exchange) 641,964,077 Foreigners 24.1% Date of listing Aug. 1989 Date of listing Oct. 1994 Securities Code 015760 KS Securities Code KEP US ‌Corporations and Individuals 16.9% Domestic Overseas Credit Rating NICE A1 / AAA Moody’s Aa2 (As of Dec 31, 2019) KIS A1 S&P AA KR AAA Fitch AAKEPCO History ~ 1980’s 1990’s 1898. 1 Founding of the Hansung Electric Company 1994. 10 Listed on the New York Stock Exchange 1978. 4 Completed Kori Nuclear Power Plant 1995. 2 Won bid to operate the Malaya Power Plant in the Philippines 1982. 1 Establishment of Korea Electric Power Corporation 1997. 6 Won the Edison Award (1997, 2006) 1983. 4 Capacity of domestic power generation facilities exceeds 10 million kW 1997. 10 Completed HVDC connection between Jeju Island and the mainland 1983. 5 Completed the first domestic LNG generator (Pyeongtaek Thermal Power Plant Unit 3) 1997. 11 Won bid to construct and operate the Ilijan Power Plant in the Philippines 1986. 11 Completed construction of company headquarters in Samseong-dong 1998. 3 Celebrated the 100th anniversary of electric power business 1987. 4 Celebrated the 100th anniversary of electricity 1998. 12 Launched KEPCO Cyber Branch 1987. 6 Peak demand for electric power exceeds 10 million kW 1999. 5 Enacted and promulgated the Charter of electric power service 1989. 8 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange 1999. 7 Began installing underground distribution lines as requested by local governments KEPCO Profile 11 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX KEPCO Group Companies Transmission & Distribution ※ ( ) Share ratio of KEPCO Korea Hydro & Korea South-East Korea Midland Korea Western Korea Southern Korea East-West Power Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Power Co., Ltd. Power Co., Ltd. Power Co., Ltd. Power Co., Ltd. Generation Power Co., Ltd. (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) Nuclear, Hydroelectric Thermal and Renewable Thermal and Renewable Thermal and Renewable Thermal and Renewable Thermal and Renewable and Renewable Power Power Generation Power Generation Power Generation Power Generation Power Generation Generation KEPCO Nuclear KEPCO E&C KEPCO KPS KEPCO KDN KEPCO MCS KEPCO CSC KEPCO FMS Others* (65.8%) (51.0%) Fuel Company (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (96.4%) Nuclear Fuel Meter Reading, Power Generation Power Generation Electric Power IT Electrical Facility Manufacturing and Billing, and Electricity Engineering Facility Maintenance Service Consultation Service Maintenance Service Designing Disconnection * Others : Major subsidiaries and affiliates excluding power generation companies ※ Listed on the stock market of KEPCO group companies : KEPCO, KEPCO E&C, KEPCO KPS (There are eight listed public institutions out of total 340) 2000’s 2010’s 2001. 4 Spun off six generation subsidiaries 2010. 5 Achieved S-grade in public institution performance evaluation for the first time 2002. 1 Started remote meter-reading for all high-voltage customers 2013. 10 Hosted the World Energy Congress 2013 in Daegu 2002. 5 Independently developed a new light-water reactor, APR1400 2014. 10 Hosted the 20th Conference on Electric Power Supply Industry (CEPSI) 2002. 6 Completed the Ilijan Power Plant, the largest combined-cycle in the Philippines 2014. 12 Moved headquarters to Naju Innovation City 2004. 5 Created KEPCO Social Service Team 2015. 10 Held Bitgaram International Exposition of Electric Power Technology (BIXPO 2015) 2005. 3 Started power supply to the Kaesong Industrial Complex 2016. 5 Ranked first in the electric utility sector in Forbes Global 2000 2005. 11 Completed voltage upgrade to 220V for distribution 2018. 2 Achieved uninterrupted electric power supply for the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics 2008. 2 Awarded the grand prize at the Korea Ethical Management Awards 2019. 4 Established the Data Science Lab 2009. 12 Exported nuclear power plant overseas for the first time (UAE) 2019. 5 Won the CIO 100 Award for four consecutive years 12 Sustainability Report 2020 Status of KEPCO Group Companies (As of Dec 31, 2019) Power Generation Companies Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd. 1655, Bulguk-ro, Yangbuk-myeon, 32, Sadeul-ro 123beon-gil, Jinju-si, Address Address Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea Number of Employees 12,584 Number of Employees 2,545 Website www.khnp.co.kr Website www.koenergy.kr Share Ratio 100% Share Ratio 100% 28,584MW 10,377MW Total Installed Capacity (22.8% of the Total Domestic Power Total Installed Capacity (8.3% of the Total Domestic Power Generation Facilities) Generation Facilities) 150,277GWh 64,046GWh Generation Capacity (26.7% of the Gross Domestic Power Generation Capacity (11.4% of the Gross Domestic Power Generation) Generation) Revenue KRW 8.982627 trillion Revenue KRW 5.420488 trillion Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. is the only company that runs nuclear Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd. is operating five power plants including power plants in Korea and is operating hydroelectric and pumped-storage Samcheonpo Power Generation Division, Yeongheung Power Generation hydroelectric power plants. Division, Yeongdong Eco Power Generation Division, Yeosu Power Generation Division and Bundang Power Generation Division. Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. 160, Boryeongbuk-ro, Boryeong-si, 285, Jungang-ro, Taean-eup, TaeanAddress Address Chungcheongnam-do, Korea gun, Chungcheongnam-do, Korea Number of Employees 2,774 Number of Employees 2,545 Website www.komipo.co.kr Website www.westernpower.co.kr Share Ratio 100% Share Ratio 100% 10,690MW 11,338MW Total Installed Capacity (8.5% of the Total Domestic PowerTotal Installed Capacity (9.0% of the Total Domestic Power Generation Facilities) Generation Facilities) 45,715GWh 46,502GWh Generation Capacity (8.1% of the Gross Domestic Power Generation Capacity (8.3% of the Gross Domestic Power Generation) Generation) Revenue KRW 4.547414 trillion Revenue KRW 4.468579 trillion Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. is operating five power plants including Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. is operating four power plants including Taean Boryeong Power Generation Division, Incheon Power Generation Division, Power Generation Division, Pyeongtaek Power Generation Division, West Seoul Construction Division, Shin-Boryeong Power Generation Division, Jeju Incheon Power Generation Division, and Gunsan Power Generation Division. Power Generation Division and Sejong Power Generation Division. Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. 40, Munhyeongeumyung-ro, Nam395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan, Address Address gu, Busan, Korea Korea Number of Employees 2,470 Number of Employees 2,576 Website www.kospo.co.kr Website www.ewp.co.kr Share Ratio 100% Share Ratio 100% 11,283MW 11,193MW Total Installed Capacity (9% of the Total Number of PowerTotal Installed Capacity (8.9% of the Total Number of PowerGeneration Facilities) Generation Facilities) 51,331GWh 50,913GWh Generation Capacity (9.1% of the Gross Domestic Power Generation Capacity (9.0% of the Gross Domestic Generation) Power Generation) Revenue KRW 5.439314 trillion Revenue KRW 4.896033 trillion Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. is operating seven power plants including Hadong Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. is operating five power plants including Ilsan Power Generation Division, Shin-Incheon Power Generation Division, Busan Power Thermal Power Generation Division, Dangjin Thermal Power Generation Division, Generation Division, South Jeju Power Generation Division, Yeongwol Power Honam Thermal Power Generation Division, Ulsan Thermal Power Generation Generation Division, Andong Power Generation Division and Division, and Donghae Bio Thermal Power Generation Division. Samcheok Power Generation Division. Status of KEPCO Group Companies 13 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Major Invested Companies KEPCO E&C KEPCO KPS Hyeoksin-ro, Gimcheon-si, 211, Munhwa-ro, Naju-si, JeollanamAddress Address Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea do, Korea Number of Employees 2,371 Number of Employees 6,601 Website www.kepco-enc.com Website www.kps.co.kr Share Ratio 65.8% Share Ratio 51.0% Revenue KRW 448.635 billion Revenue KRW 1,246.950 billion KEPCO E&C is an engineering company related to power-generation facilities KEPCO KPS is a comprehensive power plant servicing company that conducts and plants. Since its establishment in 1975, KEPCO E&C has designed nuclear high-quality maintenance of power-generation facilities, transmission and power plants as well as hydroelectric and thermal power plants and carried substation facilities and industrial facilities. By implementing test-operating out power generation facility O&M, plant construction projects and PM / CM maintenance in the process of constructing power plants, along with routine businesses. operational maintenance, planned outage maintenance, renovations, etc., KEPCO KPS is contributing to the prevention of sudden failures and an increase in the usage rates of facilities. KEPCO Nuclear Fuel KEPCO KDN 242, Daedeok-daero 989-gil, 661, Bitgaram-ro, Naju-si, JeollanamAddress Address Daejeon, Korea do, Korea Number of Employees 1,189 Number of Employees 2,829 Website www.knfc.co.kr Website www.kdn.com Share Ratio 96.4% Share Ratio 100% Revenue KRW 309.055 billion Revenue KRW 625.567 billion KEPCO Nuclear Fuel is a nuclear fuel design and manufacturing company KEPCO KDN is in charge of IT works for KEPCO and provides total IT services established for the localization of nuclear fuel and for technological related to all power systems, including information system establishment and independence. It produces and supplies nuclear fuel for domestic light-water operation, electric power IT service, information communication infrastructure reactors and heavy-water reactors. establishment and maintenance, information security, etc. KEPCO MCS KEPCO CSC 7, Sangya 1-gil, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, 685, Bitgaram-ro, Naju-si, JeollanamAddress Address Korea do, Korea Number of Employees 4,567 Number of Employees 921 Website www.kepcomcs.co.kr Website www.kepcocsc.co.kr Share Ratio 100% Share Ratio 100% Revenue KRW 129.393 billion Revenue (Established on December 5, 2019) Established in March 2019, KEPCO MCS provides total metering and customer Established in December 2019, KEPCO CSC has efficiently improved its services throughout the entire process of business, including meter-reading, consulting operations and communication system so that customers billing and electricity disconnection, etc. experience no inconvenience in using electricity. It also offers an artificial intelligence-based interactive consultation channel for customers. KEPCO FMS Power Generation Companies Address 7, Sangya 1-gil, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, Korea 6 companies Number of Employees 1,852 Website www.kepcofms.co.kr Major Invested Companies Share Ratio 100% Revenue KRW 37.627 billion 7 companies Established in March 2019, KEPCO FMS provides maintenance services for KEPCO’s facilities, such as branch offices and substations. 14 Sustainability Report 2020 Value Chain of the Electric Power Industry (As of Dec 31, 2019) INPUT B U S I N E S S Financial Capital Value Chain of Electric Power Industry Total capital and assets available for production Total assets (consolidated) KRW 197,597,792 million Total capital (consolidated) KRW 68,889,649 million Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd. Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. Human Capital Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. Capability, experience, and commitment level of human resources Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. Total number of employees 22,979 persons Power Generation Companies Training hours per employee 95.9 hours Intellectual Capital Intangible assets such as brand, patents, expertise Overseas Businesses R&D costs KRW 363,028 million Joint R&D project in collaboration with SMEs KRW 4,015 million IPPs (Independent Power Producers) Manufactured Capital Korea Power Exchange Tangible assets for production such as building, facilities Purchase of electric power 540,520 GWh Establishment and expansion of electric power facilities KRW 379,736 million KEPCO Group Companies Social Capital PPA Licensee Relationship with stakeholders such as customers, local community, partners, etc. KEPCO E&C KEPCO KPS Donation KRW 12,251 million KEPCO Nuclear Fuel KEPCO KDN Purchase from SMEs KRW 5,406,576 million KEPCO MCS KEPCO CSC KEPCO FMS Natural Capital Resource environment, resource, ecosystem, etc. Community Energy Energy usage 6,936 TJ Licensee Water usage 3,765,707 m 3 Value Chain of the Electric Power Industry 15 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX AC T I V I T I E S OUTPUT Financial Capital Sales (consolidated) KRW 59,172,890 million Market capitalization (closing price) KRW 17,846,601 million Human Capital Substation Creation of new jobs (permanent positions) 1,773 persons Electric Power Sales and Customer Services Fostering human resources for future growth 1,283 persons Large-Scale Customers Intellectual Capital Transmission Distribution Customers Intellectual property rights registered locally and overseas 2,987 cases Securing core strategic technologies (cumulative) 103 cases General Manufactured Capital Customers Electric power sold 520,499 GWh Annual power outage time per unit 8.61 (min / unit) Social Capital Hours spent on volunteer activities by employees 143,890 hours Local jobs creation in the Energy Valley 10,091 persons Natural Capital GHG emissions 1,101,428 tCO eq 2 Amount of recycled waste 26,511 ton SUSTAINABILITY KEPCO walks together toward a brighter future for everyone. 18 20 24 COVID-19 Response KEPCO Strategy Stakeholder Engagement 26 28 Materiality Assessment Impact Valuation Management 18 Sustainability Report 2020 COVID-19 Response The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic on March 11, 2020, indicating the worst prevalence of an infectious disease worldwide. The economic and social impact of COVID-19 has had a ripple effect on companies in every country, and the crisis will likely continue for some time. KEPCO is committed to responding to this global crisis, protecting the safety of its employees, suppliers, customers and communities to overcome the COVID-19 together. Crisis Response System Organization of COVID-19 Response TF Crisis Response by Stage KEPCO has been operating a COVID-19 Response TF since April 2020, As of January 20, 2020 when the first confirmed case was reported in considering the necessity of a comprehensive response to increased Korea, KEPCO announced company-wide warnings against COVID-19. uncertainty in management conditions following the prolongation As the government’s crisis alerts were upgraded to “serious”, KEPCO of the pandemic. Centered on the senior vice president of planning, established comprehensive crisis response measures. Accordingly, the head of the TF, the division of financial management, risk emergency actions were taken in response to the nationwide spread by management and business management are organized to analyze the establishing countermeasures for each confirmed and quarantined case, pandemic’s impact on the company in general. and controlling unnecessary entry and exit of office buildings, etc. Company-wide COVID-19 Response TF Organization Countermeasures in Case of Patients Confirmed with COVID-19 TFT Leader : Corporate Senior Vice President Organization and operation of homeworking group & Chief Financial (Strategy) Officer Preparatory consisting of key workers stage Secretary : Head of Planning (Normal days) Shift in operations representing 20% of employees at HQ & Coordination Team (flexible operation), 1,700 employees in total Financial Management Division Crisis Management Division Business Management Division [Head of Corporate Planning [Head of Safety and Security [Head of Sales & Marketing Key workers working at temporary workplaces + Department] Department] Department] Confirmed all employees working at home Corporate Planning Department, Safety and Security Department, cases reported Sales & Marketing Department, Fully-equipped with business facilities such as Pricing Planning Department, Corporate Communications (Step 1) Distribution Planning Department, Treasury Department, Office, Human Resources Global Business Management communication network and OA facilities KEPCO Management Research Department, Mutual Growth & Department, etc. Institute Cooperations Department Long-term Departments dealing with restoration priority works •‌Analyzing sales impact and •‌Profit and loss forecast and •‌COVID-19 emergency measures moving to alternative workplace securing bonds closure of the response plan establishment implementation •‌Responding to the effects HQs (132 employees from 12 departments and offices) •‌Responding to critical issues •‌Stable power supply and of procurement and facility (Step 2) such as financing and IR customer support Operating nearby regional offices as a unit construction Securing Employee Safety To minimize the possibility of the infection among employees, KEPCO has been operating the Emergency Response Headquarters and Situation Room. In response to the actual situation of the site, the company is flexibly responding according to the response system for each scenario, from quarantine measures to emergency operation and business resumption. In addition, the company carries out quarantine once a week and is allowing business trips only in exceptional cases, such as attendance of urgent meetings and provision of essential customer services. Meanwhile, we provided supplies such as masks, oxygen respirators, and dustproof clothing to employees working in overseas branches and their families for their health and safety. Support for Beneficiaries Masks Diagnosis kit employees working in overseas branches and accompanying 534 persons from 19,224 masks in total Support to enable purchasing through local distribution networks in consideration of the export families 13 countries (36 per person) licensing procedure of strategic goods COVID-19 Response 19 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Support for Customers and Stakeholders Customers International Communities KEPCO extended its tariff payment date from April to December of Recognizing that COVID-19 is a global crisis and participating in 2020 by three months to alleviate tariff burdens on small businesses the efforts to overcome the crisis, KEPCO has replaced its existing and vulnerable groups nationwide suffering from the COVID-19 CSR activities overseas, such as volunteer work, with support for pandemic. In addition, the tariff for April to September of 2020 was quarantine and health screening supplies for COVID-19. In addition, reduced by 50% for small businesses in Daegu, which was designated considering the rapid spread of COVID-19 in countries where overseas as Special Disaster Zone, and three other regions in Gyeongbuk branches and operations are located, such as Saudi Arabia, Jordan and province: Gyeongsan, Bonghwa, and Cheongdo. Small businesses Mexico, we have sent funds and relief supplies worth KRW 1.56 billion in the Special Disaster Zone were entitled to both electric charge abroad. reductions and payment extension. In addition, KEPCO is providing diverse customer services, such as lowering its late charge from 1.5% to 1.2% and expanding the credit card payment option to 95% of all customers. Partner Companies The economic impact of COVID-19 is also directly affecting partner companies. KEPCO is providing various contractual benefits for the partners who are having difficulties in operating their businesses due to COVID-19. By temporarily applying a contractual exception, the prepayment limit was increased from 70% to 80% for early execution ‘Love Sharing Blood Donation Campaign’ to help resolve the blood supply shortage caused by the prolonged COVID-19 pandemic of finance, and in order to alleviate partner’s burdens and secure their safety, liquidated damages were exempted and contract period was extended in case of a work stoppage caused by patients confirmed with COVID-19. In addition, in order to support partners who are having difficulties in developing overseas markets due to cancellation of exhibitions and export conferences, we are holding non-face-toface video export consultations to help partners explore overseas markets. Local Communities KEPCO, together with KEPCO group companies, has donated KRW ‘Mask Sharing Campaign’ through the support of employees and the voluntary participation 3.2 billion to efforts for overcoming COVID-19, 50% of which went in the production of cotton masks by citizens and socio-economic organizations to Daegu and Gyeongbuk, the most affected areas. In addition, KEPCO also donated 100,000 bottles of hand sanitizers across 1,694 traditional markets nationwide in cooperation with the Korea Merchant Association to support traditional markets, which are facing a crisis due to COVID-19. We are also buying farm produce from the affected farmers and donating it to social welfare organizations. Finally, our employees working at regional divisions across the nation are voluntarily participating in various social contribution activities, such as mask sharing campaigns, in order to support vulnerable groups suffering from COVID-19. N  on-face-to-face video consultations on exporting to help partner companies develop overseas export channels in Southeast Asia 20 Sustainability Report 2020 KEPCO Strategy KEPCO 2030 Strategy KEPCO established a 2030 mid-to long-term strategy that aims to take a new leap forward in responding to the shift in the energy industry paradigm caused by the ‘Energy Transition’, which is represented by the spread of eco-friendly energy, and the ‘Digital Transformation’, which is based on new technologies such as big data and artificial intelligence. In particular, in order to realize the world’s highest level of sustainability management, the company newly established social value focused goals to reinforce the link between mid-to long-term strategies and sustainability management, and built sustainable social value implementation system by discovering social value tasks and reflecting them in the company-wide work. 2030 Mid-to long-term strategy Purpose Stabilize electricity supply & demand and contribute to national economic development Vision KEPCO – A Smart Energy Creator Core Values Future Innovation Respect Social Value Trust Mid-to long-term Management Goals Renewable energy facilities Return on assets (ROA) Establishing an integrated Realization of the highest 5.8 GW 2.5 % energy platform level of sustainability management Mid-to long-term Strategic Direction Exploring new Securing future Expanding Enhancing sales Achieving social businesses and innovative clean energy competitiveness values new markets technologies Mid-to long-Term Strategic Tasks •‌Innovating wholesale •‌Strengthening sales •‌Creating new business •‌Developing core strategic •‌Worth working together market system leadership achievements technologies •‌Social integration and •‌Developing renewables •‌Provision of new services EVC, EMS, etc. •‌Laying the foundation for healthy life •‌Responding to supply and •‌Settlement of cost-based •‌Expanding sales of technology management •‌Win-win cooperation, demand volatility rates overseas business •‌Establishing an energy integrity & ethics Nuclear ‌ power platform •‌Enhancing grid efficiency •‌Improving energy generation, renewable •‌Improving management efficiency energy, etc. •‌Innovating work process system efficiency KEPCO Strategy 21 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX KEPCO ESG Strategy KEPCO is making its best efforts to create environmental and social value for sustainable growth in addition to financial results, and is communicating transparently with shareholders on major ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) issues. As part of these efforts, we have established an ESG strategic system by consolidating and systemizing the improvement activities for each ESG sector that have been dispersed and decentralized, and are faithfully implementing ESG tasks based on our strategic system to keep pace with global trends. KEPCO will continue to take responsible actions to meet the demands of global investors and other stakeholders in improving ESG issues, and strive to fulfill its responsibilities and obligations as a corporate citizen. ESG Strategic System Vision Achieving the Global Top-Level of Sustainability Management by Expanding Cooperation and Communication with Stakeholders Goal Opening a Warm Energy World by Creating Future Value with Clean Energy Social Value Economic Value Environmental Value E S G Implementation Strategy Environmental Social Governance Contributing to the development of Establishing a foundation for the local communities and participating Strengthening ESG management expansion of eco-friendly energy in efforts to resolve social issues Creating an environment for shared growth with SMEs Conducting ethical management Building systems to actively respond and strengthening anti-corruption to climate crisis Improving disaster and safety systems controls and information security systems Leading the transition to a Creating an environment for shared high-efficiency and Establishing an employee-oriented growth based on fair transactions low consumption energy structure corporate culture Operating an ESG council with Core Tasks Increasing renewable energy supply Expanding the participation of local the participation of the BOD and and expanding connection to the grid communities and seeking shared growth management Strengthening progress management Strengthening shared growth support Reinforcing the ethics and law-abiding for GHG reduction system with SMEs management system Spreading the culture of integrity and Gradually reducing coal-fired power Conducting various social contribution ethics both inside and outside of the generation at home and abroad activities organization Expanding information disclosure on Improving safety, health and security Correcting unfair practices in all work response to climate crisis management capabilities processes Implementing energy efficiency Developing human resources and Establishing fair transaction ordering improvement projects improving corporate culture with partner companies 22 Sustainability Report 2020 Implementation Status of ESG Tasks KEPCO is striving to establish a strategic ESG response system within the larger framework of sustainability management. We manage our mid-to long-term goals and performances by linking the ten strategies of our ESG strategic system with the UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). By achieving goals linked to the UN SDGs, we expect to reduce the company’s ESG risk and create achievements in each ESG sector, eventually contributing to the sustainable development of the international community. Implementation Strategy Implementation Task •‌Implementing large-scale new and renewable energy power plant projects for the shift to clean energy Establishing a foundation for expansion of •‌Expanding infrastructure for connecting new & renewable energy to the grid eco-friendly energy •‌Expanding charging infrastructure for the proliferation of EVs •Reducing GHG emissions in preparation for the new climate regime Building systems to actively respond to the •Establishing a sustainable portfolio for overseas projects climate crisis •Achieving stakeholders’ trust in activities to respond to climate crisis Environmental Leading the transition to a high-efficiency and •Implementing EERS (Energy Efficiency Resource Standards) project low consumption energy structure •Expanding energy efficiency project based on K-BEMS (KEPCO Building Energy Management System) Contributing to the development of •Increasing the participation of local communities and promoting regional economies •Creating quality jobs local communities and participating in efforts to •Conducting social contributions associated with core businesses resolve social issues •Providing customized support for social-economy organizations at each business stage •Expanding cooperation to improve the technical competitiveness of SMEs Creating an environment for •Supporting SMEs seeking export channels shared growth with SMEs •Strategically fostering energy start-ups •‌Creating a “Life & Safety First Workplace” Improving disaster and safety controls and •Improving disaster response capabilities Social information security systems •Strengthening personal information protection and cyber security management systems •Establishing corporate culture where work and life are well balanced Establishing an employee-oriented corporate •Creating family-friendly corporate culture and realizing gender equality culture •Realizing win-win labor & management culture •Establishing a management and supervision system for ESG from BOD and management Strengthening ESG management •Enhancing ability to address risks related to ESG •Establishing ethical and law-abiding management Conducting ethical management and •Internalizing the ethical awareness and spreading the integrity culture strengthening anti-corruption systems •Enhancing autonomous internal control processes Governance Creating an environment for shared growth •Eradicating unfair practices in all work processes based on fair transactions •Building fair and cooperative relationships and improving transparency KEPCO Strategy 23 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX The UN SDGs are goals jointly adopted by the UN and international communities to be implemented from 2016 to 2030, after the MDGs came to their conclusion in 2015. The SDGs aim to address universal social, environmental and economic issues and promote shared growth and development for all mankind. They consist of 17 goals and 169 targets. Main Goal Key Achievement in 2019 UN SDGs •‌KEPCO group companies to develop 41.2GW of new and renewable energy by 2030 •‌Completed the Southwest Sea offshore wind power test complex and launched the •‌Addressing access delays by increasing usage of existing transmission and distribution New & Renewable Energy Council for KEPCO group companies facilities and adding new facilities 7 Affordable and clean energy •‌Reduced new and renewable energy access delays by 11%p (6,452MW→5,854MW) •‌Installing 3,000 units of high-speed EV chargers for public use (30% of government •‌Installed 8,612 units of EV charger (1,382 high-speed chargers for public use) target) by 2022 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure •‌6.3% year-on-year reduction in GHG emissions by KEPCO group companies •‌Reducing GHG emissions by 47 million tons compared to KEPCO group companies’ (13.8 million tons reduced) 11 Sustainable cities and BAU by 2030 •‌Began construction of a solar power plant (294 MW) in Mexico and completed a wind communities •‌Expanding business scope as a global new and renewable power generation company power plant (89.1 MW) in Fujeij, Jordan •‌Strengthening climate crisis information disclosures in line with global standards •‌Introduced TCFD recommendations 13 Climate action 14 Life Below Water •‌Reduced energy consumption by 1,019 GWh through supply of high-efficiency •Reducing energy consumption by 1% of annual electric power sales volume by 2031 15 Life on land equipment, etc. •Providing 4,000 K-BEMS by 2030, reducing peak by 135 MW •Provided 196 K-BEMS and reduced peak by 14.1 MW •Attracted 430 companies (cumulative) to the Energy Valley 1 No poverty •Attracting 500 companies to the Energy Valley by 2020 •Created 3,373 jobs for youth, 61,522 jobs in the private sector •Improving job quality, creating jobs in the private sector, building job infrastructure 2 Zero hunger •‌Provided power-rate discounts of KRW 571.2 billion for the underprivileged, built 466 •Providing energy welfare reflecting the nature of the power industry Sunny Happy Power Facilities (cumulative) •Identifying and fostering competitive social-economy organizations 3 Good health and well-being •‌Supported 189 companies (cumulative) find markets at home and abroad 4 Quality education •Executed R&D projects in collaboration with 84 SMEs (cumulative) •‌Increasing R&D projects in collaboration with SMEs 5 Gender equality •‌Signed USD 12 million in export contracts with 147 SMEs participating in the Market •Attracting 200 SMEs to participate in overseas marketing promotion by 2030 Explorer Group •Fostering 300 energy start-ups by 2020 8 Decent work and economic •Fostered 246 energy start-ups (cumulative) growth 9 Industry, innovation and •‌Acquired International Standards for Safety & Health Management System (ISO 45001) infrastructure •‌Improving safety management systems and Business Continuity Management System (ISO 22301) •Establishing a preemptive disaster and crisis response system •‌Selected as an Excellent Public Organization in the Personal Information Control 10 Reduced inequalities •‌Achieving ‘zero’ personal information leakage and ‘zero’ cases of cyber infringement Assessment for five consecutive years 11 Sustainable cities and communities •Established a permanent corporate-wide workplace innovation committee •Improving ways of working and shortening work hours 12 Responsible consumption and •Introduced 63 flexible working hour systems and increased the number of users •Increaseing work-hour options, including a flexible working hour system production •Jointly executed ‘Ten Main Tasks to Improve Corporate Culture’ with the labor union •Operating communication channels to facilitate company-labor communications •Held the ‘Corporate Culture Convergence Workshop’ 16 times 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions •‌Newly established a council for each ESG field, such as the Social Value Committee, •‌Operating an ESG council with the participation of the BOD and management with the participation of management •Reviewed the establishment of an ESG committee led by the management 10 Reduced inequalities •Strengthening driving force for ethics and law-abiding management •Newly established the Ethics & Compliance Committee directly under the CEO 16 Peace, justice and strong •‌Discovering and improving anti-corruption improvement tasks which meet •Acquired Anti-Corruption Management System Certification (ISO 37001) institutions international standards 17 Partnerships for the goals •Spreading a culture of fairness and setting exemplary models •Checked unfair practices and identified tasks the stakeholders empathized with •Establishing fair transaction order with partner companies •Upgraded the ‘System to Detect Bid Rigging in Auction’ using AI 24 Sustainability Report 2020 Stakeholder Engagement Classification of Stakeholders KEPCO continues to communicate about the implementation of sustainable development and growth with key stakeholders such as the public, customers, investors, partner companies, local communities, and employees, etc. To this end, we have reorganized the stakeholder classification system in consideration of the characteristics and current issues of the electric power industry. In addition, various communication channels are operated in accordance with the major interests of each stakeholder. KEPCO will continue to strengthen exchanges with stakeholders to provide correct information about the company and to reflect stakeholders’ opinions in major policy decisions. Laying the Foundation for Communications with Stakeholders Stakeholder Government I Customer center I The public I Customers Shareholders I Investors National assembly I Press Meter reader Interests of •‌Continuously growing •‌Strengthening public nature of •‌Fairness and validity of •‌Rational conversion to regular Stakeholders corporate values electricity management workers •‌Increasing investors value •‌Providing accurate information •‌Enhancing operational •‌Improvement of working •‌Critical issues related to •‌Transparent communication efficiency environment and welfare sustainability management Direction of •‌Securing public nature Communication •‌Taking the lead in by strengthening public implementing government participation and cooperation policy and enhancing •‌Enhancing the quality of •‌Reinforcing countermeasures comprehension of the power electricity service by collecting from the perspective of ESG, •‌Strengthening cooperation industry public opinions such as responding to climate for improvement of working •‌Enhancing momentum by crisis conditions and customer collecting public opinions on •‌Providing preemptive service innovation major innovation tasks information reflecting •‌Securing transparency and investors’ requirements fairness in the conversion •‌Improving management •‌Practical and potential risk process into regular workers transparency and providing •‌Resolving power facility management information transparently construction conflicts and •‌PR promotion for customer enhancing local resident service acceptance Communication •‌Crowdsourcing Innovation Idea Channels •‌Briefing session, business Competition report, meeting of heads of •‌Online Public Communication organizations Panel •‌IR presentation •Policy forum, etc. •‌Labor-Management-Expert •Cyber Branch •General shareholders’ meeting consultation body •‌Conflict Management •Disclosure •Working-level meetings, etc. •‌Press conference, planning Committee report, contribution •Homepage and social media •State administration audit •Social Value Committee Stakeholder Engagement 25 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Communicating with Stakeholders KEPCO systematically establishes and operates various communication channels to enhance stakeholder participation. Major opinions of stakeholders identified through communication channels are shared with the management and the Board of Directors, reinforcing linkage with management activities. Also, consistent monitoring and feedback on activities are conducted. In addition, during the publication of the sustainability report, a stakeholder survey was conducted to identify issues of interest in sustainability management, and KEPCO has faithfully applied the issues on the report. Subsidiary I Partner company Employees I Labor union Local community Invested company •Fair partnership •‌Activating collaboration •‌Joint development with KEPCO •‌Enhancing vitality of Innovation •Shared growth •‌Enhancing mutual understanding group companies City •‌Protection of partner companies’ •‌Improvement of management •‌Enhancement of management •‌Establishing cooperative rights and interests, and performance efficiency of KEPCO group governance strengthening competitiveness •‌Improvement of corporate culture companies •‌Creating excellent management performance through sharing •‌Joint response to current issues of vision and promoting collaboration KEPCO group companies •‌Expansion of on-site •‌Joint promotion of management •‌Creating win-win development communication for managementefficiency improvement tasks •‌Promoting win-win development relationships by resolving related issues with local communities difficulties with suppliers •‌Participating in efforts to resolve •‌Improvement of unfair transaction local community issues factors, such as collusion •‌Realization of a win-win labor•‌Recruitment of local talent and •‌Collection of opinions on the management culture creation of decent jobs revision of contract rules •‌Enhancement of collaborative •‌Preparing cooperation measures corporate culture between labor to reduce greenhouse gas and fine and management dust emissions •‌Creation of a family-friendly corporate culture •‌Meeting of the presidents of KEPCO group companies •‌Company-wide debate •‌Meeting of the heads of the •Meeting to share various issues planning divisions of KEPCO group •‌Discussion and public hearings, companies •‌Innovation City Development proactive VOCs Committee •Voice of SRM customers •‌Corporate culture portal, family•‌Social innovation platform friendly portal •‌Working group of hands-on •Corporate Culture Workshop workers, etc. •Labor-management meetings 26 Sustainability Report 2020 Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment Process KEPCO conducts a materiality test in accordance with the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is a guideline for global sustainability reporting, and reports on the topics identified as material issues. “Material Topic” reflects the impact on KEPCO’s business and the interests of its stakeholders. KEPCO strives to provide more detailed information on the management system, major activities, goals and achievements concerning the material topics. 01 This reflects industry issues such as global sustainability management guidelines and trends in sustainability management with in the same industry, and synthesizes internal issues related to KEPCO to Composition of identify a pool of 39* sustainability management issues. issue pool * Issues related to general management, the economy, environment, and social sector 02 Social Interests Measurement Material topics External stakeholder survey (21 units) Analysis of global guidelines Domestic media analysis (from May 25, 2020 to May 29, 2020) GRI Standards, UN SDGs, TCFD, Media coverage of KEPCO from We conducted a survey on DJSI and other global standards January 1, 2019 to December 31, the importance and impact of and evaluation items related to 2019 was investigated and analyzed its sustainability management sustainability management were based on valid articles. responsibilities and activities reviewed. to external stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, local communities, shareholders / investment organizations, and sustainability management experts. Business Impact Assessment Employee survey Reflection of industrial issues Reflection of internal issues (from May 25, 2020 to May 29, 2020) We reviewed the sustainability We incorporated internal data Through employee surveys, reports of 7 companies in the same such as management strategies the importance and impact industry with excellent sustainability and reflected the instructions and of sustainability management management, as well as reviewing interests of management responsibilities and activities were industry standards related to identified in terms of profitability sustainability management, such as / cost, market position, and risk SASB. management. 03 By analyzing the results of social interest and business impact analysis, 21 material topics were drawn as priorities, and 10 key reporting topics were selected according to internal review of KEPCO. Selection of key reporting topics Materiality Assessment 27 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Results of Materiality Assessment KEPCO reports major activities and achievements regarding issues identified through the materiality test throughout the report, and KEPCO continues to monitor and manage the material topics as well as core issues that could potentially affect the management activities. Materiality Matrix Stakeholders’ Interests 21 Human Rights Management 3 Stable power supply and facility acceptance improvement Generating revenue based on 1 new energy businesses and Establishing strategies leading related industries 14 Environmental Risk Management to respond to climate crisis that meet international standards 5 4 Enhance financial soundness and improve management efficiency 11 Integrated Risk Management Efforts to manage and 6 reduce greenhouse gas emissions 2 Employee safety and health management Establish a preemptive disaster response 19 system Air Quality Control Local win-win development 20 and community trust / Reduction of Usage and particulate matter 8 7 Leading energy conversion by promoting renewable renewal Recycling of 17 Water 12 10 Labor-Management Communication Secure core technology in 16 9 Empowering employees and fostering talent response to digital conversion Sustainable Supply 13 Chain Management Corporate Culture Improvement 15 Ethical Management and Anti-Corruption 18 Customer Relationship Management Business Impact ■ Business ■ Environmental ■ Social ■ Governance Selection of Material Topics Material topics Target of impact-occurred GRI Index Impact of issues* Reporting subject / Pages Generating revenue based on new energy businesses Customers, government, 1 and leading related industries shareholders·investors 201-1 Economic achievement Profitability / cost Creating Future Growth Engines 33p 2 Employee safety and health management Employees, suppliers 403-9 Industry safety health Risk management Safety and Health Management 72p Stable power supply and facility acceptance Customers, government, Electrical Infrastructure and 3 improvement shareholders·investors 203-1 Indirect economic effect Profitability / cost Service Innovation 44p Enhancing financial soundness and improving Customers, government, 4 management efficiency shareholders·investors 201-1 Economic achievement Profitability / cost Creating Future Growth Engines 33p Establishing strategies to respond to climate crisis Customers, government, 5 that meet international standards shareholders·investors 201-2 Economic achievement Market position Responding to Climate Crisis 51p Efforts to manage and reduce greenhouse gas Customers, government, 6 emissions shareholders·investors 305-1, 2 Emissions Risk management Responding to Climate Crisis 51p Leading energy conversion by promoting new & Customers, government, Expanding the Supply of 7 renewable energy shareholders·investors 201-2 Economic achievement Profitability / cost New & Renewable Energy 56p Win-win development and establishing trust with Suppliers, local communities, 8 local communities government 413-1 Local communities Market position Social Value Realization 63p 9 Empowering employees and fostering talent Employees 404-1 Training and education Market position Human Resource Cultivation 74p Securing core technologies in response to digital Customers, government, Development of Core Strategic 10 transformation shareholders·investors 203-2 Indirect economic effect Profitability / cost Technologies 40p * Impact of issue 1) Profitability / cost : Effects that are linked to financial gains/losses (policy regulations, environmental changes, etc.) 2) Market position : Impact on business activities / processes that create value (exploring new markets, etc.) 3) Risk Management : Impacts related to potential non-financial risks (media, public opinion, reputation, etc.) 28 Sustainability Report 2020 Impact Valuation Management Measurement Principles for Impact Valuation KEPCO comprehensively analyzes the practical impact of value creation activities of sustainability management by measuring, in monetary terms, both the positive and negative results generated on the side of society and the environment as well as the economic value created by management activities. In the future, we plan to continuously improve our principles and standards for measuring the economic value of environmental and social activities to produce more accurate calculations, and we will share the results with our stakeholders through our annual sustainability report. Impact Measurement Framework Input Resources and Management INPUTS These resources refer to both financial and nonfinancial assets. This report has Activities defined as key elements the Six Capitals (financial, manufacturing, intellectual, Resources invested into human, social and relationship, and natural) presented by the International the business Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). ACTIVITIES Direct and indirect business management activities, such as products, service development, production, sales, management, mutual cooperation Specific business based on the Six Capitals. management activities Assessment of Value Creation OUTPUTS Identification of positive and negative effects on our company and society as Performance a result of the environmental and social consequences of the development Results generated by and sales of our products and services. business activities OUTCOMES Identification of positive and negative changes on our company and society as a result of the environmental and social consequences of the Changes by business development and sales of our products and services. activities Impact Measurement IMPACTS Presentation of actual value reflecting social and environmental issues and their materiality based on the quantitative numerical data identified by the Macroscopic results of assessment of quantification indices. business activities •‌Measuring positive and negative environmental and social results from business activities based on the resources in a project Measurement Principles •‌Using objective indicators, such as international standards, and research results to comprehensively measure actual value and impact in monetary terms Impact Valuation Management 29 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Performance of Impact Valuation Management In order to convert the activities of Impact Valuation Management into monetary terms, KEPCO first looked at official data published by government and industry associations and reviewed the results of research that analyzed the economic value of environmental and social activities. As a result, KEPCO’s value creation from sustainability management in 2019 was equivalent to about KRW 1.2 trillion. KEPCO will continue to monitor research on the value and impact of sustainability management activities, and make efforts to disclose areas that cannot be converted due to social consensus and technical limitations in more accurate and objective figures. Performance of Sustainability Management Value Creation Indicators Measuring Indicators (Unit : KRW 100 million) 0 Financial Net income (loss) Profits generated from the current period (loss) (25,950) aspects GHG emission impact Social costs incurred by GHG emission (317.8) Waste emission impact Social costs incurred by waste emission (139.9) Environmental aspects Water utilization and Social cost of wastewater treatment (46.3) wastewater impact Efforts to reduce GHG emissions by building electric vehicle charging Reduction of GHG emissions infrastructure, supplying K-BEMS to the private sector, and implementing 140.3 the EERS (Energy Efficiency Resource Standards) project. Investor value Dividends and payment of interest 7,771.0 Government Tax payment 361.0 Socio-economic Employees Effect on increasing employee income 14,109.7 aspects Overseas marketing support, cooperative R&D product purchasing, Partner companies 2,980.2 support for low-interest loans Local community Donation support and job creation effectiveness 13,377.1 Performance of Sustainability Management Value Creation 12,285 PERFORMANCE KEPCO connects power services as one. 32 50 62 82 Business Environmental Social Governance Creating Future Growth Engines Responding to Climate Crisis Social Value Realization Safety and Health Management BOD and Decision-making Electrical Infrastructure and Environmental Management Job Creation Human Resource Cultivation Ethical Management Service Innovation Pursuing Shared Growth Corporate Culture Innovation Human Rights Management Supply Chain Management Social Contribution Activities Risk Management 32 Sustainability Report 2020 BUSINESS 01 Management Approach To secure a sustainable future growth engine, KEPCO is expanding its new energy business through high-tech convergence, focusing on the development and commercialization of next-generation technologies and diversifying overseas projects based on its experiences in domestic and overseas power industries and the competitiveness of its primary business. In addition, we are implementing a next-generation facility management system based on ICT technology and maintaining a thorough disaster response system in order to reinforce our primary competitiveness in stable power supply and to achieve efficient and optimized power grid construction and operation. Furthermore, we are harnessing our capabilities in the power industry ecosystem to bring about customer value creation through power service innovation. Establish a Develop Core Expand Profitable Innovate Power Sustainable Portfolio Technologies New Businesses in Supply Infrastructure for Overseas and Lead Digital the Energy Sector and Service Projects Transformation 2019 Key Performance Cumulative capacity of overseas power EV Charging Infrastructure generation facilities 8,612 chargers 28,430 MW * As of June 2020 (9,381 MW based on the share ratio) * As of September 2020 Securing Core Strategic Technologies Outage time per household 103 technologies 8.61 minutes (2010 ~ 2019 Cumulative) BUSINESS l Creating Future Growth Engines 33 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Creating Future Growth Engines APPENDIX Leading New Businesses in the Energy Sector Expanding Profitable New Businesses in the Energy Sector New energy business refers to new businesses that provides and commercializes efficient energy services based on the convergence of new and renewable energy and digital technology to solve major energy issues, such as climate crisis responses, energy security, and demand management. KEPCO is concentrating its capabilities on expanding its business models based on R&D demonstrations while securing global-level core technologies with the goal of securing leadership in the new energy business ecosystem and creating sustainable profits by preemptively moving into the future market. Direction of New Businesses in the Energy Sector Goal (2030) Leap forward to a global leader in the energy service and solution business Direction Securing global Expanding profitable Securing leadership in Enlarging business areas competitiveness new energy businesses new business ecosystem by responding to sweeping by strengthening core capabilities through selection and by improving future business changes in government policies in business leading concentration foundation and market environment Strategy Strengthening Core Capabilities Securing Profitability Improving Business Foundation •Secure global-level core technologies •‌Improve restrictions and regulations on •‌Lead and commercialize new business market •Form new business alliances convergence businesses •‌Focus capabilities on selected target customers •‌Lead development of industry models and •‌Promptly resolve issue of new business rate plan •Develop services that reflect customer needs participate in demonstrations •Create a legal and institutional basis for new businesses Establishing EV Charging Infrastructure KEPCO has been building various charging models since 2016, including public charging infrastructure and units that are installed in apartments and other residential areas, in order to vitalize the proliferation of EVs and create new power demand. In 2017, we laid a foundation for nurturing private charging infrastructure providers by launching paid charging services and providing access to charging infrastructure. In 2019, as part of our efforts to remove charging blind spots, we continued to expand the establishment of charging infrastructure, while developing charging stations to support the socially disadvantaged, for E-buses only and for those attached to electric poles that can be used on the roadside. KEPCO is striving to develop convergence services to lay the groundwork for the dissemination and proliferation of EVs with the goal of installing a total of 3,000 high-speed chargers for public use, and we aim to expand our business scope to become an ‘EVC platform operator’ that comprehensively manages a stable charging power supply through control and real-time data gathering about all the EV chargers in Korea. Status of EV Charging Infrastructure (Unit : chargers) Growth of EV Charging Infrastructure (Unit : chargers) ‌Slow chargers 8,612 ‌Slow chargers 8,612 ‌High speed chargers ‌High speed chargers 8,028 7,452 6,374 3,427 5,454 5,454 5,075 4,782 1,525 4,609 143 2,318 702 1,382 1,765 702 11 11 3,158 1,109 2,670 2,953 3,158 Public Use Apartment Use Work Use E-Bus Total 2017 2018 2019 June 2020 * As of June 2020 34 Sustainability Report 2020 K-BEMS Supply Business KEPCO’s self-developed K-BEMS (KEPCO Building Energy Management System) is a system that collects and analyzes customer energy use information in real time to control the operation of building facilities. Through successful establishment within 120 company buildings, we have presented a standard model for energy efficiency and usage reduction. We have also promoted K-BEMS-based energy efficiency projects for 79 energy-consuming buildings, universities, factories, etc. In particular, KEPCO has successfully carried out a pilot project for overseas export to the Dominican Republic by forming a consortium with KEPCO Energy Solutions Co., Ltd., and is progressing with a KEPCO smart building project that combines energy efficiency and renewable energy to demonstrate the smart building business in KEPCO Yeongjong Branch. Not only will KEPCO continue the business for multi-use facilities, such as companies occupying national industrial complexes, large retailers, but we will also expand overseas demonstration projects in Costa Rica and Vietnam. This will enable us to contribute to reducing GHG emissions through establishing profit models for new businesses in the energy sector and reducing energy usage. K-BEMS Supply Status and Value Creation Performance Total energy consumption savings of K-BEMS 2020 Category unit 2017 2018 2019 (2Q) 16.3 Building ea 5 1 5 Campus ea 4 1 3 GWh Supply to private Factory ea 12 13 8 1 sector Total CO2 reduction from K-BEMS Distributed power* ea 10 14 2 Total ea 21 25 30 3 Energy consumption GWh 2.9 3.9 6.5 3.0 Value creation savings CO2 reduction tCO2 1,373 1,832 2,985 1,385 7,575 tCO2 * ‌Distributed power : A power generation method that supplies the necessary power to consumers * Accumulated performance from 2017 to first half of 2020 by using renewable energy resources such as solar power in the vicinity of consumers. Smart Energy City Development Project ‘Smart energy city’ refers to a low-carbon, future city that provides improved services, such as energy efficiency, safety, and convenience, through integrated management of urban energy resources based on new and renewable energy, smart-grid and ICT technologies. In order to create a KEPCO-style smart energy city in Naju Innovation City, in November 2019, we established an integrated operation center and monitored the supply and consumption of city energy (electricity, water, gas, heating, and hot water). In addition, acting as the organizing institution in a national strategic project for Siheung Smart City and an energy platform demonstration research project for Sejong Smart City, we are actively participating with the government in creating smart cities. We will continue to participate in city energy demonstration projects tailored to the characteristics of different regions and based on the technology and experience accumulated through the development of our integrated energy operation platform, and we will lead the expansion of smart-energy cities to domestic and overseas sites in the future. Status and Implementation Plan of Smart Energy City Projects National Standardization of National Demonstration Cities Securing Business Experience Business Expansion KEPCO Platform Bitgaram Smart Energy City Siheung National Strategic Project Building Smart Cities and Domestic (2016 ~ 2020) (2018 ~ 2022) Managing Platforms Business Participation in government / local government projects for the cities of Sejong, Busan, and Daegu Engineersmart energy city •Establishment of collective standards •‘Energy Living Lab’ with the ing modeling (Korea Smart Grid Association, 2019. 9) participation of citizens •Establishment of a smart-city integrated KEPCO : e-solution, •Demonstration of five types ProcurePrivate : equipment and operations center (2019. 11) of integrated inspection for ment Establishment of a system materials •Promotion of national standardization apartments (electricity, water, gas, of cooperation between the heating, hot water) construction of urban (Korean Standards, ~ 2020. 12) ConstrucOverseas government and the private sector tion infrastructure based on •Research into and demonstration of •Data linkage in the non-energy energy solutions Business smart city-related technologies such as sector (traffic, environment, safety, Overseas expansion of national VPP and energy prosumer etc.) Manageplatform management ment business demonstration cities BUSINESS l Creating Future Growth Engines 35 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Green Hydrogen Project based on P2G New Energy Industry Fund Investment Project To escape from the global industrial structure centered on fossil fuels In 2011, KEPCO established a New Energy Industry Fund worth KRW that is responsible for global warming, many countries are looking to 500 billion for the purpose of creating a virtuous-cycle ecosystem in hydrogen as a next-generation energy source. Green hydrogen refers the new energy industry by supporting new electric power ventures, to hydrogen (H₂), which is a carbon-neutral fuel. KEPCO was selected as fostering small and medium-sized enterprises and expanding new and a government project supervisor in May 2019 and is promoting a P2G renewable energy projects at home and abroad. The fund plays the (power to gas) MG (micro grid) project in Ulsan and Naju that produces, role of providing customized funding for ventures and SMEs in the stores, and utilizes green hydrogen. P2G refers to a power gasification new energy industry as well as large-scale renewable power projects, technology that utilizes surplus renewable energy to produce and and as of the end of June 2020, KRW 64.4 billion was provided to store hydrogen through the electrolysis of water, or to convert it into 27 ventures and SMEs, and KRW 135.8 billion was invested in six methane (CH2), the main component of natural gas, by combining the large-scale new and renewable energy projects. In the future, we will hydrogen produced with carbon dioxide (CO2). Meanwhile, KEPCO continue to provide funding to reduce investment risks and enhance signed a ‘Green Hydrogen Technology Development and Cooperation competitiveness in the new energy industry through precise project MOU’ with local governments, such as those of Jeollanam-do and due diligence. Naju City, along with Korea East-West Power and the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) in September 2019, thereby strengthening cooperation in vitalizing the hydrogen economy. In the future, KEPCO will lead green hydrogen technology development Investment Details of the New Energy Industry Fund and demonstration projects, and will intensively nurture a new business model based on hydrogen as a next-generation energy by securing the Investment Area Investment Results four core green hydrogen technologies: water electrolysis, fuel cells, hydrogen turbines and methanation. Establishment of venture AI, IoT, PLC chip, etc. 16 companies Green Hydrogen Project companies KRW 33.4 billion Development of MW-class water Verification study of a electrolysis and methanation Project Name P2G-based multi-MG operation technology for renewable energy and distribution system storage Fostering of Secondary batteries, EV SW, 11 companies SMEs Period / 2019.5 ~ 2022.4 / 2019.5 ~ 2022.4 / etc. KRW 31 billion Location Ulsan Techno Industrial Complex Naju Innovation Industrial Complex Participating KEPCO, Korea East-West Power, etc. KEPCO, Ulsan TP, etc. (6 in total) Institutions (18 in total) New and renewable Solar, wind, fuel cells 6 projects Details of P2G-based multi-MG operation P2G core technology (water energy projects KRW 135.8 billion technology secured and MW-class electrolysis, LOHC, methanation) Implementation hydrogen production demonstrated development and demonstration Completion of Solaseado Solar Power Plant in Haenam BUSINESS CASE 1 The Solaseado Solar Power Plant, located in Haenam-gun, Jeollanam-do, is an ultra-large new and renewable energy complex with 98 MW-class solar power generation facilities, the largest in Korea, and a 306 MWh ESS (Energy Storage System), the largest in the world by capacity. It produces about 129 GWh of electricity per year, which is enough to power 27,000 households, and KEPCO made a huge investment on the project through the New Energy Industry Fund to support successful business promotion. Going forward, KEPCO will continue to discover high-quality investment targets and play an active role in supplying the necessary business funds to revitalize the new energy industry. Solaseado Solar Power Plant 36 Sustainability Report 2020 Creation of Future Growth Engines through the Diversification of Overseas Business As of the end of September 2020, KEPCO is carrying out 46 projects in 25 countries around the world, covering thermal power, nuclear power, new and renewable energy, and transmission and distribution business. Based on our ability to win orders and operational competencies for overseas businesses, with consideration for mid-to long-term profitability, we plan to further expand into new businesses with a focus on low-carbon and high-efficiency, such as clean thermal power and new and renewable energy. Going forward, we hope to establish a foundation for sustainable growth and strengthen our position as an eco-friendly utility company by promoting new businesses utilizing the competitiveness of our transmission and distribution technology. Status of KEPCO Overseas Projects Implementing 46 Projects in 25 Countries Worldwide Europe Office Middle East Office China Office Japan Office Tajikistan Consulting about Electrical Grid Bangladesh Transmission Network Consulting Establishing GIS Jordan CDM Project Al Qatrana (Gas 373MW) Myanmar Amman (Gas 573MW) Thailand Guam Consulting about Consulting Fujeij (Wind Power 89MW) Transmission & Consulting about ESS about ESS Distribution Networks Cambodia Creating an Energy UAE Establishing MG and Charging Points Independent Town Implementing Barakah (Nuclear Power 5,600MW) CDM Project Shuweihat S3 (Gas 1,600MW) Tanzania Establishing Power Demand Saudi Arabia Management Systems Rabigh (Heavy Oil 1,204MW) Botswana Transmission Network Consulting Africa Office Southeast Asia Office BUSINESS l Creating Future Growth Engines 37 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Transmission Resource Nuclear Power Thermal Power New & Renewable & Distribution Development UAE, 14 Project in 8 Project in 22 Project in Australia, 1 Project 10 Countries 6 Countries 13 Countries 1 Project * ‌Overseas Power Facility Capacities : 14,613MW in operation, In operation : 12,479MW Under construction : Operation : 2,134MW 13,817MW in the process of signing contracts and under construction Under construction : 3,039MW 5,600MW Under construction : 580MW Orders confirmed : 4,598MW Power Generation Transmission & Distribution China Resource Development ‌Shanxi Province (Coal / New and Renewable Energy 9,494MW) North America Office China New and Renewable Energy •‌Inner Mongolia (Wind Power 740.5MW) •Gansu (Wind Power 99MW) The USA •‌Liaoning (‌Wind Power, Photovoltaic Power 184.5MW) Colorado (Photovoltaic Power 30MW) Guam (Photovoltaic Power 60MW) California (Photovoltaic Power 235MW) Japan Guam Ukudu (Gas 198MW) Chitose (Photovoltaic Power 28MW) Mexico Jamaica Vietnam Consulting about Dominican Rep. Norte II (Gas 433MW) Transmission & Constructing Distribution Networks Nghi Son II (Coal 1,200MW) Distribution Networks Horus (Photovoltaic Power 294MW) Vung Ang II (Coal 1,200MW) Barbados Establishing K-SEMS Honduras The Philippines Power Dissipation Reduction Consulting Ilijan (Gas 1,200MW) Cebu (Coal 200MW) Ecuador Establishing MG SPC (Diesel 145MW) Sales (2019) Calatagan (Photovoltaic Power 50MW) Peru Malaysia Improving Distribution Networks Efficiency KRW 2.3 trillion Pulau Indah (Gas 1,200MW) Power Facility Capacity Indonesia Jawa 9&10 (Coal 2,000MW) 28,430MW Capacity Based on the Share Ratio Australia Bylong (Coal) 9,381MW 38 Sustainability Report 2020 Establishing a Sustainable Overseas Project Portfolio Expanding the Export of Transmission & Distribution and New Businesses Based on Core Capabilities Creating Profits by Expanding Overseas Power Generation Markets KEPCO has been successfully implementing overseas projects in the EPC sector and performing consulting based on the transmission and KEPCO is expanding into overseas power markets to respond to the distribution business experiences we have built up in Korea over the past slow growth of domestic power demand and secure new future growth 120 years. In particular, we have been well recognized for our outstanding engines. Since first entering the overseas power generation market technologies and project management capabilities in winning contracts in 1995 with a project to restore and operate the Philippines’ Malaya for EPC projects. In the future, we plan to move away from small-scale Thermal Power Plant, we have been building a global network to solidify consulting and EPC businesses and begin investing in transmission, our position as a leading independent power producer by leveraging distribution and facility operation businesses, including BOT and O&M, our abundant experiences in project execution and our strong and focus on fostering these as long-term, profitable new growth engines competitiveness in overseas projects. In addition, we are expanding our utilizing KEPCO’s core capabilities. In addition, KEPCO is planning to arena, which was once concentrated in Southeast Asia, to the Middle expand its entry into overseas new businesses in the energy sector by East, Latin America, and North America, and diversifying our order utilizing its technology development and demonstration experience in new intake structure by establishing customized strategies for each region businesses such as smart grid, AMI, and ESS. and business type. As of 2019, the annual sales of our overseas projects amounted to KRW 2.3 trillion, and profits generated through overseas Pushing Ahead with Low-Carbon & High-Efficiency Clean projects have helped improve our financial position. In addition, we Thermal Power Generation are supporting the revitalization of the domestic economy and the exploration of overseas markets by competitive domestic companies by KEPCO reorganized its overseas business portfolio in the mid-to longengaging private construction companies, equipment manufacturers, term to come up with strategies for the advent of the era of energy and domestic financial institutions when conducting overseas projects. transition and sustainability management. Hence, KEPCO will mainly focus Meanwhile, in 2019, KEPCO enhanced its status as a global power on developing low-carbon and eco-friendly overseas businesses such generation company by winning orders for the largest new business in as new and renewable and combined-cycle gas turbine power plants. In our history through strategic cooperation and proactive order intake particular, for overseas coal-fired power plant projects, we have no plan activities despite intensifying competition for orders. to develop a new project in the future. Among the four overseas coalfired power projects currently planned, the Jawa 9&10 coal-fired power Exploring Overseas New & Renewable Energy Markets plant (2,000MW) in Indonesia and the Vung Ang 2 coal-fired power plant (1,200MW) in Vietnam are scheduled to be carried out with comprehensive KEPCO is expanding its new and renewable power generation consideration of relationship with the government of the partner country, business for the sustainable growth of overseas projects in response business partners, and joint advance with domestic companies. However, to changes in the business environment, such as a decrease in order we are currently reviewing two remaining coal-fired power projects for the quantities for thermal power plants and the acceleration of energy cancellation or conversion to LNG, which includes the Thabametsi power transition. In 2019, with the completion of the 89.1 MW wind power plant in South Africa and the Pangasinan power plant in the Philippines. plant in Fujeij, Jordan, our new and renewable power generation Moreover, we are striving to operate overseas coal-fired power plants in capacity in overseas markets increased to 673 MW (based on the a more eco-friendly manner by applying more stringent environmental share ratio), and 294 MW and 60 MW solar power plants are currently standards than international standards. Through these efforts for being built in Mexico and Guam, respectively. Going forward, KEPCO environment, the overseas coal-fired power plants operated by KEPCO are will focus on promoting regionally-customized solar power projects expected to completely terminated by 2050. Meanwhile, KEPCO signed in its base regions, while using its offshore wind power generation a long-term Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) concerning the Ukudu know-how gained from domestic businesses to make a full-fledged (200MW) and Pulau Indah (1,200MW) gas-fired projects. In both projects, entry into overseas wind power markets with strong growth potential domestic companies will participate in power plant design, purchase, through strategic alliances with leading companies. and construction, while a number of domestic SMEs will supply auxiliary equipment. Through the joint participation of domestic companies, this hence will have a considerable and positive effect on Korean economy. Overseas New & Renewable Energy Generation Capacity (Unit : MW) Moving forward, we will continue to focus on low-carbon and high(Based on the share ratio) efficiency clean thermal power, such as combined-cycle gas turbine power plants, and create a win-win business model in which both the public and private sectors may jointly advance into overseas markets. 15% Focusing on developing low-carbon and eco-friendly Direction businesses such as new and renewable, and combined-cycle 584 673 of overseas gas turbine power plants. business (For overseas coal-fired power plant projects, we have no plan to develop a new project in the future) 2018 2019 BUSINESS l Creating Future Growth Engines 39 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Ensuring Stability & Enhancing Risk Management of Setting the Groundwork for a Second Export of Nuclear Overseas Business Power Plants KEPCO strives to improve its operational efficiency through facility KEPCO has been building one of the world’s best nuclear plants improvement to enhance the profitability of its overseas business, in terms of safety and quality since winning a contract for the while also searching for new sources of revenue. Taking advantage of construction and operation of a nuclear power plant in the UAE changes in the global financial environment, which continues to see in December 2009. In March 2020, the first critical threshold was low interest rates, in December 2019, KEPCO’s Mexican subsidiary passed when fuel loading into the Unit 1 reactor of the Barakah successfully issued a fixed-rate project bond in the US stock market, Nuclear Power Plant was completed, and the reactor was safely thereby successfully re-financing the Norte II project operating in controlled and operated for the first time. Currently, Unit 1 of the Mexico. Accordingly, we recovered all our original investment early nuclear plant is increasing its power output, and commercial operation and reduced financial costs by lowering the funding rate, creating an is scheduled to commence next year after the completion of a power additional income of KRW 33.3 billion. plant system performance evaluation. KEPCO, the main contractor for the UAE nuclear power plant is concentrating on the timely Meanwhile, in order to improve our risk management system at completion of the remaining units, and is expecting stable operations each business stage for overseas business, we expanded our scope and stable profits in the future. Meanwhile, KEPCO is carrying out of risk management, which had previously been implemented only a wide-range of bidding activities to win a second overseas nuclear for existing projects in operation to projects under construction. In power plant contract by combining the competitiveness of Korean addition, by quantifying levels of risk, we have upgraded our process nuclear power technology, its experience winning the UAE contract, of risk diagnosis, analysis, and evaluation, and a review procedure of and the capabilities of the Korean government and the domestic the working-level committee under the Risk Review Committee was nuclear power plant industry. In August 2019, KEPCO was the first established to reinforce risk assessment. In addition, we are striving to company in the world to acquire a standard design certificate from a secure fairness and transparency when making investment decisions U.S. regulatory agency for a type of reactor not originating in the U.S., for new business by expanding the ratio of external committee and was recognized internationally for the safety and excellence of members to more than 50%. Korean nuclear power plants. Based on this top-tier technology, we have been strengthening strategic alliances with global companies to win additional contracts for nuclear power plants, including a new project in Saudi Arabia. In September 2019, the company signed an MOU with the UAE Nuclear Power Plant Corporation (BOC) for joint entry into third-country nuclear power plants projects, and through this, we have come up with plans for practical cooperation in a wide range of fields, such as financing, licensing, human resource training, and localization, and worked on strengthening our competitiveness in order to win additional contracts for overseas nuclear power plants. Expanding Business Area as a Global New & Renewable Power Generation Company BUSINESS CASE 2 KEPCO held a groundbreaking ceremony for a 294 MW PV power plant in Mexico in November 2019. This was of great significance for KEPCO, representing our first PV power project and also the largest new and renewable development project in Central and South America. With this power plant, KEPCO plans to produce electricity for about 150,000 households in three regions, including Sonora, Mexico, and expects to generate a total of KRW 280 billion in profits over 35 years. Meanwhile, KEPCO completed the construction of an 89.1 MW wind power ‌Groundbreaking Ceremony for Photovoltaic Power plant in Fujeij, Jordan, in July 2019, the company’s first renewable project in the Middle East. Plant in Mexico After it was selected as a preferred bidder in 2013, KEPCO signed a power sales contract in 2015 and successfully commenced commercial operations in 2019. With the completion of the Fujeij Wind Power Plant, KEPCO secured its status as a pivotal power generation business operator, responsible for about 20% of Jordan’s total power generation capacity. In the future, KEPCO will continue to expand its business area as a global renewable power generator and actively respond to policies for the expansion of new and renewable energy, which is emerging as a global task following the establishment of a new climate regime. Completion ‌ Ceremony for the Wind Power Plant in Fujeij, Jordan 40 Sustainability Report 2020 Development of Core Strategic Technologies Building Strategies to Secure Future Core Technologies As the technological environment of the power industry is rapidly changing (such as energy transition and digital transformation), the importance of technological development to secure sustainable growth engines has been increasing. KEPCO established the ‘KEPCO 2030 -Technology Strategy’ to reinforce the technical capabilities of our main business, to respond to climate change and digital transformation, and to secure leadership in the future power industry, and have selected core strategic technologies in eight major areas. The company has been concentrating on the development of future core technologies by maximizing synergy through cooperation with external partners, as well as strengthening its internal technical capabilities by continuing to expand the R&D budget and manpower, and performance-oriented R&D process innovation. As a result, the company secured 14 core strategic technologies* in related fields such as digital power systems and new and renewable energy in 2019. * ‌Current status of securing core strategic technologies (2019) : 14 cases including artificial intelligence-based fault recovery system, MW-class ESS performance and stability evaluation technology, offshore wind environment monitoring technology, etc. KEPCO 2030 -Technology Development Strategic System Goal Digital KEPCO, Clean & Smart Energy Creator Digital transformation of power Successful implementation of Proactive response to the new Expanding acceptance of the Direction generation technology the energy transition climate regime future of the power system Drive to commercialize Main Promotion Contents Digital Transformation Energy Transition Eco-Solution Grid Evolution ➊ Energy platform ➌ Grid ESS ➎ Energy efficiency improvement ➐ Super grid ➋ Digital power system ➍ New & renewable Energy ➏ Clean / Complex power generation ➑ Active distribution network Independent research and Introduction of advanced Expansion of joint research Promotion Method Strengthening basic research development technology (Enhance domestic and (Source·Based technology) (Securing core technology) (Implement the latest technology) international cooperation) Major Achievements in Technological Development Development of the World’s Most Efficient Flat-type Perovskite Solar Cell Development of Wireless Communication Chip for Power and its KEPCO developed a flat-type perovskite solar cell with a photoelectric Demonstration as Communication Service conversion efficiency of 20.4%, the world’s highest level. Unlike silicon In June 2019, KEPCO developed a wireless communication chip used to build solar cells that require a high-temperature production process of 1,000 ℃ an intelligent power grid. The wireless communication chip designed and or higher, perovskite solar cells can be produced through a process of 400 developed by KEPCO is characterized by a high-order modulation method ℃ or lower. Therefore, the production cost is low while the photoelectric with high frequency efficiency, which is about 15 times faster than the conversion efficiency of converting light into electricity is similar to that of existing method and is 1/20 of the original price. The stability was verified silicon solar cells. This is technology that is gaining much attention as the by on-site demonstration that targeted distribution automation facilities in solar cell of the next-generation. Cheongju, North Chungcheong Province and distributed power facilities in Jeongeup, North Jeolla Province, Korea. Opaque / Semi-transparent Solar Cell Wireless Communication Chip for Power 20kW-class Hydrogen Energy System Demonstration KEPCO has succeeded in demonstrating a large-capacity hydrogen storage system using liquid organic hydrogen carrier technology (LOHC) for the first time in Korea. The LOHC technology has five times the storage capacity of the existing ones, and is a technology that can be safe and stored long-term. KEPCO is the first to have facilities that use the LOHC technology certified by the Gas Safety Corporation’s high-pressure facility technology review and be granted its license. 20kW-class ‌ Hydrogen Production and Storage System BUSINESS l Creating Future Growth Engines 41 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Expansion of Utilization and Commercialization of R&D Results KEPCO has been striving to create business outcomes through commercializing its excellent technologies. The company has contributed to sharing growth in the power industry as well as generating profits by unearthing high-value excellent patents, innovating technology commercialization systems, and transferring technologies through various collaborative marketing. KEPCO is concentrating on developing capabilities at leading innovative growth and building an environment to create R&D-based jobs by establishing a research institute for direct commercialization of its own technology and designating ‘R&D special zones’ with small but strong R&Ds. After establishing three research institute companies for the first time as a public corporation in 2018, KEPCO expanded this endeavor by diversifying establishment sites and establishing five additional companies in 2019. KEPCO’s small but strong R&D special zones is a new model that aims to become a base for commercializing small-scale and high-density public technology centered on technology core institutions with excellent innovation capabilities. KEPCO established a cooperation system with local governments (Naju City in South Jeolla Province), which was designated as a special zone with a public corporation as a key technology institution for the first time in the country. By designating a special zone, it is expected to contribute to forming Naju Energy Valley as a mecca of the new energy industry, which will promote R&D companies and institutions in the Energy Valley and provide intensive support for the establishment of research institutes and high-tech companies. Status of Research Institute Establishment in 2019 Company Description Established area SureDataLab Commercialization of power user behavior and life pattern analysis technology using power data Daejeon Hankook Electric Power Information Commercialization of diagnosis, prediction, and transaction services using power information digital conversion platform Daejeon SEP Commercialization of charging service and additional service technology based on electric vehicle charging infrastructure platform Gwangju Tronics Commercialization of integrated public lighting control system using e-IoT technology Gwangju O2&B Global Commercialization of electric adsorption water treatment system Jeonju * Research Institute Company : A company established in a special R&D zone by investing more than 10% of the capital for direct commercialization of public research institute technology (KEPCO) technology + (corporate) management resources + (government) support ⇨ Creating quality jobs, promoting innovative growth in the power industry Revitalization of Open Innovation KEPCO has been enhancing its technological competitiveness to nimbly respond to the trend of technological change by advancing the R&D cooperation system. KEPCO has established an integrated R&D operation process with power generation companies to improve efficiency and expand on convergence, complex and open R&D utilizing the collective intelligence of industry-academia-research groups while increasing joint research among companies and universities by expanding its cooperation with building a cluster of point universities for energy. In addition, we are making efforts to expand our global network by conducting international joint research and promoting technology exchanges with advanced institutions such as Fraunhofer in Germany, EPRI in the US, and ARM in the UK. R&D Manpower and Investment Patent Application / Registration Status Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 R&D cost KRW 100 million 4,340 3,994 3,630 Patent application No. of cases 513 639 815 Ratio of current sales % 0.72 0.66 0.62 Patent registration No. of cases 168 241 357 R&D personnel No. of persons 605 604 689 Total No. of accumulated 681 880 1,172 Technology Transfer Outcome Technology Support Outcome Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Agreement No. of cases 119 119 176 In-house (domestic / overseas) KRW 100 million 59 48 38 Transferred to (company) No. of companies 98 96 156 Overseas KRW 100 million 22 20 25 KEPCO Profit KRW 100 million 20.7 20.2 32.3 Power generation subsidiaries KRW 100 million 94 109 90 Sales of Commercializing Private companies KRW 100 million 13 13 9 KRW 100 million 1,200 1,327 1,538 Technologies Total KRW 100 million 166 170 137 42 Sustainability Report 2020 Leading Digital Transformation in the Power Industry Establishing a Mid-term Strategy for Digital Transformation Digital transformation is an activity that creates new value by analyzing and combining various data to discover new data and improve management activities. KEPCO established a ‘KEPCO Digital Transformation Mid-term Strategy’ consisting of four implementation strategies and 16 strategic tasks to create a data-driven business environment using ICT-based infrastructure, in order to leap forward as an energy platform provider. The company will take the lead in revitalizing the data industry by developing various solutions that combine private and power big data and utilizing the power big data convergence center. KEPCO Digital Transformation Strategic System Implementation Strategy Digital Asset Digital Infrastructure Digital Work Intelligence Digital Business Model Management Internalizing the digital OPEX1) / CAPEX2) reduction Increasing work efficiency Creating future businesses transformation •‌Asset management optimization •‌Collaboration in digital Strategic Tasks •‌Mobile application for field work •‌Data platform enhancement •‌Advancement of facility diagnosis transformation competitions •‌Intelligent work using AI •‌Enterprise data management technology •‌Data-driven services •‌Work simplification with RPA3) •‌Digital organization and culture •‌Development of equipment •‌New energy business services •‌Next-generation operating •‌ICT infrastructure advancement failure prediction models •‌Establishing the environment for system •‌Creation of a safety evaluation model EN:TER 1) OPEX : Operating Expenditure 2) CAPEX : Capital Expenditure 3) RPA : Robotic Process Automation Advancing Data Integration Platform Advancing an Energy Business Platform of EN:TER KEPCO was the first public corporation to build a data integration KEPCO has built and operated EN:TER, a comprehensive energy platform consisting of a big data platform and an artificial intelligence business platform that can share energy services and data in order to (AI) analysis platform for company-wide data-based digital solve difficulties experienced by energy operators and service users, transformation. In order to secure high-quality big data, various hence creating new values in the energy sector. EN:TER consists of business system data and public data scattered by the working a service matching market, a power big data market, and customer department have been collected and stored in an integrated manner. convenience services, as well as providing consulting services for BI tools are introduced to create an interactive work environment for energy efficiency improvement. data search and pre-processing. The AI analysis platform provides basic functions necessary for data analysis, such as an AI analysis Creation of Business Ecosystem engine, AI algorithm, and AI analysis tools as a one-stop service so that the field staff can easily focus on AI development. Business Energy Service Company (ESCO) Demand Response (DR) matching Laying Foundation for Data Quality Control Data Electric Power Data (EDS) KEPCO has also established a company-wide data management Customer Searching electrical work provider Searching K-patent system to improve the data life cycle (creation-storage-use) and convenience laid the foundation for data quality control. We have created and applied company-wide data standards to improve data generation and storage, and improved data utilization by providing meaningful information. In order to keep improving the data life cycle, it Sharing Energy Services and Data established a management system including data management principles, R&R, process and work guidelines for each organization. Business Energy efficiency Energy Management Based on this system, the company has been striving to secure the New Industry Fund matching improvement System (EMS) first grade in public data quality management evaluation. In addition, equipped with company-wide data governance that ensures highData Power Data Development Portal quality power data, we have enhanced data reliability in terms of openness and distribution, and are hence faithfully implementing Customer Energy consulting, transformer load inquiry, etc. efforts to boost the revitalization of the electric power data. convenience BUSINESS l Creating Future Growth Engines 43 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Data Discovery Innovation Activities Improving Public Service Quality through Public Data Convergence KEPCO has established a data standard management system and integrated platform infrastructure, and is utilizing this to develop KEPCO provides a “safety care service for single-person household” solutions to improve work efficiency and reduce facility operation that can strengthen the social safety networks of people who are costs with respect to our headquarters and regional divisions. In 2019, vulnerable by providing an alarm to social workers when it detects an 14 projects were carried out, including a fair trade AI model based on abnormal power use in single-person households through integrated big data of meter reading, of which nine are in the process of going analysis of power consumption and communication data. In addition, through a company-wide expansion, and is expected to generate a the company is supporting people’s safety and life-oriented services profit of KRW 343.7 billion in the future. such as crime prevention and urban regeneration by providing an analysis service based on power data such as power consumption and floating population. Establishment of the Power Big Data Convergence Center KEPCO opened a “Power Big Data Convergence Center” in April 2019 to establish a new industrial ecosystem by promoting the external use of power big data. The Power Big Data Convergence Center consists of a Data Science Lab that analyzes power big data, a Data Sharing Center that opens up to use data, and an Energy Marketplace (EN:TER) portal that distributes data services. We are taking the lead in creating new services through the analysis and utilization of power big data, and by building up a digital data sharing ecosystem in line with shifting energy paradigms. Power Data Utilization Outcomes 171,796 visitors, Portal service to open Providing major electricity statistics and customized statistics Open Provided 376 customized statistics power data for consumers (for special purposes such as academic research) * As of January 2017 ~ June 2020 12 completed, 7 pending Providing space for power data analysis, service and analysis Sharing Data Sharing Center (1,427 of cumulative use days) model verification to private companies (opened in April 2019) * As of April 2019 ~ June 2020 About 89.2 million data distribution cases An online marketplace where companies can trade new services Distribution Data service market (31 companies participated) through the distribution of power consumption data * As of August 2019 ~ June 2020 Promoting the Development of Intelligent Digital Power Plant (IDPP) BUSINESS CASE 3 A digital power plant uses technology that maximizes operational efficiency by combining the entire cycle of design, operation, and prevention of boilers, turbines, generators, and auxiliary devices, which are the main equipment of a power plant, with Internet of Things (IoT) and Big Data platform technologies and configuring them in a digital space. By applying artificial intelligence (AI) and big data technology to power plants through digital power plant development projects, it is possible to identify optimal operating conditions and maintenance points, thereby improving power generation efficiency and preventing accidents. KEPCO established the concept of a digital power plant and embarked on an intelligent digital power plant development project in April 2017. From May 2019, KEPCO group companies participated in this project to promote a joint research and development for digital power plant demonstration and commercialization. Accordingly, based on the self-developed digital platform technology, we have been building a standard platform for power generation that can be used jointly by KEPCO group companies, and developing power plant diagnosis and prediction programs using big data and AI technologies. In May 2020, the “Digital Power Plant Construction Center” was established at the Korea Electric Power Research Institute (KEPRI) and a joint research and development team was formed to promote digital power plant technology development. As of June 2020, four types of diagnostic programs have been developed, and development of 12 different programs is underway. From the end of 2020, we plan to install the IDPP platform and development app at the power plant site in order to proceed with our demonstration. 44 Sustainability Report 2020 Electrical Infrastructure and Service Innovation Operating a Highly Reliable Power System Innovating Facility Management Technology Achieving a Stable, High-Quality Power Supply KEPCO is implementing optimal facility management using ICT convergence technology in response to the growing complexity and In addition to the timely expansion of transmission and substation diversification of power facilities. Through ultrasonic image diagnosis facilities, KEPCO is striving to operate systematic distribution facilities of electric power facilities, diagnosis deviations for each case have based on new technology, build next-generation power infrastructure, been resolved to improve accuracy, while automatic tracking diagnosis and improve the reliability of existing power facilities by predicting has been implemented to shorten the diagnosis time and internal equipment failures in advance through the digitization of monitoring diagnostic equipment has been developed to significantly reduce the and real-time detection of faulty insulators using artificial intelligence. cost of electric pole replacement. Furthermore, we are dramatically As a result of these efforts, KEPCO recorded the world’s best power expanding our power facility management through innovations based outage time per unit (8.61 minutes), regulated voltage maintenance on ICT technology such as 360° 3D scanners for manholes. rate (99.99%) and transmission and distribution loss factor (3.54%), and ranked in the world’s top three for the 8th consecutive year in the field Enhancing the Intelligent Power Grid System of electricity supply in the 2019 corporate environment assessment hosted by the World Bank. KEPCO has constructed a next-generation intelligent SCADA* system capable of real-time power system monitoring, control, and analysis Also, KEPCO has improved demand forecasting by using artificial at 82 company locations. The establishment of this system enables intelligence to establish an optimal system plan based on accurate real-time power analysis by integrating and operating the entire predictions of future power demand, and is managing its power power supply value chain, including power generation, transmission, supply and demand emergency response period to quickly respond and distribution, and the application of international standard to emergency situations, such as reduced power reserves. Meanwhile, protocols ensures its connection and universality with other systems. we have established a system that can respond quickly to emergency In addition, a comprehensive preventive diagnosis system using situations by implementing a period of emergency measures for the IoT sensors was established to implement 24/7 facility condition power supply, and are also monitoring phased corrective measures. monitoring. An automatic fault recovery system was also introduced In addition, we are contributing to the calculation of rational and to collectively control the operation of devices based on artificial economical demand management targets by proactively operating a intelligence judgments. working group to calculate the demand management targets of the *S CADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) : A power facility monitoring and data acquisition system “Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand.” Outage Time (SAIDI) (Unit : Minutes) Outage Frequency (SAIFI) (Unit : Times) Transmission and Distribution (Unit : %) Loss Factor 2017 9.08 2017 0.150 2017 3.57 2018 8.59 2018 0.105 2018 3.56 2019 8.61 2019 0.113 2019 3.54 * Seoul area (2019) : SAIDI (5.89 minutes) SAIFI (0.083 times) AMI Distribution and Service Demonstration Project BUSINESS CASE 4 KEPCO provides a variety of services using AMI (Advanced Metering Major Services Using Real-Time AMI Information Infrastructure), which facilitates voluntary energy savings and demand response by providing customers with useful information, such as Existing Improvement Effect electricity usage and hourly tariffs, using a two-way communication Previously, relying on network. In 2019, we are proceeding with the distribution of AMI to Real-time power outage Automatic identification Quick recovery from customers report low management system of power outages in the power outages voltage and power all customers in Jeju Island (a total of 430,000 households), a first for system outage information a local government. Additionally, we have been developing a diverse Previously, managing Maintaining high array of AMI-based services to demonstrate our comprehensive Constant voltage Continuous monitoring voltage manually once quality voltage at all management system of sample voltage a year times capabilities in this area. We will continue to expand our AMI to build a future distribution operating system that can provide additional Expanding the provision Comprehensive new Previously, providing of information, such as Securing power system services, whilst also developing a new profit model through overseas and renewable energy limited information the amount of power flexibility information system such as linked capacity exports of our operating system. generation, in real time BUSINESS l Electrical Infrastructure and Service Innovation 45 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Securing Next-Generation Power Transmission Technology Strengthening the Power Grid Security System KEPCO is striving to secure next-generation power technology to KEPCO has been reinforcing its information security management reinforce the competitiveness of its main business, and has succeeded system to protect the national power grid from more intelligent and in commercializing a superconducting power transmission technology targeted cyber threats. The company has been developing a security called ‘Dream Transmission Network.’ Superconducting cables, control system equipped with AI-based detection and analysis which replaces existing copper conductors with a superconductor technology to actively respond to security risks for all information assets whose resistance becomes zero below a certain temperature, reduce as power grid security threats increase along with the rapid increase transmission loss to 1/10 compared to existing cables, and can increase in IoT devices scattered nationwide, such as smart grids, EV chargers, transmission capacity by more than five times. They are a nextand meters that can be read remotely. In addition, in preparation for generation power transmission technology capable of low-voltage and an expansion in facilities subject to security control due to the growth high-capacity transmission. KEPCO achieved 100% localization for its of the new energy business, a new function to automatically analyze superconducting material technology with government support and harmful traffic has been added to reinforce detection capabilities. academic-industrial cooperation in research, and began commercial At the same time, we have expanded information security for operation in November 2019 by installing superconducting cables major information and communication infrastructure, including the in a 1 km section between the Singal and Heungdeok substations. introduction of a security operating system for the transmission and Through this superconducting commercialization project, Korea has substation SCADA system operation server, and are continuously been internationally recognized for its achievements, such as by being conducting various security diagnoses, taking appropriate measures and listed as the ‘world’s first country to commercialize superconducting’ improving identified vulnerabilities through the diagnoses. As a result in a white paper published by the IEA (International Energy Agency), of these efforts, no damage to power facilities or information leakage and has come to hold the best technology and know-how in all areas caused by cyber-attacks occurred in 2019. As a result, the company was of superconducting, including design, testing, production, installation selected as an excellent organization for three consecutive years in the and operation. In the future, KEPCO will lead the vitalization of annual vulnerability analysis and evaluation of major information and the domestic industrial ecosystem in the superconducting field communication infrastructure performed by the Ministry of Industry. through continuous technological development, while creating new sustainable growth engines by penetrating overseas markets. BUSINESS CASE 5 Expanding Underground Transmission & Distribution Work Exporting Power Grid Security Inspection Technology KEPCO recognizes that the construction of power facilities is an important issue directly impacting the residential environment of citizens. Accordingly, in order to increase social acceptance, In October 2019, KEPCO exported power grid security we are striving to build eco-friendly and resident-friendly power inspection automation technology to the US EPRI (Electric facilities while also expanding our underground power facilities. Power Research Institute). With the ever increasing When constructing a transmission network, areas close to living importance of power grid security, KEPCO has gained international recognition over its power grid security environments such as villages and schools are selected as priority technology through this export. This technology, developed targets for undergrounding. Separately, in order to strengthen safety in by KEPRI (Korea Electric Power Research Institute) in 2017, the case of a disaster, the company has identified vulnerable facilities is an integrated security management system that identifies and has been continually conducting undergrounding work on its own. transmission and distribution security vulnerabilities in Looking forward, KEPCO plans to continue to develop new advanced intelligent systems, and automatically verifies security underground facility models to minimize ground equipment for the updates and applies them to the entire power distribution construction of power facilities that coexist with local residents. system to protect the operating system, thereby keeping its security up to date. As the power grid, in which various operating systems are organically connected to one another, Status of Underground Transmission / Distribution Work Rate (Unit : %) plays an important role in constantly and stably supplying electricity, complex and high-level security measures are Transmission lines Distribution lines required. Our power grid security inspection automation technology is being used to automate security vulnerability checks and actions, which had previously been done manually by workers, so that they can be completed in five minutes by an operator. KEPCO plans to localize its integrated security management system according to the configuration and operating conditions of the North American power grid, and to conduct a technology demonstration for North 11.9 12.0 12.5 17.7 18.3 18.8 American power utilities in 2021. 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 46 Sustainability Report 2020 Strengthening Disaster Response System Safety Management of Power Facilities Establishing People-oriented Safety & Disaster Management As social interests of regulations on the safety management in System important national facilities are growing stronger, KEPCO is enhancing the effectiveness of the diagnosis and inspection system and KEPCO reinforced the safety and disaster management system by reinforcing the practice of autonomous safety inspections for the establishing a department in charge of safety and disaster at the safety management on power facilities as highest priority in public regional divisions in May 2019. In June 2019, for a quick response and safety. It has been carrying out regular safety inspections and precise recovery in the event of a crisis that causes power supply interruption safety inspections by expanding the range of facilities to be inspected, due to a disaster, the company-wide expansion of Business Continuity shifting from focusing on power facilities to expanding to multi-use Management was completed and ISO 22301 certification was obtained. facilities, and upgrading the seismic standards of power facilities to Through this, it has proved that KEPCO’s crisis management system establish a foundation for preemptive earthquake disaster response. is at an international level, and the company has secured operational In addition, seismic design has been expanded and reinforced for capabilities to quickly normalize power supply according to pretransmission and substation facilities, substation buildings, and prepared strategies and plans when transmission and substation, transmission and distribution power ducts located nationwide, and distribution, and related operations are interrupted due to reasons such new seismic construction methods such as the seismic base isolation* as earthquake, tsunami, fire, cyber terror, or surge in power demand. systems have been introduced. KEPCO has maintained a stable power supply system by reinforcing the safety management system for Building Integrated Smart Disaster Management System power facilities and improving disaster response capabilities. * Seismic base isolation : protecting (isolating) a structure from earthquake forces In February 2019, KEPCO established an integrated disaster management system based on big data that the people can trust to complete a real-time monitoring and response system of disasters. Efforts of Reinforcing Facility Safety Management The Disaster Management Integrated System is to visualize disaster information graphically based on location information, and integrate Facility Safety Inspection and operate the disaster-related information provided by various •‌Regular safety inspection : •‌Completed 22 cases of facilities repair internal and external systems such as national disaster information, 41 places of 1, 2, 3 types and reinforcement the Meteorological Administration, and the transmission operation •‌Precision safety inspection : •‌Nurturing and retaining 132 system. Through this, it is possible to monitor 13 different types 16 places of 2 types professional technical manpower of disaster information such as power failure, typhoon, earthquake based on location information in real time, and conduct disaster response tasks such as spreading the information and issuing an Establishing Earthquake Disaster Prevention & Response System emergency when a disaster occurs. In addition, we support disaster training based on the disaster response process for the HQs, regional •Upgrading seismic standards for power •‌Achieved 100% seismic reinforcement facilities : scale 6.3 → 6.6 for all power facilities divisions and branches, and helps to allow a comprehensive view (7.0 for important facilities) of the disaster that has occurred at a glance. According to these functions, KEPCO completed a preemptive prevention, real-time damage statistics, and immediate recovery system. It implemented Introduction of New Construction Methods & Standards a thorough disaster response even in the largest number of typhoon •Introducing a seismic base isolation •Absorbing seismic force and invasions in 60 years in Korea last year (seven including Typhoon system for communication facilities maintaining functions Lingling), and within 24 hours after the typhoon caused damage, 99.8 •‌Expanding seismic design •‌Arranging inhouse seismic standards % of power transmission was completed. (wall, glass, etc.) for non-structures Main Functions of Disaster Management Integrated System 1 2 3 4 GIS-based disaster Disaster Disaster response Disaster monitoring response training dashboard •Real-time monitoring of 13 different types •Management work in preparation for possible •Supporting disaster response training •Building a comprehensive disaster of disaster information outbreak of disasters such as staffing through the system based on a training dashboard (for the HQs and regional •Disaster risk notification and differentiated •Communicating situation notice in the scenario headquarters) for the situation room guidance according to disaster information event of a disaster, assigning posts during •Providing various audio-visual materials •Providing a summary of the disaster and emergency situations, supporting a wider area according to the training flow and training recovery progress and doing damage recovery work employees on how to use the system BUSINESS l Electrical Infrastructure and Service Innovation 47 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Education & Training for Disaster Response Power Facility Inspection Activity KEPCO conducts a variety of disaster-related education and training KEPCO has formed a special inspection team including those from the programs to check our disaster response system and to improve management to conduct a thorough investigation of power facilities in actual response capabilities. In 2019, KEPCO’s HQ and all regional areas concerned about possible damage in the event of a natural disaster, divisions participated in 516 sessions of SKX (Safe Korea Exercise), and to manage and address risk factors. In particular, the company which was carried out to ensure comprehensive inspection of the has been intensively inspecting the supply lines of rainwater pumping disaster response system across all parts of the government. For four stations and drainage stations in preparation for typhoons and torrential consecutive years, KEPCO has been selected by SKX as an excellent rains. KEPCO does its best to provide stable power by reinforcing power institution in this respect. Moreover, in June 2019, we expanded outage prevention activities through continuous facility inspection and our Business Continuity Management System (BCM) company-wide establishing a rapid power facility recovery system. and conducted annual mock training to check our core business recovery system in case of a disaster. Self-training for different types of disaster, such as electricity supply and demand, natural disasters, cyber terrorism, and power system breakdowns, is also carried out from time to time. Further, in order to enhance the expertise of our disaster and safety management personnel, we have been making efforts to reinforce professional competencies by providing training for 103 managers and working level staff members. Disaster-Safe Korea Exercise (SKX) in 2019 Concentrating Damage Recovery Capability against Gangwon Forest Fire BUSINESS CASE 6 & Improving Facility Management System In April 2019, as the generation of embers caused by the Yanggangjipung* spread to large-scale forest fires in the Gangwon area of Korea, KEPCO mobilized all company-wide capabilities to stabilize the forest fire area, and established fundamental measures for the distribution facility management system in preparation for national disasters. * Yanggangjipung : Strong and dry local wind blowing in the Yeongdong region, Korea during the spring KEPCO established an emergency disaster situation room in the HQ and Sokcho division as soon as a forest Activating the disaster management fire occurred in order for facilities to be rapidly recovered. KEPCO focused its company-wide capabilities on Initial integrated system immediately upon stabilizing the situation. In addition, the company provided temporary accommodation to 101 affected residents response recognition of crisis and provided electricity bill reductions to about 2,000 households after the declaration of the disaster area. (a warning of dry and strong wind) KEPCO also donated KRW 1.27 billion as the win-win cooperation fund created through fundraising activities of all employees along with medical support. Follow up Emergency inspections and on-site From April to July 2019, KEPCO conducted optical and thermal image inspections on 2,010,000 railroad tracks measures implementation for safety in the mountain areas, completing measures for 9,933 defective facilities. In addition, fire monitoring near power measures enhancement of power facilities facilities has been strengthened in cooperation with related organizations such as the fire department. By preparing step-by-step measures for how to construct and operate power facilities, we converted power Operating TFT made up of internal and facilities in areas vulnerable to forest fires, such as in mountainous areas, to a “fire prevention power supply Preventive external experts and preparing step-bymethod”. In addition, we developed and applied the ‘Spark Free Distribution Equipment’ that does not allow even measures step countermeasures by benchmarking small embers to spread in the facilities, which includes the ultra-high speed power circuit breakers, fully insulated other power utilities wires for processing, and spark-blocking fuses. Furthermore, KEPCO installed sensors that can measure wind speed and direction to operate facilities suitable for the climate. Phase Standards & Institutions Technology Development Facility Operation Emergency (2019) Converting supply method in mountain regions Developing Spark Free equipment Wind speed and wind direction observation system Commercialization of low voltage DC distribution Short-term (2021) Power cutoff system in case of disaster risk Hazardous area rating system technology Mid-to long-term (2025) Underground work for disaster-prone areas AI-based failure prediction Equipment life prediction and management 48 Sustainability Report 2020 Enhancing Customer Services Promoting the Reorganization of Sustainable Tariff System Introduction of a New Rate System for Residential Power KEPCO is making constant efforts to introduce sustainable tariff Use During the Summer systems including improvement of baseline consumption deductions and adoption of residential-use seasonal and time-specific tariffs. To reduce the burden of high electricity bills on customers during For household customers that use less than 200kWh per month, the the summer, when usage increases significantly, KEPCO introduced discount-providing baseline consumption deduction system is being a residential-only progressive electricity bill system. To this end, we reviewed by analyzing and enhancing its effectiveness, as benefits operated the ‘Electricity Rate Progressive system TF’ from December currently are focused on one or two-person households earning 2018 to June 2019, and prepared three reforms. Subsequently, the above median income rather than low income households. Further, improvement plan was finalized by collecting public opinions through in our drive to operate customer-focused electricity tariff systems discussion meetings consisting of expert panels, public hearings, and increase tariff options for our customers, we are researching and online bulletin boards. Previously, progressive billing was applied ways to introduce residential-only time of use (TOU) tariffs that equally to all seasons, but with these reforms, it has expanded the provide differential pricing based on the season and time of usage. first two ceilings to apply to every summer only (from July to August). Through reforms that bring about reasonable tariff systems, KEPCO As a result, over the summer of 2019, each household is expected to endeavors to encourage responsible energy consumption and see KRW 10,980 discounts on their monthly bills under the revised prevent the distortion of relative prices for different energy sources. system. Concurrently, we are meeting citizens’ demands for clean and safe energy production, and striving to improve the sustainability of our power generation business. Improvement Plan of The Progress Billing System for Households Activities for Reorganization of Tariff System Existing Improvement [1st] In-depth public opinion survey (from May 2019 to July 2019) Expansion of progressive stage •‌Target : 600 people in six cities and provinces nationwide in Korea Progressive stage is same for •‌Content : Relationship between household characteristics and during the summer all seasons electricity consumption (July to August) Improving [2nd] Interview survey on electricity usage status Baseline (from September 2019 to December 2019) stage consumed amount stage consumed amount Consumption 1 200 kWh or less 1 300 kWh or less Deduction •‌Target : 20,000 households in 17 cities and provinces nationwide in Korea •‌Content : Added opinions on system improvement to the first survey 2 201 ~ 400 kWh or less 2 301 ~ 450 kWh or less 3 Over 400 kWh 3 Over 450 kWh Analyzing the Effect of the Baseline Consumption Deduction and Preparing Separate Support Plans for the Vulnerable Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 KRW 93.3 KRW 187.9 KRW 280.6 Operation of TOU TF for residential-use (September 2019 ~) (KRW/ kWh) •‌Composition : Participation of KEPCO’s six departments and offices 300 Existing Improvement •‌Role : TOU design and application plan preparation TOU pilot project for households (2,000 households) 200 Introduction of TOU for •‌KEPCO : Provision of usage and charge information, analysis of Residential-Use demand response 100 •‌Customer : Check information and control usage through mobile app 0 Providing Options that Fit Customer’s Lifestyle After Designing Various Pricing Plans 200 400 (Electricity consumption, kWh) BUSINESS l Electrical Infrastructure and Service Innovation 49 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Expanding Customer Services for Social Welfare Strengthening Customer Information Protection Since November 2019, KEPCO has been conducting a “safety Reinforcing the Management System for Personal care service for single-person household” demonstration project Information Protection in cooperation with telecommunications companies and local governments. This service is a type of social safety networks that KEPCO has reinforced its personal information protection prevents emergencies in which abnormal conditions are detected based management system to proactively respond to amendments on an analysis of electricity usage patterns when people are at home or to Korea’s three major data privacy laws, including the Personal out. It uses single-household electricity consumption, smartphone calls, Information Protection Act. In order to prevent the leakage of and location data, and provides emergency alarms to public officials personal information in accordance with the expected expansion in charge of administrative and welfare centers. In addition, KEPCO of power data sharing, the company revised related manuals while has expanded its mobile voice billing service nationwide, and has completing building automatic encryption (DRM)* technology for been making continuous efforts to expand inclusive customer service personal information files on PCs, such as documents and images. In by improving services for the socially underprivileged, such as its addition, in cooperation with the Korea Internet & Security Agency, automatic discount application service through linkages of information we have provided professional training to our pool of data security on welfare discount customers, and the operation of electric vehicle experts. In accordance with our in-house personal information charging stations for those with reduced mobility. protection guidelines, we conduct annual personal information guidance checks from the HQs to the primary and secondary Innovating Customer Services through Digitalization regional divisions and outsourcing companies, and reflect the results in our evaluations of those regional divisions when management With the development of new digital technologies and the rise of deficiencies are found. Furthermore, we are spreading a culture of customer service expectations in the era of the fourth industrial practicing personal information protection among our employees revolution, KEPCO is taking the lead in enhancing customer value by promoting seven life rules for personal information protection by providing digital-based customized services. Moving away from through posters and internet banners. As a result of these personal the traditional method of sending, receiving and processing written information protection activities, the Ministry of Public Administration electricity contracts via mail, KEPCO has switched to a method of and Security has selected KEPCO as an excellent institution for five electronic contracts using our Cyber Branch and electronic signatures, consecutive years in its diagnosis and evaluation of the personal simplifying the application process and document submissions for information management status of public institutions. electricity use, and greatly improving customer convenience. In * ‌DRM (Digital Right Management) : An access rights control solution for document encryption and addition, we have improved the speed and transparency of electricity reading, editing, printing, and copy protection supply by utilizing RPAs (Robotic Process Automation), such as our reception system for massive applications and guidance system for customers experiencing schedule delays. We are also making Personal Information Protection Activities in 2019 continuous efforts to improve customer satisfaction by expanding connectivity between customers and energy companies through the advancement of the Energy Marketplace (EN:TER), a comprehensive Personal information protection training business platform for sharing energy services and data. 1 Providing mandatory personal information protection training to all employees Online Electricity Contract Procedure Reinforcing supervision of outsourcing and service companies 2 Strengthening education, management and supervision for safe personal information protection Writing a Company Sending Customer Replying contract signing (mail) signing (mail) Building a personal information leakage prevention system 3 Building an encryption system for attached files for information such as 1 ~ 2 days 7 ~ 14 days resident registration numbers Destroying personal information after the purpose of use is achieved 4 Completely destroying personal information for which the purpose of use has been achieved and the retention period has ended Writing a Registering a Electronic Checking the contract contract signature result Promoting personal information protection practices 5 Promoting personal information protection rules through in-house posters and internet banners 1 day 1 day 50 Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL 02 Management Approach Since the official adoption of the Paris Agreement in 2015, and with the aim of responding to the global climate crisis, KEPCO has established a greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction strategy and is promoting a range of GHG reduction activities in collaboration with our group companies. In doing so, we have set up a proactive response system under this new climate framework convention. We are also contributing to the supply of eco-friendly energy by stepping up the development of renewable energy on a large-scale, as well as expanding grid infrastructure for renewable energy interconnection systems to help realize the transition to clean, safe energy. Through investments in improving energy efficiency and the application of eco-friendly technology throughout the value chain, KEPCO is leading the formation of a sustainable power generation industry ecosystem. Establishing a System to Respond to the New Climate Regime Achieving Eco-Friendly Value Chains Expanding the New and Renewable Energy Supply Minimizing Environmental Impact 2019 Key Performance Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Expanding Infrastructure for Connecting New & Renewable Energy to the Grid 260,000 tCO 2 * KEPCO excluding power generation subsidiaries 1,235 MW CDP Carbon Management Energy & Improving Energy Efficiency Utility Sector Honors 1,019 GWh reduction Selected as an Outstanding Company for 4 Consecutive Years ENVIRONMENTAL l Responding to Climate Crisis 51 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Responding to Climate Crisis APPENDIX KEPCO TCFD In response to the global climate crisis, the international community adopted the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 1992 and is strengthening cooperation with the aim of reducing greenhouse gases and realizing a decarbonized society. To ensure sustainable development, KEPCO participates in this cooperation and has accordingly established an active climate change response system, setting the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and promoting various reduction activities. Moreover, we have participated in the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2008 in order to meet the needs of stakeholders who demand corporate leadership in transitioning to a low-carbon economy. As such, we are externally disclosing our efforts to respond to the climate change. We have been selected as an outstanding company in the energy and utility sector for 4 consecutive years since 2016, in recognition of our efforts to increase the transparency of greenhouse gas emission information and improve emissions reductions. Furthermore, the Financial Stability Board (FSB), an international financial organization, established the Task-force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2015 and presented recommendations on the disclosure of financial information related to the climate change. In this regard, KEPCO plans to continuously disclose climate change-related information from 2020 in accordance with these TCFD recommendations, reflecting the needs of global investors. * KEPCO discloses in detail the indicators and information related to climate change through the CDP, and the CDP report can be found on KEPCO’s official website. TCFD Recommendation Disclosing the Organization’s Governance Structure for Climate Change-related Risks and Opportunities Disclosing the Actual Governance and Potential Impact of Structure Climate Change-related Risks and Opportunities on an Organization’s Strategy Business, Strategy, and Financial Plans Risk Management Disclosing Processes by Indicators & which an Organization Reduction Targets Identifies, Assesses and Manages Risks Related to Disclosure of Indicators Climate Change and Mitigation Targets used to Assess and Manage Climate Changerelated Risks and Opportunities 52 Sustainability Report 2020 Governance Structure Oversight by the Board of Directors in Response to Climate Change KEPCO’s new and renewable energy development goals related to the climate change response, infrastructure expansion to link renewable energy to the grid, and GHG reduction activities, are included in our ‘mid-to long-term management target’ and ‘mid-to long-term financial management plan’. In 2018, KEPCO appointed two new, non-standing directors with expertise in environmental fields, such as renewable energy, in order to enhance our climate change response activities at the board level. The Chairperson of the Board of Directors, Kim Jwa-Kwan, serves as a professor in the Department of Environmental Engineering at the Catholic University of Busan, while Director Choi Seung-kook served as the Secretary General of the Green Korea United, and currently serves as the Chairperson of the environmental organization ‘Solar and Wind Energy Cooperative Association’. In 2019, a total of 13 board meetings were held to deliberate on 36 resolution agendas and 8 reporting agenda items, and from among these those decisions with financial impact on important issues concerning KEPCO’s response to the climate change were made including the approval of amendments to the construction plans for our flagship electric vehicles charging station and the approval of contributions to a solar power project in Mexico. In addition, the establishment of the “ESG Committee” is currently under review to strengthen ESG management and supervision by the BOD and executives. The Role of Management in Response to Climate Change Below the level of the Board of Directors, the role of managing risk and opportunity factors relating to climate change is assigned to the Chief Business Operations Officer (CBO). Both the Climate Change Policy Team and the Climate Change Technology Team, which are climate change response organizations, operate in the Technology Planning Department under the CBO. The CBO is responsible for managing government policies concerning GHG emissions and executing investment projects necessary for reduction. The CBO constantly monitors the GHG emission trading system response and the status of GHG reduction projects, reporting them to the BOD if necessary. Meanwhile, KEPCO’s response to climate change is directly linked to new and renewable energy development, new businesses in the energy sector, and energy demand management plans. Accordingly, under the CBO, the Renewable & Energy Solution Business Department, in charge of development strategies for new energy industry such as the domestic renewable energy generation projects, electric vehicle charging infrastructure (EVC), and the comprehensive energy management system (K-BEMS), as well as the Demand Management & Optimization Department, which is responsible for energy efficiency improvement projects and demand-side management plans, were established. In addition, we regularly hold meetings of the CEOs of our group companies in order to prepare joint cooperation plans for the reduction of GHG emissions. In December 2019, we discussed the direction of our overseas coal-fired power projects and conversion to a sustainable overseas project portfolio. Accordingly, KEPCO will focus on developing lowcarbon and eco-friendly projects such as new and renewable and combined-cycle gas turbine power plants, and in particular, for overseas coalfired power plant projects, we have no plan to develop a new project in the future. Climate Crisis Management System CEO Corporate Senior Vice President & Chief Business Operations Officer Renewable & Energy Solution Business Demand Management & Optimization Technology Planning Department Department Department Climate Change Policy Team Climate Change Technology Team •‌Establishment of comprehensive •‌GHG reduction projects strategies to respond to climate change •‌Response to the greenhouse gas •‌Cooperation with group companies in emission trading system response to climate change •‌Management of greenhouse gas •‌Establishment of strategies for •‌Response to government policies related reduction technology R&D •‌Establishment and operation of demandpromoting new and renewable energy to climate change side management plans projects, as well as new businesses •‌Supply and management of high •‌Construction of electric vehicle charging efficiency equipment infrastructure (EVC) •‌Implementation of the EERS (Energy •‌Dissemination of the comprehensive Efficiency Resource Standard) projects energy management system (K-BEMS) ENVIRONMENTAL l Responding to Climate Crisis 53 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Strategy Climate Change Response Activities KEPCO has set up an integrated response system for our group companies to respond to climate change. We have established the ‘Basic Plan for GHG Reduction of KEPCO Group Companies 2030’ and the ‘RE3020 Basic Plan for KEPCO Group Companies’ to take the lead in reducing GHG emissions and promoting new and renewable energy. In order to achieve our GHG reduction target (a reduction of 47 million tons compared to BAU by 2030), construction of new coal-fired power plants has been prohibited in principle, a decision was made to decommission 10 old, coalfired power plants with a total capacity of 3,345 MW, and a plan to convert four coal-fired power plants to LNG was confirmed. Furthermore, in September 2019, we submitted an additional LNG conversion plan for fourteen 7GW coal-fired power plants to the government. In addition, KEPCO is promoting large-scale new and renewable energy business development, and is expanding research and development in the field of new and renewable energy with the aim of achieving a clean and safe energy mix. We are also striving to make the entire power supply value chain ecofriendly, from production to sales, by reducing coal-fired power generation, collecting and purifying SF6 gas, and improving energy consumption efficiency. Further details can be found on pages 56 ~ 59 of this report. Early Decommissioning of Coal-fired Power Plants Converting Coal-fired Power Plants to LNG-fired Plants Installed Decommissioning Installed Conversion Schedule Generator Unit Subsidiary Generator Unit Subsidiary Capacity (MW) Schedule Capacity (MW) (Anticipated Date) Complete Samcheonpo Unit 3, 4 1,120 KOEN (Korea South-East Power Co.) 2024. 3 Seocheon Unit 1, 2 400 KOMIPO (Korea Midland Power Co.) (2017. 7) Taean Unit 1, 2 1,000 KOWEPO (Korea Western Power Co.) 2025. 12 Fuel transition Yeongdong Unit 1, 2 325 KOEN (Korea South-East Power Co.) (2017. 7, 2019. 1) Samcheonpo Unit 5, 6 1,000 KOEN (Korea South-East Power Co.) 2027 ~ 2028 2020. 12 Samcheonpo Unit 1, 2 1,120 KOEN (Korea South-East Power Co.) Boryeong Unit 5, 6 1,000 KOMIPO (Korea Midland Power Co.) 2023 ~ 2024 (Anticipated Date) 2021. 1 Taean Unit 3, 4 1,000 KOWEPO (Korea Western Power Co.) 2027 Honam Unit 1, 2 500 EWP (Korea East-West Power Co.) (Anticipated Date) Hadong Unit 1 ~ 4 2,000 KOEN (Korea South-East Power Co.) 2027 ~ 2028 2020. 12 Boryeong Unit 1, 2 1,000 KOMIPO (Korea Midland Power Co.) Dangjin Unit 1 ~ 4 2,000 EWP (Korea East-West Power Co.) 2029 ~ 2031 (Anticipated Date) Key Risk and Opportunity Factors As companies eligible for the GHG emission trading scheme, KEPCO and the six power generation subsidiaries are fulfilling our obligations during the second phase (2018-2020). During this period, 3% of the paid allocation was implemented, with the paid allocation ratio expected to increase to more than 10% from 2021. The cost of purchasing emission permits is expected to continue to increase in the future. In addition, following the implementation of the RPS (Renewable Portfolio Standards), the cost of purchasing external RECs (Renewable Energy Certificates) is expected to rise due to an expansion of the mandatory quota of new and renewable power generation, and the increase in our environmental R&D budget may create a burden on operating expenses. Further, if greater demand for social responsibility creates a situation damaging to our corporate reputation, such as in the disclosure of climate change response activities, this may negatively affect our corporate value. Technical risks related to power facility operations and stemming from changes in the physical environment, such as heatwaves and extreme cold, may also be caused by the climate crisis. However, in the process of transitioning to a low-carbon economy, the climate crisis may be an opportunity to create new business. By 2030, an annual average of 3,012 MW of demand resources will be reduced, resulting in a decrease in the System Marginal Price (SMP) and an expected saving of KRW 54.4 billion in the annual electricity purchase cost. Additionally, in a first for Korea, KEPCO issued a Green Bond worth USD 500 million for two consecutive years to diversify borrowing resources and raise investment funds for eco-friendly energy. Through this, we saved KRW 33.6 billion in interest expenses compared to Electricity Bonds, and we plan to use the funds raised by the Green Bond for domestic and overseas new and renewable power generation projects, building electric vehicle charging infrastructure, and expanding new and renewable energy facilities. Moreover, KEPCO is taking this opportunity to increase sales by expanding our participation in new and renewable energy generation projects, such as offshore wind power and solar power, in accordance with the implementation of RE3020. Due to the impact of climate change, KEPCO has also established ‘Climate Change Adaptation Measures’ through scenario analysis (using RCP 8.5*) of damage to company power facilities, and we reflect these measures in our management strategy. Results of inspections on whether the adaptation measures have been implemented are submitted to the Ministry of Environment for verification. Details on the RCP 8.5 scenario analysis and climate change adaptation measures are disclosed in detail through the CDP report. * The Green Bond Report can be found on KEPCO’s official website. * RCP 8.5 : A hypothetical scenario in which GHG emissions are not reduced and instead continue in line with current trends (i.e. BAU scenario) 54 Sustainability Report 2020 Risk Management KEPCO identifies and evaluates climate change-related risks through a phased committee deliberation process, and makes efficient investment decisions for major projects related to the climate change response. For projects involving large-scale investments, including climate change response activities, the feasibility of a project is deliberated through procedures involving the Project Selection Committee, Risk Deliberation Committee, Investment Deliberation Committee, and the Board of Directors. In this process, we analyze the risk factors related to climate change, such as enhanced environmental regulations, energy tax reforms, and responses to the GHG emission trading scheme, and develop countermeasures to mitigate these risks. The Project Selection Committee deliberates, in detail, the obstacles facing project implementation, analyzes expected risks and returns, and considers the structure of the project, the possibility of financing (bankability), methods to secure executive personnel, the project promotion plan and required budget, and the implementation schedule. The Risk Deliberation Committee deliberates on the adequacy of risk management strategies and business risk premium calculations, including major risk analysis and countermeasures. The Investment Deliberation Committee finalizes the investment portfolio for projects that have passed examination by the Project Selection Committee and the Risk Deliberation Committee, as well as other investment projects. Final approval for a project is then made by the Board of Directors. KEPCO recognizes, from a financial perspective, the risks and opportunities of climate change and carbon management activities, and is monitoring risks related to carbon emissions through the establishment of the ‘Basic Plan for GHG Reduction of KEPCO Group Companies 2030’, and has developed a systematic response plan linked to company-wide risk management. Climate change response activities are reflected in our shortto mid-to long-term investment plan, taking into account the impact of risks and the possibility of new project implementation, and periodic analyses of performance against budget and performance management indicators are conducted. Based on these analysis results, the impact of climate crisis-related risks on our operating profit is managed on a step-by-step basis. Through mid-to long-term business environment analyses, a ‘midand long-term financial management plan’ is produced yearly and reported to the Board of Directors. The ‘mid-to long-term financial management plan’ established in 2019 includes investment directions for climate change-related business environment changes and investment plans for each business, such as ‘the government’s policy to restrict coal-fired power generation and expand renewable power to reduce greenhouse gas and fine dust’, ‘environmental cost increases from the reorganization of RPS, emission rights, and the energy tax system’, ‘increasing investment costs related to new and renewable energy and grid connection’, ‘increasing investment costs related to power generation business and grid connection’, and ‘expanding the power and ICT convergence business, such as electric vehicle charging and smart cities’. Major Risk Management Factors by Committee Domestic Business (new energy business, Overseas Business new and renewable power generation projects, etc.) Project Selection Analyzes obstacles in advancing the business, expected risks and returns, the possibility of financing, the budget for project promotion, etc. Committee •Matters concerning basic policies and plans •‌Risk management strategies, such as major risk analysis and •Matters concerning contract signing countermeasures •‌Matters concerning the establishment of a corporation (SPC) and •‌Matters concerning the key contents of various contracts and guarantees investment •‌Approval of the verification results of the Standard Rate of Return Risk Deliberation •Matters concerning financing Verification Committee, such as the compatibility of business risk premium Committee •Basic plan concerning investment risk management in accordance with calculations investment feasibility, etc. (verification of business environment and key ※ ‌For overseas projects, the Standard Rate of Return Verification Committee assumptions, sensitivity analysis by situation, risk management strategy, etc.) is separately nominated before the Risk Deliberation Committee Investment Deliberation Review of the necessity of the business, the appropriateness of the implementation time, scale and profitability (economy), and risks and countermeasures Committee Final approval after deliberation on the feasibility of the business investment Board Resolution ENVIRONMENTAL l Responding to Climate Crisis 55 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Indicators and Reduction Targets Greenhouse Gas Reduction Target KEPCO group companies have established the “Basic Plan for GHG Reduction of KEPCO Group Companies 2030” in an effort to contribute to the national target of 58 million tons of GHG reductions. Accordingly, we have set a goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 47 million tons compared to BAU by 2030, with 18 million tons of reductions expected through the realization of an improved eco-friendly power generation mix via the early decommissioning of coal-fired power plants and LNG conversion, improvement of power generation infrastructure, an increase in the proportion of renewable energy generation, and suspension of operations of coal-fired power plants in the spring. A further reduction of 29 million tons is planned through the expansion of self-reduction measures, such as the additional decommissioning of old, coal-fired power plants (to reflect the 9th Basic Power Supply and Demand Plan), domestic external projects, and overseas CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) projects. Meanwhile, we are expanding investment in large-scale offshore wind power and solar power projects, with the goal of developing 41.2GW of renewable energy by 2030. By recognizing climate change as a new business opportunity, we are advancing new businesses including establishment of electric vehicle charging infrastructure (EVC) and supply of comprehensive energy management system (K-BEMS). Further details can be found on p.33 ~ 35 of this report. National Conversion Sector Reduction Target (Tentative) Reduction Target for KEPCO Group Companies Reduction Methods 58 million tons 47 million tons* Improving power generation Improving the eco-friendly infrastructure power generation mix Confirmed reduction of Additional reduction of •Increasing the share of Confirmed reduction of Additional reduction of •Decommissioning and renewable energy generation 24 million tons 34 million tons improving the performance •Shutting down coal-fired 18 million tons 29 million tons of old, coal-fired power power generation plants •Introducing an environmental •Converting Coals to LNG dispatch* * Out of the 58 million tons of reduction targets in the conversion sector, 34 million tons are additional potential reductions, and will be confirmed before the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) is submitted by 2020. * A purchase order determined under the merit order system that includes environmental costs Status of Greenhouse Gas Emissions KEPCO closely monitors and gathers data on scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions across our corporate activities, and we systematically manage all direct and indirect emissions. KEPCO’s GHG emissions in 2019 amounted to approximately 1.1 million tons, down 260,000 tons from 2018. It is expected that future emissions will see further, significant reductions through the collection, refinement and recycling of the SF6 gas generated during switch removal. Meanwhile, in accordance with the policy of converting to eco-friendly energy sources such as reducing coal-fired power generation and expanding the use of renewable energy, the GHG emissions of KEPCO group companies including 6 power generation subsidiaries are expected to decrease to 202.2 million tons in 2019, representing a 13.8 million ton decrease compared to 2018. Greenhouse Gas Emissions of KEPCO Group Companies (Unit : million tCO2) (Unit : tCO2) Category 2017 2018 2019 Category 2019 Scope 1 1.3 1.2 0.9 Fuel Combustion Discarding Domestic Fuel Production to Generate Generated and Overseas Commute Process KEPCO Scope 2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Scope 3 Power Waste Business Trips 45,439,968 219,614,860 765 9,104 483 Total 1.5 1.4 1.1 Scope 1 210.3 210.9 197.6 •‌Based on the National Greenhouse Gas Comprehensive Management System (NGMS), emissions in 2019 Power may change according to the results of government verification. •Calculation range : Domestic business sites generation Scope 2 3.9 3.7 3.5 •‌Power generation subsidiaries : Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea East-West subsidiaries Power, Korea Western Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea Southern Power Total 214.2 214.6 201.1 •‌Scope 1 : Direct ‌ emissions generated from emission sources directly owned and controlled by business operators •‌Scope 2 : Indirect emissions generated from the production of electricity, steam, etc. Total 215.7 216.0 202.2 •‌Scope 3 : External ‌ emissions from power generation fuel production, domestic and overseas business trips, product use, etc. 56 Sustainability Report 2020 Expanding the Supply of New & Renewable Energy Operating the New & Renewable Energy Council for KEPCO Group Companies Establishing RE3020 Basic Plan for KEPCO Group Companies KEPCO, along with power generation subsidiaries, operates the ‘New & Renewable Energy Council’ to efficiently promote the domestic With the recent tightening of environmental regulations on coal-fired new and renewable power generation projects. Accordingly, we are power generation, KEPCO and generation subsidiaries have established sharing the progress status of projects for each organization and the ‘RE3020 Basic Plan for KEPCO Group Companies’ to reduce greenhouse identifying methods of joint cooperation. In addition, we are striving gas emissions and facilitate the conversion to clean energy. Accordingly, to create synergy at the group level by introducing reform measures we are promoting the development of large-scale offshore wind and for expansion of new and renewable energy. Based on a system of solar power projects, with the goal of achieving 41.2GW of renewable close collaboration, KEPCO group companies will lead the clean energy energy by 2030. We will contribute to the achievement of national transition, revitalize the domestic renewable energy industry, and drive policy goals by promoting economical and efficient business through the growth of related industries. using our own technologies, as well as take the lead in overcoming the climate crisis by reducing carbon in the electric power industry. KEPCO's Renewable Energy Development Goals (Unit : MW) RE3020 Promotion Goals for KEPCO Group Companies (Unit : GW) Development Goals Total 5,808 Photovoltaic ‌ Power 20.2 ‌Photovoltaic Power 4,700 Photovoltaic KEPCO ‌Wind power 1.1 ‌Offshore Wind Power Power 5.8 ‌Others ‌Total 2,942 ‌Total 41.2 1,900 Power GW 11.5 Offshore Wind generation 5.8 737 Power subsidiaries 35.4 2.9 371 2,866 2.9 7.6 356 15 686 51 2,800 KEPCO Power generation Short-term (2022) Mid-term (2026) Long-term (2030) * 15.2GW development plan to be established subsidiaries Promoting Large-scale New & Renewable Energy Project Development KEPCO is actively promoting a range of renewable energy generation projects, such as the Southwest Sea offshore wind power, Jeju Hallim offshore wind power, Miryang Heemang Sunlight Power, and photovoltaic power in schools. The Southwest Sea offshore wind power demonstration project (60MW), a large-scale offshore wind power project, saw commercial operations starting in earnest following successful implementation, and the Jeju Hallim offshore wind power project (100MW) is undergoing the process of signing a main contract, such as one for turbine supply. Miryang Heemang Sunlight Power, a resident participation initiative, resulted in the completion of 25 power plants. In addition, KEPCO has been pursuing a photovoltaic project for schools with the goal of constructing solar power generation facilities with a total capacity of 110MW in schools and public sites nationwide. Aside from this, we are promoting the development of a 1.5GW offshore wind farm in Shinan, Jeollanam-do, where KEPCO group companies, local governments, and local residents work together to participate in the development process, while the development plan for the Southwest Sea offshore wind power pilot project (400MW) is under discussion with local governments. Offshore Wind Power Photovoltaic Power Category Southwest Sea Offshore Wind Power Jeju Hallim Offshore Wind Power School Photovoltaic Power Miryang Photovoltaic Power Establishment date of 2012. 12. 7 2017. 12. 19 2016. 6. 21 2015. 6. 11 SPC Development of Southwest Sea offshore Development of photovoltaic power in Development of photovoltaic power Construction and operation of offshore Project description wind power demonstration complex schools nationwide and local government around surrounding areas of transmission wind power in Hallim-eup, Jeju (100MW) (60MW) (110MW) lines in Miryang (2.5MW) KEPCO E&C 5 Midland Power generation Power generation Share ratio KEPCO Power generation subsidiaries KEPCO Power KEPCO subsidiaries KEPCO subsidiaries (Unit : %) 25 75 29 50 50 23 50 50 Other 43 Preparing for construction Completion (June 2019) and in operation Progress status Completion (Jan. 2020) and in operation Completion and in operation (11MW) (Completion of approval for development) (25 units, 2.5MW) ENVIRONMENTAL l Responding to Climate Crisis 57 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Expansion of R&D in the Field of New and Renewable Energy BUSINESS CASE 7 Southwest Sea Offshore In accordance with the RE3020 basic plan, KEPCO is concentrating on Wind Power Demonstration Project the research and development of new technologies to promote new and renewable energy. In addition to research on new and renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind power, we are managing The Southwest Sea offshore wind power demonstration complex is a 60MW offshore wind farm consisting of 20 the entire value chain from energy production and consumption, 3MW wind power generators and offshore substations on taking into account the deterioration of power quality caused by the coast of Buan-gun, Jeollabuk-do and Gochang-gun. the expansion of new and renewable energy. In addition, in order to With the completion of the demonstration complex, KEPCO minimize the effect of the nature of renewable energy in regard of the will produce and supply 155GWh of electricity every year, intermittent power output on the power grid, research on resources equivalent to the amount of electricity that can be used by that can provide flexibility to the power grid is being conducted such about 50,000 households. The Southwest Sea offshore as AI-based real-time operation systems and Energy Storage System wind power demonstration complex is of great significance (ESS). The construction of large-capacity ESS is essential due to the as the first offshore substation in Asia, and is expected to weather-sensitive nature of new and renewable energy such as solar contribute to the advancement of offshore wind power in the and wind power. In response to the expansion of renewable energy, global market based on KEPCO’s expertise in the production, KEPCO is promoting the construction of ESS to ensure the stable installation, and operation of offshore wind power generation and offshore substations. Moreover, KEPCO plans to develop operation of the power grid. 2.9GW of large-scale offshore wind power projects that are difficult for private companies to participate in by 2030, Establishing a Renewable Energy Integrated Monitoring and including the Southwest Sea offshore wind power pilot project Control System and the Jeju Hallim offshore wind power project. KEPCO has built a central control system that can monitor the operation status of renewable energy power plants nationwide in real time and send output control signals, considering the current state of demand concentration of renewable energy generation in a specific region. It is nationwide hierarchical system that exchanges information with the central control center of the Korea Power Exchange, and with this we are preparing for volatility in power supply and demand which caused by the increase in renewable energy. Moving forward, we will Southwest Sea Offshore Substation strive to improve the reliability of the power operation platform of the power grid. Expanding New & Renewable Energy Grid Connection Infrastructure Since the government’s policy to guarantee access to new and renewable energy, the capacity of distribution lines has been limited due to the rapid increase in grid accesses of power producers, resulting in the increase of grid connection delays of new and renewable energy. Accordingly, KEPCO has established and implemented short-to long-term plans concerning grid infrastructure, such as improving the utilization rate of existing facilities, reinforcing new distribution lines and transformer facilities, and secured 8,094MW of grid connection facilities to resolve the grid connection waiting time issue. Through these efforts, the connection waiting rate in 2019 has decreased by 11%p compared to the previous year. Establishment of Facility Plan to Reduce Connection Waiting (2019 ~ 2024) Connection Waiting Reduction Performance (Unit : MW) ‌Connection completed Upgrading the possible capacity of renewable energy ‌Connection waiting 13,903 2,200MW connected to the grid Short ‌Total 12,160 term Altering the use of West Gochang Substation 260MW (Research facility → Power supply facility) 11%p decrease 5,708 in waiting rate Constructing 52 transformers, 25 substations 8,049 5,100MW Mid(Shortening construction period, 6 → 3 years) to long term 6,452 5,854 Increasing transmission line capacity 534MW (53%) (42%) 2018 2019 58 Sustainability Report 2020 Achieving Eco-friendly Value Chains of the Entire Power Supply Power Generation Production Stage Enhancing the Basis for the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases and Fine Dust Leading the Expansion of New & Renewable Energy Reduction of Coal-fired Power Generation During the Season with High Concentrations of Fine Dust (December to March) In accordance with the RE3020 Basic Plan, KEPCO and the six power generation subsidiaries have set the basic direction for In order to solve the fine dust issue, which is approaching a social new and renewable energy development and are promoting crisis, the government launched the ‘National Climate Environment systematic, large-scale renewable energy generation projects, such Conference’, an organization directly under the presidential office, as the development of offshore wind power plants, through close in April 2019. The power generation sector accounts for 12% of collaboration. By 2030, we will lead the expansion of clean energy domestic fine dust emissions, and coal-fired power generation for the future by developing 41.2GW of new and renewable energy, accounts for a high proportion of these emissions. Accordingly, and by strengthening the stability of the power grid through KEPCO group companies are participating in the National Climate enhancing the infrastructure connected to the new and renewable Environment Conference, contributing to efforts to find the energy. Through these efforts, we intend to contribute to the optimal plan for reducing coal-fired power generation and actively achievement of the national RE3020 goal, and play a leading role in implementing measures to reduce coal-fired power generation. From pioneering domestic renewable energy infrastructure, technological December 2019 to February 2020, the operation of 8 to 15 domestic development, and industrial ecosystem. coal-fired power plants in winter was suspended, and the remaining coal-fired power plants also implemented a regulation to lower * ‌RE3020 : By 2030, the share of new and renewable energy generation should reach 20% of total national power generation. the output to a maximum of 80% of their capacity. In particular, in March during the spring season, we expanded our shutdown of coalRE3020 Basic Plan for KEPCO Group Companies fired power plants by up to 28 units. As a result of these efforts, the fine dust was reduced by 2,530 tons, approximately 39% decrease compared to the same period last year. KEPCO Group Companies Goals 41.2 GW by 2030 Development of Core Technologies to Reduce Greenhouse Gases and Fine Dust KEPCO is focusing its capabilities on capturing carbon dioxide (CO2) System Construction and Facility Expansion to reduce greenhouse gases, and is developing technologies in line •‌Securing 0.8 GW of connection facilities → Expanding connection with its goal of becoming an environmental technology leader in Building Up to the grid Foundation •DB establishment & process standardization → Optimizing linkage the power sector. We are conducting empirical research through •‌Building a renewable energy monitoring system → Ensuring the construction of 10MW-class CO2 capture plants at the Boryeong stability and Hadong coal-fired power plants, and are promoting the Supervision by the New & Renewable Energy Council of commercialization of mineral resources technology that converts KEPCO Group Companies greenhouse gases emitted from power plants into high value•‌Establishment of operating guidelines for the New & Renewable added useful compounds, such as sodium bicarbonate. In addition, Strengthening Energy Council Cooperation we have built and are operating a 5kW-class facility that produces •‌Reinforcement of cooperation in new and renewable projects among KEPCO group companies methane from CO2 as a raw material, using our own, independently •‌Adjustment of overlapping investments, joint participation in developed microorganisms. Further, KEPCO has established a ‘fine project development dust reduction technology development roadmap’ to reduce the fine dust generated from power plants. Accordingly, in the short term, we are conducting 5 co-operative R&D initiatives, including Developing Large-scale New & Renewable Energy Generation Projects technology for reducing fugitive dust from indoor low coal depot, and in the mid to long term, planning to develop 5 technologies •Large-scale offshore wind power •‌Resident participation-type solar power such as integrated control technology to mitigate secondary fine Jeollanam-do Shinan (1.5GW) Sinui-do solar power (0.3GW) dust generating substances. Southwest Sea pilot project (0.4GW) Commercial operation in Miryang (2.5MW) ENVIRONMENTAL l Responding to Climate Crisis 59 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Transmission and Distribution Sales and Consumption Transmission Sales Stage Constructing and Operating Eco-friendly Stage Improving Energy Consumption Efficiency Facilities Development of SF6 Refining and Reduction Technology Expansion of EERS* Implementation and Alternative Insulating Gases In order to reduce energy consumption, EERS is a system that assigns KEPCO is striving to reduce greenhouse gases generated in the energy saving targets proportional to the amount of electricity power transportation process. SF6 gas is one of the six major sold to power providers, and allows them to achieve these targets greenhouse gases and has a Global Warming Potential (GWP) through various energy efficiency improvement investments. As the 23,900 times that of carbon dioxide (CO2). KEPCO uses SF6 gas representative power supplier in Korea, KEPCO implemented the EERS as an insulating material for transmission and distribution power pilot project for the first time in Korea in May 2018, taking the lead in facilities, and our SF6 gas consumption accounts for about 80% reducing GHG emissions by improving energy efficiency. We operate of domestic SF6 emissions. Accordingly, we established an SF6 dedicated departments such as the EERS Planning and Operation gas recovery and refinery center in the Sinokcheon substation Team at the KEPCO Headquarters and the Energy Management Team in 2019, and are recycling SF6 gas emitted from distribution at 15 regional headquarters nationwide, and directly support the switchgear in the substation area, thus acquiring the capacity to supply of high-efficiency equipment such as heat pump boilers, LED reduce approximately 200,000 tons of greenhouse gases per lighting, and inverters. In 2019, we supplied high-efficiency equipment year. Meanwhile, we also plan to promote the application of ecofor the first time in the field of agricultural use, and the scope of friendly switchgear to fundamentally suppress the use of SF6 gas in EERS recognition was expanded from the performance measurement the transmission and distribution sector. In 2016, a 170kV SF6 Free method focusing on equipment supply to K-BEMS and ESCO* agency GIS development and introduction plan was prepared to complete projects. Consequently, a total of 1,019 GWh of energy was saved the research and development of an insulating gas that can replace as of 2019, resulting in a reduction of 470,000 tons of greenhouse SF6 gas, and this new gas is expected to be introduced in new gases. In addition, we have established a long-term roadmap with facilities from 2021 after a period of demonstration and pilot use. the aim of reducing energy consumption by 1% of annual electricity Moreover, with the rollout of SF6 Free GIS in the future, more than sales and achieving 40,381GWh of reductions by 2031, through an 66 tons of waste SF6 is expected to be generated annually from investment of KRW 3.6 trillion. We are committed to research, analysis existing facilities, so we are promoting the development of highand system development to achieve successful EERS reduction goals. concentration SF6 decomposition and detoxification technology. Moving forwards into a low-carbon era, KEPCO will continue to lead innovation towards a highly efficient energy consumption structure * GIS : Gas Insulated Switchgear and strive to promote the sustainable development of the power industry. Construction of Eco-friendly Power Facility * EERS (Energy Efficiency Resource Standard) : Mandatory policy to improve energy efficiency *E SCO (Energy Service Company) : An energy-saving company that invests in energy-saving facilities on KEPCO strives to minimize environmental damage that may occur during behalf of energy users and recovers investment costs with energy savings. the construction of power facilities. Prior to construction, habitats for each species are investigated through environmental impact assessment procedures and measures to minimize environmental impact are Status of Major High-efficiency Equipment Supply (2019) (Unit : units) prepared and externally disclosed. In the construction or restoration stages, retroactive environmental impact surveys are conducted. Heat pump boiler 2,307 Additionally, we promote the construction of power facilities in harmony with the environment by developing landscape-improving power Regenerative braking system 4,672 transmission facilities and mountain-specific prefabricated steel towers Premium electric motor 45 that do not harm the surrounding landscape. Further, the offshore wind Thermo-hygrostat 7 power public-private council is operated to help reduce marine damage and facilitate coexistence with the environment. On top of this, with the Transformers 462 aim of eradicating the use of PCBs (Poly Chlorinated Biphenyls) when LED 571,686 constructing and operating distribution facilities, a management system Inverter 1,571 has been established to help protect the environment. 60 Sustainability Report 2020 Environmental Management Environmental Management System Environmental Impact Management Environmental Management Strategy Water Risk Management In order to establish a sustainable environmental management system, KEPCO recognizes that water resources are at risk globally, and is KEPCO produces an annual “Environmental Management Promotion striving to prevent environmental risks that arise from water use. In Plan” that includes goals and implementation tasks concerning the case of our domestic power transportation and sales businesses, company-wide environmental management, with comprehensive there is no exposure to water risks such as water shortage and consideration of government policies and environmental regulations. water pollution. However, we recognize water risk as a potential Major business plans related to environmental management and the risk factor and therefore strive to reduce consumption across the performance of our environmental management system are reported company. Meanwhile, in the case of overseas projects conducted by to our senior leadership, and we have been reducing environmental KEPCO, Saudi Arabia, the UAE (United Arab Emirates), and Jordan risks by reviewing and evaluating environmental impacts when are considered to experience water stress according to classification making investment decisions. In addition, we conduct regular standards.* In order to minimize exposure to water risks in power internal inspections at our workplaces, and any nonconformities generation projects situated in countries such as Saudi Arabia identified during this process are corrected and improved to minimize (Rabigh), the UAE (Shuweihat), and the Philippines (Cebu, Ilijan), we environmental impacts. use seawater, not groundwater. In China (Gemeng International, Shanxi Province), heavy water recycled from domestic sewage is used Environmental Organization as cooling water, whereas in Jordan (Al Qatrana), we are striving to manage and protect water by using air for cooling. At KEPCO, the EHS Team of the Safety and Security Department * Criteria ‌ for classification of countries experiencing water stress are from the World Resource Institute (WRI), has established a company-wide “Environmental Management World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Population Action International (PAI) Promotion Plan” to help realize environmental management goals and manage ongoing performance. In addition, to enhance our integrated environmental management system, we have established environmental Water Management management guidelines and are thus implementing, maintaining and In managing performances and targets every year, KEPCO selects continuously improving our environmental management system. “amount of water used” as one of its specific performance indicators when implementing environmental management. To this end, we Environmental Management System have established an energy portal system to report and verify company-wide water consumption by regional division, month, and In order to conduct environmental management in a more systematic year, and the Environmental Information Disclosure System (https:// manner, KEPCO has maintained ISO 14001 certification, an international www.env-info.kr) transparently discloses water consumption, energy environmental management system standard, since first acquiring it consumption, and major waste generation. in 2007. We have hence established a company-wide environmental management system and are efficiently managing all related activities, such as complying with environmental laws and regulations, managing Waste Management environmental performance, and reducing environmental pollution, to KEPCO has improved its recycling rate by discovering new recycling ensure that the basic requirements of international standards are fulfilled. locations for waste and by-products generated in our business KEPCO will continue to maintain ISO 14001 certification and promote processes, and by consigning waste that is difficult to recycle to a environmental management in accordance with international standards. licensed, specialized treatment company. In particular, for the safe treatment of PCBs, which are classified as hazardous waste, our Status of Environmental Management System Certification waste compressors are strictly controlled in accordance with PCB management procedures. Waste with a PCB concentration of 2 ppm or higher is thoroughly managed from discharge to disposal through Certification •ISO 14001:2015 standard •KS I ISO 14001:2015 one of the PCB analysis and treatment companies certified by the Certification Ministry of Environment every year. •KEPCO Headquarters and 19 Regional Headquarters scope •‌Construction, operation, sales of domestic and overseas electricity projects (power generation, electric power Certification transmission and transformation, distribution) and all work related tasks, overseas nuclear power plant project development and operations management Validity •October 22, 2019 October 22, 2022 Certification •Korea Knowledge Standard Registrar agency ENVIRONMENTAL l Environmental Management 61 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Air Pollutant Emissions Management The power generation subsidiaries of KEPCO have installed a Smokestack Remote Monitoring System (CleanSYS) and measure air pollutants in real-time with smokestack Tele-Monitoring System (TMS) such as Nitrogren Oxides (NOx), Sulfur Oxides and dust (TSP) which are emitted from smokestacks at our workplaces. In addition, we are expanding the use of clean energy sources to minimize the emission of air pollutants, while also striving to reduce emissions by introducing world-class environmental technology such as flue gas desulfurization, selective catalytic reduction, and electrostatic precipitators. Protecting Biodiversity When selecting construction sites for transmission and substation facilities, KEPCO refrains from proceeding with projects in biodiversity protected areas, such as wetland protected areas, wildlife protected areas, forest genetic resource reserves, the Baekdudaegan Mountains Reserve, and others. We exclude biodiversity protected areas from project candidate sites by appointing a professional company to conduct power impact assessments prior to starting a project. In the environmental impact assessment stage, we analyze the environmental risks to both animals and plants and, by conducting documentary surveys, inquiries, on-site investigations, etc., produce an impact reduction plan incorporating protective measures, to double check if the site is a biodiversity protected area. In addition, both the power impact assessments and environmental impact assessments contain items related to the protection of animals, plants and ecosystems. Concurrently, when modifying or expanding a planned site for transmission or substation facilities, we evaluate risks by conducting environmental impact surveys in accordance with the Environmental Impact Assessments Act. In doing so, we devise measures to minimize relevant environmental impacts and conduct discussions with the relevant authorities and regional stakeholders, including local environmental offices. Meanwhile, in order to implement the resolutions determined in the consultation process, we appoint a person to manage the implementation and contract an expert company to conduct retroactive environmental surveys for monitoring the environmental impact caused by construction. Finally, we submit the results to the responsible authorities and local environmental offices. These offices disclose the results of environmental impact assessments through the Environmental Impact Assessment Data Support System (http://www.eiass.go.kr), along with issues related to biodiversity that were not identified during the environmental impact assessment process. Pre-Construction Stage Environmental Impact Assessment Stage Construction & Completion Stage •‌Appointing a person responsible for Biodiversity •‌Conducting an environmental impact •‌Carrying out a habitat survey mainly for management and conducting retroactive Protection Activities assessment endangered species, local native species, environmental impact assessments by Stage •‌Disclosing results through the unusual species, and large-population •‌After construction is completed, restoring Environmental Impact Assessment Data species the damaged habitat in consultation with Support System •Impact prediction and mitigation local governments. Protection Activities for Storks, a Natural Heritage Species BUSINESS CASE 8 A pair of storks, a natural heritage and endangered species, nested in a pylon along the 154 kV Taean-Anmyeon transmission line in Nam-myeon, Taean-gun, and hatched 4 baby storks in May 2020. Since the reintroduction of storks into the wild began in 2015, this was the first time that a nest was built on a general structure (transmission tower) rather than an artificial nest tower. In cooperation with local governments and the Cultural Heritage Administration, safety facilities were installed, such as devices to prevent the birds from landing, with the goal of protecting the storks from electric shocks and preventing power transmission line breakdowns caused by stork excrement. Moreover, to attach tracking identification tags and collect blood for tests, a stork was captured in a sealed box and moved from the nest to the ground. KEPCO plans to induce storks to settle in artificial nest towers rather than transmission towers by strengthening the inspections of transmission lines in the future. So that we may coexist with diverse animals and plants, we will continue Protection Activities for Storks, a Natural Heritage Species to carry out activities to protect biodiversity during the construction and operation of our transmission and substation facilities. 62 Sustainability Report 2020 SOCIAL 03 Management Approach As the recognition that a corporation is a individual member and also a citizen of the community is growing, the responsibilities and duties required of a corporation as corporate citizens are increasingly emphasized. Accordingly, KEPCO has defined social value as “value that can contribute to the public interest and community development,” and continues to strive to achieve social value in all areas of businesses. Through this, we are leading the creation of sustainable social value based on the “realization of an inclusive society” and “participation and cooperation” with the mindset of respect for humanity. Also, we will strive to become a beloved public corporation model by improving the public’s quality of life. KEPCO Social Value Committee Social Value Committee (Chairperson : Chief Business Management Officer) Advisors for Social Value Subcommittee (Five Core Values) Safety & the Shared Growth & Job Creation Social Integration Integrity & Ethics Environment Cooperation Labor-Management Shared Growth Human Resources Safety and Security Cooperation & Cooperations Legal Affairs Office Department Department Department Department 2019 Key Performance Survey on Contributions to Social Value Job Creation in the Private Sector Ranked 1st for two consecutive years 61,522 persons (Public Corporation Group I) No. of Companies Attracted Safe Korea Exercise into the Energy Valley Selected as an excellent institution for 430 companies four consecutive years (KRW 1.67 trillion worth of investment agreement) SOCIAL l Social Value Realization 63 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Social Value Realization APPENDIX System of Pursuing Social Value “Social Value” refers to value that can contribute to improved public benefits and the development of communities in all areas, including society, the economy, the environment, culture, and so on. KEPCO has established a sustainable social value promotion system by reflecting social value in company-wide work in a balanced manner, and in order to create social value in all of its value chains, including transmission and substations, distribution, sales and others, it has identified social value strategies with the help of external experts. In addition, to internalize social value creation, the company came up with the ‘10 Codes of Conduct for Social Value Realization,’ which is the basic principles of value judgment that all executives and employees must follow. Also, KEPCO is striving to make social value take root and spread by launching its ‘Social Value Committee,’ which consists of eight executives and five external members. Strategic System for Social Value Realization Vision for Social Value KEPCO Opening the World for a Better and Brighter Future Core Values Safety & Shared Growth & Job Creation Social Integration Integrity & Ethics the Environment Cooperation Strengthening ethical 20 Strategic Tasks Revitalizing local Developing new business Strengthening socially-fair Creating a workplace that management and creating community participation models recruitment prioritizes life and safety an active administrative and regional economy environment Establishing a peopleSupporting the growth Creating jobs in the Strengthening support for Spreading a culture of centered disaster of social-economy private sector the underprivileged integrity and ethics management system organizations Establishing a Advancing personal Taking preventive action Building a social safety net Creating an ecosystem for management system for information protection to eradicate abuse of to protect the vulnerable shared growth with SMEs sustainable employment and information security power Revitalizing traditional Creating quality Reducing greenhouse gas Establishing a culture of Innovating work methods markets and protecting permanent jobs and fine dust emissions fair competition small enterprises 10 Code of Conduct for Social Value Realization 1 2 3 4 5 We strive to create We respect each We create a fair company We respect the diversity We strive to facilitate a quality jobs that meet the individual’s personality and with righteous faith by of society, communicate workplace where peoplestandards of the public. create a good corporate eliminating preferential with the people through centered life and safety culture for work. treatment and discrimination, participation, and strive for are the top priority, and and by guaranteeing equal social integration. to create a safe society opportunities. protected against disaster. 6 7 8 9 10 We create the clean We endeavor to establish a We constantly create We make integrity a part We endeavor to earn world that the people want fair economic order where all new value to contribute to of daily life and comply with people’s faith and trust in order to improve the people can live well together the public interest and social norms and all laws. through fair and transparent health and quality of life for through win-win cooperation the development of local ethical management. all. between large and mediumcommunities. sized enterprises and to improve the people’s basic energy rights and energy welfare. 64 Sustainability Report 2020 Job Creation Creating High Quality Jobs Strategic Systems for Job Creation As a leading public enterprise, and with the aim of creating sustainable jobs, KEPCO is promoting the provision of quality employment, including the establishment of job infrastructure and the creation of jobs in the private sector. In 2019, we incorporated fairness, as well as safety values, in our roadmap for job creation, and established both the Social Value Committee and the KEPCO Job Committee – the highest decision-making body responsible for jobs. In doing so, we have realized a system for promoting job creation that facilitates enhanced diversity and expertise in the field of social value. Moreover, we are also driving improvements in job quality through a comprehensive monitoring system for job creation. Roadmap for Job Creation (Established in Dec 2017, updated in June 2018, December 2019) Creating Sustainable Jobs by Reflecting the Value of Fairness and Safety Maturity Stabilization (2020 ~ 2022) Introduction (2018 ~ 2019) (2017) •‌Converting all irregular positions to regular •Converting dispatched contractors to regular positions Promotion Plan •‌Converting part-timers to regular workers workers (7,989 persons) •Realizing a mutual growth business model (234 persons) •Creating private sector jobs (112,061 persons) •Realizing a socially integrated job ecosystem •‌Supporting job creation in the private sector •‌Creating jobs in the social service sector •‌Developing a disaster simulator, early (53,048 persons) (12,609 persons) conversion of indirect live wires •‌Supporting job creation in the social service sector •‌Acquiring international safety certification, (2,248 persons) advancement of safety management •Establishing a safety & disaster demonstration test site Creating Jobs for the Young to Alleviate Youth Unemployment Youth Employment through Job Creation In 2019, KEPCO recruited 1,773 new, permanent employees. Youth accounted for 1,699 of these new hires, representing 96% of the total intake. Furthermore, through the operation of internship program, we 3,373 persons provided work experience opportunities to 1,674 young job seekers, Number of Experienced Interns Hired as Permanent enhancing their competitiveness by sharing employment knowhow Employees and strengthening mentoring system to proactively support them in developing their capabilities. Through these efforts, a total of 202 experienced interns were hired as full-time employees in 2019. 202 persons Performance of Job Creation for the Young by Year (Unit : persons) ‌Number of new hires ‌Number of youth hires ‌Number of experienced interns hired as permanent employees 202 81 50 1,573 1,549 1,780 1,730 1,773 1,699 2017 2018 2019 Introductory Training for New Employees SOCIAL l Job Creation 65 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Expansion of Recruitment Based on Social Equality Job Creation in the Private Sector KEPCO is proactively striving to create jobs centered on social values that KEPCO is concurrently promoting job creation and job creation support reflect the needs of vulnerable groups. For example, we have carried activities based on three major, private sector employment creation out a regionalized open competitive recruitment through a region-based strategies: new business, core business, and social contribution. In 2019, we employee program that restricts the applicable sphere only to the region created 715 jobs by pioneering new energy markets, such as by establishing where the applicant’s school is located, and supported employment our SPC performing new businesses, fostering startups, and starting inopportunities for local talents. In addition, a consultative body for the house ventures. Moreover, we attracted companies to the Energy Valley recruitment of local talent was formed to support local governments’ joint and created 10,000, regional jobs related to our core businesses – such as consulting and job fairs. Aside from this, KEPCO is striving to increase job the construction of infrastructure for power transmission and distribution, opportunities for high school graduates and take the lead in establishing a as well as the maintenance of power facilities – leading job creation on a competence-centered employment culture. large scale. At the “2019 Korea Management Awards”, KEPCO was selected as the best company in the field of social value, in recognition of our efforts to support fair business activities, such as improving contract systems Rate of Recruiting Local Talents in 2019 and collecting opinions from our suppliers, as well as our transferal of technology to partner companies, commitment to enhancing quality, and 21.9 % our collaborative research and development activities. (Expected to reach 30% by 2022) Job Creation in the Private Sector (2019) Recruitment Based on Social Equality (Unit : persons) Category 2017 2018 2019 49,271 persons Local talents outside of the capital area 927 1,091 1,102 Local talents from Jeollanam-do and Gwangju 245 223 244 High school graduates 229 220 281 Impact on the Employment in the Private Sector Expanding establishment of research institute enterprises Supporting Employees of Newly-established Subsidiaries for Additional exploration of in-house ventures Stable Settlement Promotion of new businesses in the energy sector In 2019, to achieve the conversion of irregular positions of contractors to 253 persons regular positions, KEPCO established three subsidiaries, KEPCO MCS, KEPCO Regional job creation through expansion of the Energy Valley FMS, and KEPCO CSC, in the fields of meter reading, facility management, customer service, respectively. We also conducted a preliminary review of investment adequacy. During this conversion process, which was carried out in accordance with the government’s “Guidelines for Converting Non-Permanent 10,091 persons Workers to Permanent Workers,” a consultative body composed of labor Private sector partnerships and management experts held talks with all stakeholders, and a fair process Fostering startup exploration was ensured through compliance with guidelines on preventing corruption Socioeconomic organization in recruitment, as well as through the operation of our own ‘Temp-to-Perm Conversion Corruption Reporting Center’. Furthermore, we have introduced a 595 persons reasonable, job-oriented remuneration system and are operating a ‘Workplace Improvement TF’ in our efforts to improve working conditions for our Construction of power transmission and distribution infrastructure “Smart” conversion of power facilities employees, such as by expanding our rest area. Through an integrated parentJoint expansion of overseas projects subsidiary consultative body, we are identifying management issues, exploring reasonable support methods, and supporting the stable management of the 38,332 persons three subsidiaries with a view to achieving sustainable growth. Number of Converted Permanent Employees (cumulative) Employment Induction Effect in the Private Sector (2019) 8,237 persons 12,251 persons 66 Sustainability Report 2020 Pursuing Shared Growth Vitalizing Regional Economy Enhancing Competitiveness of Companies in the Energy Valley Creating the Energy Valley Ecosystem In May 2019, KEPCO completed the construction of the Energy Valley Enterprise Development Institute, in which the local government, In order to establish an industry, academia, and research cluster KEPCO KPS, and KEPCO KDN jointly contributed for the successful specialized in the next-generation power industry, KEPCO has been implementation of the Energy Valley Project. The Energy Valley promoting the creation of an Energy Valley based on mutual growth Enterprise Development Institute provides all necessary support from with the local community. The Energy Valley acts as a global smart business establishment to commercialization, such as discovering and energy hub that revitalizes the local economy, thereby creating nurturing startups, fostering energy experts, supporting energy valley quality jobs, and leads rapidly changing global energy markets settlement, and providing joint test facilities for companies in the around the world by inviting a significant number of energy-related Energy Valley and their investors. In particular it has been focusing companies and research institutes. By establishing an investment on consulting for company investment that focus on nurturing attraction master plan and carrying out a wide range of investment excellent human resources and creating jobs. The Institute will play a attraction activities, the Energy Valley has seen an influx of 430 central role in connecting all walks of life in the energy sector, serving companies as of 2019 and is expected to have an investment effect as a core base of the Energy Valley in the future and leading the of KRW 1.6721 trillion, creating jobs for 10,091 people. In particular, development of the Energy Valley. with efforts to attract investment focused on the energy sector, 99% of investment companies are composed of energy related companies, Energy Valley Business Support System such as new energy industry (208), power information technology (ICT : 122), and power equipment (97). For the soft landing of energy valley investment companies, we are enhancing long-term Deposit-type interest support system : KRW 200 billion Funding •2.5% ~ 2.6% reduction in interest customized support by utilizing KEPCO’s core capabilities such as Energy Valley Investment Fund : KRW 88 billion funding, securing sales channels, and R&D, and this effort led to a •‌Funding for small and medium-sized venture companies in the sales increase of KRW 226.1 billion to 80 companies in 2019. electric power and ICT fields Technical guarantee insurance premium support •50% support for SMEs’ share Energy Valley Roadmap Manpower Nurturing professional and skilled workers in the training new energy industry support •150 professional and skilled workers annually Introductory Growing Maturing •120 students from Bitgaram ICT Open Campus annually Stage Stage Stage Education for employees in the new energy industry •500 people annually in five courses, including photovoltaic and ESS Utilizing the Energy Valley Enterprise Development Institute 2015 ~ 2016 2017 ~ 2018 2019 ~ 2020 •‌Entrepreneurship, incubation, technology and support for training of specialized personnel Attracting companies 100 300 500 Support for Preferential purchase of products produced by tenant securing sales * After 2021, the mid-to long-term roadmap will be re-established on the basis of investment execution. companies channels •‌Companies in 13 industrial complexes nationwide including Naju Innovation Industrial Complex •Volume allocation : Up to 20% of the annual purchase volume of KEPCO Energy Valley Business Attraction Performance (Unit : company) Export promotion meeting and exhibition (cumulative) •Arrange business meetings with overseas buyers •‌Support for export promotion activities such as joint participation in overseas exhibitions KTP •Granting the right to use KEPCO brand, strengthening export competitiveness SME Cooperative R&D R&D support •‌Development of core technology in the field of new transmission and distribution energy industry, up to KRW 1.5 billion (52% in research expenses) KEPCO-Start up •‌Grand prize for preliminary and start-up SMEs in the power and energy sector (up to KRW 200 million) Establishment of new energy technology research center •Integrated management of demonstration tests in the new energy industry 177 280 360 430 500 •Strengthen cooperation with investment companies and support commercialization 2016 2017 2018 2019 Goal for 2020 SOCIAL l Pursuing Shared Growth 67 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Implementing a Model for Solving Regional Issues Fostering Specialized Personnel in the New Energy Industry KEPCO has established a public-private cooperative governance Since 2015, KEPCO has introduced a training course for experts in the new structure consisting of local governments, public institutions, energy industry to lead the new energy market and foster outstanding research institutions, NGOs, etc., and we have asked citizens and local employees. We conduct annual training in power fields such as smart institutions for suggestions to be made. Through this, we confirmed grids and energy storage devices, targeting 150 local college students. that the local community is highly interested in reconciling with a In 2019, we also established a training course for incumbent workers relocated institution and enhancing the vitality of the local economy. and expanded collaborative training with specialized institutions such as Accordingly, KEPCO is taking the lead in resolving local issues by Polytechnics. Through this, we cultivated 1,910 professionals in the energy selecting and directly participating in core tasks for revitalizing field, including incumbents and job seekers. In addition, we held five joint the local economy in order to realize the value of co-prosperity job fairs with local governments to support the recruitment of trained and effective communication between the company and the local human resources, while also contributing to solving the problem of supply community. Firstly, KEPCO is pushing ahead with ‘Maker Naju’, a youth and demand for corporate human resources. startup program, to contribute to revitalizing the regional economy by encouraging young creators to start their businesses in run-down city Building Industry-Academia-Research Cluster through centers. This will help increase the flow of young people in such areas Establishing KEPCO-Tech (tentative name) and regenerate sluggish old towns. By utilizing empty shops in the old downtown of Naju, we provide stable and continuous support for KEPCO is promoting the establishment of the “KEPCO-Tech (tentative young entrepreneurs to voluntarily plan and do their own businesses. name)” based on close cooperation with related organizations such as In addition, since October 2019, KEPCO’s Friday Marketplace, which the government and local government bodies, with the aim of fostering sells regional products in the lobby of our headquarters every Friday, the world’s best energy-specialized talents. To this end, in August has been operated to support the market development of small and 2019, we voted for the ‘Basic Plan on the Establishment of KEPCO-Tech medium-sized businesses, and the profits generated through this are (tentative name)’, and in April 2020, obtained permission to establish used for local social contribution activities. an education foundation from the Ministry of Education. In addition, in the first half of 2020, KEPCO plans to start designing a campus in Naju Innovation City, which has been confirmed as a university location, Harmony between the Local Enhancing the Vitality of the with the goal of opening the school in March 2022. Thereafter, we Community and Relocated Local Economy Institutions will sequentially build an industry-academia-research cluster and large research facilities. In the cluster, industry-academia-research facilities such as partner universities, public research institutes, and research Maker Naju KEPCO Friday Marketplace institutes affiliated with companies will be built, and KEPCO plans to •Young entrepreneurial support •Sales of regional representative equip itself with the highest level of research infrastructure in this 5 teams in 2018, 8 teams in 2019 products every Friday •Participation in local festivals (4 times), •Profits from product sales are used for large research facility. The KEPCO-Tech (tentative name) is expected holding the old downtown harmony local social contribution activities to contribute directly and indirectly to vitalize the local economy by festival (10 times) playing a central role in the energy cluster while growing as a cradle for fostering global energy-specialized talent in the mid to long term. Plan to Establish KEPCO-Tech (tentative name) Building an industry-academic-research cluster where companies (ventures), universities, and research institutes gather together Designating Small but Strong R&D Special Zone / Composition and operation of a total Designating Energy Convergence Complex 400,000m2 scale of cluster Attracting Departments related to Energy and IT from Domestic and Foreign 1 Joint Campus Zone Universities KEPCO-Tech Joint Campus (tentative name) Zone (80,000m2) Global ‌ campus, industry-academic-research institute convergence campus, joint research and lecture hall building, etc. 2 Research Institute R&D Zone Attracting public research institutes and corporate affiliated research institutes (100,000m2) Global joint research center, world leading research institute, etc. Support Center 3 Industrial Venture Zone Attracting energy-related tech and venture companies Research Large Research (130,000m2) Global energy leading companies, Venture Town, Techno Park, etc. Institute R&D Facilities Zone 4 Promotion of attracting large national research facilities led by local government Large Research Facilities Next-generation ‌ radiation accelerators, which can be used in high-tech research fields Industrial Cluster planning, operation and cooperative support Venture Zone 5 Support Center Industry-academia-research ‌ support center, business incubation center, convention (90,000m2) center, etc. 68 Sustainability Report 2020 Shared Growth with SMEs Expanding Purchase of SMEs’ products Creating Ecosystem for Shared Growth with SMEs KEPCO has been assisting SMEs by contributing to the creation of initial sales channels and increasing sales revenue by prioritizing the KEPCO is actively supporting SMEs’ technological innovation and purchase of cooperative R&D products and technology development overseas exports. Through this, SMEs are cultivating self-sufficiency products. In 2019, we carried out preferential purchases of KRW in technology so as to grow into small but strong global companies. 245.5 billion for products developed through cooperative R&D with KEPCO is laying the foundation for supplying stable and high-quality SMEs. In addition, to support the initial market development of new electric power by securing excellent electric power equipment SMEs such as start-ups and companies at the beginning stage, a trial characterized by high quality and low cost. purchase of KRW 14.2 billion was made, and a purchase of KRW 9.3 billion for preferential purchases of SME R&D products was carried out to expand the market for SMEs. Realizing Industrial Ecosystem of Co-prosperity and SMEs’ Product Purchase Performance (2019) Shared Growth •‌R&D support for technological innovation Cooperative R&D products 245.5 •‌Support for overseas export of excellent products KRW billion KEPCO SMEs •‌Providing high-quality, low-cost Technology development products power equipment on time •‌Establish a basis for •‌Enhancing self-sufficiency 7 companies KRW 14.2 billion stable power supply through technological through timely innovation and securing procurement of highdomestic and overseas markets Products selected for development quality, low-cost power equipment •‌Providing opportunities for SMEs to grow globally KRW 9.3 billion Supporting SMEs to Explore Overseas Markets by Utilizing Strengthening Cooperative R&D with SMEs KEPCO Brand KEPCO is supporting the highest level of cooperative R&D with public KTP (KEPCO Trusted Partner) is an export promotion brand, certified institutions to strengthen the technological competitiveness of SMEs, by KEPCO, that involves the selection of excellent SME suppliers in allocating up to 85% of R&D expenses, approximately KRW 1.5 billion, the power business field with overseas export capabilities, and is for R&D projects concerning new products and new technologies supporting the enhancement of their overseas marketing capabilities by by SMEs in the transmission, distribution, and information granting them the rights to use the brand. As of 2019, 119 companies communication fields. In addition, we are striving to strengthen the are pioneering overseas markets using KEPCO-certified brands, and innovation capabilities of SMEs by reinforcing the foundation for KTP certified companies are given priority when implementing various technological cooperation. In particular, in 2019, we conducted a export support projects, such as export promotion meetings and special R&D open contest to promote research project proposals for exhibitions. They are also offered opportunities to display products in-house employees and SMEs, and 17 outstanding projects were using KEPCO’s permanent overseas PR centers. In particular, in 2019, by selected after an expert joint review of 218 projects. signing a business agreement with Shinhan Bank, KEPCO contributed to SMEs’ financial cost reduction by providing export financing preferential Meanwhile, KEPCO’s excellent technologies are being transferred services to KTP certified companies, such as discounts on guarantee to SMEs, and technology transfer marketing is continuously being fees by the Korea Trade Insurance Corporation and guaranteeing the promoted so that many successful commercialization models can risk of non-recovery of export payments within USD 20,000. be released. In October 2019, we changed the name of the ‘Patent Platform’, an intellectual property technology transfer platform in operation, to the ‘Patent Exchanges,’ and expanded the scope KTP Certification Emblem of information disclosure on more than 3,000 technologies and intellectual property rights of KEPCO. In addition, the “KEPCO Technical Partner” was introduced, granting the right to use this brand to SMEs that have received technology transferred from KEPCO for direct use in product sales. SOCIAL l Pursuing Shared Growth 69 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Providing SEMs with Overseas Marketing Opportunities Discovering and Fostering Energy Startups KEPCO has dispatched a market pioneer team, composed of promising KEPCO is contributing to building a startup ecosystem in the energy overseas export companies, to target countries in order to provide sector and spreading our passion for innovative startups through various opportunities for product promotion optimized for local demand. customized startup development projects. In 2019, 69 companies were We have also held export consultation meetings for overseas buyers discovered and fostered, creating 124 jobs and securing 110 patents to support the conclusion of export contracts for SME products. In as accomplishments. ‘KEPCO Energy Startup’ is a total package that 2019, in order to actively support the advancement of SMEs into includes business model establishments and export consulting support, promising markets in major countries following the promotion of the in which energy start-ups are selected and supported with up to KRW New Southern Policy, a market pioneering team with 147 companies 100 million per company. The launch of regional start-ups has also been was dispatched to 10 countries, including Vietnam and Indonesia, promoted through an aid program for young adults and the middle-aged. to conclude an export contract of USD 12 million. In addition, during In addition, we have introduced and are developing 23 start-ups at the BIXPO 2019, an export consultation meeting was held. Overseas Bitgaram Creative Economy Innovation Center (Naju) and the KEPCO buyers were invited and 425 export consultations were conducted, of Startup Support Center for New Industries in the Energy Sector (Gwangju), which 18 cases were worth USD 33 million in export contracts. On the and are operating a variety of programs – such as providing test-lab for other hand, KEPCO has been operating the ‘KEPCO Export Support manufacturing trial products and support for expert mentor groups. In Portal’, which provides information on overseas power equipment 2019, 73 companies were discovered and nurtured, creating 124 jobs and market trends and bidding information, to support SMEs in the securing 381 patents. domestic power sector that are having difficulty entering overseas markets. Further, in September 2019, our mobile website and social media services were launched for the convenience of all users. SME Overseas Export Support Performance Export Information Market Pioneer Team Export Amount Utilization Number of participating Export contract Number of users BIXPO 2019 ‘KEPCO Startup Festival’ companies (Unit : USD million) (Unit : persons / day) (Unit : companies) Startup Nurturing Performance (Unit : companies) 9.7% 72% 100% 42.1% 134 147 26 45 200 400 173 246 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Successful Hosting of BIXPO 2019 BUSINESS CASE 9 KEPCO has been holding the “Bitgaram International Exposition of Electric Power Technology (BIXPO)” every year since 2015 to lead new technology trends in the energy field and establish the foundation for the Energy Valley. In 2019, various events were held under the theme of ‘Digital Platform (Hyper-Connectivity & Mega Shift)’, including a new technology exhibition with the participation of 299 companies from 77 different countries, 51 international conferences and an international invention patent exhibition with 160 inventions. In addition, we have been successfully hosting BIXPO to assess the huge changes in the global energy industry that are taking place in a hyper-connected society, such as IoT, big data, artificial intelligence, etc. Through this efforts, we can explore the direction of the power industry BIXPO 2019 Opening Ceremony together and exchange crucial technology and policy information. 70 Sustainability Report 2020 Supply Chain Management Sustainable Supply Chain Management Status of Major Suppliers Distribution of Code of Conduct for Suppliers KEPCO has a major impact on power quality and supply stability, and categorizes companies that produce and supply major power In 2012, KEPCO enacted its ‘Code of Conduct for Suppliers,’ the equipment as “trusted-items” companies when taking into account first for a public institution, in order to create a transparent and fair purchase standards and importance. Trusted-items companies transaction environment and manage its sustainable supply chain. are registered and managed as major suppliers after a preliminary The Code of Conduct for Suppliers stipulates ethical, social and examination of quality and processes, including standards, and environmental standards, and all domestic and overseas suppliers major suppliers are classified into the transmission and substation, who do business with KEPCO must faithfully comply with the 10 distribution, and information and communication sectors. In addition, principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), as well as the OECD KEPCO manages suppliers of core parts for each item by registering and ILO labor and environmental guidelines, in accordance with the them as “core-parts” companies, and is expanding the scope of its Code of Conduct. In addition, when implementing a contract, KEPCO’s core-parts suppliers to conduct technology and quality evaluation additional requirements for ethics, society, and the environment while applying relevant safety, ethics and environmental guidelines. must be fulfilled, and subcontractors dealing with suppliers are also By doing so, we are supporting the sustainability management of our advised to be aware of, and comply with, the principles of the Code of business partners. In addition, KEPCO is promoting joint technology Conduct. Moreover, even after the start of a business relationship, we development with major suppliers to develop core technologies for conduct regular risk assessment and monitoring for major suppliers, power energy, and is working together with suppliers to strengthen and take corrective actions in accordance with sanctions standards. their capabilities. Elimination of Unfair Transactions Status of Major Suppliers KEPCO is striving to improve systems and processes to protect the rights and interests of suppliers and to establish fair transaction Supplier Type Number of Suppliers ordering. In the event that bid rigging, forgery or falsified documents Core primary supplier 253 Trusted-items companies are discovered in relation to a registrant, the qualification of equipment supplier for the item in question is canceled, while a bidCore secondary supplier or above 1,040 Core-parts companies rigging capture system using artificial intelligence has also been established. Based on this, we are preemptively detecting signs of collusion using complex analysis indicators, for all bidding, purchasing, construction, and services. In addition, in order to improve the Total Purchases unfairness factor of our overall business relationships with business partners and to spread a culture of fairness, we are pursuing revision work on contract-related regulations, such as our terms and KRW 2,381.8 billion * Purchases from core primary suppliers totaled KRW 1,533.7 billion (about 64%) conditions and guidelines. Selection and Management Process of Supply Chain Compensation and Policies and Direction Monitoring and Evaluation Corrective Action •‌Review domestic and international standards Evaluation for new supplier registration •‌Supporting companies with excellent evaluation (UNGC, creation of social value, etc.) •Financial status assessment, preliminary results •Code of Conduct for Suppliers quality evaluation and due diligence, labor / •‌Corrective action according to sanctions •‌Management guidelines for equipment and human rights / environment / anti-corruption standards material suppliers / safety review (Warning, transaction suspension, cancellation •‌Guidelines for health and safety management of registration, etc.) in the service sector Transactional supplier relationship •Comprehensive evaluation (transaction performance and accidents in quality, delivery, technology, etc.), rating Feedback SOCIAL l Supply Chain Management 71 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Supply Chain Risk Prevention and Follow-up Regular Evaluation and Monitoring Management Every year, KEPCO conducts technology and quality evaluations of its Supply Chain Risk Management core suppliers, trusted-items companies and core-parts companies, in accordance with quality rating system evaluation criteria for KEPCO is creating a sound industrial ecosystem through supply each piece of equipment. In managing suppliers, we reflect ESG chain management that takes into account both quality risks and (Environmental, Social, Governance) factors such as legal compliance the sustainability of partner companies. In order to secure excellent and worker safety management in evaluation items. Consequently, we equipment, the company conducts technical and quality screening have managed to secure an additional 79 new suppliers for 150 items and performance verification tests, while providing training and in 2019 and conducted supplier evaluations on 215 trusted-items consulting to its partners to enhance quality competitiveness and companies, which are our most important primary suppliers. quality management. In addition, we guide all companies that participate in the bidding to comply with our ‘Code of Conduct for Suppliers,’ which covers human rights, labor, the environment, Factors for Evaluating the Sustainability Management of Partner Companies and anti-corruption, as well as applicable environmental laws and regulations for all contracts. Companies participating in all Category Evaluation item KEPCO bids are required to sign and attach a “Memorandum of Implementation of Integrity Contract” pledge to prohibit unfair acts •Credit rating Economic risk •Equipment quality grade such as bid rigging, and receiving money, goods, or entertainment. For systematic supply chain management, KEPCO is operating a •‌Legal violations system (https://srm.kepco.net) for conducting business electronically (corruption, illegal subcontracting, etc.) Social risk between partners, purchasing departments, and testing institutions, •‌Safety violations (accidents, lack of safety equipment, etc.) and through which regulations and detailed guidelines related to supply chain management are disclosed in detail. •‌Violation of laws and regulations Environmental risk (environmental impact) •Eco-friendly product certification Detailed Code of Conduct Guidelines for Suppliers Ethical Standards Compensation and Improvement Measures KEPCO operates a computerized system that manages equipment •Prohibition of illegal subcontracting and material suppliers to evaluate their level of sustainability with •Prohibition of bribery respect to economic, social and environmental fields. For high•Prohibition of collusion risk suppliers, on-site inspections are conducted to request the •Prohibition of unfair solicitation establishment and implementation of corrective action plans, and follow-up management is periodically conducted. In addition, benefits Environmental Standards are provided to companies that have received excellent reviews, whereas sanctions are imposed on those that have violated laws or regulations. Disciplinary measures include warnings, suspension of •‌Compliance with environmental safety-related laws and transactions, and limitations on bidding for a certain period of time, regulations. •Providing a safe working environment depending on the degree of negligence and following a resolution by •Environment-oriented management implementation the Reward and Penalty Committee. •Diffusion of environmentally friendly technology Social Standards Convened the Reward and Punishment Committee for Suppliers (2019) Sanctions for unfair acts such as illegal subcontracting, •Prohibition of child labor •No discrimination on the basis of race, religion, etc. bid rigging, and the submission of false documents •Freedom of assembly •Creation of safe working conditions 48 cases 72 Sustainability Report 2020 Safety and Health Management Strengthening Safety & Health Management Developing and Amending Safety & Health Regulations Establishing a Safety & Health Management System As the revised Occupational Safety and Health Act came into effect in January 2020, which reinforces the responsibility and role of To practice efficient workplace safety and health management by an ordering body and expands the scope of protection, KEPCO establishing a safety and health management system in line with preemptively reformed the safety and health system. Prior to the international standards, KEPCO obtained the ISO 45001 safety and enforcement of the revised Occupational Safety and Health Act, health management system certification the latest international 376 standards related to the in-house safety system were enacted standard in the field of safety and health for the first time as a public and revised early, and the ‘Service Safety and Health Management corporation in 2019. Through this, we have enhanced our reliability in Guidelines’ was established for the first time as a public corporation, global-level and advanced safety management systems both at home and detailed management guidelines have been prepared by service and abroad, and internal regulations and work procedures related to such as contract management, accident response, risk assessment, safety and health management have been established in accordance and safety work rules. In addition, the standards related to risk with ISO 45001 requirements. These are continuously being assessment were enacted and revised, and 241 safe work rules were improved and managed to enhance the level of our safety and health revised to reflect the industrial safety laws and notices. activities. Meanwhile, KEPCO also organized the “Safety Council for Management of KEPCO Group Companies,” in which 11 KEPCO group Establishing a Dedicated Safety Management Organization companies participated to share safety and health-related activities and measures with the goal of resolving common issues. In 2019, the KEPCO designated the Chief Business Management Officer as a council standardized different special conditions for safety contracts manager in charge of general safety and established the Safety for each group, revised safety reinforcement standards for suppliers and Security Department, an organization dedicated to safety and accident sanctions, and eased the burden on suppliers. management under his supervision, providing safety management diagnosis, system maintenance, and accident prevention consulting Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Management Policy as a company-wide control tower. In addition, we have a safety and Implementation disaster department directly under the head of a regional division to establish a site-oriented safety accident prevention plan, while KEPCO sets the environment, health, and safety as the top making efforts to improve the working environment and establish priority values for management activities, and established the EHS a culture of safety. To this end, in 2019, the number of personnel in management policy in order to share the specific policies of EHS charge of safety work was significantly increased from 80 to 156, and management throughout the company when employees comply with safety management for the outsourced construction and services was this while performing their duties. improved by strengthening the personnel in charge of other safety tasks such as construction management supervision. Details of EHS Management Policies Organization Dedicated to Safety Management Headquarters Set EHS as the top priority in Management corporate activities and encourage all value CEO employees to participate Introduce and operate EHS standard Corporate Senior Vice President & EHS standard management system for all domestic Chief Business Management Officer management and overseas business sites Safety and Compliance with Comply with overall EHS-related laws Security Department laws & regulations Regional Divisions Run eco-friendly management, Risk remove risk factors from corporate management activities and ensure a safe and Head of Regional HQs healthy working environment Spread EHS management commitment Communication Safety & Disaster to stakeholders and strengthen EHS and cooperation Management Team partnership Continuous EHS improvement through Innovation and sharing of ideas and new technologies, improvement Planning & Marketing Planning Transmission & and conducting education and training Management Office Department Substation Department SOCIAL l Safety and Health Management 73 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Reinforcing Integrated Industrial Accident Management with Introduction of the KEPCO WAY Safety Culture System Partners In order to create a “life and safety-first workplace” where workers are safe, KEPCO is striving to enhance the management of industrial accidents KEPCO has been striving to internalize a safety-first culture while advancing and establish a safe working environment for business partners, our safety management system. In particular, through the ‘KEPCO WAY with the aim of realizing a “safe workplace” where all employees can Safety Culture System’ with partner companies, we have introduced and work with confidence. In particular, we are carrying out activities are operating our own ‘autonomous safety culture certification system.’ to enhance the effectiveness of contractor safety management In 2019, we evaluated and rewarded 166 business sites and suppliers to in cooperation with our suppliers, such as conducting joint safety build the foundation for practicing a safety-prioritizing culture. In addition, inspections at construction sites with our subcontractors. we have made efforts to spread a safety culture by creating a “Safety & Co-prosperity Fund” for the first time as a public corporation, and have provided rewards to 21 excellent suppliers. KEPCO-Partners Integrated Industrial Accident Management In addition, KEPCO has signed an MOU with the Safety Association and is jointly promoting safety and health projects, while operating the ‘Safety Implementation 2018 2019 Management Committee’ in which management, workers, and external experts participate to deliberate and consult on safety management •‌Double inspection Construction site •‌Working-level staffto enhance our expertise in safety policy. In addition, the introduction (working-level staff + safety inspection centered inspection supervisors) by contractor and •‌602 corrective actions on •‌1,021 corrective actions on of a penalty mileage system limits the bidding of industrial accidentsubcontractor site site causing companies, and safety training is provided for representatives and employees of partner companies to raise safety awareness of business •3,556 cases of training •‌3,628 cases of training owners and workers and induce voluntary establishment of a safety culture. •‌General education such as Safety training for •‌Focused on major dissemination of accident suppliers industrial accidents cases and delivery of safe (electric shock, falls) work rules Operating Employee Health Management Program •‌Establishment of reporting •‌Ambiguity over whom to system and division of KEPCO detects symptoms of occupational illnesses in advance in order to Preparation of report incidents roles by person in charge response procedures in case of accident •‌Lack of task processing •‌Establishment of task take preventative action and improve the health of employees. General procedures procedures in case of accident health check-ups are conducted annually and special check-ups are •‌In the event of a accident, carried out every other year to more precisely check the health status of •‌Management of the Improvement of the 60% of point employees. In 2019, we introduced the ‘Life Cycle In-Depth Checkup,’ a same standards of point internal evaluation distribution standard distribution for contractors of contractor safety applied to contractors compared to internal detailed 10-year checkup aimed at prevent serious illness for employees accidents compared to internal employees aged 40 and above. In addition, we operate a job stress test and employees psychological counseling program to take care of not only the physical health of employees, but also their mental health. Furthermore, we have developed a mobile health analysis and prediction system for shift workers Status of Industrial Accidents (Unit : persons) to detect abnormal signs in advance through heart-rate monitoring and electrocardiograms, and have introduced a musculoskeletal injury prevention program where we conduct physical adjustments and consultations with experts. In addition, a health management room and an exercise therapy room was installed in the headquarters building. A 15% reduction health manager and exercise therapist are present during working hours to provide medication and ultrasound treatment for minor symptoms, 75 64 and in partnership with an external institution (Dongshin University), they 2018 2019 provide oriental medical treatment and counseling. Status of Severe Disaster Cases (Unit : persons) 67% reduction 12 4 2018 2019 Exercise Therapy Room at Headquarters 74 Sustainability Report 2020 Human Resource Cultivation Strategic Human Resources Development Nurturing Talented Employees for the New Energy Industries Strategies for the Human Resources Development KEPCO is reinforcing its expertise in the commercialization of KEPCO provides customized training according to job position with strategic technology to preemptively gain a competitive advantage in the aim of fostering competitive future employees that can revitalize present during new energy businesses. We are operating 233 internal the electric power industry in terms of energy conversion and the and external training programs related to the new energy business expansion of Industry 4.0. In 2020, enhancement of employee and its eight key strategic technologies, and we offer support for competencies was set as a key promotion goal, and job training was the acquisition of professional qualifications in future growth fields expanded to strengthen expertise in each field. Through operating the such as big data and blockchain. In addition, to enhance practical ‘Learning Day’, we are striving to build an organizational atmosphere capabilities related to our ongoing digital transformation, we have where employees can study through regular educational programs. launched an e-learning course for all employees, nurturing 41 experts in 2019. Promotion of Human Resource Development Fostering Global Professional Talents KEPCO operates a global professional talent training system for all •‌Increase learning agility through educational Creating a ‘study activation workers, from interns to top experts, in order to strengthen our ability organization’ •‌Create an environment where employee regularly to win overseas business orders. We operate a 1:1 apprenticeship job atmosphere read and discuss books mentoring program to ensure that interns recruited acquire the proper •Spread education 24/7 using a variety of ways know-how for each overseas business field, such as contract, finance, or technology, from current employees. In addition, we are striving to •‌Train leading personnel in terms of energy secure global top-level expertise by fostering local experts who are Securing human conversion and digital transformation familiar with the language, culture, and customs of strategic overseas •‌Strengthen safety capabilities to create a safe regions, such as the Middle East, Latin America, and Vietnam. resources for future working environment growth •‌Strengthen overseas business capabilities by fostering professional human resources Global Professional Talent Training Course •‌Enhance the organizational commitment and Reinforcing basic capabilities of millennials •‌Expand communication between generations and KEPCO HRD Institute Training Courses capabilities for business reorganize leadership education execution •‌Classes by overseas business experts within the •‌Establish a failure assetization and knowledge Stage 1 company sharing platform •‌Understanding business status, critical issues, and practical affairs •Build a digital and integrated system for HRD •‌Pursue an Industry 4.0 paradigm shift for the Human Committing to digital Resources Development Institute HRD work •‌Support customized education for female employees Domestic Training Courses and employees who are scheduled to retire Stage 2 •‌Specialized institutions such as Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (2 months) •Learning local language and culture Employee Training Results Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Overseas Training Courses Total cost of training KRW billion 262 230 248 •‌Association between overseas subsidiaries and Training hour per person hours 86.4 95.0 95.9 Stage 3 universities (6-12 months) •‌Local language intensive courses and learning business Training cost per person KRW million 1.2 1.0 1.0 networking skills SOCIAL l Human Resource Cultivation 75 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Nurturing Talented Female Employees KEPCO is expanding systematic training and various support measures for female employees to foster female managers. We support the growth of female managers through human resource management that reflects the major life stages of our female employees, from employment to childbirth, childcare, and promotion. In addition, we provide our female employees with equal opportunities for promotion by recognizing maternity leave as working years, as well as through the establishment of a career management networking group. In particular, we support policy-making capabilities and operate high quality courses on topics such as management trends to cultivate senior managers at the 2nd tier positions or higher. Education Tailored to Women 20s (4th tier position) 30s (3rd tier position) 40s (2nd tier position or higher) ~ Unmarried Marriage Childbirth, maternity leave, childcare Reinstatement (work-family balance) Motivation for voluntary growth Leadership and job competencies Fostering executive candidates •‌Practical job, competency and career development plan •‌Evaluation of candidate capabilities •‌Basic courses for new employees •Leadership coaching, women's conference •‌Top-level courses, including management •1:1 mentoring, learning organization, etc. ※ ‌e-learning educational support during maternity leave trends Number of Female Managers (Unit : persons) Trend in the Proportion of Female Managers (Unit : %) ‌3rd tier position 409 ‌1st and 2nd tier position ‌Total 351 286 278 332 381 8 19 28 6.4 7.5 8.9 10.1 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Goal for 2022 Strengthening the Leadership Capabilities of Managers KEPCO is striving to discover innovative value and strengthen new leadership capabilities that can embrace diversity. In particular, we implement training that is differentiated according to major roles and duties to reinforce practical leadership that can meet the requirements of each management position, with a focus on providing systematic education programs. Leadership Training Details by Position Compact Intensive Creative Category Intensive job competencies (3rd tier position) Adaptation to environmental changes (2nd tier position) Discovery of innovative value (1st tier position) Role •Expert knowledge + work performance • Performance management + change execution •Value creation + strategy execution •‌Organizational business leader role recognition and •‌Expansion of convergence (office + distribution) •Establishment of “Millennial Understanding” practice Operation flipped learning •Sharing cases of failure, case studies •Overall optimization (efficient resource allocation) •Expert competency reinforcement education •Department leader role practice / discussion •Organization and employee value connection 76 Sustainability Report 2020 Corporate Culture Innovation Balancing Work and Life Creating a Family-friendly Corporate Culture for Work-Family Balance Pushing Forward with Company-Wide Workplace Innovation KEPCO has extended the range of shortened working hours that KEPCO has encouraged an innovative renovation of its corporate employees raising toddlers can choose from in order to create a work culture in line with enforcing the ’52-hour-per-week’ legislation that environment where it is possible to manage both work and family aims to address overtime work issues and promote a healthy worklife. In addition, we have made systematic improvements that allow life balance. To this end, the “Company-wide Workplace Innovation employees to divide leave before and after childbirth (90 days, or 120 Committee” has been established as a permanent body to act as a days for multiple births) and parental leave (three years per child). In control tower. We are constantly examining whether the goal to reduce addition, we have extended the request period for spousal maternity work-load on employees is being well-enforced by taking various leave (10 days) from 30 days to 90 days, and support the use of the efforts to make systematic improvements, as well as reducing the work shortened working system for child-raising regardless of gender. hours of our employees. Moreover, we are actively encouraging the use of the flexible working system so that individuals can choose various types of work according to their job characteristics. As of 2019, a total of 63 types of flexible Highlights of Improving the Way of Working working systems were introduced, including allowing employees to begin and leave work at different hours, to select their own working 1 Eliminating Redundant Work Practices hours, or to work intensively for shorter hours more. KEPCO improved ease of use by improving the use cycle of the flexible working system •‌Discover tasks to improve work efficiency through regular operation of from monthly to weekly. As a result of these efforts, KEPCO has the Workplace Innovation Committee •‌Simplify work processes, such as reduction of authorization steps and maintained the ‘Family-Friendly Certification System’ for nine years in abolition of duplicate work a row since 2011. The recognition is granted by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family for companies that operate an exemplary family2 Enforcing Employees Leave Work on Time friendly system such as childbirth and childrearing support, and flexible working system. •‌Implement a company-wide policy of PC-On/Off •‌Develop and operate PC time-management system •‌Introduce intensive working hours (10:00 ~ 11:00, 14:00 ~ 16:00) Results of Using the System for Work-Family Balance No. of Employees Who Took Parental Leaves 3 Encouraging Employees to Take Annual Leave (Unit : persons) •‌Implement campaign for both labor and management to comply with appropriate amount of working hours •‌Encourage the use of annual leave, regularly check-up performance 328 392 427 2017 2018 2019 Enhancing Employee Satisfaction No. of Employees Who Used Flexible Working Programs KEPCO conducts annual employee satisfaction surveys for all (Unit : persons) employees to measure whether the company’s various efforts give them a real sense of satisfaction. Through this, we are identifying our overall level of employee satisfaction and complaints about the overall HR system, enabling us to develop devise improvement measures. In 2019, we added survey items such as the maternity protection system 7,121 10,451 12,947 and ideas to improve our working culture. We shared the results of 2017 2018 2019 the survey across the company and promoted activities to improve employee satisfaction. Satisfaction With Flexible Working Programs (Unit : points) Employee Satisfaction Survey Results Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Employee Satisfaction Points 76.4 75.0 74.8 4.04 4.07 4.11 * Converted from the basis of 5 points to that of 100 points 2017 2018 2019 * Composition : a total of six fields and 34 questions * 5-point standard SOCIAL l Corporate Culture Innovation 77 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Realizing Mutually Beneficial Labor & Management Labor Union and Management Working Together to Improve Culture Corporate Culture Expanding Communications between Labor & Management KEPCO has been working hard to create a flexible corporate culture based on stable labor-management relations. To this end, by Under the vision of “building a value-creating labor-management discovering and sharing cases that undermine corporate culture, relationship of mutual prosperity and responsibility,” KEPCO has we selected ‘10 tasks for corporate culture improvement’, focusing maintained a rational labor-management relationship based on mutual on tasks that employees highly sympathize with such as company cooperation and participation. Labor and management together get-togethers, excessive protocols, using day-offs, and exercised promote the sustainable development of the company and improve corporate-wide action jointly by labor and management. In addition, the treatment of all employees by raising wages, improving work we are striving to lead a substantial improvement of corporate culture methods and working conditions. In addition, we have been promoting by conducting annual campaigns so that these efforts are not limited communication between labor and management by systematically to temporary activities. Furthermore, we are improving the corporate establishing various communication channels to resolve current issues culture through joint labor-management efforts, such as responding in labor-management relations. Considering the diversity of human to reduction of working hours and expanding the convenience of resources and the fact that workplaces are scattered both at home employee health check-ups by operating a joint labor-management and abroad, we are expanding the field-centered and participatory workplace innovation TF, thereby inspiring the pride of employees. communication. In particular, in 2019, the ‘corporate culture In addition, through joint efforts such as reduced working hours, convergence workshop’ was held to form a consensus between labor labor and management are responding to key issues. A diversity of and management through open communication. Besides this, two-way methods are being employed to establish horizontal communication communication channels between labor and management are being and a friendly corporate culture in the workplace, including the operated, such as “conversation with the CEO”, Lunch Meeting Day, and implementation of the ‘Leadership-driven Corporate Culture Change communication e-mail. Campaign’. Prioritized Main Tasks to Innovate on the Corporate Culture Realizing One KEPCO Implementing Smart Realizing Work-Life Balance Establishing a Fair Culture through communication, consideration, Working System by improving working culture by breaking down old practices and organization activation by improving working methods •Holding workshops on the corporate culture •Removing redundant working processes •‌Encouraging voluntary leaves and implementing •‌Avoiding excessive protocols toward the •‌Conducting job integration training to enhance •‌Defining working standard procedures, ‘Seasonal Vacation Programs’ superiors understanding among other job groups specifying job assignments and improving •‌Leaving work on time – actively implement the •‌Creating a fair culture by improving the unfair fairness •‌Introduced an in-house messenger emoticon to “Family Love Day (every Wednesday)” system and eradicating power abusing behavior facilitate inter-generation communication •‌Sharing information through the ‘Knowledge •‌Encouraging the use of a family-friendly service •‌Establishing a corporate culture without Information System’ •‌Conducting training for newcomers to adapt to system “Comfortable Rest” discrimination by creating a culture of gender the corporation at an early stage and to enhance •‌Implementing a program of giving points to equality •Establishing a sound drinking culture their job competence vitalize cooperation CEO Emoji for In-house Messenger Emoticon BUSINESS CASE 10 As the number of new employees has been increased significantly over the past five years, the Millennial Generation (born from the early 1980s to the early 2000s) has been accounted for about 40% of the total members. KEPCO has been making the various efforts to transform itself into a horizontal corporate culture, which meets the eye level of the Millennial Generation. In a recent inhouse messenger emoji contest for employees, an employee used the image of CEO to showcase emojis with familiar phrases, which have become one of the most commonly used emojis among the employees. KEPCO has been continuously promoting the activities to break away from rigid and authoritative culture through the activation of inter-generational communication and to create a corporate culture which conforms to the values pursued by millennial employees. CEO emoji for in-house messenger emoticon 78 Sustainability Report 2020 Social Contribution Activities System to Promote Social Contribution Fulfillment of Corporate Social Responsibility KEPCO considers sharing and performing volunteer service as a corporate social responsibility, and hence promotes various social contribution activities for shared growth with vulnerable and local communities. We are carrying out various programs to fulfill the social responsibilities befitting our status as a global company, as well as to support the underprivileged and local communities. Also, we strive to provide practically helpful services to beneficiaries. Social Contribution Strategy Goal KEPCO, Opening the World for a Better and Brighter Future Core Strategy Specialized social contributions Value-creating social contributions Customized social contributions Customized support for beneficiaries Realizing energy welfare that reflects the Creating social value through customized reflecting the life-cycle stages characteristics of the power industry support for social-economy organizations Volunteer activities tailored to local communities, using the company’s national Supporting PV power generation facilities Strengthening relations by carrying out business network for social-economy organizations and volunteer activities for vulnerable groups in Intensive support to foster future talents in vulnerable groups countries which KEPCO advances into the power field Promotion System Social Contribution Social Contribution Fund KEPCO Volunteers Management System •‌310 volunteer groups nationwide •‌Creating a database on volunteer activity •‌Company donations (KRW 15.4 billion) •‌Over 20,000 employees participating in performances •‌“Love fund” raised by employees volunteer groups (the largest among public •‌Sharing information related to social (KRW 1.5 billion) corporations) contributions Social Contribution Promotion System KEPCO’s social contribution fund is made up of the, Love Fund which is raised through monthly donations from employees, and company donations raised through matching grants. Led by the KEPCO Volunteering Group (some 20,000 of all employees from 310 regional divisions nationwide), we are continuously carrying out volunteer activities to bring light to the world. In addition, our performance in this respect, and social contribution-related information is shared with all employees in real time. Sharing Briquettes by the KEPCO Volunteering Group Key Activities of the KEPCO Volunteering Group in 2019 Charitable Donations Community Support Global Support Total participation •Disaster relief donations •Support for the •‌Global volunteer underprivileged and volunteer activities 20,000 •Helping underprivileged neighbors at year-end, donating to non-profit activities people (all employees participated) organizations KRW 0.6 billion KRW 2.6 billion KRW 0.4 billion 143,890 participation hours SOCIAL l Social Contribution Activities 79 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Specialized Social Contribution Supporting to Establish SunnyHappy Power Facilities Comprehensive Energy Welfare Support KEPCO has been promoting specialized social contributions that utilize the characteristics of electric power industry to support KEPCO has been doing its utmost to support the energy welfare the development of local communities. The ‘SunnyHappy Power of socially vulnerable groups under the belief that everyone should Plant Support Project’ is a project through which KEPCO conducts be able to enjoy the “right to basic energy”. We provided a discount to construct solar power plants at no cost for social-economy on electricity bills through fundraising by all employees to ease the organizations in rural and fishing villages. This is to help relevant financial burden of those who are disadvantaged. In addition, we social-economy organizations to use the plant to sell electricity and guarantee fundamental rights of energy through various support make use of the profit by creating jobs and improving the welfare programs, such as providing electricity for basic livelihoods by of local communities. In addition, KEPCO conducts energy-welfare postponing the disconnection of the power supply for households activities by reducing electricity bills through projects like ‘SunnyHappy who have defaulted on their electricity bills. Panel Support Project’, which freely installs small-capacity PV facilities for social welfare facilities and vulnerable households. By 2019, we built PV facilities in a total of 466 locations, generating 5,612kW of power, and creating a virtuous cycle that contributes to the local Comprehensive Energy Welfare Support Program economy through social contribution activities. Overview of the SunnyHappy Power Facility Support Project •‌Discounts on electricity bills for vulnerable groups such as low-income and disabled people •‌Prevent missed discounts by linking public data and SunnyHappy Power Plant SunnyHappy Panel Discounting improving application procedure Support Project Support Project electricity bills for welfare recipients Supported a total of 3.39 million households •‌Social-economy Support •‌Social welfare facilities in with KRW 571.2 billion organization in rural areas target rural areas •‌Support construction of •‌Free installation of small•‌50% support for high-efficiency air conditioning power plants on sites Support capacity solar power provided by socialdescription facilities to reduce and heating equipment installation costs for social economy organizations electricity bills Supporting welfare facilities high-efficiency •‌Induce eco-friendly consumption, improve efficiency and reduce energy costs •‌Secure stable profits facilities for for social-economy energy Provided 3,977 units for welfare facilities organizations •‌Enhancing energy welfare Effect •‌Contribute to local for low-income people nationwide with KRW 8.34 billion communities such as job creation •‌Twice-yearly electricity bill support for vulnerable groups in farming and fishing areas, during the hot and cold seasons Support for SunnyHappy Power Generation Facility Sharing energy of love KRW 300 million support for a total of Power Sales Revenue 2,000 households KRW 1.17 billion (250,000/KW) Job Creation •‌Supporting briquettes delivered by employees for the energy vulnerable 120 positions (vitalizing the regional economy) Sharing briquettes of love Social Contributions to the Community A total of 860,000 briquettes worth KRW 800 million for 5,000 households KRW 480 million (scholarship support) * Accumulated performance since 2017 80 Sustainability Report 2020 Value-Creating Social Contributions Customized Social Contributions Revitalization of Social-Economy Organizations By dividing those eligible to receive social contributions into children & teenagers, undergraduates & newcomers and the old & the Since 2012, KEPCO has been contributing to the revitalization underprivileged based on each of the life-cycle stages, we are carrying of social-economy organizations. In 2017, we added customized out customized social contribution activities. For children & teenagers, support for each business stage during the start-up, growth, and we are conducting campaigns to prevent and find missing children maturity period as part of our efforts to create a better business and running ‘Bitgaram Electricity School’ to support teenagers in environment for social-economy organizations. In particular, in 2019, juvenile reformatories to acquire electricity-related certificates. For we spearheaded an effort to increase sales by operating a product undergraduates & newcomers, we are running ‘Power Class’ to support sales exhibition using an online platform to help develop the market learning programs and award scholarships to middle school students for social-economy organizations. In addition, we were the first from low-income families. In addition, we are conducting the ‘Eye Love public institution to make impact investments in a mature socialAngel Project,’ which provides funding for eye surgery to low-income economy organization. This was structured such that 100% of the patients who are visually impaired. investment came from KEPCO, which also provided management consulting, and then profits were reinvested and distributed at a set Lost Child Prevention Campaign rate. Through this kind of support, it is expected that KEPCO will be able to achieve social value and profits at the same time while also KEPCO has carried out a nationwide campaign to prevent disappearances, cultivating excellent and competitive social enterprises. kidnapping and accidents involving children. From 2004 to 2019, about 2.78 million smart bands and name tags for the prevention of missing * ‌Impact Investment : Investment to achieve social and environmental performance while creating financial returns children were distributed at 310 offices nationwide, and photos of missing children are posted on electricity bills (mobile) every month to contribute to family reunions of missing children. Customized Support for Social-Economy Organizations Establishment Crowd Funding •‌Initial management fund support through Supported with KRW 800 public fundraising million for 69 companies Growth Period Support for sales channel at home and abroad •‌Utilize mobile platforms, maximize publicity, 1 and expand sales channels Supported with KRW 1.1 •‌Global marketing support such as attending billion for 189 companies overseas fairs Maturity Period Impact Investment •‌Investment and profit sharing for social projects in the energy sector Supported with KRW 0.4 •‌Cultivating excellent and competitive social billion for four companies enterprises 2 * Cumulative performance from 2017 to 2019 Global Volunteers Made up of KEPCO Employees KEPCO dispatched a total of 130 overseas volunteers to Vietnam, Uzbekistan, and Laos in 2019 to share compassion to the world with unison between labor and management. Overseas volunteer groups have practiced global sharing by creating sports facilities, painting murals, renovating and repairing schools and libraries, operating 3 Korean culture classes, and holding sports events. 1 Attaching a smart bands to prevent missing children 2 School Classroom Repair Service 3 Mural Painting Volunteer Activity SOCIAL l Social Contribution Activities 81 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Eye Love Angel Project New Wind Energy School Since 2011, KEPCO has been conducting the “Eye Love Project,” a KEPCO has been offering a variety of experiences in the power project that provides eyesight recovery surgery for low-income industry to foster future power talent. ‘New Wind Energy School’ is patients who are suffering from blindness at home and abroad. an experiential education program prepared by KEPCO and its power Through this project, we hope to provide opportunities for the generation subsidiaries to raise interest and understanding of new patients to be able to see again. We offered this surgery to 1,408 & renewable energy for future generations, and to provide them domestic and 920 overseas patients for free by 2019, providing the opportunities to explore career paths in the energy field. By 2019, light of dreams and hopes to them. 14,153 students from 189 institutions participated, and by expanding the scope of education beneficiaries, we supported education expenses for after-school programs for elementary school students and for elementary and middle school students who use community Cumulative Benefits of the ‘Eye Love Angel Project’ (Unit : persons) childcare center. 206 50 2,122 2,328 2011 2018 2019 New Wind Energy School Building Trust with Local Communities Support for Future Talents in the Power Sector KEPCO is doing various activities to build trust with local communities. In order to discover talented people who will become leading players Each of KEPCO’s departments is carrying out a sister-town project in new energy industries, and to support their growth, KEPCO has together with every one of the 37 towns around the region where the been providing scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students HQs are relocated to help farmers in busy farming seasons and invite across the country who major in electrical engineering. In March locals to cultural events, and expanding the purchase of local food 2019, we donated KRW one billion in scholarships to 121 outstanding materials in the cafeteria to participate in boosting the local economy. students across 73 universities and 10 graduate schools nationwide. In addition, we have signed a sisterhood relationship with regional Furthermore, we provided scholarships worth KRW 5.3 billion to 825 children’s centers nationwide to support after-school learning, and in students from 2005 to 2019, and provide practical knowledge and 2019, we donated 392 air purifiers to 196 regional children’s centers learning guidance through mentoring between scholarship students so that children can live in a comfortable environment. and KEPCO employees. Volunteer activities sponsoring with air purifiers 2019 Scholarship Award Ceremony for Scholarship Students of Electrical Engineering 82 Sustainability Report 2020 GOVERNANCE 04 Management Approach Establishing a sound governance structure is a critical factor for securing the trust of stakeholders, and for the management to carry out responsible management activities. KEPCO is striving to strengthen the expertise of the Board of Directors so that they can proactively respond to the shifting business environment and make rational decisions, and to enhance the fairness and transparency of the board’s operations. Moreover, in order to meet the demands of external stakeholders to improve transparency and fairness, we have established an ethical compliance management system in addition to respecting the human rights of our employees and stakeholders in the entire management process. Furthermore, KEPCO is making a company-wide effort to preemptively identify and respond to risks by establishing a strong risk management system. Establishment of Sound Governance Advancement Systematic Risk KEPCO of Ethical & Management GOVERNANCE Compliance Management Creating an Environment for Protecting Human Rights 2019 Key Performance Anti-corruption Policy Evaluation by the Board Attendance Rate Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission Achieved recognition as an 94% excellent institution for 3 consecutive years Self-audit Activities Evaluation by the Human Rights Education (cumulative) Board of Audit and Inspection Achieved the highest grade 175,158 hours for 4 consecutive years GOVERNANCE l BOD and Decision-making 83 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE BOD and Decision-making APPENDIX Board of Directors Expertise of the BOD KEPCO’s BOD is composed of seven executive (standing) directors, In order to secure the expertise of the BOD, KEPCO evaluates the including the President, and eight non-executive (non-standing) expertise of each candidate as related to his or her unique job position directors. One of the non-executive directors is elected as the in the document screening process, and actively promotes experts from chairperson of the BOD and objectively supervises the activities the energy sector as a candidate. Moreover, the BOD regularly inspects of the management to enhance the fairness of company and BOD domestic and overseas power facilities, conducts training for directors, operations. provides reports on industrial trends and major management issues on a regular basis and hosts serious discussions between directors to enhance Independence of the BOD their understanding of the industry and improve their expertise. KEPCO has ensured the independence of the BOD so that it can Diversity of the BOD faithfully perform its role of providing checks and balances. The roles of BOD chairperson and the president are separate and independent. KEPCO does not discriminate against any candidates on the basis In order to reflect the varied opinions of our stakeholders in decisionof gender, race, ethnicity, nationality or cultural background when making processes, and to strengthen the decision-making authority appointing directors, and is diversifying the organizations that of outside directors within the BOD, we ensure that the percentage recommend candidates to ensure the diversity and balance of of non-standing directors stands at more than 50% of the total. the Board of Directors. Directors with extensive knowledge and Furthermore, when appointing directors, we conduct a strict experience are elected from various fields, such as academia, review ensuring that they are qualified as stipulated in the internal economics, and labor. In particular, through the Executive Directors independence regulations and have no special relationship with the Nomination Committee, a pool of female executive directors is corporation. managed to actively recruit and recommend female candidates. Composition of the BOD (As of September 2020) Classification Name Gender Expertise & Experience Tenure President & CEO JongKap KIM M Energy / Electricity Apr. 2018 ~ Apr. 2021 Comptroller & Auditor General (Vacant) Audit Committee Member Corporate Senior Vice President & HyungDuck PARK M Energy / Electricity July. 2018 ~ Sep. 2021 Chief Financial (Strategy) Officer Corporate Senior Vice President & Standing HyunSeung LIM M Energy / Electricity July. 2018 ~ Sep. 2021 Chief Nuclear Business Officer Directors Corporate Senior Vice President & HeynBin Lee M Energy / Electricity Sep. 2020 ~ Sep. 2022 Chief Business Management Officer Corporate Senior Vice President & SungArm KIM M Energy / Electricity Mar. 2019 ~ Mar. 2021 Chief Business Operations Officer (Concurrent position) Corporate Senior Vice President & Sung-Arm KIM M Energy / Electricity Mar. 2019 ~ Mar. 2021 Chief Power Grid Officer Current) ‌ Member of the Presidential Water Commission Chairperson JwaGwan KIM M Energy / Environment Apr. 2018 ~ Apr. 2021 Dean, College of Applied Science, Catholic University of Busan Former) ‌ External Director, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology BongRyull YANG M Energy / Public Korean Ambassador to Malaysia Apr. 2018 ~ Apr. 2021 Korean Consul General in Houston, US Current) ‌Professor of New Material Engineering, Changwon University Energy / New Audit Committee Member YeonGil JEONG M ‌Energy Policy Advisor for the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Apr. 2018 ~ Apr. 2021 Materials Energy Former) ‌ Standing Auditor of National Pension Service Chairperson of Audit Committee GeumSun NOH F Finance / Accounting Jun. 2018 ~ Jun. 2021 Non-Standing Certified Public Accountant, Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers Directors Current) ‌ Chairman of the Solar and Wind Energy Cooperative Association Energy / New & SeungKook CHOI M Former) ‌ Secretary General of Green Korea United Jun. 2018 ~ Jun. 2021 Renewable Joint Representative of Energy Citizens' Solidarity Current) ‌Professor of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Konkuk JongBae PARK M Energy / Electricity Jan. 2020 ~ Jan. 2022 University Former) ‌Director General of Korea Evaluation Institute of Industrial SiHeon SEONG M Industry / Technology Technology Jun. 2020 ~ Jun. 2022 Director General of Korean Agency for Technology and Standards Current) Senior Advisor, Seoul Energy Corporation SuRan BANG F Law Sep. 2020 ~ Aug. 2022 Attorney-at-law/Partner at Law Firm S * KEPCO discloses major governance-related information in detail through our Corporate Governance Report, which can be found on the official KEPCO website. 84 Sustainability Report 2020 Appointment of Directors Operation of the BOD KEPCO appoints directors in accordance with the ‘Act on the KEPCO’s regular BOD meeting is held once a month, special director Management of Public Institutions’ and the ‘KEPCO Articles of meetings are convened whenever necessary, and the minutes of Incorporation.’ When appointing the CEO, we nominate candidates board meetings are transparently disclosed to stakeholders through through an open nomination process followed by recommendations the ALIO (All Public Information In-One) website. In accordance with from Director Nomination Committee, the Public Agencies Operating Articles 397 and 398 of the Commercial Act, KEPCO directors are not Committee, and the AGM (Annual General Meeting). Finally, a request allowed to use company-related business opportunities for personal is made by the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy, and the CEO is or third-party interests without the approval of the board in order to appointed by the President for a three-year term. Executive directors prevent conflicts of interest. In addition, any director having a special are appointed by the CEO for a two-year term following a resolution of relation with a certain agenda is not allowed to cast a vote on the the AGM. The Standing Director and Member of the Audit Committee matter. KEPCO has purchased the highest-tier executive indemnity is recommended by Director Nomination Committee, approved by the insurance policy (KRW 100 billion) available in Korea in order to the Public Agencies Operating Committee, requested by the Minister support the independent decision-making process, and has introduced of Economy and Finance, and appointed by the President. Nonan advanced conference system, which includes video conferencing, executive directors are nominated by Director Nomination Committee, to increase the attendance rate of the BOD. In addition, we allow approved by the Public Agencies Operating Committee, and appointed management suggestions based on the professional capabilities of by the Minister of Economy and Finance, and serve a two-year term. directors to be actively reflected in policy through discussions on management issues and the operation of specialized working groups. Evaluation and Compensation of the BOD The president of KEPCO establishes a business performance plan (threePerformance of the BOD year performance goals and action plans for performance indicators) that reflects management policy and our mid-to long-term business BOD Meetings Held goals during his or her term of office after signing an agreement with the government (the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy) on the management goals to be achieved during his or her tenure. His/her 13 times implementation progress is reviewed by the Performance Appraisal Board for Public Corporations. Remuneration for executive directors, including the Agendas Approved President, shall be under the remuneration limit approved by the AGM, and incentives are differentially determined based on performance. In addition, 36 cases the reappointment of non-executive directors is determined based on their performance assessment results, and they are provided with a service Agendas Reported allowance based on internal regulations. The details of compensation for executive and non-executive directors are made public through our 8 cases business reports and via the ALIO (All Public Information In-One) website. BOD Attendance Rate BOD Compensation (Unit : thousand won) 94 % Avg. No. of Total Classification Compensation Persons Compensation Non-Standing Directors Attendance Rate per Person Standing Directors (Excluding Non-Executive Directors and Audit Committee Members) 6 1,049,058 174,843 96 % Non-Executive Directors 6 168,225 29,513 (Excluding Audit Committee Members) Audit Committee Members 2 60,000 30,000 Standing Director and Member of the Committees under the BOD 1 163,387 163,387 Audit Committee * This reflects compensation as of 2019 and differs from the list of directors newly appointed in 2020. KEPCO runs committees under the BOD to reinforce preliminary deliberations and support rational decision-making. The members of the Audit Committee are non-standing accounting and finance experts who CEO-to-Average Executive Compensation Rate are indispensable in reinforcing the BOD’s check function based on their expertise, and the members of the Director Nomination Committee are 236 % selected only from external directors as a way of blocking internal influence and securing transparency in the executive director appointment process. GOVERNANCE l BOD and Decision-making 85 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Committees Under the BOD (As of December 2019) Audit Committee Director Nomination Committee •‌Conducting audits on work and accounting and reporting the results to the BOD •‌Deciding the nomination process, reviewing and Roles •Approving the appointment of independent auditors Roles recommending candidates for CEO or Standing Director and •‌Conducting audits as stipulated by relevant laws and the Member of the Audit Committee Articles of Incorporation •‌Non-standing directors and external committee members Composition •Two non-standing Directors and one standing director Composition appointed by the BOD Performance Performance •Two meetings held and Outcomes •Nine meetings held and Outcomes •One non-standing director nominated. in 2019 in 2019 Major Resolutions of the BOD in 2019 •Approval to close the shareholders’ registry for extraordinary general meeting of shareholders ‌ 1st Meeting on Jan. 23, 2019 •Convening the 59th EGM (Draft) •‌Approval to call for the annual general meeting of shareholders for the fiscal year 2018 2nd Meeting on Feb. 22, 2019 •‌Approval of amendment to the regulations on internal control over financial reporting •‌Approval of the maximum aggregate amount of remuneration for directors in 2019, etc. •‌Approval of establishment of, and contribution to, subsidiaries for meter-reading and security services to transition non-permanent workers to permanent positions 3rd Meeting on Mar. 15, 2019 •‌Approval to consign contract administration regarding construction of distribution facilities to Public Procurement Service •Approval of personnel increase 4th Meeting on Apr. 12, 2019 •Approval of amendment to the Rules on Employment •‌Approval of amendment to the Regulations for Employee Remuneration and Welfare •‌Approval of amendment to the construction plan for the flagship electric vehicles charging station 5th Meeting on May 17, 2019 •Approval of liquidation of Ulleungdo Natural Energy Co., Ltd. •Report on audit results for the first quarter of 2019 •Approval of amendment to the Electricity Usage Agreement 6th Meeting on Jun. 21, 2019 •Approval of the mid-to long-term financial management plan (2019-2023) 7th Meeting on Jun. 28, 2019 •Approval of amendment to the electricity tariff system, etc. •Approval of donation of KEPCO Energy Park exhibition 8th Meeting on July 19, 2019 •Approval of contribution to solar power project in Mexico •‌Approval of establishment of, and contribution to, KEPCO-Tech (tentative name) 9th Meeting on Aug. 8, 2019 •‌Approval of deliberation on former executive’s violation of job integrity agreement 10th Meeting on Aug. 22, 2019 •‌Report on audit results for the second quarter of 2019 •Approval of the mid-to long-term management target (2019-2024) 11th Meeting on Oct. 22, 2019 •Approval of the establishment of KEPCO laboratory company •‌Approval of contribution to Ukudu gas-fired power project in Guam, United States •‌Approval of establishment of, and contribution to, a subsidiary for inbound call services to convert subcontracted workers to permanent employee 12th Meeting on Nov. 28, 2019 •Approval of liquidation of Korea Electric Power Nigeria Ltd. •‌Approval of amendments to the Regulation for Employee Remuneration and Welfare 13th Meeting on Dec. 30, 2019 •‌Approval of amendments to the Electricity Usage Agreement and Rules for Operation 86 Sustainability Report 2020 Ethical Management Ethical Management Systems Establishing CEO-Led Ethical Management Systems KEPCO established the Ethics & Compliance Committee in 2019 to redefine our ethical management implementation system to one that is led by the CEO. In doing so, we strengthened the institutional foundations for enhancing ethical management, while internalizing the level of ethical awareness of our employees and spreading an ethical corporate culture that stimulates a sound ethical environment. In addition, as we strive to meet social demands for transparency and fairness, we continue to inspect for unfair practices in all work areas and make improvements wherever necessary. KEPCO will continue to spread a culture of integrity to external stakeholders, such as local communities and business partners, to help create social value and contribute to the realization of an ethical society. Basic Plan for Implementing Ethical Management Vision Securing the Trust of the People by Promoting a Law-Abiding Spirit and Ethical Awareness Goal Enhancing the implementation of ethics & compliance management through participation and empathy Strategies and Core Tasks Promoting Consensus on an Enhancing Transparency and Enhancing Stakeholder Ethical Corporate Culture Fairness in All Work Communication and Cooperation 1 ‌Assessments and continuous 3 ‌Promoting a fair culture by checking 7 ‌Improving Communication with education to internalize ethical and improving overall work Stakeholders in Business Processes awareness 4 ‌Improving the fairness of systems and 8 ‌Promoting Ethics & Compliance 2 ‌Spreading a corporate culture procedures concerning our partners Management through Cooperation based on participation and 5 ‌Preventing the possibility of with Stakeholders communication with respect to corruption by improving work ethical compliance methods 6 ‌Reinforcing transparency by expanding public disclosure of information Dedicated Organization for Ethical Management KEPCO’s ethical management is overseen by the Legal Affairs Office, and ethics and compliance leaders, who help to establish an ethical culture, are selected to enhance its implementation. Further, anti-corruption activities are led by the Audit & Inspection Office and executed in practice by the company-wide officer responsible for the code of conduct. Meanwhile, major issues and activities concerning ethical management are reported to the Ethics & Compliance Committee, under the direct control of the CEO. This committee, as KEPCO’s top ethical management organization, is responsible for deliberating on, and checking the effectiveness of, related policies. •‌Operation of the Ethics & Compliance Committee •‌Assessment of company ethics and Ethical establishment·revision of the code of ethics Legal Affairs Management •‌Development·Implementation of ethics / legal BOD CEO Office, Ethics & Promotion compliance training courses Law Team Organization •‌Establishment and management of plans to eradicate abuse of power •‌Implementation of CEO’s ethical management policies Ethics & Compliance Committee •Implementation of anti-corruption measures Audit & Anti-corruption •Evaluation of levels of integrity Inspection Office, Comptroller & Integrity Audit Committee Anti-corruption •Improvement of the anti-corruption system Auditor General Promotion and Integrity •Anti-corruption integrity training Organization Team •Tasks related to the Solicitation Prohibition Act GOVERNANCE l Ethical Management 87 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Implementation of Ethical Management Ethics Pledge & Ethical Management Awareness Assessment Compliance with the Code of Ethics KEPCO requires that all employees pledge to comply with the Code of Ethics every year. We promote ethical management that responds to The Code of Ethics is a standard for upright behavior and sound value environmental changes by introducing improvement measures for vulnerable judgment. Based on this Code of Ethics system, KEPCO stipulates that areas identified through ethical management awareness assessments. all employees and partners must comply with the right standards for judging ethical value. Conducting Integrity & Ethics Training On a consistent and regular basis, KEPCO conducts quarterly integrity Code of Ethics System training for all employees under the supervision of department heads across our domestic sites. We provide customized training Declared standards for ethical management practices for each position and job, including for new hires, employees KEPCO’s (standards for upright behavior and sound value judgment) Charter of Ethics receiving promotions, and senior positions. In addition, we regularly (Enacted in February 1996, 6th revision in December 2019) invite well-known experts to hold special lectures on ethics and Code of Conduct Standards of conduct that all employees must follow compliance aimed at our managers, in order to stimulate awareness for Employees (Enacted in May 2003, 23rd revision in May 2020) and encourage them to lead by example. Moreover, we promote ethical awareness throughout the company via ethical compliance Specific practice standards for job-related persons, Guidelines training for our regional offices. KEPCO has also established an guidelines concerning contract work for foreign companies for employees (Enacted in May 2003, 7th revision in May 2020) evaluation and compensation system for the implementation of Operating regulations Regulations on the duty of integrity for executives ethical management. This includes integrating self-integrity surveys (executive directors and executive director-level for executive duty department heads) and training performance in our internal workplace evaluations, as integrity contracts (enacted in January 2007, 3rd revision in 2010) well as rewarding outstanding offices in accordance with evaluation Ethical guidelines to be followed by suppliers outcomes. As such, all executives and employees can be motivated to Supplier Code (ethical, social, environmental standards) implement the lessons learned from ethics training. of Conduct (enacted in June 2012) Integrity and Ethics Training Performance Establishing the Ethics & Compliance Committee Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, KEPCO strengthened the foundations for ethical management Group Training persons 18,785 19,365 22,980 by establishing the Ethics & Compliance Committee, which consists Online Training persons 14,303 18,819 13,525 of five standing directors and three external members, and is chaired Integrity Training by the CEO. The Committee is held once each in the first and second % 100 100 100 Fulfillment Rate halves of the year. In 2019, a promotion plan for ethical and compliance management was deliberated, performance was assessed, and plans for development were discussed. In 2020, we plan to expand the scope of Integrity and Ethics Education Operation Status issues to include the establishment of a culture of fairness and safety, as well as inviting more advice and recommendations on pending ethical Online Offline management issues. Through the operation of this committee, KEPCO intends to seize the opportunity to improve its ethical management. Ethics & Compliance Training, as well as Customized ethics training was provided Anti-corruption & Integrity Training, was in accordance with position and job provided for all employees. characteristics. Improvement in awareness of the Special Lecture on Integrity by the Ethics & Compliance Committee Meeting Outcomes disabled statutory auditor Itinerant training on antiClassification Main Agenda Outcomes Revised ‘Occupational Safety and corruption·integrity Health Act’ Integrity training for new hires and (Reported) 1st meeting in 2019 employees receiving promotion 1. ‌Ethics & compliance management (April 26, 2019) Prevention of sexual harassment Training to improve sensitivity to implementation status corporate human rights (Reported) Trainings to improve sensitivity to 2nd meeting in 2019 1. ‌Ethics & compliance management Prevention of power abuse gender issues (Nov 29, 2019) implementation outcome Regional itinerant training by experts 2. ‌Revision of the ‘KEPCO Ethics Charter’ (plan) Practical cases concerning the Fair Trade Act Special lectures on ethics & compliance (Decided) for managers 1st meeting in 2020 1. ‌2020 Comprehensive Plan for Implementing Approved Special lectures by experts from the (April 23, 2020) Solicitation Prevention Act Ethics & Compliance Management Ethics & Compliance Committee 88 Sustainability Report 2020 Internal Control and Reporting Channel Improving Voluntary Internal Control Processes Operating an Internal Check System For the first among sector 1 public corporations in Korea, KEPCO acquired ISO 37001 certification, the international standard for antiKEPCO has established an internal check system to support corruption management systems, in January 2019. By doing so, we ethical management. This system, structured to enable efficient have strengthened the effectiveness of our corruption prevention internal checks, is largely divided into ‘self-compliance’ activities measures and are actively identifying and implementing tasks in for preemptive measures and ‘internal audit’ activities focused on this respect. We are also standardizing our internal accounting retroactive audits. Self-compliance consists of institutional systems management system in tandem with our subsidiaries, in order to that lay the foundations for fair trade, departmental self-checks, improve the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. In and internal accounting control, as well as support systems such as addition, we have enhanced our preventive audit functions and counseling on ethics and compliance. Characterized by professionalism improved the effectiveness of internal audits by bolstering the and independence, internal auditing covers comprehensive audits, personnel responsible for audits, such as financial experts, and by daily audits and performance audits over all work stages. In addition, strengthening the expertise of these personnel by providing training external audit systems, such as the ombudsman, audit advisory programs for all levels and stages. Meanwhile, the internal audit system committee, and external reporting system, are also operated. is constantly being improved. For example, a preliminary consulting system has been introduced for tasks that are difficult to actively administrate due to disagreements regarding the interpretation of laws and regulations, and the active work exemption system has been enhanced. Internal audit performance is periodically analyzed and evaluated, and the results are reflected in the planning stages. Internal Check System Voluntary Compliance Internal Audit Laying the Foundation for Fair Trade Medium / Long-Term Planning Audit Vision Annual Audit Plan •Drawing up Guidelines on Fair Trade Audit Strategies •‌Conducting Voluntary Checks by Utilizing the Contract Check-List Voluntary Checking of Actual Business Operation Divisions Establishing Infrastructures Comprehensive Ordinary Performance Audit Audit Audit •‌Conducting Self-Diagnosis by Utilizing Ordinary Audit Check-List Internal •‌Conducting Interim Checks of All Invested Strengthening Increasing Projects Expertise Independence Special Audit Financial Audit Service Audit •‌Checking Issues Repeatedly Pointed out through Comprehensive Audits Implementation Strict Internal Accounting Control Audit Consultation External Deliberation Ombudsman Reporting System Committee Committee Feed •Applying the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act back External Analyzing Civil Complaints Advising Issues related Enhancing the Fairness Red Whistle, Irregularity and Suggesting with Audit at All Times of Audit Results Reporting Center, etc. Improvements Ethics & Compliance Consultation Performance Analysis Internal Evaluation External Evaluation •‌Leaders in Ethics Practice •‌Those in Charge of the Analysis •Evaluating Internal Audit •Evaluating Job Competence Code of Conduct •‌Reporting Quarterly Ethics Evaluation Quality of Standing Directors by •‌Those in Charge of Performance Results to the •‌Surveying Audit Satisfaction the Ministry of Strategy and Preventing the Improper Audit Committee and the Solicitation and Graft (Comprehensive and Finance BOD Ordinary) •BAI’s Evaluation •‌In-House Lawyers and Compliance Legal Firms GOVERNANCE l Ethical Management 89 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Multi-Channel Reporting System KEPCO strengthens the internal audit system through voluntary reporting, the irregularity reporting center, and other various corruption reporting systems. To encourage the active participation of our employees, we have increased accessibility by incorporating a reporting menu in our corporate software, and the results of reporting are transparently disclosed through our corporate website. In addition, Red Whistle, an anonymous reporting system, has been operated since 2014, and in 2018, a Red Whistle report menu was added to our work-use Mobile Office application to improve reporting convenience. In addition, KEPCO transparently discloses the results of internal audits, such as descriptions of irregularities, disciplinary measures, and comprehensive audits results, on our official website and via the ALIO (All Public Information In-One) website. Cases of Irregularity Received, by Reporting Channel Reporting Channel Identification Reporting Method 2017 2018 2019 Internal / Voluntary Report Identified / Anonymous Online (Intranet) 3 Irregularity Reporting Center Anonymous Online (External Website) 56 87 60 On-site Reporting Center Anonymous Reporting Postcard 1 Anonymous Report System (Red Whistle) Anonymous Online (External Consignment) 52 131 119 Total 109 218 182 Legal Representative Reporting System Ethics & Compliance Management – Implementation Outcomes 2019 KEPCO has introduced a Legal Representative Reporting System that allows all employees and outsiders to report illegal acts and irregularities, aiming to prevent stakeholders, suppliers, etc. from Improved overall integrity level committing such acts. by one grade (Grade 4 → 3) Achieved ‘excellence’ Request for Counseling in the Anti-Corruption Policy Evaluation for three consecutive years Reporter Selected by the Fair Trade Commission as a best practice model of a ‘public institution that Counseling & Representative Reporting spreads a fair trade culture’ Designated Lawyer Achieved the top grade for four consecutive years in BAI’s (Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea) Fact-checking and responding to investigation results assessment of companies’ self-audit activities Audit & Inspection Office Received the Grand Prize among 624 institutions nationwide in the Best Audit Contest, hosted by BAI Disclosing the results Lawyer 90 Sustainability Report 2020 Human Rights Management Human Rights Management Implementation System Detecting and Responding to Human Rights Issues Global Human Rights Management KEPCO strives to identify potential issues related to the human rights of each stakeholder, and prepares proper countermeasures in advance. By KEPCO actively operates a human rights management implementation examining issues concerning gender equality, the health and safety of system and has established the ‘KEPCO Human Rights Management all employees, and human rights violations concerning customer-facing Implementation Plan’ to create a work environment free from workers, as well as factors that could lead to human rights violations discrimination for all employees. We, as a global company, seek regarding our partners and local communities, we are conducting to actively respond to the international community’s demand for activities to prevent and alleviate issues related to human rights. activities that promote human rights protection. As the first Korean company to join the UN Global Compact in 2005, we respect and Major Potential Risks Related to Human Rights support international standards for human rights and labor, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ‘UN Guideline Classification Potential Risks Countermeasures Principles on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework)’ by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. KEPCO strives to •‌Organizational culture improvement activities to ensure gender equality •Workplace gender equality protect the human rights of our employees and other stakeholders •‌Opening a hotline for online •‌Grievances about sexual counselling throughout the entirety of our business activities. Employees harassment and sexual violence •‌Addressing grievances concerning •‌Protecting employees’ mental sexual harassment·sexual violence health •‌Stress assessments, mental health consultations Human Rights Management Implementation System •‌Identify safety weaknesses, make improvements and provide safety •‌Establish a comprehensive implementation plan for human •‌Safety incidents regarding training Integrated rights management workers Partners •‌Establish a Civil Complaint Protection •‌Discrimination against reporters Management •‌Regularly check implementation progress and report the Charter and introduce a report of unfair transactions results internally / externally system that guarantees reporters do not suffer disadvantages •‌Construction of eco-friendly power •‌Receive internal / external cases of human rights •‌Noise and environmental facilities with consideration for the Monitoring & infringement Local pollution issues on construction local community Community Correction •‌Implement corrective actions for confirmed cases of human sites •‌Conducting Environmental Impact rights infringement Assessments •‌Conduct self-assessments using the human rights management checklist Checking Human Rights Risks Execution •‌Identify areas for improvement and establish execution plans KEPCO self-assesses human rights infringement risk factors by utilizing a ‘human rights management checklist’ and classifying human rights risks into 10 sections and 33 sub-sections, in line Human Rights Management Guidelines with the ‘UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights’ and the ‘Human Rights Management Guidelines’ set by the National Human Rights KEPCO complies with the Labor Standard Act and International Labor Commission of Korea. In 2019, self-assessments did not reveal any Organization (ILO) regulations, and prohibits discrimination on the issues that violate human rights. We will continue to conduct selfbasis of gender, race, age, social status, etc. To respect the human assessments on a regular basis in order to detect human rights risks rights of our employees and stakeholders, we established the ‘KEPCO and take proper countermeasures in advance. Declaration of Human Rights Management’, outlining ten practice guidelines for human rights protection. In addition, the ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’, which all suppliers and subcontractors who sign Checklist for Human Rights Management a contract with KEPCO must recognize and comply with, includes requirements for human rights protection such as the prohibition of 1 Establishing a human rights 6 Ensuring industrial safety management system child labor, prohibition of discrimination (against gender, religion, race, and physical ability), guarantee to the freedom of association and 2 Non-discrimination in employment 7 Supply chain management collective bargaining, provision of safety equipment, and the creation 3 Freedom of association·bargaining 8 Protecting local residents’ human rights of a safe work environment. We are also striving to prevent human rights infringements through the publication of various codes of 4 Prohibiting forced labor 9 Guaranteeing environmental rights ethics, including an ethics charter, an employee code of conduct, and 5 Prohibiting child labor 10 Protecting customers’ human rights an employee action guide. GOVERNANCE l Human Rights Management 91 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Creating an Environment for Human Rights Promoting Comprehensive Measures to Eradicate Abuse of Protection Power and Workplace Harassment Human Rights Training Abuse of power is when a person in a position of seniority improperly uses his or her authority, e.g. unfair requests or treatment, or when In order to promote a culture of respect for human rights, KEPCO a person with higher economic or social status exercises his or her conducts online and offline human rights training, covering various influence. In order to eliminate abuses of power within our society, topics such as the elimination of sexual harassment and sexual KEPCO has established comprehensive measures to preclude abuses violence, and the prevention of abuses of power and harassment in of power and is striving to spread a culture of mutual trust through the workplace. Particularly in 2019, we invited external experts to continuous activities in this respect. conduct education on improving corporate human rights sensitivity. Moreover, we are striving to create an environment that facilitates preventive human rights protection through campaigns that promote Progress of Activities to Eradicate Abuse of Power and Workplace Harassment gender equality and self-inspection of the risks of abuse of power. Establishment and distribution of May 2019 ‘Guidelines for Eradicating Abuse of Power’ Grievance Handling Channel and Process •Definition of abuse of power and judgement criteria, handling tips, preventive measures, etc. KEPCO operates a grievance consultation and reporting center •Production and distribution of an e-book and brochures, quarterly campaigns for to respond to cases of human rights infringement, such as sexual compliance with guidelines harassment, sexual violence, and abuse of power. Reports received through the reporting center are handled in accordance with Regional provision of training to prevent workplace Nov 2019 the relevant procedures, and in the event that the advice of an harassment external expert, such as legal counseling, is required in the course of •Training to prevent workplace harassment provided for Senior Managers and General responding to a case, we provide professional consultation services in Managers responsible for Corporate Culture / Legal Affairs / Audits / HR. partnership with external institutions. •Certified labor attorneys invited to provide special lectures in four regions. Grievance Handling Process Sept 2019, Joint campaign run by the company and labor union May 2020 •‌Reporting directly to service representatives through visits, phone calls and on-line channels •11th day of every month designated as ‘a day for mutual respect (Sept 2019) Receiving •‌Cases can be received without a report, if it is recognized that •Implementation of quarterly self-assessments (checklist) on guideline compliance and Reports damage has been inflicted. abuse of power risks. •‌Understanding the situation and deciding how to handle the case Dec 2019 Revision of the ‘The Charter of Ethics for KEPCO Employees’ •‌Keeping victims’ identities and consultation details confidential Consultation •‌Reporting consultation results including details of damages, victims’ requests and remedial plans •‌’The Charter of Ethics for KEPCO Employees’ was revised, reflecting an eradication of workplace harassment. •‌Securing victims’ statements and evidence •‌Providing information on investigation procedures and the current situation Investigation •‌Requesting the Audit Office to investigate, attaching victims’ Establishment of ‘Guidelines for preventing and March 2020 opinions responding to workplace harassment’ •A system and handling procedures to prevent and respond to workplace harassment were established, following revisions to the Labor Standard Act and Employment •‌Deliberation on cases that occur in the Head Office / Regional Consideration by Offices Regulations. the Deliberation •‌Protecting the victim, preventing revictimization and Committee (If recommending measures to prevent recurrence necessary) Production and distribution of the ‘Guidebook to May 2020 determine and respond to workplace harassment’ •‌Monitoring to determine whether negotiated terms are being observed or not •Regulations concerning workplace harassment, judgement criteria, examples, case Conclusion •‌Taking necessary follow-up measures (separating perpetrators and handling procedures, etc. victims, preventive training for perpetrators, therapy for victims, etc.) •The guidebook was distributed to all counsellors for workplace harassment and •‌Notification of final results announced to all employees. * ‌In cases of grievance handling for workplace harassment, the Deliberation Committee meets before the investigation 92 Sustainability Report 2020 Risk Management Risk Management System KEPCO operates a risk management system to proactively identify and respond to risks that may occur in the process of achieving our strategic objectives. In particular, we have strengthened the financial risk management process that can have a direct impact on our business activities, and designated responsible departments for each risk area. We continuously check risk factors and conduct practical risk reduction activities to improve our responsiveness to the rapidly changing business environment. In addition, management meetings and business strategy meetings are regularly held to share information about the internal and external business environment, as well as the results of risk checks in each sector. By doing so, we enable relevant departments to collaborate and seek collective countermeasures for major risks that are difficult for individual departments to resolve. Financial Risk Management KEPCO has established a financial risk response system to preemptively respond to financial risks and secure financial stability. From power supply and demand, facility construction, to the impact on operating profit, we operate a monitoring system for each area and systematically manage financial risks by convening a deliberation committee for each stage. In addition, in order to respond to the financial crisis caused by an increase in purchased power costs and a decrease in volume of power sales, the “Financial Improvement Plan Management TF”, hosted by the Corporate Senior Vice President & Chief Financial (Strategy) Officer, and the “Financial Improvement Implementation Reinforcement TF”, consisting of the budget manager of each department, are operated in parallel. Through these efforts, we set cost-based, key performance indicators (KPIs) and apply them to internal evaluations. We also manage financial improvement performance based on tasks rather than monetary values, and are expanding rewards for outstanding savings performances in order to actively respond to the increasingly challenging financial conditions. Financial Risk Management System Management Power Supply Financial Variables (Exchange Facility Construction & Power Sales Operating Profit & Net Profit Target Fuel Cost Rate & Interest Rate) Investment Transmission & Substation Power Trade & Compliance Sales & Marketing Dept. in Charge Treasury Department Construction Department, Corporate Planning Department Department Department Distribution Planning Department MTAS Exchange Risk (Power Trade Analysis System) Management System Facility System Monitoring Sales Forecast System Profit & Loss Forecast System Management System Group’s Consolidated Financial Loan Management System System Investment Exchange Risk Management Meeting Cost Evaluation Committee Deliberation Committee Management Committee Consumer Protection Decision Making Risk Deliberation Committee Business Strategy Meeting Committee Financial Policy Council Financing Meeting Business Meeting of the presidents of Deliberation Committee KEPCO Group companies Swap, Liquidity Management Business Scope Adjustment Implementation Adjusting compensation factor Rate Plan Change Efforts to Improve Financial Status Loan Procurement, Equity Investment Share Sale Repayment Organizational Chart of the Financial Improvement Plan Management TF TF Team Leader Corporate Senior Vice President & Chief Financial (Strategy) Officer Collaboration for Task Performance Management Implementation Technology Department Facility Department Head Office Regional Division R&D Department (Technology Planning Department, (Transmission & Substation (Chief Officer) (Head of Regional Division) (KEPRI, etc.) etc.) Operations Department, etc.) Evaluating technologies Managing eight divisions Managing fifteen divisions Improving work standards Validating project performance implemented GOVERNANCE l Risk Management 93 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Non-Financial Risk Management KEPCO is enhancing the effectiveness of non-financial risk management by establishing a risk management system for different sectors, such as climate change, disasters, public relations, and conflicts. We have produced our own risk management guidelines to categorize crises into four types (business risks, disasters, PR, and conflicts), managing risks through departments dedicated to each area. In addition, the Technology Planning Department takes responsibility for climate change risks, including the establishment of a GHG reduction roadmap, whereas the Audit & Inspection Office and Legal Affairs Office manage ethics and anti-corruption risks. The Technology Quality Department, together with the Procurement Department, manages equipment quality risks to mitigate risks in the supply chain. In addition, we have established a “Crisis Management Monitoring System” to efficiently execute crisis management tasks, thereby securing business continuity and building the capacity to quickly respond to potential major risks. In addition, KEPCO defines risk factors that may affect business activities in the long term as Emerging Risks, analyzing their impact on the business and conducting mitigation activities. Risk Factor Monitoring Process Risk Factor Impact Analysis of Deciding level of Execution of Monitoring Risk Factors response to risks Response Scenario Constant monitoring through the risk Impact analysis of each risk factor by Committee held and decision made Immediate response by the responsible management system the relevant departments upon occurrence of a risk factor department Types of Major Non-Financial Risks Type Major Risks Dept. in Charge •‌Disruption to electrical power supply due to power system failure •‌Weakening of power supply system stability caused by cyberterrorism Disaster Risks Safety and Security Department •‌Disruption to power supply caused by disaster and earthquakes •‌Risks of infection amongst employees during an epidemic •‌Damage to company reputation due to negative incidents related to employees PR Risks Corporate Communications Office •‌PR on power sector crises based on inaccurate information •‌Civil complaints concerning transmission & substation facilities Mutual Growth & Cooperation Conflict Risks •‌Disruption to power supply due to social factors Department •‌Energy saving and GHG reduction, including response to the Emission Trading Scheme Climate Crisis Risks •‌Changes in environmental policies, such as GHG reduction and carbon management Technology Planning Department •‌Increased costs of purchasing emission credits in related to climate change •‌Infringement of employees’ human rights, such as abuse of power and workplace Audit & Inspection Office / Ethics / Anti-corruption Risks harassment Legal Affairs Office •‌Decline in company reputation due to violation of laws and regulations •‌Crisis in supply chain stability due to quality issues with equipment suppliers Equipment Quality Risks •‌Drop in customer satisfaction and management efficiency due to supply of low quality Technology Quality Department equipment 94 Sustainability Report 2020 APPENDIX 95 Sustainability Data 114 Independent Assurance Statement 108 GRI Standards Index 116 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement 112 TCFD Index 117 Memberships and Awards 113 SASB Index Sustainability Data 95 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Sustainability Data APPENDIX Economic Performance The 59th : As of Dec. 31, 2019 The 58th : As of Dec. 31, 2018 The 57th : As of Dec. 31, 2017 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Unit : KRW 1 Million) The 59th The 58th The 57th Assets Current assets 19,483,001 19,745,068 19,141,707 Cash and cash equivalents 1,810,129 1,358,345 2,369,739 Current financial assets 1,586,509 2,359,895 1,958,357 Trade receivables and other receivables 7,701,452 7,793,592 7,928,972 Inventory assets 7,050,700 7,188,253 6,002,086 Current corporate tax assets 99,718 143,214 100,590 Current non-financial assets 1,206,377 878,888 753,992 Estimated selling assets 28,116 22,881 27,971 Non-current assets 178,114,791 165,503,993 162,647,208 Non-current financial assets 2,563,498 2,113,613 2,038,913 Long-term trade receivables and other receivables 2,002,297 1,819,845 1,754,797 Tangible assets 164,701,827 152,743,194 150,882,414 Invested properties 158,580 159,559 284,714 Goodwill 97,977 2,582 2,582 Intangible assets except goodwill 1,069,976 1,225,942 1,187,121 Invested shares of associates 4,251,802 4,064,820 3,837,421 Invested shares of joint ventures 1,663,029 1,813,525 1,493,275 Deferred corporate tax assets 1,047 0 0 Defined benefit assets 1,437,829 1,233,761 919,153 Non-current non-financial assets 166,929 327,152 246,818 Total assets 197,597,792 185,249,061 181,788,915 Liabilities Current liabilities 24,231,656 21,841,533 23,424,281 Trade payables and other payables 6,649,402 6,405,395 5,999,521 Current financial liabilities 8,930,903 7,981,879 9,194,552 Current corporate tax liabilities 358,277 285,420 508,402 Current non-financial liabilities 5,688,353 5,574,041 5,584,308 Current provisions 2,604,721 1,594,798 2,137,498 Non-current liabilities 104,476,487 92,314,766 85,399,993 Long-term trade payables and other payables 6,965,760 2,941,696 3,223,480 Non-current financial liabilities 59,115,598 53,364,911 45,980,899 Non-current non-financial liabilities 8,834,452 8,160,033 8,072,434 Employee benefits liabilities 1,929,854 1,645,069 1,483,069 Deferred corporate tax liabilities 8,564,775 9,617,309 10,415,397 Non-current provisions 19,066,048 16,585,748 16,224,714 Total liabilities 128,708,143 114,156,299 108,824,274 Equity Equity attributable to the owner of the parent 67,496,318 69,743,925 71,681,445 Paid-in capital 4,053,578 4,053,578 4,053,578 Capital share 3,209,820 3,209,820 3,209,820 Capital in excess of par value 843,758 843,758 843,758 Retained earnings 49,202,133 51,519,119 53,370,558 Legal reserve 1,604,910 1,604,910 1,604,910 Free reserve 34,785,425 35,906,267 34,833,844 Unappropriated retained earnings 12,811,798 14,007,942 16,931,804 Other components of equity 14,240,607 14,171,228 14,257,309 Other capital surpluses 1,226,364 1,234,825 1,233,793 Accumulated other comprehensive income -280,730 -358,570 -271,457 Other equity 13,294,973 13,294,973 13,294,973 Non-controlling interest 1,393,331 1,348,837 1,283,196 Total equity 68,889,649 71,092,762 72,964,641 Total equity and liabilities 197,597,792 185,249,061 181,788,915 96 Sustainability Report 2020 Economic Performance The 59th : As of Dec. 31, 2019 The 58th : As of Dec. 31, 2018 The 57th : As of Dec. 31, 2017 Consolidated Comprehensive Statements of Income (Unit : KRW 1 Million) The 59th The 58th The 57th Earnings (Sales proceeds) 59,172,890 60,627,610 59,814,862 Sales proceeds from selling goods 56,894,876 57,897,804 55,772,548 Sales proceeds from providing services 408,290 392,867 351,157 Sales proceeds from construction contracts 1,264,916 1,742,391 3,212,184 Sales proceeds from customer's contribution to construction costs 604,808 594,548 478,973 Cost of sales 57,779,835 58,207,721 52,098,855 Cost of sales from selling goods 55,750,468 55,976,628 48,454,036 Cost of sales from providing services 1,030,601 592,224 597,423 Cost of sales from construction contracts 998,766 1,638,869 3,047,396 Gross profit 1,393,055 2,419,889 7,716,007 Selling and administrative expenses 2,669,576 2,627,890 2,762,855 Operating income (loss) -1,276,521 -208,001 4,953,152 Other earnings 393,165 375,346 390,145 Other expenses 241,913 231,330 180,055 Other income (loss) -582,258 -621,124 156,627 Financial income 1,009,706 796,870 1,530,618 Financial cost 2,782,156 2,470,743 3,127,952 Income (loss) in relation to associates, joint ventures and subsidiaries 214,139 358,163 -108,317 Profits on valuation of invested shares of associates and joint ventures 257,673 473,269 241,537 Profits on disposition of invested shares of associates and joint ventures 70,094 5,079 609 Profits on disposition of invested shares of subsidiaries 0 73 0 Loss on valuation of invested shares of associates and joint ventures -90,853 -110,168 -323,225 Loss on disposition of invested shares of associates and joint ventures -2 -2,183 0 Impairment loss on invested shares of associates and joint ventures -22,517 -7,907 -27,238 Loss on disposition of invested shares of subsidiaries -256 0 0 Net income (loss) before income tax -3,265,838 -2,000,819 3,614,218 Income tax expense -1,002,303 -826,321 2,172,824 Profit (loss) for the year -2,263,535 -1,174,498 1,441,394 Other comprehensive income (loss) 135,196 -106,925 -94,716 Items that will not be reclassified subsequent to income (loss) 23,794 -143,507 180,404 Re-measurements of defined benefit plans 42,315 -108,169 170,337 Shares of other comprehensive income (loss) of associates and joint ventures -6,789 -1,153 10,067 subjected to equity method Other comprehensive income (loss)-valuation loss (gain) of financial asset at fair value -11,732 -34,185 0 Items that will be reclassified subsequent to income (loss) 111,402 36,582 -275,120 Valutaion loss (gain) of available-for-sale financial assets 0 0 -7,098 (other comprehensive income (loss) after tax) Cash flow hedges (other comprehensive income (loss) after tax) 19,242 211 20,868 Difference in overseas business transaction exchanges 72,816 -20,717 -134,196 Shares of other comprehensive income (loss) of associates and joint ventures 19,344 57,088 -154,694 subjected to equity method (other comprehensive income (loss) after tax) Total comprehensive income -2,128,339 -1,281,423 1,346,678 Net income (loss) attributable to : Current income (loss) attributable to the owner of the parent -2,345,517 -1,314,567 1,298,720 Current income attributable to non-controlling interest 81,982 140,069 142,674 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to : Comprehensive income attributable to the owner of the parent -2,239,147 -1,426,477 1,230,194 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest 110,808 145,054 116,484 Earnings per share Basic earnings (loss) per share (unit : KRW) -3,654 -2,048 2,023 Diluted earnings (loss) per share (unit : KRW) -3,654 -2,048 2,023 Sustainability Data 97 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Unit : KRW 1 Million) Equity Equity attributable to the owner of the parent Total equity Nonattributable to controlling Total equity Paid-in capital Earned surplus Other equity interests the owner of the parent Jan. 01, 2017 (Beginning capital) 4,053,578 53,173,871 14,496,244 71,723,693 1,326,852 73,050,545 Current net income (loss) 1,298,720 1,298,720 142,674 1,441,394 Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequent to income Re-measurements of defined benefit plans 158,991 158,991 11,346 170,337 Shares of other comprehensive income of associates and joint 10,065 10,065 2 10,067 ventures subjected to equity method Other comprehensive income that will be reclassified subsequent to income Valuation loss (gain) of availiable-for-sale financial assets -7,102 -7,102 4 -7,098 Valuation loss (gain) of derivatives for cash flow hedges 19,614 19,614 1,254 20,868 Difference in overseas business transaction exchanges -95,103 -95,103 -39,093 -134,196 Shares of other comprehensive income of associates and joint -154,991 -154,991 297 -154,694 ventures subjected to equity method Transaction with shareholders Dividends paid -1,271,089 -1,271,089 -70,252 -1,341,341 Paid-in capital increase, etc -1,378 -1,378 18,381 17,003 Changes in consolidated entitites 7,337 7,337 Dividends of hybrid securities -15,856 -15,856 Repayments of hybrid securities -99,750 -99,750 Other transactions 25 25 25 Dec. 31, 2017 (Ending capital) 4,053,578 53,370,558 14,257,309 71,681,445 1,283,196 72,964,641 Increase (decrease) due to changes in accounting policies 0 71,928 -76,851 -4,923 0 -4,923 Jan. 01, 2018 (Beginning capital) 4,053,578 53,442,486 14,180,458 71,676,522 1,283,196 72,959,718 Current net income (loss) -1,314,567 -1,314,567 140,069 -1,174,498 Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequent to income Re-measurements of defined benefit plans -100,495 -100,495 -7,674 -108,169 Shares of other comprehensive income of associates and joint -1,153 -1,153 -1,153 ventures subjected to equity method Other comprehensive income (loss)-valuation loss (gain) of 0 0 -34,125 -34,125 -60 -34,185 financial asset at fair value Other comprehensive income that will be reclassified subsequent to income Valuation loss (gain) of available-for-sale financial assets Valuation loss (gain) of derivatives for cash flow hedges -1,140 -1,140 1,351 211 Difference in overseas business transaction exchanges -32,086 -32,086 11,369 -20,717 Shares of other comprehensive income of associates and joint 57,089 57,089 -1 57,088 ventures subjected to equity method Transaction with shareholders Dividends paid -507,152 -507,152 -92,741 -599,893 Paid-in capital increase, etc. 1,032 1,032 17,183 18,215 Changes in consolidated entities 9,530 9,530 Dividends of hybrid securities -13,385 -13,385 Dec. 31, 2018 (Ending capital) 4,053,578 51,519,119 14,171,228 69,743,925 1,348,837 71,092,762 98 Sustainability Report 2020 Economic Performance Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Unit : KRW 1 Million) Equity Equity attributable to the owner of the parent Total equity Nonattributable to controlling Total equity Paid-in capital Earned surplus Other equity interests the owner of the parent Jan. 01, 2019 (Beginning capital) 4,053,578 51,519,119 14,171,228 69,743,925 1,348,837 71,092,762 Current net income (loss) -2,345,517 -2,345,517 81,982 -2,263,535 Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequent to income Re-measurements of defined benefit plans 36,160 36,160 6,155 42,315 Shares of other comprehensive income of associates and joint -6,789 -6,789 -6,789 ventures subjected to equity method Other comprehensive income (loss)-valuation loss (gain) of 0 0 -11,732 -11,732 0 -11,732 financial asset at fair value Other comprehensive income that will be reclassified subsequent to income Valuation loss (gain) of derivatives for cash flow hedges 14,041 14,041 5,201 19,242 Difference in overseas business transaction exchanges 55,347 55,347 17,469 72,816 Shares of other comprehensive income of associates and joint 19,343 19,343 1 19,344 ventures subjected to equity method Transaction with shareholders Dividends paid -99,255 -99,255 Paid-in capital increase, etc. 21,071 21,071 Transactions between consolidated entities 0 0 -8,460 -8,460 323 -8,137 Changes in consolidated entities 24,932 24,932 Dividends of hybrid securities -13,385 -13,385 Other transactions -840 840 Dec. 31, 2019 (Ending capital) 4,053,578 49,202,133 14,240,607 67,496,318 1,393,331 68,889,649 Sustainability Data 99 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX The 59th : As of Dec. 31, 2019 The 58th : As of Dec. 31, 2018 The 57th : As of Dec. 31, 2017 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unit : KRW 1 Million) The 59th The 58th The 57th Cash flows from operating activities 8,213,428 6,680,132 11,249,894 Current net income (loss) -2,263,535 -1,174,498 1,441,394 Total adjustment to reconcile income (loss) 15,769,297 13,129,849 16,492,940 Corporate tax expenses -1,002,303 -826,321 2,172,824 Depreciation 10,971,825 9,905,856 9,660,039 Amortization on intangible assets 156,915 118,938 113,672 Retirement allowance 725,120 360,575 391,360 Bad debt expenses 16,629 57,468 126,326 Interest expenses 2,046,811 1,868,458 1,789,552 Loss on disposition of financial assets 2,106 1 2,343 Loss on disposition of tangible assets 72,508 60,704 70,514 Loss on destruction of tangible assets 364,233 481,176 424,091 Impairment loss on tangible assets 50,034 710,162 51,067 Impairment loss on intangible assets 513,609 8,112 20 Loss on disposition of intangible assets 827 43 183 Provision for allowances 2,301,215 1,056,994 1,690,120 Foreign currency translation gain and loss 370,309 243,378 -902,878 Current gains (losses)-valuation gains of financial asset at fair value -5,575 -8,495 0 Current gains (losses)-valuation losses of financial asset at fair value 4,513 6,616 0 Gains (losses) on derivatives -403,765 -300,500 1,043,628 Profits on valuation of invested shares of associates and joint ventures -166,820 -363,101 81,688 Profits on disposition of financial assets -3,866 -1,838 -1,130 Profits on disposition of tangible assets -43,784 -98,077 -48,316 Profits on disposition of intangible assets -206 -12 -564 Profits on disposition of invested shares of associates and joint ventures -70,094 -5,079 -609 Loss on disposition of invested shares of associates and joint ventures 2 2,183 0 Impairment loss on invested shares of associates and joint ventures 22,517 7,907 27,238 Profits on disposition of invested shares of subsidiaries 0 -72 0 Losses on disposition of invested shares of subsidiaries 256 0 0 Interest revenues -268,118 -223,767 -206,143 Dividends income -13,838 -12,777 -11,477 Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 0 0 2,713 Others 128,237 81,317 16,679 Changes in assets and liabilities due to operating activities -3,192,650 -3,134,434 -2,683,657 Increase (decrease) of trade receivables 95,345 246,755 -218,328 Increase (decrease) of other trade receivables 64,027 154,580 -31,807 Increase (decrease) of uncollected income 83,589 -484,718 577,838 Increase (decrease) of other securities -116,583 -61,961 -1,271 Increase (decrease) of other current assets -271,986 -148,509 37,576 Increase (decrease) of inventory assets -980,216 -1,771,550 -1,373,438 Increase of other non-current assets -611,066 -54,148 -46,079 Increase (decrease) of trade payables -546,159 478,744 342,126 Increase (decrease) of payables 192,506 -292,912 -214,704 Increase (decrease) of accured expenses -454,501 -361,204 -715,305 Increase (decrease) of other payables 0 0 292 Increase (decrease) of other current liabilities 373,403 250,112 -126,323 Increase (decrease) of other non-current liabilities 650,468 287,488 763,958 Decrease of invested shares of associates and joint ventures 215,612 175,175 106,983 Increase (decrease) of provisions -1,473,461 -1,132,969 -1,390,606 Payment of retiring benefit -65,242 -89,253 -69,489 Paid-in plan assets -348,386 -330,064 -325,080 100 Sustainability Report 2020 Economic Performance Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unit : KRW 1 Million) The 59th The 58th The 57th Reception of dividends 24,255 11,182 10,590 Payment of interest -2,027,850 -1,895,898 -1,886,303 Reception of interest 186,122 194,221 173,226 Payment of corporate tax -282,211 -450,290 -2,298,296 Cash flows from investing activities -13,499,358 -13,014,301 -12,606,699 Disposition of invested assets of associates 0 1,617 10,542 Acquisition of invested assets of associates -107,821 -319,425 -206,753 Disposition of tangible assets 522,742 234,138 85,801 Acquisition of tangible assets -14,000,359 -12,266,870 -12,535,958 Disposition of intangibles assets 7,702 13 1,072 Acquisition of intangible assets -229,426 -110,587 -143,887 Disposition of financial assets 2,783,474 2,419,259 5,296,680 Acquisition of financial assets -2,165,342 -2,841,651 -4,786,717 Increase of loans -335,773 -188,675 -218,698 Decrease of loans 292,745 100,010 120,967 Increase of guarantee money -280,637 -299,564 -397,078 Decrease of guarantee money 275,314 259,930 110,383 Disposition of assets held-for-sale 30,662 18,716 0 Reception of government subsidies 21,705 30,416 55,533 Cash outflows due to merger -154,311 0 0 Net cash flows (in and out) due to changes of the scope of consolidation -2,917 2,141 0 Net cash flows (in and out) due to other investing activities -157,116 -53,769 1,414 Cash flows from financing activities 5,775,407 5,301,678 745,594 Net borrowing short-term loans (repayment) 188,957 -183,660 370,328 Bonds and borrowing long-term loans 13,221,407 14,251,586 10,098,067 Repayment of bonds and long-term loans -7,068,290 -8,095,590 -8,198,882 Repayment of capital lease liabilities -573,437 -134,454 -122,919 Net settlement of derivatives 102,146 60,907 33,434 Net cash inflows from consolidated capital transactions 17,365 20,113 23,582 Cash outflows due to repayment of hybrid securities 0 0 -99,750 Dividends paid for hybrid securities -13,385 -17,658 -15,856 Dividends paid -99,356 -599,391 -1,340,387 Net cash outflows from other financing activities 0 -175 -2,023 Net increase (decrease) of cash and cash equivalents before reflecting the effects 489,477 -1,032,491 -611,211 of changes in foreign exchange rates Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalent inflows -37,693 21,097 -70,403 Net increase (decrease) of cash and cash equivalents 451,784 -1,011,394 -681,614 Beginning cash and cash equivalents 1,358,345 2,369,739 3,051,353 Ending cash and cash equivalents 1,810,129 1,358,345 2,369,739 Sustainability Data 101 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Creating Economic Values (Separate Standard) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Sales Volume GWh 507,746 526,149 520,499 Sales Amount KRW 100 Million 599,658 602,715 589,332 Operating Income (Loss) KRW 100 Million 15,536 (21,933) (28,483) Current Net Income (Loss) KRW 100 Million 15,068 (10,952) (25,950) Distributing Economic Values (Separate Standard) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Shareholders Dividends KRW 100 Million 5,072 0 0 Creditors Interest costs KRW 100 Million 7,380 7,083 7,771 Total KRW 100 Million 21,529 20,032 20,886 Salaries KRW 100 Million 18,051 18,336 18,955 Employees Retirement benefits KRW 100 Million 1,787 1,638 1,128 Welfare benefits KRW 100 Million 3,033 2,335 803 Total KRW 100 Million 88,310 76,591 70,906 Purchase KRW 100 Million 35,160 27,275 23,818 Partners Construction KRW 100 Million 41,152 39,334 36,825 Service KRW 100 Million 11,998 9,982 10,263 Total KRW 100 Million 565 454 483 Local communities Taxes and dues KRW 100 Million 281 296 361 Contributions KRW 100 Million 284 158 122 R&D (Separate Standard) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 R&D staff Persons 605 604 689 R&D costs KRW 1 Million 433,994 399,377 363,028 Investment/revenue % 0.72 0.66 0.62 Corporate Value (Based on the Closing Price of the Year) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Stock price KRW 38,150 33,100 27,800 Market capitalization KRW 100 Million 244,909 212,490 178,466 Credit rating Moody’s Aa2 stable Aa2 stable Aa2 stable 102 Sustainability Report 2020 Environmental Performance Performance of Implementing the Emissions Trading Scheme* Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Allocation 10,000 tCO2eq 91 1231) 47 2) Emissions 10,000 tCO2eq 147.7 136.6 110.1 * Emission Coefficient and Methodology : Based on “Guidelines on Emission Report and Certification for Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System” 1) The allocation for 2018 was excessively set compared with that of 2019-2020 due to the 2nd stage allocation. 2) Exceeded or reduced emissions are adjusted by purchasing emission permits or borrowing allocated quota from the following year or rolling reduced allocation to the following year. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Intensity Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Emissions 10,000 tCO2eq 129 117 91 Scope 11) Intensity Ton / KRW 100 Million 2.15 1.94 1.54 Emissions 10,000 tCO2eq 18 19 19 Scope 22) Intensity Ton / KRW 100 Million 0.30 0.32 0.33 Fuel production process tCO2eq 47,984,469 49,159,031 45,439,968 Fuel combustion to generate power tCO2eq 228,357,827 240,309,224 219,614,860 Scope 33) Discarding generated waste tCO2eq 1,099 1,191 765 Domestic and overseas business trips tCO2eq 14,333 10,829 9,104 Commute tCO2eq 464 477 483 * Calculation range : Domestic business sites 1) Scope 1 : Direct emissions generated from emission sources directly owned and controlled by the business operators 2) Scope 2 : Indirect emissions generated from the production of electricity, steam, etc. 3) Scope 3 : External emissions from power generator fuel production, domestic and international business trips, product use, etc. SF6 Emissions Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 SF6 emissions tCO2eq 1,100,497 966,586 705,502 Energy Consumption Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Energy consumption TJ 6,569 6,978 6,936 Sustainability Data 103 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Total Amount of Materials Used Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Concrete Ton 224,644 218,245 217,773 Metal Ton 17,130 16,679 16,118 Ceramics Ton 10 5 4 Power cables Ton 15,464 14,187 14,148 Others Ton 5,594 4,529 4,509 Total Ton 262,842 253,645 252,552 Water Use Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Amount of water used* m3 2,154,314 2,036,740 3,765,707 * Water Data : The Amount of Water Used at in Buildings (Domestic Workplaces) Waste Generation 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit Waste Waste Waste Recycled Waste Recycling Rate Concrete Ton 18,867 25,533 22,560 17,664 78.3% Metal Ton 6,617 7,451 6,662 6,131 92.0% Ceramics Ton 7 4 4 2 50.0% Power cables Ton 2,343 2,516 2,510 2,209 88.0% Others Ton 876 726 719 505 70.2% Total Ton 28,710 36,230 32,455 26,511 81.7% Hazardous Waste Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 PCBs Ton 18,541 15,835 9,733 Air Pollutant Emissions* Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 SOx Ton 58,961 50,261 36,482 NOx Ton 75,469 60,904 46,468 Fine particulates Ton 2,879 2,725 2,238 * Calculation range : Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd., Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd., Korea Western Power Co., Ltd., Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd., Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. 104 Sustainability Report 2020 Environment Amount and Percentage of Green Product Purchases Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total* Purchase amount KRW 1 Million 26,703 22,817 27,459 Purchase amount KRW 1 Million 25,093 21,064 26,279 Green product Percentage % 94.0 92.3 95.7 * Purchase performance of items that can be purchased as green products Eco-Friendly Business-Purpose Vehicles Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Cars for business purposes No. of Cars 2,151 2,026 2,013 Eco-friendly cars (Total) No. of Cars 1,936 1,812 1,808 Compact cars No. of Cars 1,130 974 963 Hybrid cars No. of Cars 142 151 160 EVs No. of Cars 664 687 685 Percentage of eco-friendly cars % 90.0 89.4 89.8 Sustainability Data 105 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Social Performance Workforce Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total no. of employees Persons 22,196 22,595 23,137 Regular employees Persons 21,627 22,272 22,979 Employees under unlimited By employment type Persons 0 0 0 contracts Irregular employees Persons 569 323 158 Male Persons 17,918 18,086 18,291 Female Persons 4,278 4,509 4,846 By gender Female managers* Persons 286 351 409 Female executives Persons 0 1 1 Aged under 30 Persons 4,203 4,920 5,509 By age Aged 30-40 Persons 4,631 4,580 4,662 Aged over 40 Persons 13,362 13,095 12,966 Newly hired Persons 1,574 1,786 1,773 Retirees Persons 802 927 877 Total turnover rate % 3.7 4.2 3.8 No. of those who decided to quit (Turnover rate) Persons (%) 127 (0.6%) 149 (0.7%) 123 (0.5%) * Managers : 3rd level employees and above Employee Diversity Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Persons 655 735 710 Disabled % 3.0 3.3 3.1 Persons 927 1,091 1,102 Locally recruited personnel % 58.9 61.1 62.2 Persons 93 91 87 Persons of national merit % 5.9 5.1 4.9 Starting Salary of New Employees Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Ratio of starting wage* of new employee to % 210 200 185 minimum wage * College graduates, office workers, without work experience 106 Sustainability Report 2020 Social Performance Employee Training Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total trainees (Overlapped accumulation) Persons 26,050 26,858 28,875 Training hours per person Hours / person 86.4 94.7 95.9 Training expenditure per person KRW 1 Million / person 1.2 1.0 1.0 Maternity Protection System Operation Performance Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Parental leave before or after childbirth Persons 114 107 110 Childcare leave (Male) Persons 328 (36) 392 (55) 427 (73) Infertility leave Persons 12 19 17 Reduced working hours for childcare Persons 10 285 562 Rate of returning to work after parental leave (Male) % 90.9 / 98.2 96.2 / 100 100 / 99.3 Rate of continuing work for more than one year after % 97.0 99.0 98.9 parental leave Communication Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Employee satisfaction Point 76.4 75.0 74.8 * Converted from a 5-point standard to a percentage Labor Union Membership Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Union members1) Persons 15,876 16,592 17,491 2) Labor union enrollment rate % 71.8 74.5 74.5 1) Employees at paygrade 4 or lower, excluding personnel, labor, audit managers, secretaries, the president’s personal driver, and police officers 2) Matters discussed with the labor union apply to all employees (100%) Sustainability Data 107 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Workplace Safety Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Accident rate1) % 0.018 0.022 0.026 2) Employees Fatality rate per 10,000 persons 0/000 0 0 0 3) LTIFR (Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate) Case / 1 million Work Hours 0.08 0.09 0.11 Accident rate % 0.28 0.35 0.32 Partners Fatality rate per 10,000 persons 0/000 1.80 3.23 0.96 LTIFR (Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate) Case / 1 million Work Hours 1.19 1.45 1.33 1) Accident rate (%) = [(No. of deaths + No. of the injured)/No. of regular employees)] × 100 2) Fatality rate per 10,000 Persons (0/000) = (No. of deaths/No. of regular employees) × 10,000 3) LTIFR (Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Rate) = No. of lost-time cases/Annual working hours × 1,000,000 2019 Status of Suppliers* Classification Unit No. of Registered Products No. of Registered Companies Transmission & Transformation Product & Company 131 472 Distribution Product & Company 77 866 Information and Communications Product & Company 4 9 Total Product & Company 212 1,347 * ‌After reviewing their qualities and processes, we manage and operate the registration of companies that produce and supply materials and equipment that have major impacts on power quality and the stability of the power supply Support for Mutually Beneficial Cooperation Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Amount spent on purchasing SME products KRW 100 Million 63,672 56,147 54,066 Cooperative R&D KRW 100 Million 42.8 44.5 40.2 Quality certification KRW 100 Million 0.5 0.1 0.1 Marketing support KRW 100 Million 19.8 24.1 23.6 Management support KRW 100 Million 41.6 47.3 37.4 Heavy electric machine technology development fund KRW 100 Million 31.8 66.0 61.6 (loan support) Total KRW 100 Million 63,808 56,330 54,229 Local Community Contributions Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Contributions KRW 100 Million 284 158 122 Cash contributions KRW 100 Million 229 114 97 Contributions in kind KRW 100 Million 55 44 25 108 Sustainability Report 2020 GRI Standards Index Universal Standards (GRI 100) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page 102-1 Name of the organization 10 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10-11 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 102-4 Location of operations 10 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 102-6 Markets served 36-37 Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 10-11, 95-101 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 105 102-9 Supply chain 70-71 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 70-71 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 92-93 102-12 External initiatives 22-23 102-13 Membership of associations 117-118 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4-5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 87 Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 86-89 102-18 Governance structure 83-85 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 83-85 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 83-85 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 83-85 Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest 83-85 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 83-85 102-35 Remuneration policies 84 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 84 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 84 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 24-25 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 106 Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 24-25 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 24-25 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 24-25, 48-49, 67 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 11-13 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 26-27 102-47 List of material topics 26-27 102-48 Restatements of information Reported in each page 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 Reporting Practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact Information 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 108-111 102-55 GRI content index 108-111 102-56 External assurance 114-115 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26-27 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 27, 32, 50, 62, 82 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22-23, 26-27 GRI Standards Index 109 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Topic-specific Standards Economic Performance (GRI 200) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 101 Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 51-55 Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 105 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 78-81 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 66-67, 78-79 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 88-89 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 86-87 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 88-89 Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 70-71 Environmental Performance (GRI 300) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 103 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 102 Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 59 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 59 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 60 Water 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 60 303-5 Water consumption 60, 103 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 304-1 61 biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 61 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 61 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 55, 102 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 55, 102 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 55, 102 Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 55, 102 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 55, 102 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 102-103 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 61, 102-103 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 60 No significant spills during Effluents and Waste 306-3 Significant spills reporting period 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 60 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No such cases 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 70-71 Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 70-71 110 Sustainability Report 2020 Topic-specific Standards Social Performance (GRI 400) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 105 Employment 401-3 Parental leave 106 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 72-73 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 72-73 403-3 Occupational health services 72-73 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 72-73 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 72-73 Occupational Health and Safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 72-73, 76 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business 403-7 72-73 relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 72-73 403-9 Work-related injuries 107 403-10 Work-related ill health 107 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 74-75, 106 Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 74-75 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 83, 105 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Both men and women are paid the 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men same basic salaries. Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents of discrimination Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor No such cases Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 90 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 90 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 90-91 Human Rights Assessment Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent 412-3 70-71, 90 human rights screening 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 78-81 Local Communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 78-81 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 70-71 Supplier Social Assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 70-73, 90 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 72-73 Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 72-73 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling No such incidents Marketing and Labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No such incidents Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No such incidents Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No such incidents GRI Standards Index 111 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures Classification Disclosure Indicators Page 11p, Statistics of Electric Power in EU 1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime KOREA (2019) 46-47p Statistics of Electric Power in EU 2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime KOREA (2019) 5p Statistics of Electric Power in Organizational Profile (cont.) EU 3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts KOREA (2019) 122p Statistics of Electric Power in EU 4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime KOREA (2019) 7p, 96-99p EU 5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework 102 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the Long term, broken down by energy Monthly Report on Key Electric Availability and Reliability EU 10 source and regulatory regime Power Statistics (No. 500) 9p Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and Research and Development DMA 40-41 promoting sustainable development (former EU8) Statistics of Electric Power in EU 11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by regulatory regime KOREA (2019) 58-59p System Efficiency 103, Statistics of Electric Power in EU 12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total Energy KOREA (2019) 120-121p Biodiversity EU 13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas 61 DMA Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce (former EU14) 74-75 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and employees of contractors Employment DMA 72-73 and subcontractors (former EU16) Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and EU 18 73 safety training Stakeholder participation in decision making processes related to energy planning and infrastructure Local Communities DMA 22-23 development (former EU19) Disaster/Emergency Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training programs, and DMA 46-47 Planning and Response recovery/restoration plans (former EU21) Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets including legal judgments, Customer Health and Safety EU 25 106 settlements and pending legal cases of diseases Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity DMA 48-49 and customer support services (former EU23) Access EU 29 Average power outage duration 44 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to access and safely Provision of Information DMA 78-79 use electricity and customer support services (former EU24) 112 Sustainability Report 2020 TCFD Index The FSB (Financial Stability Board) established the TCFD (Task-force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) in 2015. TCFD developed an international framework for disclosing information related to climate change, and information disclosed based on the recommendations of the TCFD is used by stakeholders and investors for making decisions. TCFD recommendation Response of KEPCO CDP Index Governance : Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. CDP_C1.1b Sustainability Report 2020 p.52 b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. CDP_C1.2, C1.2a Strategy : ‌Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material. a) ‌Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, CDP_C2.1, C2.2b, C2.3, C2.3a, C2.4, C2.4a medium, and long term. b) ‌Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, Sustainability Report 2020 CDP_C2.5, C2.6, C3.1, C3.1c strategy, and financial planning. p.53 c) ‌Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climateCDP_C3.1a, C3.1d related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. Risk Management : Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks. a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. CDP_C2.2b, C2.2c Sustainability Report 2020 b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. CDP_C2.2c, C2.2d p.54 c) ‌Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated CDP_C2.2 into the organization’s overall risk management. Metrics and Targets : Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. a) ‌Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in CDP_C4.2 line with its strategy and risk management process. b) ‌Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the Sustainability Report 2020 CDP_C6.1, C6.3, C6.5 related risks. p.55 c) ‌Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities CDP_C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b and performance against targets. TCFD Index / SASB Index 113 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SASB Index APPENDIX The SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) Standard is an industry-specific sustainability accounting standard established by the US Sustainability Accounting Standards Boards in 2011. For the first time in the industry, the standard categorized sustainability information with a high level of importance into 77 industries in 11 areas. Unit of Classification Code Category Accounting metric Response of KEPCO measure (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under (1) 909,965, (2) 100%, (3) 100% IF-EU-110a.1 Quantitative (2) emissions-limiting regulations, and Ton, % * Scope 1 calculation range : Domestic business sites (3) emissions-reporting regulations Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with power IF-EU-110a.2 Quantitative Ton 219,614,860 deliveries Greenhouse Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to Discussion Gas Emissions IF-EU-110a.3 manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and n/a Sustainability Report 2020 p. 52 ~ 55 and Analysis an analysis of performance against those targets KEPCO’s six power generation subsidiaries are responsible for supplying (1) Number of customers served in markets subject to the RPS system. As of 2019, the supply obligation ratio was 6%, with IF-EU-110a.4 Quantitative renewable portfolio standards (RPS) and (2) percentage % a mandatory supply target of 21,642 GWh to be achieved through the fulfillment of RPS target by market construction of renewable energy generation facilities and the purchase of external supply certificates (REC). Air Quality IF-EU-120a.1 Quantitative 1) NOx, (2) SOx, (3) particulate matter (PM10) Ton Sustainability Report 2020 p.103 IF-EU-140a.1 Quantitative Total water used m3 3,765,707 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with Water IF-EU-140a.2 Quantitative water quantity and/or quality permits, standards, and Number n/a Management regulations Discussion Description of water management risks and discussion of IF-EU-140a.3 Sustainability Report 2020 p.60 and Analysis strategies and practices to mitigate those risks 8,572,517 (94%) * ‌It is based on the amount of coal ash generation of the KEPCO’s power Amount of coal combustion residuals (CCR) generated, IF-EU-150a.1 Quantitative Ton, % generation subsidiaries, KOEN (Korea South-East Power Co.), EWP (Korea percentage recycled Coal Ash East-West Power Co.), KOWEPO (Korea Western Power Co.), KOMIPO (Korea Management Midland Power Co.), and KOSPO (Korea Southern Power Co.). Total number of coal combustion residual (CCR) IF-EU-150a.2 Quantitative impoundments, broken down by hazard potential Number Not aggregated according to the criteria recommended by SASB classification and structural integrity assessment Average retail electric rate for (1) residential, (2) commercial, IF-EU-240a.1 Quantitative Won (KRW) (1) 104.95, (2) 130.33, (3) 106.56 and (3) industrial customers (1) ‌Residential Service (Low-voltage) : 101,468, Typical monthly electric bill for residential customers for Residential Service (High-voltage : 80,743 IF-EU-240a.2 Quantitative (1) 500 kWh and (2) 1,000 kWh of electricity delivered per Won (KRW) (2) ‌Residential Service (Low-voltage) : 214,995, month Residential Service (High-voltage) : 202,547 Energy KEPCO installs current limiters instead of cutting power for residential Affordability customers who are subject to the termination of their electricity use Number of residential customer electric disconnections for IF-EU-240a.3 Quantitative Number, % contract due to being two months or more in arrears on their electricity non-payment, percentage reconnected within 30 days bills. This limits their electricity supply to 660W, the minimum amount necessary for daily life. According to the Electric Utility Act, electricity sellers cannot refuse to Discussion of impact of external factors on customer Discussion supply electricity without justifiable grounds prescribed by presidential IF-EU-240a.4 affordability of electricity, including the economic conditions and Analysis decree, and KEPCO does not infringe on customers’ energy access due of the service territory to external factors. Sustainability Report 2020 p.107 Workforce (1) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and * ‌KEPCO discloses information related to the workplace safety of employees IF-EU-320a.1 Quantitative % Health & Safety (3) Near Miss Frequency Rate (NMFR) and suppliers based on indicators such as accident rate, fatality rate, and LTIFR (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate). Percentage of electric utility revenues from rate structures IF-EU-420a.1 Quantitative that (1) are decoupled and (2) contain a Lost Revenue % n/a Adjustment Mechanism (LRAM) As of 2019, KEPCO had completed the establishment of AMI (Advanced End-Use IF-EU-420a.2 Quantitative Percentage of electric load served by smart grid technology % Metering Infrastructure) systems for 8.84 million units, accounting for Efficiency & about 38% of all customers. Demand KEPCO is implementing the mandatory EERS (Energy Efficiency Customer electricity savings from efficiency measures, by Megawatt Resource Standards) for energy provided through the supply of highIF-EU-420a.3 Quantitative market hours (MWh) efficiency equipment, and has reduced energy consumption by a total of 1,019 GWh as of 2019. As of 2019, 24 nuclear power plants were being operated by Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, a power generation subsidiary of KEPCO, with IF-EU-540a.1 Quantitative Total number of nuclear power units Number a total capacity of 23,250 MW accounting for about 26% of total domestic power generation. Nuclear Safety & Emergency As of 2019, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power’s sudden shut-down rate Management for nuclear power plants, which is an indicator of the stability and Discussion Description of efforts to manage nuclear safety and operation management level, was only 0.08, indicating high reliability. IF-EU-540a.2 and Analysis emergency preparedness Efforts to improve safety and plans to respond to serious accidents can be found on the website of the Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. (https://npp.khnp.co.kr). Number of incidents of non-compliance with physical and/or IF-EU-550a.1 Quantitative Number n/a cybersecurity standards or regulations Grid Resiliency (1) System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI), Minutes / (1) 8.61 IF-EU-550a.2 Quantitative (2) System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) Number (2) 0.113 114 Sustainability Report 2020 Independent Assurance Statement To the Management and Stakeholders of KEPCO, The Korea Sustainability Investing Forum (hereinafter “KoSIF”) was commissioned by KEPCO to provide an independent assurance statement for its ‘Sustainability Report 2020’ (hereinafter “the report”) which is integrated with its Annual Report, and hereby presents the following third-party assurance statement. Independence and Responsibility Other than providing this independent assurance statement, KoSIF does not hold any interest in KEPCO that may affect the independence and fairness of the verification. Although this assurance statement is written for the management and stakeholders of KEPCO, KoSIF expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Assurance Criteria and Principles The verification procedure was in accordance with the below. •Type I, Moderate Level used in AA1000AS (2008), •The three accountability principles (inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness) in AA1000APS (2008), and •Core option of GRI Standard Guideline. Assurance Process and Limitations After KoSIF carried out an initial review based on publicly available IR materials and supporting data obtained directly from the company, an onsite audit was implemented and the scope of it was limited to the headquarters of KEPCO. KoSIF verified the basis of all claims related to the environmental, social, and economic data listed in the report by checking their consistency and conducting sampling inspections. KoSIF also carried out verification through face-to-face interviews with the personnel in charge of writing the report. KoSIF confirmed that the financial data were appropriately drawn and retrieved from financial statements verified in the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (http://dart.fss.or.kr/), and also that GHG data was replaced by the ‘GHG Verification.’ Data and information stretching outside the reporting scope of the Company (e.g. suppliers) were excluded from the audit. The result of this assurance may differ if additional assessment is made. Assurance Results KoSIF could not find anything indicating that the report was not prepared in accordance with the Core Option of the GRI Standard Guidelines. Also, nothing has come to KoSIF’s attention that causes KoSIF to believe the information and data provided were misplaced or misleading.. KoSIF’s opinion regarding the principles of AA1000 (2008) is as follows Independent Assurance Statement 115 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPENDIX •Inclusivity KEPCO specifically defines nations/customers, shareholders/investors, governments/national assembly/media, customer center/metermen, business partners, employees/electrical union, subsidiaries/invested companies and local communities as major stakeholders. And, through customized communication channels, the company gathers stakeholders’ opinions from each group. Also, the company determines stakeholder interests and expectations regarding sustainability management by conducting special questionnaire surveys for the publishing process. KoSIF confirmed that there is no any key stakeholder group that has been omitted. •Materiality KEPCO reflected industry issues, such as global sustainability guidelines and sustainability management trends in the power industry, and organized an issue pool of 39 sustainability topics by combining them with the internal sustainability-related issues of KEPCO. By measuring stakeholder interest (analyzing global guidelines and domestic media, conducting external stakeholder surveys) and evaluating business impact (reflecting industry issues and internal issues, employee surveys), the company’s material issues were prioritized. Then, 10 main topics were selected through an internal review at KEPCO according to priority. KoSIF confirmed that KEPCO selected material issues and major topics as itsin accordance with the GRI materiality assessment principles GRI and process, and could not find any material issue that has been omitted from the report. •Responsiveness KEPCO has reported activities and accomplishments regarding the selected 10 major topics through a materiality assessment. KoSIF could not find any evidence that the company’s countermeasures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the report. In addition, KoSIF also confirmed that KEPCO is monitoring and managing not only major topics but also some issues that may have a potential impact on the sustainability activities of KEPCO. Recommendations KoSIF recommends the following to advance sustainability management at KEPCO. The world has been making efforts to limit the increase of global temperatures to less than 1.5°C to prevent a climate crisis. The goal is to reduce the world’s CO2 emissions to 45% by 2030 compared to 2010, and to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, which means ‘carbon neutral.’ KEPCO has been facing this challenge as part of the power industry, which is directly involved in and affected by the climate crisis. It has proved that three of the 10 major topics which were selected in the materiality assessment are response issues for the climate crisis. In this regard, It seems necessary to approach global trends in terms of risk management and future growth engines in relation to climate crisis issues. KoSIF recommends increasing sustainability by collecting opinions from investors and civil society through building constant communication channels. September 8th, 2020 Korea Sustainability Investing Forum Chairman Kim, Young Ho 116 Sustainability Report 2020 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement Introduction Korea Electric Power Corporation implements annual MRV based on standards including ISO 14064 to comply with the GHG reduction target of Kyoto protocol. KMR confirms the verification results of 2019 as below. Scope •Organizational boundary : The whole business under control of the organization •Verification object workplaces : Naju Headquarter and every domestic workplace •Reporting period : Calendar year of 2019 •Reporting greenhouse gas : CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 •Type of emission : Direct Emissions (Scope 1), Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) •The level of assurance : Reasonable assurance (materiality threshold : ±5.0% Standards •ISO 14064-1 (2006), ISO 14064-3 (2006), WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol (2004) •Verification guidelines for GHG & energy Target Management Scheme (Notification No.2016-104, MOE) •KMR GHG & energy verification manual and procedure, IPCC Guidelines (2006) Results GHGs Emission Scope 1 Scope 2 Total (tCO2-eq) 2019 909,965 191,586 1,101,428 Energy Consumption Fuel Electricity Steam Total (TJ) 2019 3,080 3,959 24 6,936 1) Greenhouse Gases : CO2, CH4, N20, HFCs, SF6 2) 1tCO2-eq : It is the amount equivalent to 1 ton of CO2 or the effect of other greenhouse gases on global warming equivalent to 1 ton of CO2. Conclusion KMR confirms that the calculation of the greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption of the organization are proper. April 29th, 2020 Korea Management Registrar CEO Eun Ju Hwang Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement / Memberships and Awards 117 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Memberships and Awards APPENDIX Memberships in Associations and International Entities Classification Academic Societies/Associations Purpose of Joining Date Korean Red Cross Providing support for the vulnerable at home and abroad 1949 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) Providing business information and participating in business 1961 Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Engaging in academic exchanges related to electrical engineering 1961 Korea Standard Association Acquiring quality management information and education, and attending seminars 1964 Korea Electric Association Promoting and developing the overall electric industry 1965 Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Promoting Korean nuclear power and strengthening network 1975 International Construction Association Sharing information on overseas construction trends 1976 Korea Management Association Consulting on management issues and corporate culture 1981 Korea Listed Companies Association Protecting investors and advocating listed companies 1989 Korea Exchange (KRX) Promoting fair price formation, trading, and transaction stability of securities 1989 Korea Industrial Technology Association Sharing information on technology and environment 1995 Korean Society for Quality Management Sharing information on domestic and overseas quality management trends 1995 Korean Institute of Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers Engaging in academic exchanges related to electronics and electrical materials 1996 Identifying trends in the domestic new and renewable energy sector and collecting Korea New & Renewable Energy 2004 opinions on system improvement Korea Project Management Association Acquiring and disseminating advanced project management techniques 2004 Korea Plant Industries Association Sharing information on overseas plant industry trends 2005 Increasing cooperation and technology exchanges with the international nuclear power Korean Nuclear Society 2007 industry Korea International Trade Association Sharing information on industrial market trends for each country 2008 Korean Association for Industrial Technology Security Acquiring updated industrial security technologies 2009 Korea Smart Grid Association Supporting smart grid projects, related field research and manpower training 2009 Korea Invention Promotion Association Securing information on patents home and abroad 2009 KCCSA (Korea Carbon Capture and Storage Association) Securing cooperative systems and leading CCS industry 2011 Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation Winning the 2nd abroad nuclear plant contract and supporting nuclear plant export 2011 Domestic Korea Electric Engineers Association Designing facilities and supporting employees to acquire certificates 2012 Future Energy Forum Collecting information on energy sector and networking 2013 Korean Electrical Manufacturers Association Strengthening cooperation with partners in the power equipment and material industry 2013 Korea Valuation Association Nurturing patent experts 2013 Participating in climate policy-related legislative discussions, policy seminars, and field National Assembly Forum of Climate Change 2013 studies Korea Wind Energy Association Networking with public opinion leaders in the new and renewable sector 2014 KRX Emissions Trading Market Emission Trading 2015 Korea Enterprises Federation Responding to labor laws and managing trends in the labor sector 2016 Jeonnam Enterprises Federation Managing regional labor community trends and advice on labor-management relations 2016 Networking among industries, universities and institutes and cooperating to invite Energy Valley Forum 2016 companies Acquiring information such as the latest quality management techniques and attending Korean Foundation for Quality 2016 related training and seminars Power Forum Participating in power forums and networking 2017 Korean Society of Public Enterprise Suggesting policy directions for public companies’ research activities 2017 Korean Society of Safety Increasing exchanges with opinion leaders in the field of safety 2017 Hanbit Energy Policy Forum Expanding amicable atmosphere for the establishment of the Energy Valley 2017 Ethical Management SM Forum Expanding ethical management and leading ethical corporate culture 2018 Institute for Social Responsibility of Public Sector Institutions Acquiring CSR-related information and taking proper actions 2018 Korea Blockchain Industry Promotion Association Exchanging information on the overall blockchain industry 2018 Center for Creative Economy and Innovation Participation in startup promotion policy 2018 Energy Transition Forum Participating in policy seminars, debates and academic presentations 2019 Operating Committee of the Emissions Trading Market Council Participating in government policy meetings, market research, joint business development 2019 Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering And Science Participating in general academic conferences 2019 118 Sustainability Report 2020 Status of Memberships in Associations and International Entities Classification Academic Societies/Associations Purpose of Joining Date WEC (World Energy Council) Strengthening international cooperation and sharing expertise and technologies 1969 AESIEAP (Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East Promoting cooperation between electric power companies and experts of Asia and the 1998 Asia and Western Pacific) Western Pacific EEI (Edison Electric Institute) Exchanging information and technology in the U.S. market 2004 Exchanging information with overseas power corporations and contributing to the CIRED (International Conference on Electricity Distribution) 2006 technology development in Korea CIGRE (International Council on Large Electric Systems) Exchanging technological expertise among power system professionals around the world 2009 International Exchanging information and making cooperation with organizations related with nuclear WNA (World Nuclear Export Company Group) 2011 power around the world Nuclear Indusrty Association Constructing a network with and collecting information from the UK nuclear industry 2014 Establishing connections and a cooperation system with the International Business IFIA (International Federation of Inventors’ Associations) 2015 Association regarding R&D and new technology IEEJ (Institute of Energy Economics, Japan) Collecting information on power industry policies 2016 GEIDCO (Global Energy Interconnection Development and Exchanging information and establishing cooperation on global power system connections 2017 Cooperation Organization) * No political donations were made in accordance with Article 31 of the Political Fund Act. Major Awards (Since 2017) Awards Organization Date The 29th Korea Labor-Management Cooperation Award (first time for first-tier public corporation) Korea Employers Federation 2017. 2 BCM (Business Continuity Management) ISO22031 International Certification International Organization for Standardization 2017. 3 IJ Global Award 2016 MENA Deal of the Year in Renewable and Conversion Categories IJ Global 2017. 3 2017 Corporate Management Award Korean Corporation Management Association 2017. 4 Asia-Oceania Index Award-Platinum U.S. EEI (The Edison Electric Institute) 2017. 4 2017 INPEX (Invention and New Product Exposition) Award INPEX 2017. 6 2017 International Convention on Quality Control Circles Gold Award (four consecutive years) ICQCC 2017. 11 The 43rd National Quality Management Competition Public Sector Presidential Medal Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2017. 11 2017 Top 100 Great Places to Work in Public Sector ‘Trust Management Award’ GPTW Institute 2017. 11 The 12th Customer Satisfaction Management Award in Public Sector The Korea Economic Daily 2018. 1 2018 Malaysia International Invention Exhibition Winning 2 Categories including Gold Award ITEX 2018. 5 2018 Job Creation of the Year Award The Josun Ilbo 2018. 12 International Smart Grid Action Network Award of Excellence ISGAN, GSGF 2019. 5 2019 Silicon Valley International Invention Exhibition Gold Award IFIA 2019. 6 UK CDP Carbon Management Energy & Utility Sector Honors (four consecutive years) CDP Committee of Korea 2020. 4 The 33rd CIO 100 Awards (five consecutive years) U.S. IDG 2020. 5 Contact Information This Report can be retrieved and downloaded from KEPCO’s official website (http://www.kepco.co.kr). For more information, please contact the following. KEPCO Planning & Coordination Team, Corporate Planning Department 55, Jeollyeok-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, 58322, Republic of Korea E-Mail ㅣ biz-sustainability@kepco.co.kr Phone ㅣ +82-61-345-3538 This Report has been printed on FSC™certified eco-friendly paper with soy ink.
