Letter to stakeholders In 2019 BRANDART’s revenue went above € 100m. This are the kind of milestones that should make a company more responsible first of all. It is with great joy that I introduce you to our latest sustainability report for the year 2019. 2019 has been a year of strong growth for BRANDART, a year during which we have tried to share our ideas, our vision and our innovation with our stakeholders. We took part in what I believe are some great initiatives: from the Global Luxury Forum at INSEAD where we had the opportunity to face some of the brightest students in the world with a detailed explanation of our sustainability program to the joining of the New Plastic Economy Global Commitment by the Ellen Macarthur Foundation. We also have been working very hard to expand our knowledge within compliance and R&D. We have organized ourselves to obtain the GRS certification early next year and we have added new product categories to our portfolio with a focus on recycled materials and reusable solutions. The principles of a circular economy are becoming part of our thinking and of our credo and we are focused on bringing new solutions and options to our clients on all product categories: retail packaging, e-commerce packaging and industrial packaging. Last but not least I would like to highlight the effort that BRANDART has put in place for what concerns traceability: today more than ever to be able to track materials and products at every step of the supply chain is of fundamental importance in order to implement responsible and correct choices. On its second release, our 2019 Sustainability Report will tell you in great detail what we are working on for a better tomorrow. Yours sincerely, Maurizio Sedgh, CEO 1 Introduction: Methodological notes BRANDART’s 2019 Sustainability Report represents the main means of communicating to the stakeholders the Company’s commitment along its path towards Sustainability. This report is an update of 2018 report published in October, 2019, and covers the activities and the related impacts of BRANDART S.r.l. in its 3 facilities located in Busto Arsizio (VA) – Italy. The exclusion of any geographical area, Group company, or specific site from the scope of reporting is due to the difficulty of obtaining data of satisfactory quality, or to their immateriality in relation to the Group as a whole, as may be the case for newly-acquired entities or production activities that are not yet fully operational. Omission of data or any significant deviation is appropriately indicated and explained; the calculation methods and units of measurement are indicated where appropriate, and any estimates are mentioned as well. This report will be updated and communicated to stakeholders on an yearly basis. Unless otherwise stated in the text, the reporting period of this Sustainability Report covers information and data for calendar year 2019 (from January 1st 2019 to December 31st 2019). BRANDART confirms hereby there’s no need of any restatement related to 2019 data, activities, material topics, report perimeter and period. BRANDART issued this document in compliance with the GRI Standard, in its current version (1), and follows the core option. For any claims connected to this Sustainability Report, please contact Etienne Carnaghi, BRANDART’s CSR, Sustainability Manager and Deputy General Manager, by phone at +39 347 1438161, or by email at etienne.carnaghi@brandart.com. The complete review of the annual Sustainability Report is made by the entire Executive Committee, including the CEO, where all the executive officers check the contents with a specific focus on the material topics covered by their position in the Organization. The CEO finally approves the Sustainability Report and ensures that all material topics are adequately covered and reported. The Sustainability Report has been subject to external assurance by the independent third party SGS Italia SpA., as stated in the letter below. Note: 1): Disclosure 403 and 303 refer to 2018 version of GRI 2 3 Stakeholders engagement and materiality analysis To define the material topics to be included in this Sustainability Report, BRANDART decided not to implement a new materiality analysis, because the Senior Management wanted to give its stakeholders more time to deepen the contents of the first Sustainability Report and share impressions and expectations. Therefore, this year materiality matrix and material topics are the same as described in the 2018 Sustainability Report. Materiality matrix Crucially material topics As described in 2018 report, the survey results proved Moderately material topics that external stakeholders’ interests regarding surveyed topics are generally aligned with those of internal stakeholders. Areas of greater interest are in general aligned with Senior Management awareness, ongoing and planned activities, and roadmaps for the next years. According to the Materiality Matrix, topics were grouped into: • crucially material: rating above 4 for either internal or external stakeholders • moderately material: rating below or equal to 4 for either internal or external stakeholders The limit set to 4 represents the average value of the average ratings of internal and external stakeholders. 4 Stakeholders engagement and materiality analysis BRANDART involved its internal stakeholders (i.e. the employees and managers) through interviews and questionnaires, by selecting representatives of all main functions and departments. The Senior Management then identified the main external stakeholders to be engaged within the above groups. Some of our main packaging suppliers in Europe and Far East were directly involved in the materiality analysis. Those with a stronger business relationship with BRANDART and that showed a greater attention to sustainability topics were selected. BRANDART asked them to complete its Materiality Questionnaire. In other cases the opinion of external stakeholders was expressed by groups of employees selected as the most suitable to represent them (i.e. corporate functions) since they manage stakeholders relations on a daily basis. Main external stakeholders Groups involved Certification Bodies Packaging suppliers Customers Local community Trade associations General suppliers Logistic suppliers Training institutions Banks and insurance companies ICT suppliers Branch companies Job agencies 5 Material topics Crucially material topics • Investments and development: Invest in research and innovation of materials, products, production processes and services provided • Raw material management: Select raw materials with the aim of reducing the relative environmental impacts, introducing sustainable and eco-friendly materials and solutions • Human capital and employees’ satisfaction: Adopt welfare initiatives, work-life balance, remuneration and professional growth policies. Promote training and involvement. Ensure that working conditions comply with national legal and regulatory provisions and are consistent with applicable international labor standards • Health & Safety: Adopt all the necessary measures for the prevention of accidents and accidents at work, in terms of machinery, spaces, training and involvement • Gender equality: Guarantee and pursue gender equality and the absence of discrimination and unfair economic treatment of employees • Product quality and customer experience: Implement systems and processes for a constant increase in product quality and in the overall experience of purchasing and customer relations • Green economy: Adopt strategies aimed at reducing the environmental impact of products and services • Sustainability management: Manage the company while considering economic, social and environmental issues, with a long-term vision 6 Material topics Moderately material topics • Sustainable procurement: Make use of a supply chain that is sensitive to the issues of corporate social and environmental responsibility, favoring the selection of local suppliers. Integrate sustainability principles into the entire procurement process, selecting and monitoring suppliers through environmental, social and economic criteria • Ethical responsibility: Include the application of the principles and practices of social responsibility within corporate decision-making processes • Waste and chemical management: Promote and encourage solutions for the reduction of corporate waste and the increase in the reuse or recovery of waste materials. Choice and management of chemical substances to minimize their use and the risk of dispersion. • Sustainable logistics: Optimize logistic strategies with reference to support sites, routes, choice of sustainable partners and evaluation of alternative transport systems, in order to reduce the impact in terms of CO2 emissions • Management of conflict minerals: Take all necessary measures to avoid that BRANDART products contain minerals from countries affected by conflicts or widespread human rights violations • Security and business continuity: Invest in the development and use of data protection and business continuity guarantee systems (i.e. disaster recovery or business backup techniques) • Stakeholder involvement: Involve the main internal and external stakeholders in the organization's strategic choices regarding business, development and market positioning • Involvement of the local community: Involve local communities, also through dedicated initiatives, to encourage their participation, development and awareness of sustainability issues • Consumption and CO2 emissions: Implement energy efficiency projects and optimization of corporate consumption, also through the involvement of employees, with the objective of reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions • Social dialogue: Recognize the importance of social dialogue institutions, both at local and international level, and collective bargaining structures, guaranteeing to employees the opportunity of joining them. Consult representative groups of the local community and join associations, to align corporate priorities with public ones Since no topic has been evaluated by stakeholders as not important“, BRANDART mainly focused on crucially material topics in this Sustainability Report, but most of moderately material topics are also mentioned and explained. 7 Table of contents 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 7 Environment 8 GRI Content Index 8 Our Company 1 Our Company 9 Introduction to BRANDART BRANDART is a company specialized in the supply of retail packaging, product packaging and visual display products to leading companies and Luxury Brands in the clothing, accessories, eyewear, watches, jewelry and cosmetic sectors. The core activities of BRANDART are the design and development of creative and highly innovative packaging and display solutions and the management of a worldwide supply chain to deliver high quality standards to its customers. BRANDART is headquartered in Busto Arsizio, in the province of Varese, one of the most industrialized regions of Italy and home of the most advanced industrial and retail companies in the Country. It is thanks to this blend of products and operational excellence that, together with a production of over 90 million packaging pieces per year, BRANDART decided to be part of the environmental and social challenge that is posed to its Industry. Companies have a role to play in transmitting the knowledge and finding the solutions to reduce the impact of certain materials on the environment. Optimizing packaging is the first step that BRANDART is offering to its customers through its sustainable product line. The focus of BRANDART is on packaging redesign, reduction of multimaterial combinations and on the research of new and improved, recycled, biodegradable and compostable materials. 10 Our facilities This Sustainability Report refers to BRANDART IMAGE PACKAGING S.r.l., in short form BRANDART S.r.l. (further on called BRANDART) Blu Holding S.r.l. and includes the following facilities located in Italy: 100% 1. Headquarter in Busto Arsizio, Via A. Costa 19/21 Reporting scope 2. Warehouse in Busto Arsizio, Via 5 Giornate 14 3. R&D Department in Busto Arsizio, Viale Lombardia 48 BRANDART S.r.l. These are to be intended as “operations”, i.e. single locations used by the organization for the production, storage and/or distribution 100% of its goods and services or for administrative purposes. BRANDART Image Packaging S.r.l. 100% 1 32 100% BRANDART USA Corp. 4 5 BRANDART France Guangzhou BRANDART 100% Packaging Design Service Co., Ltd 100% Sacchetti Star Other two sites belong to BRANDART S.r.l. but they are not relevant for the reporting purposes: 100% BRANDART HK Ltd. 4. Commercial office in Milano, Via San Simpliciano 2 100% BRANDART Vietnam 5. Registered office in Milano, Viale Lunigiana 46 11 Our products Shopping bags Rain Covers/ Protection Bags Boxes Hang-tags Adhesive seals/ stickers Dust bags Garment Bags Tote Bags Eyewear Polybags E-commerce Boxes Hangers Logo Plaques Display 12 Our services R&D Stock management/ End to End and Logistics & distribution supply chain control sustainable innovation Manufacturing ICT Governance & Business integration by SAP System 13 BRANDART at a glance • Busto Arsizio, Varese (Italy) • 9 countries worldwide Headquarter Production outsourcing • 1998 • 9.000.000 Year of foundation Average packaging units produced every month • In-house R&D department • 65 Focus on product development Countries reached by BRANDART’s products • Certifications • 21 ISO 9001, ISO 14001, SA8000, FSC®, GOTS, OK compost BRANDART’s logistic hubs Industrial • 167 Employees as of 31/12/2019 14 BRANDART throughout the years Since the beginning of its activity, BRANDART has always been focused on maintaining the highest standards: in 2005 the Company obtained the ISO 9001 certification, followed by the ISO 14001 in 2009, the SA 8000 certification in 2013 and OK COMPOST certification in 2019. 1998 2005 2006 2009 2010 2019 2014 2019 1998 2004 2006 2010 SAP go-live 2018 First Expanded sustainability First Global Logistic Launch of production Opened China Infrastructure business to 2013 ER&D and Report Branch USA clients Procurement released of Packaging SA 8000 platform innovation for Luxury Entered the achieved HUB OK Created accessories 2002 Retail Display Logistic 2015 COMPOST Packaging 2009 platform Global certification Division Entered the business integration Created USA Compact achieved Eyewear ISO 14001 Branch of UN program Packaging 2005 achieved FSC Production Company subscription Circular certification Business partnership Economy ISO 9001 achieved achieved in Albania assessment 13 * 52 61 225 500K 2,000K 3,200K 18,000K Headcount Monthly packaging units produced Note: Above information refer to BRANDART group 15 Our worldwide infrastructure LOGISTIC HUB CORPORATE and SALES Lugano Area, LOGISTIC HUB Manufacturing CORPORATE and London, CORPORATE and SALES SALES Switzerland Guangzhou, LOGISTIC HUB location United Kingdom Shanghai, New York, China LOGISTIC HUB USA China Manchester, LOGISTIC HUB United Kingdom Belluno area, Italy LOGISTIC HUB LOGISTIC HUB2) CORPORATE and SALES Montebelluna, LOGISTIC HUB Paris, Italy New Jersey, France LOGISTIC HUB/ USA CORPORATE and SALES Hong Kong, China LOGISTIC HUB Mexico City, LOGISTIC HUB LOGISTIC HUB Mexico Yangon, Alicante, LOGISTIC HUB Spain Myanmar Los Angeles, HQ LOGISTIC HUB USA LOGISTIC HUB LOGISTIC HUB Sydney, Busto Arsizio Varese, Dubai, Italy United Australia Arab LOGISTIC HUB Emirates SHOWROOM LOGISTIC HUB Milano, BRANCH OFFICE Tamil Italy Nadu, India With its production organized in 9 regions worldwide and 21 logistic hubs, BRANDART aims at offering to its customers the shortest available logistic routes from production to delivery. 16 16 Our values and principles BRANDART wants to be a reliable and innovative partner for the development of packaging and display products, integrating creative and sustainable solutions with manufacturing feasibility. In order to guarantee the satisfaction of customers and stakeholders’ demands and expectations, and to achieve continuous improvement, Company processes are regulated by the Governance Model, set according to the Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001, and the Integrated Management System, which complies to the UNI EN ISO 9001, UNI EN ISO 14001, SA 8000 voluntary standards, the requirements of GOTS, FSC® and OK COMPOST standards, all applicable national and international standards rules and regulations, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO (International Labour Office) conventions, the guiding principles of the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development), and the principles of the UN Global Compact. We believe that ethics, integrity, quality of our products, transparency and commitment are the foundations on which to build the success of our company. BRANDART’s Integrated Management System is based on the following key principles: • Assess and analyze processes, setting goals and measurable targets to pursue continuous improvement • Identify and fulfil all compliance obligations • Ensure the involvement, expertise and awareness of employees, and safeguarding the Company know-how • Reduce risks and strengthen opportunities, regarding customer and stakeholders satisfaction, direct and indirect environmental impacts Occupational Health and Safety and Corporate Responsibility • Certification by Third Parties of Company’s voluntary commitments 17 Our commitment to sustainability 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 18 Our associations and industrial memberships AICE United Nations Global Compact New Plastics Economy – Global Commitment Joined in 2018 Joined in 2019 The New Plastics Economy Global Commitment unites Aice represents Italian companies The United Nations Global Compact businesses, governments, and other organisations that are committed predominantly is a non-binding United Nations pact behind a common vision and targets to address plastic to commercial activities abroad: to encourage businesses worldwide waste and pollution at its source. trading, export, import, to adopt sustainable and socially countertrade, buying-offices, export responsible policies, and to report Signatories include companies representing 20% of all management, small and medium on their implementation. plastic packaging produced globally, as well as enterprises, etc., as well as the governments, NGOs, universities, industry associations, services related to such activities. It is a principle-based framework for investors, and other organisations. businesses, stating ten principles in Membership is open to all the areas of human rights, labor, the The Global Commitment is led by the Ellen MacArthur companies resident in Italy and environment and anti-corruption. Foundation, in collaboration with the UN Environment interested in international trade Programme. The Ellen MacArthur Foundation leads the activities, or that provide assistance BRANDART is committed to engagement with the private sector (the business to such companies in the promotion integrate these 10 principles into its signatories and endorsers), and UNEP leads the of import/export activities. businesses. engagement with the governments. 19 Our certifications ISO 9001 ISO 14001 SA 8000 Since 2005 Since 2009 Since 2013 ISO 9001 certification verifies BRANDART’s ISO 14001 certification verifies BRANDART’s SA 8000 certification verifies BRANDART’s capacity to supply consistently reliable products tangible efforts to minimize the environmental effective management and measures related and services that meet clients’ and stakeholders impact of its processes, products and services, performances of business aspects related to requirements, providing evidence of its constant defining concrete objectives and measuring corporate social responsibility: respect of human commitment to improvement. related performances. and workers rights, safety and health workplace. Forest Stewardship Council Global Organic Textile Standard OK compost Industrial Since 2010 Since 2017 Since 2019 FSC® certification verifies that the raw materials GOTS certification verifies that the GOTS certified OK compost Industrial certification ensures (wood or paper / cellulose) used to make FSC textile products are made of natural organic packaging or products bearing the mark are certified products are sourced responsibly, from fibers, produced in accordance with organic biodegradable in an industrial composting plant recycled sources or forests managed according to farming criteria and processed in accordance and comply with the requirements of the strict environmental, social and economic with stringent environmental and social criteria, European packaging directive (94/62 / EC). The standards, and ensures the traceability of derived from the sourcing of raw materials in all stages reference for the certification program is the products. of processing and distribution. harmonized standard EN 13432:2000. All the scope certificates have been extended to include the R&D department of BRANDART, which was opened in 2018. Note: FSC®, GOTS and OK COMPOST products are available upon request. 20 Our international awards and assessments Workplace Conditions Assessment EcoVadis Sustainability rating Circular Economy Maturity Assessment Since 2016 Since 2018 In 2019 (1) BRANDART received from SGS Italia S.p.A. an BRANDART participated for the independent assessment on the maturity of the second consecutive year to the state of implementation of the circular economy The Workplace Conditions EcoVadis Client’s sustainability within the company, in accordance with the 6 Assessment (WCA) program initiative. principles (System Thinking, Stewardship, Value provides a powerful, costDue to the high score we obtained in Optimization, Innovation, Collaboration, effective solution for companies the assessment, our Company has Transparency) of the guideline BS8001: 2017 for and facilities seeking to improve been awarded a Silver EcoVadis circularity performance assessment. workplace conditions efficiently Medal. This result places us among and in accordance with widely the top 25 percent of companies SGS confirmed that the circular economy accepted industry standards assessed by EcoVadis. implementation status within BRANDART is in and best practices. line with the principles indicated in the guideline (1) The assessment was performed in BS8001: 2017, with a final maturity rating BRANDART received the award 2019, results were received in based on the criteria of Annex A which has for the fourth consecutive year. January, 2020. reached the IMPROVING level. 21 United Nations SDG’s: our contribution In 2015, the United Nations published the Sustainable Development Goals consisting of 17 goals with 169 targets regarding social, environmental and economical aspects. They address states, civil society and the private sector. BRANDART is responding to this call for increased responsibility by carrying out projects and introducing measures that have an influence on mainly four goals identified by Senior Management. 22 United Nations SDG’s: our actions Implementation steps Our goals PARTNERS • We take care of our workers training, competence and well being • We aim at obtaining better working conditions for • We ensure a healthy and safe working environment workers within our supply chain through improved due • We assure economic growth to all our partners and diligence processes of suppliers every year supply chain INNOVATION • Through continuous market research and • We invest in innovative technologies for communication with our business partners, we aim at infrastructures, services and data management offering to our customers state-of-the-art technologies both in terms of production and services PRODUCTS • We invest in products excellence • By researching market trends and attending • We optimize the use of raw materials and reduce conferences worldwide we aim at offering innovative unnecessary waste materials and packaging solutions to our customers, • We produce reusable or recyclable products with whom we share our advanced internal research COMMITTMENT • We involve in our sustainability project all our • In the next years, we aim at implementing a process of partners in every step of the supply chain products Circular Economy assessment to evaluate the • We share our sustainability goals with internal and sustainability performance of our products throughout external stakeholders the whole supply chain 23 United Nations SDG’s: correspondence with our material topics Investments and development * Raw material management * Human capital and employees’ satisfaction * * Health & Safety * Gender equality * Product quality and customer experience * * Green economy * * Sustainability management * * * * Sustainable procurement * * Ethical responsibility * * * Waste and chemical management * Sustainable logistics * Management of conflict minerals * Security and business continuity * Stakeholder involvement * Involvement of the local community * Consumption and CO2 emissions * Social dialogue * 24 Governance 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 25 Our economic and financial performances The financial statements of BRANDART for the year ended 31/12/2019 show a profit of € 4,285,366 (€ 3,527,899 in 2018). The net profit result achieved can be considered, even for this year, more than satisfying, especially given the particular economic moment in which BRANDART operates. During the year, no damage was caused to the environment for which the Company was found guilty and no fines or penalties were imposed for offenses or environmental damage. From the Company’s solid balance sheet it is possible to highlight its ability to maintain financial balance in the medium and long term. As above-mentioned, it can be assumed that the current year expresses a positive result for BRANDART and its employees. Net Sales Net sales 2019 (1) VS Net Sales 2018 €106.4m +27.9% Financial performance Direct economic value generated Salaries distributed Supply costs Taxes paid € 110.4m € 11.0m € 66.9m € 1.7m Donations Economic value distributed (2) Net income Equity € 12k € 104.5m € 4.3m € 16.0m Financial grants Grants for R&D € 297.1k Notes: (1): Including other income; (2) including costs for: materials, services, rental and salaries. 26 Our Code of ethics BRANDART's policy has always been to pursue business activities with honesty and integrity. The first Code of Ethics was adopted by the Company in 2013 and the last update was made in 2017. This document, approved by the Company Administrative Body, sets out the ethical values that are promoted by BRANDART and that managers, employees and those acting on the Company’s behalf are expected to support and comply with. The Code of Ethics is one of the pillars of BRANDART’s Governance Model, adopted pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/01. The Governance Model, starting from the crime-risks mapping throughout all the company areas and processes, has acknowledged the Code itself and provided a set of additional written protocols ruling the correct behaviors in the framework of the applicable law requirements. Our ethical principles 1 Compliance with the law and regulations in force in all the 4 Respect for competition, as an indispensable tool for the countries in which BRANDART operates development of the economic system 2 5 Legitimacy, loyalty, fairness, transparency Confidentiality 3 6 Respect for the environment and awareness of environmental Respect for the value of the person and human resources protection Conflict minerals BRANDART supports the fight against violence, human rights violations and environmental degradation in the extraction and marketing of minerals from the geographical areas defined as Conflict Regions”. We require our suppliers to make sure the products they sell only contain Conflict Free materials and components. 27 Fair business and anti-corruption Anti-corruption and fair business practices are a central topic of BRANDART’s Code of Ethics and Governance Model. To this regard BRANDART is also committed to fully comply with all national and international anti-corruption laws. The Governance Model was adopted in 2015 and radically updated in 2017 and 2019 following a renewed risk assessment, performed on company processes and sensitive areas. The Model, with specific reference to corruptive offenses envisages both general and specific monitoring processes. Inherent risks specifically related to corruption identified through the risk assessment 1 Recognition of rewards, bonus, free services 6 Incitement to corruption of public officers 2 Disposal of operating assets at unfair prices 7 Passive or brokers invoicing to gain benefit from public offices 3 Career facilitation to public-sector workers 8 Customs corruption 4 Recruiting employees close to public sector 9 Any corruption form of inspection authorities 5 Creation of slush funds for procurement overbilling or inexistent 10 Private corruption with customers, consultants, accountants, purchases suppliers, subsidiaries The Company's Supervisory Body (ODV), a fundamental pillar for the supervision and prevention of the 231 predicate offenses, is made up of qualified and certified professionals, and carries out its role with effectiveness and continuity. Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures The ODV, as a part of the Governance Model, set 10 operational protocols which are available to all employees on the company server and that are subject to training for all employees. A specific classroom training project was started in 2018, and continued in 2019 for new hires. 87% of the total employees received the training, priority was given to key functions. The training will be completed in 2020. 28 Ethical awareness and participation BRANDART encourages its employees to make comments, recommendations, reports or complaints concerning the workplace and/or nonconformances to the Code of Ethics and the SA8000 Standard by using the following channels: • sending an e-mail to segnalazioniSA8000@BRANDART.com • sending an e-mail to SGS certification body (sa8000@sgs.com) • sending an e-mail to the SAAS accreditation body in New York (USA) (saas@saasaccreditation.org) • inserting anonymous paper messages in the appropriate collection boxes located at the company premises The first three channels are available also to other interested parties and are reported on the Company’s website. Reported items received through internal channels are managed by BRANDART's Social Performance Team (SPT), according to the requirements of the SA8000 standard. The key principle of this reporting system is to maintain the freedom to express oneself anonymously and to guarantee the protection of anonymity. The Code of Ethics, comprehensive of the Governance Model protocols, has been communicated to all members of the governance body and to all employees, and everyone of them received proper training. The Code is also regularly communicated to all suppliers working on behalf of BRANDART. The training and promotion of the Code of Ethics, the Governance Model and Integrated Management System at all levels within the Company, the institution of an independent Supervisory Body in charge of surveillance, the whistleblowing procedure, the inclusion of provisions in the contractual documentation with suppliers, and the activity of internal and Third Parties auditing are the means used by BRANDART to develop its ethical values among stakeholders and all along its supply chain. 29 Products and innovation 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 30 Our products Production breakdown by product category New products and technologies 5% In the last two years BRANDART developed and marketed different new products 16% and technologies. Some of the most relevant projects the Company worked on are: 46% • Introduction of polybags 100% made from PCW (Pre & Post Consumer Waste) recycled plastic Total production • Introduction of products 100% made from PCW (Post Consumer Waste) recycled 117.1m paper, including paper handles Units (1) • Increased focus on certified materials in order to allow a stronger monitoring of the supply chain (FSC, GRS, GOTS) 33% Responsibly sourced products sold in 2019 Cut & Sew Optical • 15% of sold Cut & Sew products are made of BCI (Better Cotton Initiative) cotton, Paper Display which is a consistent increase compared to last year • 9% of sold Cut & Sew goods are made of organic cotton (1) An increase of 27% compared to last year, with • 41% of sold Paper goods are made of FSC® certified paper, which is almost equal a similar distribution among product categories. to last year BRANDART outsources all production processes, except from a small percentage of prototypes manufactured in-house. Raw materials are generally directly purchased by BRANDART suppliers. For the productions assigned to contract working suppliers and for some marketed products BRANDART directly purchases raw materials, which are mainly fabrics and paper as reported in the next pages. An internal technical team dedicated to sustainability have been set, with the task of monitoring and developing the sustainability business line of BRANDART throughout the different functions of the Company, with a specific focus on products sustainability. 31 Our materials Purchasing breakdown by product category (1) Total weight of categories (in tons) Input materials used (in tons) (3) 33% 38% 3% Accessories 2% Paper 3,957 2% 6% Paper Cotton 1,979 163.1m Cut & Sew Polyester 1,046 9,100 14% purchasing 19% Other plastic/synthetic materials 272 Optical tons units Wood 61 Raw materials 23% Metal 36 Display 20% 21% 19% Other natural materials 28 Others 4 (1) In this chart, Paper, Cut & Sew, Optical and Display categories refer Unavailable data (2) 1,712 to marketed products, while Raw materials and Accessories refer to items purchased to be used for contract-work-manufactured (3) Input material quantities refer to the whole product categories as described in the left graphs: halfproducts. While purchasing volumes increased compared to last year, processed and contract-work-manufactured products are excluded since input materials are already the distribution among categories is the same. considered in Raw materials and Accessories categories. We analysed in detail all the products we purchased during 2019, which includes both raw materials and accessories used for the contract working manufacturing process and marketed products, collecting technical characteristics, weights and material composition. For the Paper, Cut & Sew and Accessories categories we obtained a quite detailed overview of the items compositions and we could calculate the weights of input materials used with a high degree of accuracy. For Accessories, due to the huge amount of items, we applied some simplifications, estimating the weights of input materials by considering average compositions. Since the total weight of these category is very limited, these uncertainties do not have a major impact. Optical and Display categories are the most complex ones due to the heterogeneity of items, models and compositions, therefore the degree of uncertainty is high. Since we could not verify all the compositions these year, we preferred to remove the uncertain products composition from the total weight calculation, assigning these as “Unavailable data”(2). We can anyway say that main involved materials are plastic, polyester and other synthetic materials, cardboard and wood. 32 Our materials Fabrics purchased as raw materials Paper purchased as raw material (3) Paper in marketed products (4) 14% 65% FSC certified paper 6% Natural fibers (1) 22% Conventional paper Synthetic fibers (2) 1,313 1,118 Conventional cotton 480 3,477 tons tons GOTS cotton tons tons BCI cotton 78% 51% 49% 86% 29% (1) 99% (3) It refers to Raw materials category in the previous page. (4) It refers to mainly to of purchased natural fibers is cotton, others are wool, linen, viscose, leather and silk. (2) Among synthetic fibers, the main one is polyester. Paper category in the previous page: 14% of the total quantity is referred to Optical, Display and Accessories categories, for which there are some uncertainties Fabrics in marketed products (5) in the calculations as explained in the previous page. 47% 45% Natural fibers (1) Synthetic fibers (2) The type of material utilized is specified by our customers or 1,742 808 Conventional cotton suggested by BRANDART to guarantee the best result. tons tons GOTS cotton Due to an increasing sensitivity to the issues of safeguarding of 55% BCI cotton natural resources, the request of responsibly sourced cotton and 53% certified paper is increased, the last both for main products and (5) It refers to Cut & Sew category in the previous page: Optical and Display categories their packaging. are not included do to high uncertainties and unavailable data. Ongoing projects In 2019 a project to review all the packaging used for shipments is started to evaluate any possible improvement to make it more sustainable. For Italian shipments, we are aiming to use only FSC® certified or recycled cardboard boxes, for foreign shipments we are trying to involve our main partners to define common strategies. Our Sustainability team also issued in 2019 the internal guidelines to make our products more respectful to the environment, considering raw materials choice, composition, conscious design, and end-of-life preferred options. 33 Customer Health & Safety The quality and safety of marketed products, as well as the consequent protection of customer’s health & safety, constitute the central focus of BRANDART’s regulatory management. To this purpose, BRANDART implements stringent controls on its entire production chain. In order to obtain a safe finished product, we refer to accredited third-party laboratories for carrying out tests and controls on the chemical composition and physical-mechanical characteristics of materials, which are indispensable to ensure high technical performances. This close monitoring allows BRANDART to be constantly in line with the applicable European and international legislation regarding dangerous or potentially dangerous chemical substances, including, for example, the European REACH regulation, the Chinese GB standards, and the American Proposition 65. For each production batch, BRANDART carries out conformity tests on fabrics and components and specific tests on any prints to ascertain the absence of phthalates. Also, the absence of aromatic amines derived from azo dyes is verified and likewise the presence of free and hydrolyzed formaldehyde is excluded. BRANDART requires tests of color fastness to water or rubbing as well as odor tests and verification of the absence of heavy metals. BRANDART’s packaging suppliers are bound to follow the indications of its Restricted Substances List (RSL), which defines the most restrictive parameter of use of certain substances and which is constantly updated in line with international standards, legislative developments and customers’ requirements. In order to archive a better result in the closest future, BRANDART has undertaken a monitoring chemical process according to ZDHC protocol. The intent of the project is to provide an harmonized approach to managing chemicals within our textile supply chain: From the formulator to the Re-brander, everyone has a careful and specific responsibility in placing the product on the market: it’s important, for BRANDART, to trace each step and verify its compliance. 34 Our people 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 35 Company organisation Chief Executive 231 Model ODV As of today the Company is still 100% Officer (CEO) Privacy and owned by its CEO, Mr. Maurizio Sedgh. Data Protection The CEO, together with Senior Social Performance General Team (SPT) Management Health, Safety Management, is the highest & Environment governance body of BRANDART. Sustainability Team Accounting & The governance body is responsible for Finance decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics, Sales & supported by Accounting & Finance Marketing Manager, Health, Safety & Environment Manager, CSR & Sustainability Manager and the committees of Social Marketing & Human Business & Performance Team (SPT) and Communication Resources Operations Reporting & Sustainability Team. Control Sales Strategy ICT & Digital Transformation CSR, Quality Sales Assurance & Operations & Planning, Sustainability Customer Care Purchasing & FE Production Logistics Product Development Productions Europe/Italy Quality Control 36 Workforce details and conditions of employment I All BRANDART employees, with their experience and skillset, represent the know-how of the Company and contribute to create value for the Company itself and for all stakeholders. Talents are sought after and followed in a growth path within the Company. Overview Employees breakdown by gender Employees breakdown by employment type Employees Evolution 2017 – 2019 2019 62% 38% 2019 93% 7% Total employees 167 (1) 151 2018 62% 38% 2018 93% 7% 135 Female Full time Male Part time Employees breakdown by function Employees breakdown by employment contract 2017 2018 2019 (1) This number includes 2 employees with 2019 74% 11% 8% 2019 91% 4%4% foreign contract. Average year employees (2) 2018 74% 11% 9% 2018 91% 3%5% 159 142 131 White collar Manager Outsourced Permanent Apprentice Internship Blue collar Senior Executive Internship Temporary Temp. Agencies BRANDART employees are mostly hired from local municipalities. Senior executives are the 2017 2018 2019 result of years of collaboration and reciprocal trust between the Company and its (1) Employees community: they all reside in the Provinces of Varese, Como, Monza e Brianza and Milano. on 1st of January plus employees on 31st of December, divided by 2. 37 Workforce details and conditions of employment II Top Management, based on the total number of hours worked, work peaks and objectives assigned to the function, evaluates the correct sizing of its function and therefore the possible need for new resources. The research also stems from the continuous evaluation of the organizational structure, to respect the needs of the business and the market. Employees turnover by gender and by age group (1) Entered employees Exited employees % Turnover To search for personnel, BRANDART Total turnover in 2018 was 37% activates the following channels: 40% publication of announcements via a 42% 41% dedicated portal or other sites, databases, 41 41 CVs filed in the company, labor contracted companies, companies for the personnel 26 24 24 24 selection, and temporary working Agencies. An interview is held for all 15 15 13 13 9 7 candidates both with Human Resources 4 4 office and Function Manager. FEMALE MALE TOTAL <30 30-50 >50 Total All employees are covered by the National Hired employees breakdown by gender Hired employees breakdown by age group (2) Textile Collective Agreement, apart from senior executives which are covered by 2019 26 15 2019 13 24 4 National Industrial Collective Agreement. 2018 21 13 2018 10 21 3 Female Male <30 30 50 >50 Notes: (1): Temporary workers are excluded from the calculation of turnover. (2) BRANDART does not employ young workers (i.e. aged less than 18 years old). 38 Workforce details and conditions of employment III The wage provided by BRANDART to its employees is higher than the Training priority was given to the operational needs emerging minimum set by the industry, both considering employment levels and from periodic meetings with Top Management. gender. Also specific training for sustainability was introduced. Ratio of new employees’ wage to Wage ratio of women to men (1) minimum set by industry in 2019 (1) Training of employees (in hours) Level 8 126% Level 8 2019 544 176 153 99 43 1,015 (2) Level 7 94% Level 7 Level 6 95% 2018 776 96 173 345 1,416 (3) Level 6 Level 5 86% Female Level 5 Sustainability (4) Professional growth Male Level 4 93% Apprentice training SA8000 and human rights Level 4 94% Company certifications Others Level 3 Level 3 Female 2019 2018 50% 100% 150% 200% 250% 2019 50% 50% Male (1) Ratios are based on yearly average wages. 2018 62% 38% BRANDART offers to its employees Christmas and Easter gift boxes prepared by suppliers committed in ethical projects. 2019 77% 10% 8% In the month of July 2019, as a reward to employees for their commitment and dedication in achieving corporate goals, a set of 2018 80% 11% 4% tickets for personal and family purchases has been distributed to all employees, excluding Senior and Top Managers and those with Internships White collar Blue collar variable remuneration. Manager Senior executive Notes: (2The total amount of training hours is 1,115, which includes 100 hours of training for HSE Manager about the role of Prevention and Protection Service Manager (RSPP), which is reported on page 41. (3): Training in 2018 included financed training on English language and data sheets software, which was not repeated in 2019, while planned again for 2020. (4): In 2019 specific training related to sustainability was carried out both externally for some employees, and both internally for the Sales team, through specific meetings and newsletters. 39 Occupational Health & Safety Occupational health services BRANDART ensures the health and safety of its employees and of these workers who are not direct employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by BRANDART, by applying all the requirements of Italian law (D. Lgs. 81/2008), where all its operations are set: 1 Risk evaluation and specific risk assessments 5 Updated certifications of conformity for all Company plants 2 Safe management of chemicals 6 Emergency plan and fire drills 3 Workers training 7 Occupational health check 4 Proper maintenance of machineries and working devices 8 Definition of H&S responsibilities within and outside the Company The same attention is paid to protect the workers of subcontractors (i.e. contract working suppliers), which are strictly monitored and audited for legal compliance at production sites. The function of Responsible for the Prevention and Protection Services is outsourced. • The Workers’ Safety Representative (RSL) is in charge since many years, and is well known and trusted by all the workers. Work related injuries During 2019 there were no employees fatalities or high-consequence work-related injuries. 5 work-related injuries occurred which caused 432 hours of absence (in 2018 2 injuries caused 121 hours of absence). Two of them happened outside the office premises, during commute. Frequency index (number of injuries * 1.000.000/ Company worked hours) = 18 (in 2018 it was 8) Gravity index (lost days for injuries * 1.000 / Company worked hours) = 0.194 (in 2018 it was 0.062) No work-related injuries or fatalities occurred to external workers while working within BRANDART premises. 40 Occupational Health & Safety Workers training on occupational health and safety As foreseen by national law, BRANDART employees attended mandatory training on occupational health and safety. 2019 68 68 84 90 100 418 Hours 2019 59% 30% 9% 2019 60% 40% 2018 80 110 102 131 423 Hours 2018 80% 13% 2018 50% 50% General training Fire-fighting and first aid Blue collar Manager Female Specific training Workers Safety Representative White collar Senior Executive Male Update specific training Health and Safety Manager Promotion of workers’ health and risk assessment • Besides the occupational health check required by law, BRANDART provides to all its employees SANIMODA, the supplementary health care fund for workers in the fashion industry. The objective of the fund is to support the needs and requirements of workers, providing supplementary healthcare services to those of the National Health System (SSN). The registration of workers at SANIMODA is mandatory and automatic, and requires a monthly contribution which is paid by the Company. • A counseling and psychological help desk is available to employees, both in the company premises and at an external professional office with guaranteed preservation of privacy. • A work-related stress assessment was repeated by BRANDART in 2019, according to the INAIL (National Institute for Insurance against Accidents at Work) methodology. Results encouraged the Senior Management to set up a dedicate team to monitor the situation and propose strategies to improve the well-being of employees. 41 Our partners 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 42 Our business partners – I Suppliers breakdown by category Production supply chain BRANDART's business model is based on the outsourcing of all 2019 71% 19% 10% Total number: 584 production activities with the aim of ensuring competitive prices, high quality products and high standing services at 2018 75% 6% 9% 10% Total number: 588 every stage of the value chain. Packaging Technical services (1) Logistic Others (2) For most of its production, BRANDART directly purchases (1) Technical services category includes this year consultancy, legal and administrative finished products from its manufacturing partners. supports, equipment, plants, environment, ICT, security, surveillance suppliers, certification In the other cases, and especially for Italian and European bodies, laboratories, regulatory bodies, architects, external collaborators, and other minor productions, finished products are produced by contract work, suppliers. (2) Others category was absorbed into Technical services category in 2019. i.e. raw materials and accessories are purchased by BRANDART and delivered to the manufacturers sites where they are Packaging suppliers continue to be BRANDART’s main business processed to produce semi-finished and/or finished products. partners. They are of strategic importance since they can be Through its dedicated teams that oversee production sites, perceived by customers as BRANDART’s direct production facilities. BRANDART applies a strict control over all the outsourced This report will therefore focus on this category of suppliers. manufacturing processes, to guarantee the quality of the products and the compliance with legal and customer Packaging suppliers used for productions (2) requirements. 2019 Packaging suppliers located in Northern Italy, which covers 86 76 53 36 29 29 20 21 Total number: 350 59% 27% of purchasing turnover, almost the same as last year. 2018 95 82 40 42 27 28 16 35 Total number: 365 Percentage of contract working suppliers located in the Accessories Paper Optical provinces bordering the company headquarter (Varese, Raw materials Cut & Sew Others 79% Como and Milano) on the total number of contract Contract work Display working suppliers, which is a slight decrease compared to last year, due to the fact that part of the business has (2) Suppliers for whom at least a production order was placed by Brandart during 2019 moved to other European Countries. 43 Our business partners – II Sharing of sustainability principles BRANDART believes that ethics, integrity, transparency and commitment are the basis and the foundation for a successful business, both as a self commitment and through the cooperation with business partners. All the main packaging suppliers selected by BRANDART, at the earliest stage of the new relationship, are requested to subscribe BRANDART’s Code of Conduct which focuses on the aspects related to human rights, working conditions, health and safety, environment safeguard, confidentiality, fair and ethic business, innovation and research, and abides by the same principles to which BRANDART adheres in its ethical code. We require strict compliance with this standard from all our suppliers, their factories, subcontractors, as well as their own suppliers. Our suppliers are selected among the most experienced producers worldwide and they preferably already hold company or product certifications related to social and environmental sustainability. In September 2019 we arranged a CSR management training to our main Far East suppliers, with the technical support of a Third Party, with the purpose to improve the qualification of personnel at factories dedicated to the management of social compliance related issues, to share the good practices among suppliers, and to help suppliers to see the gap among them for further improvement. Basing on the training contents, a Compliance Policy was set, which is intended for suppliers and includes best social and environmental practices. Qualification of suppliers As part of the sourcing procedure, in order to make sure suppliers meet or are willing and capable to meet BRANDART requirements, manufacturing sites are subject to BRANDART social and environmental compliance audits, according to a risk-based approach. The audits are based on BRANDART’s Code of Conduct, the respect of local legislation and international regulations related to Health and Safety, and standards such as SA8000 and ISO 14001. Some of the audits are specific for FSC® and GOTS requirements. Audits are carried out by BRANDART’s CSR Team, which includes qualified Lead Auditors and works in close contact with Development and Purchasing departments. Third parties are involved in case of needed support. The results of the suppliers qualification process are documented in the Suppliers Database, which includes supporting information and statistics, and is shared to all involved functions and colleagues working in subsidiaries branches. Audit outcomes contribute to the definition of the qualification status of suppliers: if critical issues are detected and no commitment to solve them is shown, the qualification process does not proceed. 44 Our business partners – New packaging suppliers During 2019 BRANDART utilized 86 new packaging suppliers, with the same amount and very similar breakdown for countries as last year. Italia Accessories New packaging suppliers holding certifications 54 Raw materials Contract work New suppliers holding Far East 26 21% environmental certifications (ISO Paper 14001, FSC®, GOTS) Europa Cut & Sew 5 Display Optical New suppliers holding social USA 1 Others 9% certifications (SA8000, OHSAS 18001, ISO 45001, BSCI) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 New packaging suppliers by geography In Italy and Europe, auditing priority is given to those suppliers carrying a higher risk of non-compliance in terms of location, nationality of their workforce, structure of the company, type of activity, environmental impacts and BRANDART’s exposure to suppliers in terms of total purchases. All the contract working suppliers carrying out the textile phases of cutting, printing and sewing received a social and environmental audit. Contract working is the most critical category of suppliers for Brandart since production orders can have a great impact on the supplier’s businesses in terms of commissions. The other new suppliers in the same regions did not receive an audit because: • almost 34% of them were already supplying our customers or were holding a social and/or environmental certification, and therefore didn’t require further auditing processes; • remaining suppliers were evaluated as low-risk, or audits were postponed to 2020. In Far East region (India excluded) 80% of new suppliers received a social and environmental audit from BRANDART’s CSR Team. The others did not require it due to the holding of certifications or very low purchasing volumes in the year. All supplier located in India are regularly audited for social and environmental compliance by Third Parties. New suppliers based in the USA were already supplying our customers and therefore didn’t require further auditing processes. 45 Our business partners – Active packaging suppliers (1) During 2019 BRANDART utilized 350 packaging suppliers, with the same amount and very similar breakdown for countries as last year. Accessories Italia 247 Raw materials Contract work Far East 80 Paper Cut & Sew Europa 20 Display Optical America 3 Others 0 50 100 150 200 250 Once qualified, suppliers are monitored by periodical surveys and follow-up audits, aiming to support and assist them to accomplish all BRANDART’s requirements, improve their performances and guide them to reach and maintain a high standard of compliance. Our guidance allowed manufacturers to be approved by leading companies in the luxury industry. Most of the CSR Team efforts are dedicated to free consultancy services to suppliers in order to guarantee best practices to final customers. Assessment of active packaging suppliers Italy and Europe Far East Out of BRANDART’s active packaging suppliers, 35 suppliers located in Italy and Europe and 51 suppliers located in Far East region were assessed for social and environmental impacts in 2019 through on-site audits. Priority was 35 51 assigned to auditing these suppliers by considering the potential social and environmental negative impacts of production sites, based on specific activities, location, structure and management issues. Before any assessment, auditors shared with suppliers the audit plan with a list of audit requirements. (1) Active suppliers are those for whom at least a production order was placed by BRANDART during 2019. 46 Our business partners – Active packaging suppliers II In 2019 BRANDART started the SUPPLIERS ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT with main suppliers, with a first phase of self-assessment of production sites, and then the scheduling of specific on-site audits based on data and documents collection and verification, with a focus on the management of raw materials, waste and energy consumptions. The audits related to this project were conducted jointly with standard audits. For 5 of the 35 assessed suppliers located in Italy and Europe (15%) significant social and/or environmental actual Suppliers with significant impacts were detected as a result of the assessment. Almost all suppliers committed to improve by signing a impacts in Italy and Europe Corrective Action Plan which was agreed with the auditors. In two cases BRANDART terminated its business relationship with the supplier due to the missing implementation of agreed actions against critical issues. 5 15% The following issues were most commonly detected: • Environmental: emissions, waste management, fire prevention, dangerous chemicals management, thermal plants, LPG tanks, electric plants, certificate of use and occupancy of the buildings; • Social: non-regularization or non-presentation of the tax and wage compliance certificate, non-availability of letters of employment and/or compulsory employment notification documentation. For 25 of the 51 assessed suppliers located in the Far East region (49%) significant social and/or environmental actual impacts were detected as a result of the assessment. Most commonly detected issues are related to: • Environmental: chemical substances non proper labeling, water saving measures not implemented, hazardous Suppliers with significant waste not properly stored, incomplete knowledge of the geographical origin of raw materials; impacts in Far East region • Social: blocked emergency exits, pre-job & post-job occupational health exam not provided, fire-fighting equipment not properly maintained, overtime, insufficient social insurance coverage. 25 49% Almost all suppliers committed to improve through the filling of the Corrective Action Plan agreed with the auditors. The best performances compared to last year are due to a more conscious selection of the suppliers, the establishment of stable business relationships and to the constant monitoring and support by the CSR Team. As a result of the assessment, BRANDART terminated its business relationship with 2 suppliers and planned the backup of productions for other 4 factories. 47 Our logistic partners BRANDART is committed to run a responsible business while respecting the environment and embracing precautionary efforts to mitigate broad global climate change impacts and pollution. To achieve its vision, BRANDART promotes a strategic focus on cleaner seas, less polluted lands and efficient cargo shipments trough a responsible and sustainable logistics approach. BRANDART sustainable preferences support shipments by sea. Full Container Load (FCL) is a must, for both containers and swap bodies (Intermodal Transport). BRANDART’s commitment is to reduce as much as possible Less Container Load (LCL). From 2018 the Company implemented rail transports also for intercontinental shipments (China-Italy) to create a low environmental impact alternative to sea shipments in peak seasons, bad weather and no vessels availability cases. BRANDART uses road shipments only for internal transfers or last mile deliveries. BRANDART is fully committed to further reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions across all operations, for this reason BRANDART requires to all its Forwarding Agents to ship only by Main World Liners (MAERSK – MSC – COSCO, etc.) that have in place strong sustainability policies. Whenever possible BRANDART requires bamboo floored containers in order to reduce the consumption of “normal” wood, WaterBased Paint (WBC) containers to reduce the Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and shipments from/to ports adopting Shore Power Supply (SPS) in order to reduce vessels CO2 emissions in port by around 80%. BRANDART’s partners for road shipments guarantee modern fleets adopting last technologies in CO2 emissions control. BRANDART air freight forwarders work only with Main World Air-Cargo Liners that guarantee efficient plane models with lower CO2 emissions. Couriers partners (FEDEX – DHL – UPS) have in place clear Sustainability Policies. All logistic partners are encouraged to sign BRANDART’s Code of Conduct or to adopt similar ethical and environmental commitments. 48 Environment 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 7 Environment 49 Our Environmental approach The direct environmental impact of BRANDART’s activities can be considered as almost unmaterial, due to Company dimensions and business structure; no water in used in production processes, few emissions and negligible hazardous waste are produced. Years ago BRANDART chose to include ISO 14001 requirements in its Integrated Management System, to be used as a framework for planning and managing any action related to the saving of natural resources and environmental protection. BRANDART believes that everyone with day by day action can contribute to environmental protection and to reduce global environmental footprint, therefore employees are encouraged to implement best practices to reduce harmful effects on the environment. Everyone in BRANDART is aware about his environmental footprint and contribute with everyday behavior to environment protection, carefully managing room lights, electronic devices, water consumption, air temperature. Environmental sustainability within BRANDART focuses mainly on energy and natural resources consumptions, water and waste management, as detailed in next pages. 50 Energy and Natural Resources Consumption, Waste Management Energy and natural resources consumption Specific gas consumption (m3 / average year employees) 2019 2018 2017 2019 395 Gas (m3) 62,756 73,213 67,427 Fuel (l) (1) 67,745 62,857 69,975 2018 516 Electrical energy (KWh) (2) 340,191 328,280 235,424 Total energy consumption (MWh) 1,587 1,645 1,551 2017 515 (1) All fuel is consumed by hired company vehicles. (2) 100% of the electrical energy is purchased as renewable. Specific fuel consumption (l / average year employees) Specific energy consumption (KWh / average year employees) 2019 426 2019 2,130 2018 443 2018 2,312 2017 534 2017 1,797 Detail of total waste by material (in Kg) Waste management (in Kg) (2) 2019 (5) 2018 2017 2019 31,700 31,310 11,650 3,580 331 Total waste 78,571 54,315 60,219 2018 12,640 27,590 14,030 55 Hazardous waste (3) 60 0 0 Non hazardous waste 78,511 54,315 60,219 2017 30,050 22,232 5,580 2,357 Recycled – reused – recovered 74,880 41,675 N/A (2) No waste transported or shipped by BRANDART, all waste disposed through disposal contractors. (3) This category includes out-of-order electronic devices which have been Waste from processed textile fibers Inorganic waste Others massively dismissed in 2019. (4) This category includes exceeding or defective paper Mixed material packaging Paper and cardboard (4) branded products which have been massively dismissed in 2019. (5) The increase of waste amount in 2019 is mainly due to a general warehouse cleaning and emptying. 51 Water Management Water withdrawal by source (in m3) (1) 2019 2018 2017 Municipal water 1,994 956 1,325 Surface water 0 0 0 Specific water consumption (m3 / average year employees) Groundwater 0 0 0 Seawater 0 0 0 2019 1.25 Produced water 0 0 0 Third party water 0 0 0 2018 0.67 (1) Data are obtained from municipal supplier bills related to the January2017 1.01 December period. Water discharge (in m3) (2) 2019 2018 2017 Municipal sewage 1,795 860 1,192 (2) As water withdrawn is not used for production purposes, we assume that 90% of water withdrawn is discharged and 10% consumed as drinking water or used for watering Company’s green areas. • Water withdrawn is used in BRANDART only for civil use, and no water is reused or recycled. • No water sources are significantly affected by BRANDART’s water withdrawal or discharge, discharged water is collected and treated by public sewage system. • No water is withdrawn or discharged by or into water stress areas. • The 2019 increase in water consumption, is mainly due to the opening of the new R&D site in V.le Lombardia, where water was used during site renovation, plants watering, human consumption. 52 Analysis of GHG Emissions As done in the previous year, BRANDART made a simplified assessment of its greenhouse gases emissions (GHG Greenhouse Gases), with the purpose of understanding its direct contribution to anthropogenic climate change. The assessment is based on consumption data of the year 2019 and is carried out by taking as a reference the technical criteria of the standard ISO 14064 (Greenhouse gases Part 1: Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals). Within BRANDART direct business cycle, the main categories of consumption logically and functionally associated with the supply of company activities were investigated, which are related to: SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (direct emissions) (energy indirect emissions) • Structure heating, with methane gas consumption • Mobility of people and goods transport (company hired • Lighting and cooling, with electricity consumption vehicles), with fuel consumption 53 Quantification of CO2 emissions Below are the emission values that together contribute to determining the GHG emissions of BRANDART in its three operating sites. Consumption and emission values are broken down by macro-categories. SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (direct emissions) SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (energy indirect emissions) MARKET BASED SCOPE 2 LIGHTING AND COOLING, WITH SCOPE 1 HEATING WITH CONSUMPTION OF METHANE GAS: ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION: Consumption: 62,756 m3  emission of 123,965 kgCO2eq (1) Consumption: 340,191 kWh  emission of 158,492 kgCO2eq (2) SCOPE 1 MOBILITY OF PEOPLE AND TRANSPORT OF GOODS WITH LOCATION BASED SCOPE 2 LIGHTING AND COOLING, WITH CONSUMPTION OF FUEL: ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION: Consumption: 67,745 l diesel  emission of 180,595 kgCO2eq (1) Consumption: 340,191 kWh  emission of 96,461 kgCO2eq (3) (1) Emissions calculated according to (2) Emissions calculated using European Residual Mixes Results of the calculation https://www.minambiente.it/sites/default/files/archivio/allegati/emission_ of Residual Mixes for the calendar year 2019 Version 1.0, 2020-05-29 trading/fattori_standard_2019.pdf (3) Emissions calculated using https://www.isprambiente.gov.it/files2020/pubblicazioni/rapporti/Rapporto317_ 2020.pdf TOTAL EMISSIONS – Market Based Approach TOTAL EMISSIONS – Location Based Approach (excluding scope 3) (excluding scope 3) 463,051 401,021 kgCO2eq kgCO2eq 54 Initiatives for the environment Specific prints (nr. / average year employees) In 2019 BRANDART continued the Paper Cut project, with the double aim to optimize the number of prints and therefore paper 2019 5,770 and toner consumption in daily office activities, and to ensure the privacy of printed documents. 2018 6,707 All employees are encouraged to print double-sided and to use recycled paper whenever possible. 2017 7,962 We estimated 917,419 prints were made, with a reduction of 4% 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 comparing to 2018 and of almost 12% comparing to 2017. Company's CO2 emissions (Scope 1+ Scope 2) for the year 2018 were compensated by planting 3,968 trees in different regions of the world. The project in detail can be seen at the website https://tree-nation.com/profile/brandart. In this way, BRANDART is committed to promote actions to reduce its CO2 emissions. Environmental compliance Thanks to a careful management of legislative obligations and our ISO 14001 certification, no fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and/or regulations monetary were issued to our sites in 2019. 55 GRI Content index 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 7 Environment 8 GRI Content Index 56 GRI content index 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments 102-01 CORE Name of the organization 11 102-02 CORE Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 12, 13 102-03 CORE Location of headquarters 16 102-04 CORE Location of operations 16 102-05 CORE Ownership and legal form 16 102-06 CORE Markets served 16 102-07 CORE Scale of the organization 26, 31, 37 102-08 CORE Information on employees and other workers 37 102-09 CORE Supply chain 43 102-10 CORE Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain // In 2019 no significant changes occurred. 102-11 CORE Precautionary principle or approach 2 102-12 CORE External initiatives 17, 19, 20, 21 102-13 CORE Membership of associations 19 102-14 CORE Statement from senior decision-maker 1 102-16 CORE Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 17, 27 102-17 // Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 29 102-18 CORE Governance structure 36 102-40 CORE List of stakeholder groups 5 102-41 CORE Collective bargaining agreements 38 102-42 CORE Identifying and selecting stakeholders 5 102-43 CORE Approach to stakeholder engagement 4, 5 102-44 CORE Key topics and concerns raised 4 102-45 CORE Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 11 102-46 CORE Defining report content and topic boundaries 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 24 102-47 CORE List of material topics 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 24 102-48 CORE Restatements of information 2 102-49 CORE Changes in reporting 2 102-50 CORE Reporting period 2 102-51 CORE Date of most recent report 2 102-52 CORE Reporting cycle 2 102-53 CORE Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 CORE Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 102-55 CORE GRI content index 57-65 102-56 CORE External assurance 2 57 GRI content index 200: ECONOMY GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 201 Economic performance 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 26 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 201-01 // Direct economic value generated and distributed 26 201-04 // Financial assistance received from government 26 GRI 202 Market presence 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 24, 37, 39 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 202-01 // 39 local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the local 202-02 // 37 community GRI 204 Procurement practices 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 43 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 204-01 // Proportion of spending on local suppliers 43 GRI 205 Anti-corruption 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 27, 28 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 205-01 // Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 28 GRI 205 Anti-corruption 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 27, 28 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 205-02 // 28 and procedures No incidents related to corruption occurred in 2019, and no 205-03 // Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken employees or business partners were dismissed due to corruption problems. 58 GRI content index 200: ECONOMY GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 206 Anti-competititìve behavior 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 27, 28 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach During 2019 there were no legal actions pending or completed Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and regarding anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti206-01 // // monopoly practices trust and monopoly legislation in which BRANDART has been identified as a participant. 300: ENVIRONMENT GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 301 Materials 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 32, 33 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 301-01 // Materials used by weight or volume 32, 33 // 301-02 // Recycled input materials used // OMISSION: Not reported since information is not available GRI 302 Energy 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 51 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 302-01 // Energy consumption within the organization 51 GRI 303 Water and effluents 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 50 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 303-01 // Interactions with water as a shared resource 52 303-03 // Water withdrawal 52 303-04 // Water discharge 52 303-05 // Water consumption 52 GRI 305 Emissions 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 50 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 305-01 // Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 54 59 GRI content index 300: ENVIRONMENT GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments 305-02 // Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 54 In 2019 no significant emissions of ozone-depleting substances 305-06 // Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) // (ODS) occurred. GRI 306 Waste 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 50 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 306-02 // Waste by type and disposal method 51 306-03 // Significant spills // In 2019 no significant spills occurred. 306-04 // Transport of hazardous waste 51 306-05 // Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 52 GRI 307 Environmental compliance 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 50 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 307-01 // Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 55 GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 43, 44 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-01 // 44, 45 criteria Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 308-02 // 46, 47, 48 actions taken 400: SOCIAL GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 401 Employment 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 37 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 401-01 // New employee hires and employee turnover 38 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-02 // 39 provided to temporary or part-time employees 60 GRI content index 400: SOCIAL GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments In 2019, 5 female and 4 male employees were entitled to and 401-03 // Parental leave // took parental leave. All of them returned to work after parental leave ended, and all are still employed in BRANDART. GRI 403 Occupational Health&Safety 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 40 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 403-03 // Occupational health services 40 403-05 // Worker training on occupational health and safety 41 403-06 // Promotion of worker health 41 403-09 // Work-related injuries 40, 41 403-10 // Work-related ill health // No work-related illnesses were recorded in the last 3 years. GRI 404 Training and education 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 37 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 404-01 // Average hours of training per year per employee 39, 41 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-02 // 39 assistance programs GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 37 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 405-02 // Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 39 GRI 406 Non discrimination 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 37 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach In 2019 there were no cases of discrimination identified by or 406-01 // Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken // notified to BRANDART. GRI 412 Human rights assessment 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 24, 37 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 61 GRI content index 400: SOCIAL GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments All BRANDART'S employees receive a training related to human 412-02 // Employee training on human rights policies or procedures // rights, specific to the requirements of SA8000 standard. GRI 414 Supplier social assessment 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 23, 24, 43, 44 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 414-01 // New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 44, 45 414-02 // Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 46, 47, 48 GRI 415 Public policy 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 23, 24 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach BRANDART does not support with donations any political party or 415-01 // Political contributions // political entities. GRI 416 Customer health & safety 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 23, 24, 34 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 416-01 // 34 service categories GRI 418 Customer privacy 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 23, 24 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach In 2019 there were no cases of complaints concerning breaches Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 418-01 // // of customer privacy and losses of customer data identified by or privacy and losses of customer data notified to BRANDART. GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components 23, 24, 27 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach In 2019 BRANDART did not receive any significant fine and nonNon-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 419-01 // // monetary sanction for non-compliance with laws and/or economic area regulations in the social and economic area 62
