Message from the CEO ....................................... 2 About GLOBAL CSR ............................................ 3 Our Work ................................................................ 3 Our Vision ............................................................... 5 Our Mission ............................................................. 5 General information and procedures ................. 6 Policy Commitment ............................................ 7 Due Diligence ..................................................... 8 csrCloud ................................................................. 8 Social Sustainability ................................................. 9 Environmental Sustainability ..................................... 10 Economic Sustainability ........................................... 10 Contribution to Sustainable Development ....... 11 1 managing adverse CSR impacts. We hope to influence the UNGC to M ESSAGE FROM THE CEO maintain focus on the minimum standard as an essential part of UNGC’s efforts to promote the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Whereas “Our purpose is to promote sustainable development. As a given, we act the latter goals are important, they cannot be used for holding businesses in accordance with the principles we advise clients to apply. We believe accountable towards humans, the environment or principles for that the internationally agreed upon principles for sustainable anticorruption. development add needed quality to the field of CSR. The PrinciplesTo put the principles into practice, we rely on the enthusiasm and Based Approach to CSR enables us to address impacts in areas essential creativity of our clients, associates and relationships to inspire other to sustainable social, environmental and economic development, in line businesses to implement the UNGPs / OECD Guidelines in a practical and with the international minimum standard for responsible business pragmatic manner. conduct. The management system designed by the UN Guiding Principles from 2011 provides for cost-efficient and scalable approaches to manage adverse impacts on the internationally agreed principles.” -Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO It is my pleasure to present our 9th Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. GLOBAL CSR was established as a consultancy in 1998. The report describes our top priorities for action and provides information on our CSR performance in 2019. The report also includes our objectives for the Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO future. It is important to GLOBAL CSR that we continuously contribute to, whilst managing adverse impacts on, internationally agreed principles for sustainable social, environmental and economic development. We continue to use the UN Global Compact (UNGC) framework, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the OECD Guidelines to provide for a consistent and transparent system for 2 standard for responsible business conduct – i.e. the UNGPs, including as A BOUT GLOBAL CSR they are repeated in the OECD Guidelines. GLOBAL CSR is a privately-owned consultancy firm located in GLOBAL CSR has experience working with the full cycle of CSR Copenhagen, Denmark. We are leading in Corporate Social Responsibility implementation from policy development impact assessments, risk & (CSR) and specialise in creating sustainable solutions for private opportunity analyses, vision statements, strategies, capacity companies, public authorities and organisations in a range of countries development, project design, action planning, implementation and industries. Since 1998, GLOBAL CSR has carried out assignments in (prevention, mitigation and remediation), responsible sourcing, all parts of the world. responsible investments, responsible distribution and accounting, and GLOBAL CSR is recognised as leading expert on the application of the UN annual reporting. Additionally, our team has vast experience in evaluating Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). both corporate and public programmes. Our comprehensive understanding of business realities, in most sectors Integrity is pivotal to the way we do business. We offer advice that leads and for all sizes of businesses, allows us to fully address the needs and to long term sustainable solutions for our customers and the society. We wishes of our clients. only support CSR activities where adverse impacts on sustainable development are genuinely managed. Our Work GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in developing and implementing strategies in line with internationally recognised principles covering the triple bottom line of sustainability. We call this The Principles-Based Approach to CSR. Our goal is to continue developing innovative and cost-effective solutions and tools to address impacts on sustainability, enabling our customers to fully benefit from their investments in CSR. Our primary goal consists of leveraging best practices in meeting the globally agreed minimum 3 4 Our Vision We envision a world of social, environmental and economic sustainability; New Practices on Human Rights Impact Assessment in which all human beings enjoy the full realisation of their human rights in appreciation of their diversity. A world where businesses live by With the UNGPs, new practices around Human Rights Impact principles essential to co-creating a brighter future for our planet, for Assessments need to be developed. GLOBAL CSR has conducted humanity – and for economic development. extensive research in the area since 1998. The UNGPs require companies to assess impacts on all 48 human rights from the International Bill of Human Rights (UNGP 12). Through our reviews at Our Mission GLOBAL CSR of few current publicly available assessments, it appears that companies tend to seek to meet the new requirements by GLOBAL CSR’s mission is to be a catalyst for positive sustainable applying pre-2011 approaches. As an example, some assessments development. We enjoy the ability to function as a preferred partner in seek to predetermine the scope to a few human rights only (typically advising corporations, governments, multilateral organisations and nonlabour rights, thereby addressing impacts on max. 8-12 human governmental organisations on how to make core international principles rights). Some assessments combine a limited scope of rights with a preconceived notion of typical human rights impacts from a certain for sustainable development operational and pragmatic. ‘business function’. Finally, some assessments are corporate wide or GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: country wide, where assessments no longer are operational but identify corporate – or country wide issues that may relate to human • Performing work for sustainable development based on the Triple rights, such as migration, land issues, etc.. Bottom Line: Social, environmental and economic sustainability. GLOBAL CSR is concerned that very large corporations appear to outsource the entire assessment to experts like us. Considering that • Inspiring and assisting corporations, governments and organisations assessments have to take place in all operational units and with in developing and implementing responsible business conduct and regular intervals, such practice will not be sustainable. Focus should be oriented towards local capacity development to conduct contributing to sustainable development qualified by international assessments. Companies need to empower local management to take principles. responsibility and ownership of the process. To assist this, GLOBAL CSR is currently developing a tool to make this process pragmatic and • Maintaining high professional integrity while delivering innovative, scalable for any company. cost-effective and simple solutions, which create value for our customers. 5 All companies, regardless of place and context of operations, will have G ENERAL INFORMATION AND PROCEDURES both potential and actual adverse human rights impacts. With the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed in June 2011, the world’s businesses received an authoritative, globally All companies are managing such impacts to some degree; for instance recognised reference point for respecting human rights, including the core through efforts to create safe and healthy working conditions for labour rights. The UNGPs describe what is to be expected from any employees. CSR Compliance consists of identifying potential and actual business in the world in terms of managing adverse impacts on human impacts and showing what we do to manage such impacts. This refers to rights, i.e. the rights referenced in the first 6 principles of the UN Global social sustainability, composed of all human rights, as well as Compact. environmental and economic sustainability. Human Rights are essential for the dignity, well-being and development Over the last years, GLOBAL CSR has been working on a cloud-based tool of all people. Respecting human rights in business is defined by having a to conduct CSR due diligence. This tool is to incorporate Human Rights, management system in place, that as a minimum, meets the standard Environmental and Economic areas and principles. The tool is to be outlined by the UNGPs. The UNGPs enable all businesses to know their launched in 2020. potential and actual adverse impacts and to show what they are doing to address such impacts. The management system of the UNGPs is copied Our impact assessments show that we did not cause or contribute to any directly into the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (OECD), severe adverse impacts in 2018. The nature of our business is to assist where principles for economic and environmental sustainability are businesses in managing their adverse impacts on human rights. Thus, additionally covered. naturally, we are directly linked to severe adverse impacts on human rights. However, our role as advisors is to assist and enable other Our Corporate Social Responsibility Report demonstrates how GLOBAL businesses to manage their responsibility. Thus, we assist businesses in CSR implements the UNGPs. Thus, ensuring respect for human rights preventing or mitigating adverse impacts, as well as use our leverage to within the organisation. We also show how we meet our social and make businesses stop actual severe adverse impacts where we learn of economic responsibility, aligned with the OECD Guidelines for them in our value chain. Our legal privilege as registered attorney enables multinational Enterprises. We strive to inspire other businesses to do the us to keep sensitive information from clients confidential. same. Additionally, we outline where we work beyond compliance in the final section of this report. 6 GLOBAL CSR to assist us in honouring our commitment. We embed our P OLICY C OMMITMENT CSR commitment in the daily work of both our employees and Our policy commitment pervades all aspects of our business conduct and management through training, communication and ongoing assessments. is publicly available at our website. We always appreciate good ideas for how to identify, prevent and mitigate our negative impacts on sustainable development as well as to make a GLOBAL CSR Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) positive impact At GLOBAL CSR, we have developed our expertise in the field of responsible business conduct. We advise businesses on how to respect Our expectations to business relationships Human Rights, together with managing environmental and economic We expect all of our business relationships to meet the globally agreed sustainability. All in full alignment with the global minimum standard for minimum standard for responsible business conduct as expressed in this responsible business conduct. commitment. Business relationships shall implement the UNGPs/OECD; i.e. manage risks of adverse impact in relation to human rights, the Sustainability – The Triple Bottom Line environment, and anti-corruption, and share their results with relevant Our commitment is based on the internationally agreed core principles for stakeholders. We also expect them to ask the same from their sustainable development; human rights (including labour rights), relationships. Information of severe impacts shall be communicated to us environment (including climate), and anti-corruption. The principles are promptly. listed by the UN Global Compact and made operational through the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the OECD Integration Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (OECD). This policy commitment is reflected in all other policies, guidelines, and Our commitment means that we continuously identify, prevent and procedures in GLOBAL CSR. We encourage our employees and other mitigate our risks of adverse impacts in the area of human rights, stakeholders to inform us about challenges on human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We manage this through impact environment, or anti-corruption associated with our services, products or assessments in these areas, and we communicate how we manage business relationships adverse impacts to relevant stakeholders. Policy Commitment development Our expectations to employees This policy is developed with assistance of internal experts and approved Our employees are key partners in helping us respect international by the founder and CEO. The policy commitment is communicated both principles for sustainable development. We expect all team members at 7 internally and externally. The policy will be reviewed and, if necessary, diligence tool. The tool enables businesses to assess and address adverse revised every second year reflecting our progress in implementation. impacts on social, environmental, and economic areas. It further enables management of business relationships, such as suppliers. After several D UE D ILIGENCE years of development GLOBAL CSR is very eager to get csrCloud on the market and to show it to our clients in 2020. GLOBAL CSR regularly conducts impact assessments on human rights, the environment and on economic sustainability. They are conducted with the engagement of our employees accommodating the UNGPs criteria of meaningful participation of the potentially affected stakeholders also in identifying adverse impacts. This also serves as a way to further develop employees’ capacities on the UNGPs and OECD. Employees assist in addressing identified adverse impacts by presenting ideas for improving the efforts of GLOBAL CSR. The first step of the due diligence process is identification of potential and actual adverse impacts. We are continuously in dialogue with our employees and clients for the identification process. Whenever we are made aware of actual adverse impacts in our value chains, we use our leverage to make the causing or contributing entity stop the impact and csrCloud is developed to align businesses’ CSR compliance with act in accordance with the UNGPs and OECD Guidelines. the authoritative global minimum standard for responsible business conduct. csrCloud allows businesses to manage and document CSR due diligence in one efficient system. csrCloud is fully aligned with the UN csrCloud Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the OECD GLOBAL CSR will in 2020 launch a cloudGuidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The csrCloud can be extended to based platform, csrCloud, enabling businesses’ subsidiaries securing easy management of every step from businesses to meet the global minimum the first draft of the impact assessment, to review and sign-off. requirements on due diligence; and Additionally, csrCloud can be extended to businesses’ relationships, document it. GLOBAL CSR has through the assisting their responsible business conduct. last four years been working on developing a cloud-based CSR due 8 For more information about our new CSR due diligence tool, csrCloud, please visit http://site.csrcloud.com. As an example of how GLOBAL CSR is managing our adverse impacts, take the right to rest, leisure, and paid holidays. We have identified that Social Sustainability we may have adverse impacts on this right, since we are allowing overtime work during delivery of large projects with short deadlines. We We have identified non-severe adverse impacts on 15 of 48 human rights. are managing the adverse impact by having an agreement in place for We take actions to prevent and mitigate all of such impacts. The list below weekly working schedules. Furthermore, employees are asked to take provides an overview of rights where potential adverse impacts on human time off whenever they have worked overtime. If it in rare cases, is not rights were identified by our firm. possible to take time off, employees will receive economic compensation • 2. Right to non-discrimination • 7.a Right to protection of for overtime work. We may also have adverse impacts in relation to not • 3. Right to work mothers before and after ensuring that employees have the opportunity to take vacation. These adverse impacts are managed by providing a specific amount of vacation • 4.b Right to a living wage childbirth days annually and keeping check to ensure that employees make use of • 4.c Right to safe and healthy • 10. Right to education their vacation days. working conditions • 11.d Moral rights of authors An example of a right where GLOBAL CSR has no impact and no • 4.d Right to equal opportunities • 13. A Right to not be subjected to connection to adverse impact is the right to freedom of opinion. We assess for everyone to be promoted degrading treatment that we are not of adverse impact to the right, as we value differences of • 4.e Right to rest, leisure, and • 23. Right to privacy opinions in our company. We note that there is a difference between the right to freedom of opinion and the right to freedom of expression. As any paid holidays • 25.b Right to freedom of company, we may have adverse impacts on the right to freedom of • 5. Right to form and join trade expression expression, as we may limit employees from sharing company secrets. unions and the right to strike • 25. C Right to freedom of This risk is managed in our impact assessment. • 6. Right to social security, information including social insurance Our actions to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts on these rights are continuously tracked to ensure effectiveness. 9 Environmental Sustainability and our clients. Our consultants and course participants avoid travelling to specific locations to participate in lessons, as they can enjoy the Companies of every size and type can have adverse impacts on the educational aspects of learnCSR through online technology. Several environment through their business operations and activities. When thousand employees have already been trained through learnCSR, preventing and mitigating our adverse impacts on the environment we constituting a significant CO2 abatement. address the subject areas covered by UN Global Compact’s principles 7We endeavour to maintain and expand our position as frontrunners in the 9. field of CSR. This requires that we participate in debates to develop the field, being in contact with relevant authorities and urging all our business “All our executives and employees cycle, use public transportation, or relationships to minimise their environmental impacts. carpool as the predominant means of transportation.” We assess that, as an office environment, we have not identified many Economic Sustainability significant impacts on the environment. However, we recognise that we Economic sustainability entails incorporating contributions to sustainable can have an environmental impact on air emissions, due to work travels. development into core business strategies, whilst ensuring that no We continuously seek to reduce our environmental impact by using the functions have adverse impacts. Economic sustainability further extends most environmentally friendly available means of transportation. All our to eliminating negative impacts on the economy, particularly in relation executives and employees cycle, use public transportation, or carpool as to corruption and bribery. the predominant means of transportation. When possible, we have We have identified five potential adverse economic impacts. The list below meetings through video and teleconferences, to minimise our use of air provides an overview of the areas where potential adverse economic travel. impacts were identified by our firm. However, being a consultancy firm that serves clients internationally, we • Clearly define job duties based on skills, qualifications and experience have not been able to completely eliminate air travel. Ensuring high quality service often requires that we perform onsite assessments of • Abstain from cronyism and nepotism clients’ operations and branches. Change management and capacity • Offering or accepting gifts beyond stated value (approvals) development are essential components of our work and both require • Trading in influence in relation to business partners, government interpersonal communication and presence. Our e-learning platform, learnCSR, allows us to decrease the environmental impact of our company officials or employees 10 • Bribes to or corruption of private counterparts address global challenges in relation to social, environmental and economic sustainability. GLOBAL CSR is a value-based company, proactive in encouraging positive As a consultancy firm, we assist corporations that are experienced within norms and values amongst our employees and business relations. We are the field of CSR, as well as corporations that have only just begun financially transparent and seek to foster an open and transparent culture addressing their societal impacts in a structured manner. As we also internally. In addition to having an external accountant, we communicate provide services to international corporations, our services span across our budget internally amongst all employees. We consider these practices borders. to be proportionate to our size and the risks that the company faces. We are aware that we run higher risks when operating abroad in markets Moreover, we advise clients to address CSR with their business relations. where local common business practices are considered bribes in a Danish This is done upstream (supply chain), downstream (distribution) and with context. Thus, we are diligent in communicating our values as the basis other business relationships, including investors and in investments. We for our business conduct, making sure to build business relationships assist our clients in directing strategic focus on contributions, whilst based on trust and common understanding. complying with the globally agreed minimum standard for sustainability. This way, we ensure that CSR efforts contribute to sustainable development in the best way possible. We are experts in identifying both C ONTRIBUTION TO S USTAINABLE challenges and opportunities through direct application of the globally D EVELOPMENT agreed principles for responsible business conduct. Two key principles of social sustainability, which we promote through our ” We are experts in identifying both challenges and opportunities operations and products are: The Right to Education and Freedom of through direct application of the globally agreed principles for Information. We contribute to the right to education by sharing our responsible business conduct.” knowledge through teaching and through advising organisations and Knowledge is our primary resource. The success of our business depends initiatives that are key players in the continued development of CSR. We on our knowledge, competencies and our abilities to communicate this promote the right to freedom of information by helping businesses knowledge. It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuously improve our with operational principles on how to communicate their commitments competencies on CSR and sustainable development in theory as well as both internally and externally. in practice. It is important for us to share our knowledge and support the CSR field in developing better, more cost-efficient and innovative ways to 11 GLOBAL CSR continuously works to promote environmental sustainability. international principles for business to apply when planning and executing In 2018, GLOBAL CSR assessed and advised several Danish and tax payments for international operations. international clients on the implementation of principles 7-9 of the UNGC Moreover, GLOBAL CSR persists in the development of practical solutions into core business operations. These three principles serve to support for applying the UN Guiding Principles in Socially Responsible Investments precautionary approaches to environmental challenges, undertake new initiatives on environmental responsibility and to encourage the (SRI). We screen companies before investments and assist corporations that invest in businesses in ensuring that their acquired companies meet development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. the minimum standard for responsible business conduct. The UNGPs In 2018, we assisted our clients in meeting growing environmental provide a standardised reference point, thus reducing costs for investors challenges, requirements and expectations that they face today. We work while contributing to scaling up the corporate responsibility to respect with strategic partners that are leading experts on environmental human rights. sustainability. We have advised clients in performing environmental Capacity development on UNGPs and Human Rights impact assessments, life cycle assessments, carbon and water footprint One of the greatest challenges ahead in globally scaling up the assessments. Additionally, we have participated in, and held several responsibility to respect human rights among businesses, remains to be seminars and workshops, aiming to raise public awareness and meeting awareness and capacity development. Because of our competencies and the growing need for education on CSR and the business case for being position in the field, we recognise the important role that GLOBAL CSR environmentally responsible. can play in addressing this global challenge. GLOBAL CSR contributes to the elimination of corruption through advising clients on corporate economic responsibility. We help our clients strategically implement the 10th principle of the UNGC into their The greatest global challenge in implementing the UNGPs businesses. Whereas corporate economic responsibility initiatives only require companies to address the international principles on anti“Limited capacity is a far greater obstacle to rapid progress in business and human rights than we tend to acknowledge; it’s much easier to blame corruption, we advise our clients in good corporate governance and in someone. Limited capacity affects the ability of all stakeholder groups, dealing with the upcoming issue of sustainable tax payments. including governments, businesses, NGOs and the UN system to play their necessary roles.” GLOBAL CSR intends to continue to participate in and contribute to both Prof. John Ruggie, author of the UN Guiding Principles on business and national and international debates on the establishment of viable human rights, December 4th, 2012, UN Forum, Geneva 12 GLOBAL CSR’s e-learning platform, learnCSR, provides CSR training in In 2019 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations at numerous national as well an effective, flexible and cost-efficient manner on human rights and the as international seminars, workshops, trainings and debates on CSR UNGPs; see www.learncsr.com. with a special emphasis on developing capacity and awareness on the GLOBAL CSR continues to promote and sell its booklet, Human Rights UNGPs. Explained – for business. The booklet provides employees and As examples, Sune Skadegaard Thorsen organised a fully booked managers with basic understanding of all 48 human rights contained in symposium on the status of ”the UN Guiding Principles on Business and the International Bill of Human Rights. Further, concrete scenarios on Human Rights” on the 19th of January 2019 in Copenhagen in adverse impacts, the application of the UNGPs and positive contributions association with the Danish Foreign Policy Society. Both Danish and demonstrate the relevance of all human rights in a business context. The international businesses and practice leaders participated in the booklet is an important tool for businesses seeking to respect human symposium that Mr. Mads Oevlisen opened. Also, Sune Skadegaard rights and can be purchased from GLOBAL CSR. Thorsen delivered a keynote at the opening of the 7th World Congress GLOBAL CSR continues to offer its one-day labs: ‘UNGPs Compliance’, against the Death Penalty in the plenary session: ’Business and the ‘Human Rights Impact Assessment’ and ‘Responsibility in Business Death Penalty’, with a.o. Sir Richard Branson. The Conference was Relationships’, which aim to develop the attendants’ CSR capacity. hosted in Brussels from the 26 th February to the 01st March 2019. GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in public debates on business and GLOBAL CSR focuses heavily on investing inand developing tools for human rights and on the principles-based approach to CSR. We regularly businesses. GLOBAL CSR has concentrated its resources on capacity publish articles and participate in national and international working development and training in the UNGPs and human rights; while groups related to the 10 UNGC principles, the UNGPs and CSR. We targeting corporations, we also engage government, civil society, devote time to engage in debates as we believe this brings added value academia and CSR experts. During 2019, we informed and trained to our clients and to society. individuals in the UNGPs, including corporate representatives that received in-depth training. Through the mentioned areas, GLOBAL CSR continues to promote social sustainability and the UNGPs in particular. The guide Constructive Campaigning, as written by GLOBAL CSR, continues to assist NGOs and civil society in structuring their campaigning under the global framework for sustainable development. 13 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Report is published in English only and will be permanently available for download on unglobalcompact.org. For feedback or further information, please contact us at info@globalcsr.net or +45 44 99 55 06. 14
