We’re Ready YEAR IN REVIEW 2019 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Table of Contents 04 70 Pa g e We’re Ready We’re Ready to Create Possible for a Healthier World About This Report Giving Back to Our Communities A Letter From Our Chairman and CEO Daniel O’Day Access, Pricing and Affordability: Domestic and Global A Look at 2019 The Why Behind Our Work 24 We’re Ready for More Scientific Breakthroughs Pipeline and Portfolio Partnerships and Collaborations: Setting the Stage for 92 We’re Ready for a Sustainable Future Delivering Our Responsible Growth Strategy Reducing Environmental Impact Increasing Business Resiliency Transformative Treatments 48 We’re Ready to Inspire Our People Life at Gilead Diverse Perspectives Global Workforce 124 Appendix About Gilead Our Governing Principles Materiality GRI Content Index SASB Index 2 2019 2019 3 We’re Ready to Create Possible 4 2019 2019 5 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w About This Report Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private This 2019 Year in Review is an annual report highlighting Gilead’s Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks, uncertainties and business performance, corporate activities, and environmental, social other factors. These risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results to and governance (ESG) data. differ materially from those referred to in the forward-looking statements. The reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. These and other risks are described in detail in Gilead’s periodic reports filed with the SEC, including current We align our data collection, measurement and reporting activities reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K. with industry-leading frameworks, including the United Nations Global All forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to Gilead, Compact (UNGC), United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN and Gilead assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. SDGs), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and CDP. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This report’s scope includes all entities listed in Gilead’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and focuses on ESG topics material Report Content, Period and Boundary to Gilead’s business operations. In line with GRI’s principles for defining report content, Gilead considered stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality, completeness and other reporting The phrase “materiality” as used in the context of this report and principles when developing this 2019 Year in Review. our materiality review process is different than the definition used in the context of our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange The activities and data contained in this report cover the period from January 1, Commission (SEC). Issues deemed material for purposes of this report, 2019, to December 31, 2019. For any environmental data with 2018 reporting periods indicated, we will provide updated 2019 figures on our website once data validation and for purposes of determining our ESG strategies, may not be and verification is complete. (See Environmental Data Content, Period and Boundary considered material for SEC reporting purposes. for more information.) We regularly re-evaluate the reporting boundaries for material topics to ensure they are current and complete. (See Materiality for more information on our material topic boundaries.) 6 2019 2019 7 Ye ar in Re vie w Chairman and CEO Letter A Letter From Our Chairman and CEO Daniel O’Day When I joined Gilead in early 2019, I saw tremendous potential to build on the company’s legacy — a legacy that includes two of the most extraordinary advances in healthcare of the past decade: transforming HIV into a chronic disease and curing hepatitis C. As I reflect on the progress that we made together over the course of the year, I am pleased with how far we have come and tremendously optimistic about our future. We are more than ready for the many opportunities ahead to improve global health. For Gilead’s next chapter, we are applying the same high bar that led to such remarkable advances in HIV and hepatitis therapies, to all the areas in which we believe we can make a difference today. We are building on our strength in antiviral medicine, as well as our expertise in immunomodulation, as we expand into inflammatory diseases and oncology. 8 2019 2019 9 Chairman and CEO Letter Chairman and CEO Letter As we move forward together, we will continue to focus on our impact beyond innovative medicines: supporting communities, working in partnerships and meeting People and Partnerships our significant responsibilities to society as a whole. One of my immediate priorities on joining Gilead was to ensure we have a team of outstanding leaders to shape the company’s future. I am very pleased to have such a We will do all of this from a place of strength. This strength comes from the highly experienced executive team in place, with a diverse mix of experience across foundations we put in place in 2019 and all the work done over the past three decades specialties and geographies. One of the most important responsibilities of this team to make Gilead the remarkable company it is today. is to harness the potential of our ~12,000 talented employees across the globe. I am immensely proud of the work of our global Gilead community. Our employees bring a A Strategy Focused on Innovation genuine care and passion to their work that shows up in everything they do. In 2019 we defined our corporate strategy with three core ambitions: to deliver Gilead knows that no single company or organization can tackle the existing 10+ transformative therapies over the next 10 years, to become employer and partner challenges in global health alone. This is why we put so much emphasis on our of choice, and to provide shareholder value in a sustainable, responsible manner. partnerships at both the community level and with other innovators. In 2019, for We have a clear path forward for achieving these ambitions, and the work is already example, we partnered with the Elton John AIDS Foundation to introduce a program underway. called RADIAN to address HIV/AIDS in Eastern Europe. To deliver medicines that are truly transformational for patients, we are working Among our various strategic partnerships and alliances is a partnership that we from our core areas of expertise. That includes, for example, applying our decades entered in 2019 with Galapagos, a European-based company focused on inflammatory, of experience in antiviral medicine to developing the next wave of innovation in HIV fibrotic and other diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. This partnership expanded with long-acting therapies. One example of using our immunomodulation expertise is our research base overnight and should accelerate the progress of both Gilead and harnessing a patient’s immune system to fight cancer, as with Kite’s leading work in Galapagos in bringing new solutions to patients. cell therapy and our growing pipeline of cancer immunotherapies. We will maintain a focused approach as we grow our diverse network of innovation to access the world’s Gilead’s strong spirit of collaboration also drove our swift response to the COVID-19 best science and technologies. outbreak as we worked in close partnership with governments, regulatory agencies and health organizations to help address this significant challenge to global health. 10 2019 2019 11 Chairman and CEO Letter Chairman and CEO Letter Moving Forward Sustainably To reinforce our commitment to the well-being of our employees, the patients we serve, the communities in which we operate and society in general, Gilead considers sustainability in every decision we make. We publicly committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2025 compared to our 2016 baseline. We continue to utilize the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals as an anchor to our corporate responsibility priorities and remain fully committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Throughout this report, you can learn about several initiatives that Gilead has championed, all of which are aimed at ensuring we make a positive social impact while operating in an environmentally responsible manner. All of us at Gilead are inspired by the opportunities to create a better, healthier world for everyone. As we enter the next decade, we are committed and ready to make that possible. Our next chapter is underway, and I am honored to be part of it. Sincerely, Daniel O’Day 12 2019 2019 13 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w A Look at 2019 2019 Financial Highlights $ 22.4B At Gilead, we work to create a healthier world for all people by delivering innovative therapeutics that aim to prevent, treat or cure life-threatening diseases. We relentlessly pursue advancements in science with the goal of bringing to patients treatments that improve care in areas of unmet medical needs around the world. In 2019, Gilead welcomed our new Chairman and CEO, Daniel O’Day. He has taken significant steps to prepare the company for future success, including bringing together a combination of tenured leaders and those with notable industry experience, building a senior leadership team that provides Gilead with deep expertise and diversity of thought across a range of specialties, geographies and therapeutic areas. Under his leadership, we entered into and expanded strategic partnerships and Total Revenues collaborations designed to advance scientific discovery and development. We also introduced a new corporate strategy focused on three strategic ambitions: $9.1B Cash Flows From Operations $1.7B Share Repurchases Our Three Strategic Ambitions $9.1B $2.8B Research and Development Expenses Debt Repayments $ 3.2B $25.8B Cash, Cash Cash Dividend Equivalents and Payments Marketable Securities Bring 10+ transformative Be the biotech employer Deliver shareholder medicines to patients and partner of choice. value in a sustainable, over the next 10 years. responsible manner. 14 2019 2019 15 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w In 2019, Gilead also laid a foundation for achieving these ambitions, as our new strategy focuses us on two scientific Gilead and areas: building on our strength in antiviral medicine and our growing expertise in Galapagos immunomodulation. We’re ready to take the next step in scientific discovery. Launch Expanded Collaboration Product Sales In July 2019, Gilead and Galapagos expanded on our existing partnership by Gilead demonstrated solid financial announcing a transformative 10-year global performance in 2019 with product sales of research and development collaboration $22.1 billion, representing 2% year-over-year that increases Gilead’s research capacity (YoY) growth, compared with $21.7 billion in in inflammatory and fibrotic diseases and creates opportunities for both companies to 2018. For 2019, product sales were $16.6 leverage each other’s strengths. billion in the United States, $3.6 billion in Europe and $2.0 billion in other locations. Through the collaboration, Gilead will build on the filgotinib partnership and gain access to an innovative portfolio of compounds, Collaborations including eight molecules currently in clinical trials, more than 20 preclinical programs and a proven drug discovery platform. In 2019, we executed 27 strategic collaborations and partnerships, including The collaboration will allow for closer several equity investments. We set a new scientific partnership between the standard for partnerships in scientific companies: Gilead will have access to Galapagos’s established research base, research and development by expanding which includes more than 500 scientists, our collaboration with Galapagos through and to Galapagos’s unique platform, which a transformative 10-year agreement. We utilizes disease-related, human primary cellbased assays to discover and verify novel continued to utilize our strong balance sheet drug targets. to pursue tailored transactions that drive strategic value. 16 2019 2019 17 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w The “Why” Our ~12,000 employees are working to transform the way we prevent, treat and cure disease. Our employees’ dedication and focus has been the foundation of our past Behind Our Work success and will enable our future success. We are deeply committed to attracting, developing and retaining the brightest minds in our industry, and constantly seek to evolve our workplace to achieve our ambition of being the biotech employer of choice. And because we can’t do it alone, we are pursuing a forward-looking approach to For more than three decades, Gilead has pursued and achieved medical collaboration that allows us to build our innovation network and accelerate pioneering breakthroughs once thought impossible. Our relentless pursuit of innovation is treatments. focused on the goal of creating a healthier world, through the treatments we develop and the ways we conduct business throughout the world. We set out to make the We are working to create a better, healthier world for all people to live in. Gilead impossible, possible. recognizes that advancing scientific discovery is only one aspect of improving public health, and we are committed to providing more than just medicine to patients. Our Gilead has helped transform care for people living with HIV, developing pioneering worldwide programs address barriers to care, such as access to treatment, stigma medicines including the world’s first single tablet regimen to treat HIV and the first and discrimination, as well as healthcare disparities around the world. For more medicine to prevent HIV infection. We also applied the same tenacity, innovation than 15 years, we have worked to make our medicines available in resource-limited and focus to hepatitis C, delivering four curative hepatitis C therapies in less than countries. Not only are we determined to improve health through our treatments, we four years. And we continue to pursue transformative science to bring significant are pursuing a worldwide sustainability strategy to reduce the impacts associated with breakthroughs, and in some cases cures, to patients. our supply chain, manufacturing and distribution of our products, and operations of our corporate facilities. Building on our strength in antiviral medicines and our growing expertise in immunomodulation, our teams around the world are bringing perseverance, determination and courage to the discovery and development of the next generation of medicines, in areas like oncology and inflammation. 18 2019 2019 19 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w What We’re Doing to Address Global Challenges To help create a better future for all people, Gilead is committed to the principles outlined in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). The UNGC calls for companies to align their operations with 10 universally accepted principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Stemming from the UNGC, the UN SDGs identify 17 impact areas that will help society achieve a better and more sustainable future. Aligning Gilead’s existing sustainability and social practices within the UNGC and the UN SDG frameworks allows us to better convey our commitments to our patients, local communities, society and the planet. Although Gilead supports all 17 of the UN SDGs, we have identified specific goals where we can deliver our greatest influence and positive impact. In particular, Gilead’s mission to provide lifesaving therapeutics to marginalized and underserved communities aligns strongly with UN SDG 3, “Good Health and Well-Being.” As we expand our business and operations, we strive to continue supporting global health and sustainable development. Our priority UN SDGs are displayed on pages 22 and 23. UN SDG icons are also used throughout this report to highlight areas where our work corresponds with specific goals. Additional information on alignment between our work and the UN SDGs can be found in the GRI Content Index of this report. 20 2019 2019 21 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Priority UN SDGs Covered in This Report Good Health and Well-Being Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure We expand access to innovative therapeutics that improve human health worldwide. We aim to help end epidemics of AIDS and hepatitis and We leverage science and innovation to develop industry-leading combat other communicable diseases. therapeutics for areas of unmet medical need. Quality Education Reduced Inequalities We educate and train healthcare providers on advanced therapies, We formed a Diversity Council in 2018 to enhance our inclusion and especially in resource-limited countries. diversity initiatives worldwide. Gender Equality Responsible Consumption and Production We cultivate an inclusive and diverse workforce that celebrates differences We use green and sustainable chemistry where possible to produce in race, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and thinking style. therapies that benefit human health while minimizing environmental impact. Clean Water and Sanitation Climate Action We protect water-dependent ecosystems by using natural bioswales and We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by water conservation measures. 2025 compared with 2016 levels. Affordable and Clean Energy Partnerships for the Goals We generate and purchase renewable energy to offset grid-supplied We forge internal and external partnerships to improve patient care, energy at some of our worldwide facilities. strengthen health systems, and reduce social and environmental impacts. 22 2019 2019 23 We’re Ready for More Scientific Breakthroughs 24 2019 2019 25 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 3 At a Glance 3 Pipeline 9 Gilead has always focused on pursuing transformative science. As we seek to leverage opportunities in our 9 and Portfolio 17 expanding pipeline, we’re ready to make new scientific We’re working toward a future where any disease can be prevented, treated or cured. Our scientists have developed therapies that have revolutionized the standard of care discoveries that could help us develop therapies to for many medical conditions, and in 2019 we refocused our efforts on strategies and initiatives that will build on our history. We continue to pursue transformative science prevent and treat life-threatening diseases around the through in-house research, as well as strategic collaborations and partnerships. world. Gilead’s scientists are seeking to bring forward the next generation of medicines through internal innovation and partnerships across the industry. 26 2019 2019 27 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w R&D: Our Commitment to Science Gilead is strengthening and expanding our pipeline by building on our strength in antiviral medicines, as well as our growing expertise in immunomodulation, including through strategic acquisitions and external partnerships that have led to scientific advancements for inflammatory diseases and cancer. We believe this work has enormous potential to impact human health. At the end of 2019, we had 40 clinicalstage programs, with 14 programs in registrational or label-enabling studies and four programs with Breakthrough Therapy designation from U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). External Innovation Center Gilead is committed to pursuing innovative therapies for life-threatening diseases, and we know we can’t do it alone. That’s why we’re forging a new model for collaboration and partnership that will help ensure we have access to some of the world’s best science and technology. In September 2019, Gilead established the External Innovation center with the goal to rapidly increase the size and diversity of our pipeline. Firmly aligned with Gilead’s science-driven approach, the focused approach to external innovation will bring breadth and diversity to our overall research efforts. At the same time, we will retain a high bar with a focus on quality as much as quantity. This model is intended to increase Gilead’s pipeline substantially, allowing us to deliver more medicines to patients more quickly. (See Partnerships and Collaborations: Setting the Stage for Transformative Treatments for more information.) 28 2019 2019 29 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w HIV: Innovating to Improve the Patient Experience and Health Outcomes Gilead has been instrumental in helping transform HIV from a fatal disease to a preventable or manageable condition for many people. Now we are building on our long history of innovation in HIV therapies to develop new options for prevention and treatment, and to continue making progress on the path toward finding a possible cure. One of our most promising research targets in 2019 was GS-6207, an investigational small molecule capsid inhibitor designed to disrupt the protein shell that protects the viral genome, interfering with multiple stages of the virus’s replication cycle. GS-6207 is being evaluated for its potential to become part of a future, long-acting combination therapy — and is being investigated as an injectable treatment that could be administered every three or six months. Gilead is the first company to reach the FDA clinical research stage with a capsid inhibitor. Preclinical and Phase 1 clinical research on GS-6207 has shown potent antiviral activity with no identified serious adverse effects, and in vitro laboratory experiments have demonstrated that the antiviral activity of GS-6207 was not affected by the presence of mutations associated with resistance to the four main classes of HIV drugs. Gilead works with a variety of governmental agencies and community partners to expand access to healthcare services, and to help address HIV-related societal disparities. Our efforts include medication donations and support of programs such as Gilead COMPASS (COMmitment to Partnership in Addressing HIV/AIDS in Southern States) Initiative® to develop solutions that meet the unique needs of the communities hardest hit by the epidemic. 30 2019 2019 31 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w New Data on HIV Prevention, suppressed individuals in 38 states and Treatment, Cure Research Washington, D.C. In this statistical model, the analysis found that between 2012 and 2017, Spotlight on China Despite the progress made in treating and preventing HIV over the years, we know use of PrEP among at-risk individuals was Gilead continued to expand its presence in China more must be done. Our research and development teams are pursuing multiple associated with an overall 15.2% decline in during 2019, with the China National Medicinal efforts to develop new treatment options and prevention therapies while continuing to new HIV diagnoses. MSAs with the highest Products Administration approving Biktarvy for HIV pursue our ultimate goal of discovering and developing a cure. and Vosevi® (sofosbuvir 400 mg/velpatasvir 100 rates of PrEP use showed the greatest mg/voxilaprevir 100 mg) for hepatitis C (HCV). We decreases in new diagnoses. Projecting out also worked with Chinese authorities to ensure the Prevention five years, the analysis suggests that if 50% inclusion of Epclusa® (sofosbuvir 400 mg/velpatasvir 100 mg), Harvoni® (ledipasvir 90 mg/sofosbuvir 400 People at risk of HIV infection today have more options to protect themselves than of people at high risk of HIV infection were mg), Vemlidy® (tenofovir alafenamide) and Genvoya® ever. Truvada® (emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) for HIV using PrEP, the rate of new HIV diagnoses (elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, tenofovir alafenamide) on the National Reimbursement Drug pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) has been available since 2012, and in October 2019, could potentially decline as much as 40.7%. List. Starting in 2020, this will provide patients in the FDA approved Descovy® (emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir alafenamide 25 mg) for China with affordable access to key treatments for Treatment hepatitis B, HCV and HIV. PrEP. By the end of 2019, Biktarvy® (bictegravir In addition to securing governmental support for In May 2019, Gilead committed to donating up to 2.4 million bottles of PrEP medication 50 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir access to medicines, Gilead works with community per year through 2030 to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), organizations to help develop and expand patient alafenamide 25 mg) was the No. 1 prescribed assistance programs that provide free medicines for to be provided at no cost to people without insurance coverage and at risk for HIV. HIV regimen in the United States, with 80% HBV and HCV to low-income patients. Gilead also Donations of Truvada for PrEP® and Descovy for PrEP® are part of Gilead’s support sales growth quarter over quarter since its supports local programs for disease education across HBV, HCV and HIV to increase public awareness and of national efforts to prevent HIV and end the epidemic. We also provide significant launch. Gilead continues to research and reduce stigma and discrimination within communities discounting of our HIV medicines for federal and state government healthcare and develop new potential treatments to ensure in China. drug assistance programs. that patients have safe and effective choices Increasing access to safe and effective treatments to fit their needs. is vital to public health in the world’s most populous Data suggest that use of PrEP medicines may be helping reduce the rate of new HIV country. HCV is the fourth most commonly reported infections across the United States. Gilead researchers analyzed data collected by infectious disease in China, with approximately 10 million people living with the disease. China had the CDC from 105 U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs), national pharmacy and approximately 150,000 new HIV-1 diagnoses in 2018; medical claims databases, and proxy data for treatment as prevention from HIVthe number has increased significantly in recent years, partially as a result of expanded screening. The number of people living with HIV and receiving antiretroviral treatment has also increased. 32 2019 2019 33 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Our Continued Research Efforts The investigational capsid inhibitor GS-6207 offers a potential new mechanism for combating HIV by interrupting the activity of the HIV capsid, a protein that surrounds Advances Against HIV and protects the virus’ genetic material and essential enzymes. The capsid inhibitor may interrupt multiple distinct stages of the viral lifecycle, potentially preventing the virus from becoming infectious and gaining access to uninfected cells. Ending the HIV epidemic will take more than GS-6207 is being evaluated as a potential long-acting medicine that can be administered just scientific advances. We’re working with our every three or six months, offering an alternative for patients who prefer not to take a community partners to address racism, stigma, daily pill. In 2019, GS-6207 received Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA as a homophobia and transphobia, particularly in potential therapy for heavily treatment-experienced people living with multidrug resistant communities disproportionately impacted by HIV. HIV, in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Gilead shared preclinical and clinical data from a proof-of-concept study in July 2019, showing antiviral activity over 10 days Visit Gilead.com/YIR2019 to following a single dose. Additional clinical trials are planned to evaluate the compound in learn more about our efforts. combination with other antiretroviral agents in patients living with multidrug-resistant HIV-1 and in patients new to treatment. Gilead’s scientists are part of a broader industry and academic community working toward the goal of finding a cure for HIV. The challenges are great: Curative therapies will require discovery and development of agents to eliminate the latent HIV reservoir in the blood. These investigational agents include immune modulators, genetically engineered effector antibodies and possibly other approaches that have not yet been framed. In 2019, Gilead shared research data from two studies of investigational toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonists. Phase 1 studies of vesatolimod (GS-9620) found that higher doses of the drug stimulated a range of immune responses, and the compound was well tolerated at all studied doses with no identified serious adverse events. Preclinical testing of GS-986 also produced significant immune system activation while increasing the time to viral rebound. These results support further study of these investigative compounds as part of combination regimens to evaluate their potential to maintain viral remission in the absence of daily antiretroviral therapy. 34 2019 2019 35 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Inflammation Liver Diseases In 2019, by entering into a transformative research and development collaboration Gilead’s past work in liver diseases has led to the development of medicines that can with Galapagos, we gained access to Galapagos’s scientific research platform and cure chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and enable people living with chronic secured licensing and commercialization rights outside Europe to an array of current hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection to manage their condition with a daily tablet. Further and future programs. The extended collaboration builds on previous work to bring advancing the state of science in this field requires significant effort. In 2019, Gilead forward filgotinib, an investigational JAK-1 inhibitor being advanced for rheumatoid pursued clinical and preclinical research on four compounds to evaluate their potential arthritis (RA) and other inflammatory diseases, and adds more investigative medicines to cure HBV. to our pipeline. Screening and increasing patient access to treatment is critical. That’s why we Despite available medications for patients with RA, inflammatory bowel disease and continue our work to expand hepatitis screening and linkage to care for at-risk other inflammatory conditions, many patients continue to experience debilitating individuals and increase access to our medicines around the world. To do this, symptoms and do not achieve disease remission. Our goal is to advance therapies we actively support the efforts of governments and partner with professional that raise the bar in inflammatory disease management. organizations, patient advocacy groups, payers and healthcare professionals who have declared their intention and commitment to work toward the World Health Gilead’s R&D and strategic collaborations are built on a principle of engaging with Organization (WHO) goal of eliminating viral hepatitis around the world by 2030. patient communities to understand their greatest needs and priorities for new medical treatments. To that end, Gilead submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) for filgotinib We also collaborated with PathAI, a leader in artificial intelligence-powered research for the treatment of RA to the FDA in December 2019, with a priority review voucher in pathology, to evaluate machine learning approaches to liver histology assessment with the goal of shortening the anticipated time for review. Filgotinib has also been for use in diagnosis and treatment monitoring for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), submitted for regulatory approval in Europe and Japan. At the end of 2019, Gilead had a disease that causes fat accumulation and inflammation in the liver and can lead 12 clinical trial programs in inflammatory diseases, including optionable compounds to liver fibrosis and the need for liver transplantation. The Phase 2 ATLAS study being developed by Galapagos. of combination and monotherapy investigational treatments for advanced fibrosis (F3-F4) due to NASH missed its primary endpoint ( ≥1-stage improvement in fibrosis without worsening of NASH). However, some of the compounds in the study produced statistically significant improvements in fibrosis and liver function compared with placebo, suggesting that additional research is warranted into their potential future use as combination therapy. Science is often not a linear, predictable journey, but we remain motivated to help patients with NASH. 36 2019 2019 37 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Kite “company, As an independent operating Kite is able to focus on its core mission in cell therapy. In Highlights the highly competitive oncology field, speed is critical, and I have seen firsthand how autonomy can foster agility, innovation and entrepreneurialism. I am confident in 2019: that in striking this balance of autonomy and collaboration, Kite will be able to build on the tremendous progress already made to date.” Focused on the Cure Daniel O’Day, Chairman and CEO, Gilead A Note From Christi Shaw At Kite, we are focused on the cure. This mission is extremely personal as we have the potential to change the way cancer is treated and improve the lives of people living with cancer. A deep sense of connection to the patients we serve is at the heart of everything we do. We are in a position to help patients with limited treatment options, and our continued pursuit of potentially lifesaving therapies is what drives our entire organization forward. 2019 was a transformative year for Kite, and I am proud to be part of a company pushing the boundaries of science to make a real and meaningful difference for people impacted by cancer. With Yescarta® (axicabtagene ciloleucel), we’ve treated more than 2,500 people with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma, and our industry-leading development program could make Kite the first company with multiple commercialized chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies for people in need. With cell therapy, we’re ready to change the way cancer is treated. Christi Shaw, Chief Executive Officer, Kite, a Gilead Company 38 2019 2019 39 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Meaningful Results in Blood Cancer “any I won’t give cancer more power. As Yescarta was the first approved CAR T therapy for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after long as we have a tool two or more lines of systemic therapy. in our toolbox to fight, 47% we’ll use it. CAR T was that tool for me.” (n=101) of patients in the ZUMA-1 study were alive three years after a single infusion of Yescarta. Shon, Diagnosed with Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma EXPANDING INTO NEW HEMATOLOGIC MALIGNANCIES AND EARLIER LINES OF THERAPY In 2019, Kite presented clinical trial data for investigational KTE-X19, demonstrating its potential as the first cell therapy in adults with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma; data informed Kite’s global regulatory filings for a second CAR T therapy. 93 “and Most importantly, CAR T works % of patients (n=60) in the ZUMA-2 study has shown an approximate responded to a single infusion of KTE-X19, 50% complete response rate including 67% of patients with a complete response and 27% with a partial response with durable benefits. This has (median follow-up of 12.3 months). changed treatment outcomes for . appropriate patients with large B-cell lymphoma.” Kite became the first company to complete enrollment in a clinical trial (ZUMA-7) to evaluate CAR T versus standard of care in second-line diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Dr. David Miklos, Oncologist Specializing in Cell Therapy and Blood and Marrow Transplantation SUPPORTING PATIENT ACCESS TO CAR T Nearly 170 centers globally are authorized to treat patients with Yescarta — more than any other cell therapy in the world. Kite provides patients and healthcare providers with access to the Kite Konnect® portal. This customized program uses an integrated technology platform to provide real-time updates and enable the rapid and reliable delivery of Yescarta to treatment centers. Shon and his wife, Lisa 40 2019 2019 41 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Research and Development Maintaining Best-in-Class at Kite Manufacturing ADDRESSING UNMET NEEDS IN BLOOD Yescarta is manufactured in Kite’s El Segundo, California, facility, and the company continues to further its capabilities and CANCERS WITH: geographic reach. • Ten ongoing trials in B-cell malignancies. Multiple development programs evaluating broader use of Yescarta. “provide Most oncology treatments transient remissions • Netherlands (Amsterdam): Commercial production beginning in 2020. Earlier line of therapy in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. lasting only weeks or months. • Maryland (Frederick County): New facility will significantly expand manufacturing for CAR T and TCR therapies and • Combinations with immuno-oncology agents. What is transformative about cell will begin commercial production in 2022. • Studies across a range of blood cancers, including acute therapy is the potential to achieve • California (Oceanside): New facility dedicated to lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia durable remissions and perhaps development and manufacturing of viral vectors — and indolent non-Hodgkin lymphomas. one day curative therapy. Kite a critical starting material in cell therapy — to be strives to make these longercompleted in 2021. EXPANDING THE POTENTIAL OF CELL THERAPY TO term outcomes a reality.” • Asia: Partnership in Japan and joint venture in China to extend geographic reach. SOLID TUMORS: T CELL RECEPTOR (TCR) TECHNOLOGY AND NEOANTIGEN TARGETING Ken Takeshita, M.D., • Investigational KITE-718, a T cell therapy engineered to express TCRs that target MAGE A3/A6 proteins found in bladder, Global Head of Clinical Development, Kite, a Gilead Company “reliably Our global network can rapidly and deliver commercial and clinical esophageal, head and neck, lung, and ovarian tumors, and therapies to patients today and has investigational KITE-439, a T cell therapy engineered to express TCRs that target HPV16 antigens found in cervical, “treating We are adjusting our approach to hematologic malignancies the agility and adaptability to meet the head and neck, and other cancers, are currently in Phase 1 trials. and building on that knowledge demands of tomorrow. As we advance to address solid tumors and the the science of cell therapy, we’re making • Kite is furthering research and development of adoptive cell therapies targeting patient-specific tumor neoantigens. different inhibitory mechanisms investments to further optimize our solid tumors employ to evade end-to-end processes, strengthen our elimination. With the right targeting leadership and continuously improve our ADVANCING THE NEXT GENERATION OF TREATMENT and synthetic biology, Kite has ability to serve our patients.” We believe cell therapy has the power to fundamentally change the opportunity to redefine the cancer care, and we’re pursuing every avenue that will help bring treatment of solid tumors.” Charles Calderaro, Global Head of Technical Operations, it to more patients, including development of allogeneic cell Kite, a Gilead Company therapies that could be accessed directly in cancer centers. Peter Emtage, Ph.D., Senior Vice President and Global Head of Cell Therapy Research, Kite, a Gilead Company 42 2019 2019 43 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 17 Partnerships and Collaborations: Setting the Stage for Transformative Science We do some of our best work in partnership with other leading innovators in our industry. Gilead enters into strategic collaborations that enable us to gain access to new technologies, share complementary strengths and advance innovative science with independent peers. These partnerships are built on a foundation of strong Focused on science that offers potentially innovative paths to patient benefit. Innovation In 2019, we established a transformational collaboration with Galapagos, one of the largest independent biotech companies in Europe. We also built relationships designed to advance our efforts and broaden our pipeline in a variety of areas: We’re building on our strength in • Liver disease: Gilead established collaborations and licensing agreements to research antiviral medicine and our expertise in novel treatments for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and NASH-related fibrosis with immunomodulation as we expand into Yuhan Corporation, Novo Nordisk, insitro, Renown Institute of Health and Glympse Bio. inflammatory diseases and oncology. • Kidney disease: We entered into a collaboration with Goldfinch Bio to develop novel Visit Gilead.com/YIR2019 therapies for diabetic kidney disease and certain orphan kidney diseases, leveraging to explore our pipeline. Goldfinch’s proprietary DNA sequencing platform. • Oncology: Gilead worked with Nurix and Carna Biosciences on oncology and immunooncology programs; Kite collaborated with Kiniksa Pharmaceuticals to evaluate an investigational combination of Yescarta and mavrilimumab in relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma. 44 2019 2019 45 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Eisai: Preparing for Regulatory Novartis: Respiratory and Herpes Approval of Filgotinib in Japan Antiviral Research Programs In December, Gilead announced a partnership with Eisai Co. Ltd. to distribute and coIn July, Gilead licensed three preclinical antiviral programs from Novartis, gaining market filgotinib for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The announcement followed Gilead’s October exclusive rights to develop and commercialize novel small molecules against three submission of a New Drug Application for use of filgotinib in RA to the Japanese Ministry of undisclosed targets. The preclinical programs include investigational agents with the Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW). If the application is approved, Gilead’s Japanese entity potential to treat human rhinovirus, influenza and herpes viruses. The two companies (Gilead Sciences K.K.) will be responsible for manufacturing, while Eisai will be responsible hope to increase the limited range of treatment options for these viruses by combining for product distribution in Japan. The companies will jointly commercialize the medicine, their strengths in antiviral research and development. expanding treatment options for the estimated 600,000 to 1 million people in Japan living with RA. Strategic Collaborations and Investments Timeline Nurix: Targeting Proteins to Create In 2019, we executed 27 strategic collaborations and partnerships, including several New Cancer Treatment Options equity investments, as summarized below: In June, Gilead and Nurix Therapeutics Inc. established a multiyear collaboration to discover, develop and commercialize a pipeline of innovative, targeted protein degradation Partnerships and Licensing drugs for patients with cancer and other challenging diseases. Nurix will use its proprietary drug discovery platform to identify novel agents that play a role in diseases. Gilead will have an option to license drug candidates directed to up to five resulting targets, Research Collaboration Research Collaboration (NASH) Research Collaboration Research Collaboration Clinical Collaboration Research Research Collaboration Broader Collaboration: Commercial Collaboration (NASH) (Kidney) (Oncology) (Oncology) Collaboration (Inflamm/Fibrosis) potentially expanding the company’s pipeline of small molecule therapeutics. (HIV) (HIV) (Inflamm) Carna Biosciences: An Innovative Approach to Immuno-Oncology Clinical/Comm Research Research Research Collaboration Data License Collaboration Diagnostic License Research Collaboration Clinical + Research (Oncology) (NASH) (Virology) Collaboration (Oncology) Collaboration (DEL Screening) Collaborations (NASH) (HIV) (NASH) In June 2019, Gilead announced an R&D collaboration with Carna Biosciences Inc. to develop and commercialize small molecule compounds in immuno-oncology. The Corporate Development Transactions 2019 agreement enables Gilead to license worldwide rights to develop and commercialize inhibitors against an undisclosed immuno-oncology target. Gilead will also have exclusive Undisclosed access to Carna’s proprietary lipid kinase drug discovery platform, which offers an VC Investment important new approach to the development of innovative cancer immunotherapies targeting the lipid signaling pathway. Equity Investments 46 2019 2019 47 We’re Ready to Inspire Our People 48 2019 2019 49 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 3 At a Glance 4 Gilead’s success is built on the work of ~12,000 dedicated, mission-driven employees who embrace a 5 shared sense of purpose and a culture of excellence. 10 Our employees continue to bring a spirit of service to the important work of delivering transformative therapies and programs to patients and communities in need. Our objective is to make Gilead the employer of choice for the brightest minds in our industry. From creating a culture that maximizes the engagement and potential of every employee, to supporting individual passions by encouraging volunteer time, to modernizing our workspaces to be more collaborative and sustainable, we are ready to set new standards for an inclusive workplace culture that helps everyone create possible. 50 2019 2019 51 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 3 Life at Gilead Compensation and Financial Benefits Gilead is a pay-for-performance company committed to pay equity. Our employee 4 Gilead’s people are some of the sharpest minds in biotech and beyond, with a passion for salaries are based on market-based ranges and are assessed annually via performance and career development reviews. All compensation decisions are made improving lives. Our work is guided by a set of core values that drive everything we do. without regard to personal characteristics such as gender, race, color, national or 5 We live our values in the work we do every day. And by engaging with communities ethnic origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic through volunteering, participating in Gilead’s donation matching program, and taking part information, religion, or veteran status. We also conduct an annual review of employee in roundtable discussions with patients and partners, we demonstrate ways in which our compensation to ensure that our pay practices are gender-neutral. values make a difference in people’s lives. Our financial benefits include: How We Reward, Recognize and • Retirement savings with matching contributions, available in many Retain Employees countries based on local market practice and regulations* • Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP) that allows eligible Gilead Gilead’s compensation and benefits programs are designed to help attract, cultivate employees to purchase Gilead stock at a 15% discount, consistent with and retain the industry’s most talented workforce, offering competitive compensation Internal Revenue Service requirements packages that include bonuses and stock grant opportunities to the broad population. • Personalized money coaches in the United States who offer each Additional benefits that represent the needs of our people are tailored to our various employee 90 days a year of free, one-on-one financial coaching, assisting worldwide locations, and include flexible work arrangements, support for training and with anything from managing student loans to paying down debt to education, time-off and family planning benefits, disability and retirement benefits, and planning for retirement access to a variety of health and well-being resources. * For detailed information about Gilead’s defined benefit plan obligations, visit the 2019 Annual Report on Each year, we reassess our Total Rewards package to ensure it offers the right benefits Form 10-K on the Investors page of our website. and incentives to help us attract and retain critical talent. Gilead’s salary ratio for women to men globally is 99.93:100 52 2019 2019 53 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Health and Welfare Benefits To help our people and their families toward better health in mind and body, we offer a range of market-competitive well-being, extended healthcare and risk benefits in many countries. Our well-being offerings include biometric screenings, health assessment tools, wellbeing seminars, and on-site fitness centers or annual fitness reimbursement. Risk benefits include sick days, disability benefits, company-paid life, accidental death and dismemberment, and business travel accident insurance. Through our Employee Assistance Program, our people can also access financial, legal, pre-retirement, elder care and childcare consultations, as well as clinical counseling and Applied Behavioral Analysis therapy. We also provide fertility support where coverage is possible, which varies by region. In 2019, we expanded our U.S. health and welfare benefits to include family planning resources such as increased adoption assistance, benefits covering surrogacy assistance and selective egg freezing, and a breast milk delivery service for breastfeeding moms traveling for business. Another new program provides 24/7 support for working parents from pregnancy through the baby’s first year, including doula services, lactation consultants, career coaches and parenting specialists. Time Off Gilead offers competitive time-off benefits to help our employees remain rested and balanced. Employees get company-paid vacation days and holidays as well as family and parental leave benefits, all of which vary by country and region based on local laws, regulations and market practices. 54 2019 2019 55 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w In 2019, we doubled our Paid Family Time Off and Paid Collaborative Workspaces Parental Time Off benefits in the U.S., giving employees 12 In 2019, a cross-functional team from across Gilead G.Flex weeks to care for a sick family member or bond with a child. set out to redesign our workplace standards to create spaces more representative of the In 2019, Gilead introduced G.Flex, collaborative culture we wish to nurture and a flexible work program that allows In 2019, more than 99% of our worldwide employees on parental leave returned to enhance. Spaces that encourage fluid movement employees to tailor where and when work at the end of leave. allow employees to interact and engage, they work based on their individual generating the new ideas needed to tackle the needs. By utilizing the digital world’s most pressing health challenges. technology available across our PARENTAL LEAVE DATA offices, employees can connect and We looked at the entire spectrum of workspace collaborate from afar while optimizing Male Female TOTAL options, from open-plan layouts to more traditional their efficiency and increasing overall office-and-cubicle spaces, and developed four job satisfaction. Number of employees entitled to parental leave in 2019* 5,742 5,992 *11,736 principles that will guide future designs: Number of employees who took parental leave in 2019 213 380 593 Number of employees who returned to work after leave 211 377 588 ended in 2019 Number of employees retained 12 months after returning Colaboratation Colaboratation Colaboratation Colaboratation Natural Light Natural Light Natural Light Natural Light to work following a period of parental leave in 2018 155 291 445 Open Workstations Avail of Tech Open Workstations Avail of Tech Open Workstations Avail of Tech Open Workstations Avail of Tech Number of employees who took a parental leave in 2018 172 308 480 VG totals 1. Increase the 2. Maximize 3. Transition from 4. Dramatically increase the Number of employees who took a parental leave in 2018 184 333 517 number and types natural light by high-walled gray availability of technology of collaboration putting open cubicles to more in meeting rooms, 2019 return to work rate 99.06% 99.21% 99.16% spaces collaboration modern, open cafes, breakrooms and spaces around workstations other common areas, to 2018 return to work rate 99.50% 98.50% 98.80% the windowed help our people work periphery wherever they need to be 2018 retention rate 90.12% 94.48% 92.71% *2 employees declined to self-identify a gender. We hope to apply these standards across all our facilities worldwide in the next two years. 56 2019 2019 57 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w San Francisco Bay Area: Nearly Singapore: Employees Gilead Employees 500 employees from our Foster City campus donated 1,000 combined partnered with NCID Cares to donate and deliver food to people Employee Give Back hours to support charities including in need. Habitat for Humanity, the San Volunteers Do Gilead aims to positively impact the Francisco–Marin Food Bank, the National AIDS Memorial Grove, Korea: Volunteers supplied, packed and delivered 80 care packages to Good for the communities where we work and live. and the Boys and Girls Clubs of Oakland. families living in shelters while their children receive care at a nearby Worldwide, we encourage our employees to Holidays apply their talents to four core areas of focus: Southern and Northern California hospital. underserved communities, STEM education, and Maryland: Kite employees France: 126 employees supported Every December, Gilead and Kite environment and health awareness/outreach. volunteered with organizations 28 organizations benefitting foodemployees participate in community We offer one paid day off annually to volunteer including Heal the Bay, Family Reach insecure populations, domestic service projects during the holiday and Baby2Baby. violence victims and children with the nonprofit organization of their choice. dealing with illness. season. In 2019, employees in In 2019, our employees collectively volunteered China: Participating in our Week of Northern and Southern California, more than 14,500 hours of their time. Service for the first time, employees Brazil: Employee volunteers packed the UK and Ireland, Portugal, Korea, in our Shanghai and Beijing offices 120 care kits for a nonprofit that Germany, and Turkey volunteered Global Week of Service collected books for a primary school provides business education for children of migrant families opportunities to disadvantaged with local nonprofit groups to and supported an organization teens. Gilead’s annual Week of Service brings conduct toy and book drives, collect benefitting children with autism. together employees around the world to clothing, assemble care packages, make a difference in their communities: and raise funds for families and preparing meals and collecting donations Inspiring the Next Generation of Scientists children in need, newborn services, for people in need, doing cleanup at mental health programs, homeless public parks and community resource To help ensure a diverse and educated pipeline of future scientists, Gilead engages services, individuals living with HIV, centers, and more. In 2019, hundreds of in STEM education initiatives in our local communities and supports our people in and children and pets impacted by employee volunteers participated in 20 related mentoring and volunteer activities. In 2019, we were the main sponsor of the domestic violence. such initiatives, including: annual WorldWideWomen Girls’ Festival, an event that attracted more than 7,000 girls and their families. More than 30 volunteers from Women in Science (a chapter of our Women at Gilead employee resource group) and the Gilead STEM community led an activity at the festival that used cotton candy to show how manipulating crystalline structures can promote better absorption of medicines. 58 2019 2019 59 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w We have sponsored various similar events, including University of California, San Francisco’s annual Bay Area Science Festival, where employees engaged with youth around science and innovation. Empowering Professional and Personal Employees With Development Self-ID Options A truly inclusive workplace is one where all Gilead’s Learning and Development Program fosters employees feel comfortable bringing their a culture of continuous growth, helping our people full, authentic selves to work. To create such develop cross-functional skills and tools to grow their an environment, we aim to give everyone the tools to identify to the company and careers and deepen their engagement with Gilead’s to others as they wish to be seen. On U.S. culture. National Coming Out Day in October, Gilead announced a new Self-ID option that allows • In 2019, Gilead employees completed over employees to include sexual orientation 57,230 hours of professional, management and gender identity in the personal and leadership development training information they voluntarily share. programs, or an average of 4.2 hours per The new option was prompted by feedback employee.* from a survey coordinated by the Gilead Pride Alliance in partnership with the • Employees can receive reimbursement for Inclusion & Diversity team. tuition expenses incurred while pursuing undergraduate, graduate or certificate courses Although personal information remains at an accredited college or university. Annual private, capturing more accurate reimbursement maximums and eligibility may aggregated data about employees’ vary from country to country. statuses as members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or queer+ (LGBTQ+) • Gilead also supports continued education with community, or as straight allies for equality, helps Gilead develop programs and a discount on MBA programs through Golden measure progress for hiring, developing, Gate University. In 2019, 54 employees and retaining LGBTQ+ employees and participated in the on-site MBA program in candidates. Foster City. * Online courses are assumed to be one hour. 60 2019 2019 61 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 5 Diverse Perspectives 10 Gilead’s success depends on every one of our employees, and the innumerable ways in which we differ are our greatest sources of strength. These include visible features, such as age, sex, ethnicity, physical ability and appearance, as well as underlying distinctions, such as thinking styles, religion, nationality, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity and education. Our inclusive and diverse workforce is the foundation for innovation, productivity, insight and empathy that enables us to improve the standard of care for patients all over the world. For more information, visit the Diversity and Inclusion page on our website. Communities at Gilead The key to creating empowering workplace communities is giving employees the scope and support to realize their own ideals. Gilead pursues purposeful initiatives to foster diversity and inclusion at all levels of the company, while also relying on the initiative and energy of our people to help scale these efforts and create a sense of belonging for all. Employee Resource Groups In 2019, 52% of Gilead’s employees were members of an Employee Resource Group (ERG), which provide opportunities for leadership development, community involvement, networking, mentoring, skills advancement, input into the recruitment of diverse candidates and other ways for Gilead employees to make a difference beyond their usual work responsibilities. ERGs organize events, information campaigns and cultural exhibitions that educate colleagues on issues that are important to each group. 62 2019 2019 63 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Embracing and Promoting Inclusivity Gilead embraces the full array of our workforce. We are committed to creating a welcoming culture in which every individual feels seen, heard and respected. In 2019, we achieved a major goal for our inclusion efforts with the announcement of our new Global Gender Identity and Transition Policy. The policy builds on Gilead’s long-recognized core values and practices but formalizes them for the first time in a way that encourages our employees to express their true gender identity, supports those who transition, and aims to foster an affirming workplace for our transgender and gender nonbinary colleagues. Under the new policy, all Gilead employees have the right to: • Express their gender identity and characteristics at work. • Choose whether and how much to share of their gender identity and transition with others. • Be addressed by the name and pronouns that correspond with their gender identity. • Use the restroom, locker room and other facilities that correspond with their gender identity. • Be free from harassment or discrimination based on their actual or perceived gender identity, characteristics and expression. Forbes 2019 Best Employers for Diversity List Gilead is proud to rank in the top 500 companies on the Forbes Best Employers for Diversity list. 64 2019 2019 65 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 3 Global Workforce UNITED STATES GENDER, AGE AND RACE/ETHNICITY DISTRIBUTION* UNITED STATES GENDER, AGE AND RACE/ETHNICITY DISTRIBUTION* 5 Gilead’s worldwide staff has grown to ~12,000 employees across more than 35 TOTAL GILEAD U.S. POPULATION countries. We strive for a close, creative and collaborative culture where all our TOTAL GILEAD U.S. POPULATION 10 employees can see the tangible results of their contributions and have a chance to enhance their skills through ongoing development. White 5% 4% White 5% 4% Asian 11% Asian Workforce Demographics 51% Female 11% 42% 42% 49% Male Hispanic or Latino 51% 49% Hispanic or Latino At Gilead, every individual matters, as does everyone’s individuality. We’re continually Female 38% Male Black or African-American seeking opportunities to diversify our workforce, and data is an important part of that 38% Black or African-American process. Each year, we review total new hires, voluntary turnover, and metrics on Other gender, race, ethnicity and other identifiers to measure the success of our inclusion Other and diversity goals. 2019 DATA The following is a snapshot view of Gilead’s 2019 workforce demographics: 2019 DATA Gender Race/Ethnicity Gender Black orRace/Ethnicity 2017 2018 2019 AfricanHispanic EEO-1 Category* Male Female White Black or American or Latino Asian Other** New Hires* 1,155 1,997 2,208 AfricanHispanic Executives*** EEO-1 Category* 67% Female Male 33% 65% White 9% American or Latino1% 23% Asian 2% Other** New Hire Rate 12.70% 19.20% 18.80% First-/Midlevel Managers Executives*** 51% 67% 49% 33% 45% 65% 5% 9% 7% 1% 38% 23% 3% 2% Voluntary Turnovers 781 937 925 Professionals Managers First-/Midlevel 46% 51% 54% 49% 35% 45% 4% 5% 10% 7% 48% 38% 3% Total Gilead U.S. Population Professionals 49% 46% 51% 54% 42% 35% 5% 4% 11% 10% 38% 48% 4% 3% Voluntary Turnover Rate 8.50% 9% 8.20% Total Gilead U.S. Population 49% 51% 42% 5% 11% 38% 4% *Data based on U.S. definitions/demographics as of 2019 EEO-filing (based on December 31, 2018 data and includes Kite). *New hire data includes individuals who were hired externally. Some percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Existing employees that changed positions internally are not included in this calculation. *Data based on U.S. definitions/demographics as of 2019 EEO-filing (based on December 31, 2018 data and includes Kite). ** “Other” Some category includes percentages may not two upmore add or to 100% dueNative races, Hawaiian or Pacific Islander and American Indian or Alaskan Native categories. to rounding. ***Executives ** compose “Other” category less than includes 2%more two or of Gilead’s U.S. population races, Native Hawaiian and or Pacific up governance make Islander bodies Indian and American that comprise VP Native levels and or Alaskan above. categories. ***Executives compose less than 2% of Gilead’s U.S. population and make up governance bodies that comprise VP levels and above. 66 2019 2019 67 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Workforce Safety Gilead believes that a safe and secure workplace not only promotes our peoples’ health, wellness and productivity but also inspires innovation. Our workplace safety, training and security program is designed to prevent occupational injuries and illnesses and to promote a culture of reporting. To ensure continued adherence to the program’s policies and procedures, we provide employees with annual refresher courses, as well as tailored training sessions, and investigate and catalog incidents and near-misses worldwide. In 2019, the most frequent work-related injuries resulted from musculoskeletal extremity and upper torso strains that were caused by ergonomic hazards. The individuals affected were unable to recover fully within six months. Our team meets quarterly to review environmental and safety performance across all our worldwide sites, while joint management-line health and safety committees review sitelevel performance. Where incidents occur, on-site teams complete in-depth reviews to identify the causes and determine how to mitigate the risk of recurrence. FTE AND NON-FTE EMPLOYEES 2018 2019 Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0 Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0 Number* of high-consequence work-related injuries 2 4 Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries 0.02 0.03 Total number of recordable work-related injuries 74 58 Annual total hours worked 22,648,146 25,838,515 Rate of recordable work-related injuries 0.65 0.45 TheThe above above datadata is for is for full full-time andand employees time employees non-full-time non-full employees. number of high-consequence work-related time employees.*The *Theisnumber injuries based on lost time/days away of high-consequence and restricted work-related workday injuries is based on reported cases to OSHA. lost time/days away and restricted workday cases reported to OSHA. 68 2019 2019 69 We’re Ready for a Healthier World 70 2019 2019 71 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 3 At a Glance 4 Giving Back to 4 Gilead recognizes that improving public health requires more than just medicine. Our goal is to bring 10+ 10 Our Communities 10 transformative therapies to patients in the next 10 years. 17 Patients and communities often face challenges in accessing the best possible care. We know Gilead alone cannot solve these challenges — so we are committed to 17 We aim to help create a healthier world for all people be an important part of the solution. By joining forces with people in communities throughout the world, we support programs and initiatives that meet unique local through worldwide programs that address issues such and regional needs. Through our partnerships with community organizations, we as stigma and access, as well as healthcare disparities work to help improve access to care, reduce disparities, improve education and that persist in all regions of the globe. To do so, we work support local communities. in collaboration with governments, health authorities, Gilead’s corporate giving programs fund projects that support underserved nongovernmental organizations and private-sector communities, which systematically experience social or economic obstacles to health. Our goal is to partner with patients and communities to build collaborative organizations to create and implement community solutions that help extend access to care as broadly as possible. We build partnerships, access and pricing initiatives, and relationships with patient advocates, nonprofits and healthcare professionals around the world who work tirelessly in local communities to improve people’s lives innovative programs that extend access to those who day after day. need it. In 2019, Gilead provided $380 million in cash donations in an effort to reduce health disparities, eliminate the barriers to healthcare encountered by underserved populations, advance education among healthcare professionals and support the local communities in which we operate. 72 2019 2019 73 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w RADIAN Addressing Every day, more than 400 people in Eastern Europe and Central Asia (EECA) become Stigma in the Asia infected with HIV, and more than 100 die from AIDS every day.1 Although rates of new HIV infections and deaths from AIDS-related illnesses are now decreasing globally, Pacific Region EECA is one of the few regions where HIV is on the rise and deaths from AIDS have Our Rainbow Grant program supports grassroots increased by approximately 300% in the past 20 years.2 The region’s investment community advocates working to provide access, gap in HIV treatment and prevention — the difference between available funding improve education and reduce stigma around HIV and estimated need — is nearly $1 billion.3 In 2019, Gilead and the Elton John AIDS treatment and care. Foundation decided to build on our existing collaboration in the region to create the RADIAN initiative, which extends much-needed support and funding to some of the Visit Gilead.com/YIR2019 to meet world’s most marginalized communities. our grantees. The RADIAN initiative incorporates a Model Cities program, which directs resources to communities in need that are immediately ready to scale interventions through targeted funding. For communities that aren’t quite ready to scale their programs, the RADIAN “Unmet Need” fund will provide capacity-building support to local initiatives that focus on prevention and care, education, community empowerment, and novel partnerships. By partnering with local organizations, RADIAN will leverage on-the-ground insights and share best practices to help make meaningful progress across the region. 1 UNAIDS Data 2019 2 UNAIDS Data 2017 3 Estimate based on 2018 funding versus 2020 estimated need. 74 2019 2019 75 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w HepConnect The U.S. opioid crisis has led to a sharp increase in HCV infections in the Greater Appalachia region. The CDC reports that HCV infections in Central Appalachia rose 364% between 2006 and 2012. In response, Gilead’s new HepConnect program — a five-year, multimillion-dollar initiative — supports evidence-based solutions to meet the needs of people most affected by the crisis in Indiana, Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee and West Virginia. In partnership with the Harm Reduction Coalition and local organizations, HepConnect is working to: • Expand screening and linkage to care, • Support harm reduction and community education, and • Activate health infrastructure to build resources, know-how and capacity in communities where the need is greatest. In 2019, HepConnect awarded $5.3 million to 44 grantees across the region. Organizations received grants to provide new or expanded harm-reduction services for people who use drugs, or grants to offer new strategies to engage and educate local communities on harm reduction. 76 2019 2019 77 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w HIV Age Positively® A TALE OF TWO CITIES: In the early days of the HIV epidemic, few people imagined the challenges of aging with HIV. Now, thanks to advances in treatment and care, people with HIV are living Almaty and Atlanta longer than many imagined at the height of the epidemic. Estimates suggest that by 2030, more than 80% of people living with HIV will face at least one age-related Although a world apart, Almaty, Kazakhstan, and Atlanta, medical condition, compared with just 29% in 2010. Georgia, have a lot in common. Both are seeing an increase in new HIV infections, a spike in HIV-related deaths and We’ve seen incredible progress over the past three decades when it comes to treating people living with HIV. Still, we recognize that aging with HIV brings unique challenges disproportionate impacts on healthcare due to stigma. and considerations. With the goal of addressing such challenges, Gilead launched the Through grassroots advocacy and outreach, Gilead and its HIV Age Positively initiative in 2018 in the UK. In 2019, we expanded our efforts to the partners are empowering communities across continents to U.S. by first convening an advisory board of experts with deep insights into the subject of aging with HIV. end these trends. The advisory board explored opportunities for Gilead and our partners to positively Addressing Unmet Needs: impact this community. Members included healthcare providers, researchers and community advocates. The group determined that addressing the interrelated issues within our healthcare system and the general HIV community — such as stigma, Gilead takes a comprehensive approach to help support loneliness and better coordination of care — is essential in reaching a viable solution people and organizations working in some of the most to these challenges. vulnerable communities around the world — maximizing As a result of the advisory board’s findings, Gilead determined to provide $17.6 million impact through local partnerships to improve education, in grants to 30 organizations tackling three priority areas in the U.S.: access and health outcomes. 1. Improving care coordination 2. Increasing resources for well-being 3. Educating and informing policy 78 2019 2019 79 ALMATY, KAZAKHSTAN’S LARGEST CITY AND THE Welcome to FIRST RADIAN “MODEL CITY,” IS HOME TO: Almaty Kazakhstan ~7,,400 PEOPLE LIVING WITH HIV (PLWH) 27% OF PLWH IN KAZAKHSTAN HIV IS ON THE RISE IN EECA: 2x PREVALENCE RATE OF PLWH NATIONALLY In 2019, Gilead partnered with the Elton John AIDS Foundation to launch RADIAN, a groundbreaking 400+ 100 25% 62% initiative that aims to stop new HIV infections and NEW HIV INFECTIONS AIDS-RELATED DEATHS DAILY OF PLWH ARE UNAWARE OF OF PLWH ARE UNTREATED deaths from AIDS-related illnesses in Eastern Europe DAILY THEIR STATUS and Central Asia (EECA). THE RADIAN APPROACH: $25 MODEL CITIES UNMET NEED Million FUND FUND INVESTMENT TARGETED SUPPORT SUPPORTING OVER FIVE IN KEY EECA CITIES TO PROJECTS YEARS STRENGTHEN LOCAL IN UP TO 25 INITIATIVES COUNTRIES At Gilead, we have always believed in taking an inclusive approach to ending the HIV epidemic and are proud to continue actively working in partnership with others to achieve zero discrimination, zero new HIV infections and AIDS-related deaths by 2030. SOURCES: Radianhiv.org UNAIDS Data 2019 UNAIDS Data 2017 Kazakh Scientific Center of Dermatology and Infectious Diseases – 2019 Report 80 2019 Almaty City AIDS Centre 81 ATLANTA, THE FIFTH-LARGEST METRO AREA Welcome to IN THE SOUTHERN U.S., IS HOME TO: Atlanta 37K+ 2 6 ND TH Highest Highest PEOPLE LIVING PREVALENCE RATE OF PLWH WITH HIV RATE AMONG U.S. OF PLWH METRO AREAS Georgia, USA NATIONALLY THE SOUTHERN UNITED STATES IS DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECTED BY THE HIV EPIDEMIC: The COMPASS Initiative is a 10-year, $100 million commitment from Gilead to partner with community37% 51 % 433K+ 49% based organizations working to combat the HIV/ OF THE U.S. OF NEW HIV PLWH OF ALL HIVAIDS epidemic across the Southern United States. POPULATION INFECTIONS RELATED DEATHS IN THE U.S. IN THE U.S. ANNUALLY THE COMPASS APPROACH: $100 COMMITMENT OVER 10 YEARS EMORY UNIVERSITY ROLLINS SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH: Million Capacity building and knowledge sharing “Our goal is to help mobilize communities COORDINATING CENTERS: SOUTHERN AIDS COALITION: to work more effectively together with a Fund local organizations based Awareness, education and collaborative spirit.” on focus areas anti-stigma campaigns Neena Smith-Bankhead, MS, Emory University GRANTEES: UNIV. OF HOUSTON GRADUATE COMPASS Coordinating Center, Atlanta Deliver resources to address COLLEGE OF SOCIAL WORK: community needs Well-being, mental health and trauma-informed care SOURCES: Local Data: Atlanta (AIDSVu) HIV Prevention in the South (CDC) 82 2019 Diagnoses of HIV Infection among Adults and Adolescents in Metropolitan Statistical Areas United States and Puerto Rico, 2017 (CDC) 83 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w TRANScend™ Transgender people are one of the groups most affected by the HIV epidemic. The CDC estimates that: 3x ~1/2 14% Transgender people were three times more likely to receive a new HIV diagnosis than the About half of Transgender HIV diagnoses from 2009-2014 were of people living in the of all Transgender women are living with HIV, including: national average in 2017. Southern U.S. In 2019, Gilead launched the TRANScend Community Impact Fund to back Trans-led organizations working to improve the safety, health and wellness of the Transgender community. As with our COMPASS work, Gilead first convened an advisory board to outline specific opportunities and priorities for engagement and improved health outcomes within the Transgender community. Based on what we learned from our advisory group, TRANScend was launched to support strategic program development, capacity building and direct service initiatives 44% 26% 7% bolstered by strong community engagement efforts to build and sustain progress in reducing the impact of HIV within Transgender communities. of Black/African-American of Hispanic/Latina of White Transgender women Transgender women Transgender women 84 2019 2019 85 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Access, Pricing and Gilead Patient Support Programs 3 • Patient Counseling: Our case managers help patients navigate insurance coverage and Affordability: access to treatment. Assistance includes finding alternative coverage and copay support 10 when appropriate. Domestic and Global • Patient Assistance Programs: Individuals without insurance may be able to qualify to receive their Gilead medications free, directly from Gilead. Gilead offers a variety of programs targeted to specific medicines and diseases. • Medication Access Programs: These programs help provide access to medications for A crucial step in treating, preventing or curing disease is getting medicines into eligible individuals in the United States without insurance. Gilead also offers a copay the hands of the patients who need them. Through our Access to Medicines assistance program to help eligible people without insurance offset any out-of-pocket costs. programs, Gilead is expanding access to treatment by helping patients everywhere overcome both logistical and social barriers. Gilead collaborates with governments, Expanded Access Program nongovernmental organizations, healthcare providers, payers and other partners Gilead’s expanded access program offers access to our investigational medicines that may around the world to increase access to treatment. be an appropriate option when approved therapies or clinical trials are not available for some people with serious or life-threatening conditions. The program, sometimes known as compassionate use, varies regionally in compliance with the unique regulatory mechanisms Access to Our Medicines in the United States specific to each country. Since investigational medicines have not yet received regulatory approval, their potential risks and benefits are not yet established. Patients and their physicians The U.S. healthcare landscape is complex and can be difficult to navigate. Gilead’s must carefully consider all possible benefits and risks before seeking access. patient assistance programs help provide patients and their caregivers with access to medicines, copay assistance and counseling across our therapeutic areas and in Rapid Access to Our Medications Program accordance with all applicable laws. Extreme weather events such as hurricanes and floods can threaten health systems and interrupt access to care. Gilead has implemented emergency disaster procedures to help prevent interruptions to patients’ treatment with Gilead medicines in the continental United States and territories. Gilead works with healthcare providers and pharmacies to help provide Gilead medications to patients in need. Some individuals may be eligible to obtain a 30-day replacement supply of their Gilead medications at no cost. 86 2019 2019 87 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w HIV Prevention Medicine Donation Program As part of our broader efforts to ensure that everyone who can benefit from PrEP medications are able to access them, we announced in 2019 that we are donating up to 2.4 million bottles of Truvada for PrEP or Descovy for PrEP to the CDC per year through 2030. The donation is designed to reach uninsured people at risk of HIV infection. Less than 20% of the estimated 1.1 million Americans at risk of contracting HIV are currently taking PrEP medications. Broader usage among at-risk populations is hampered by significant social and structural barriers, such as HIV stigma, homophobia, limited awareness of PrEP among providers and patients, and overall lack of access to healthcare. Beyond the CDC medication donation, Gilead will also continue to support programs to help address the root causes of the epidemic, such as racism, violence against women, stigma, homophobia and transphobia, particularly in parts of the country with the highest burden of disease. Asegua: Partnerships in Bridging Gaps in Treatment Asegua Therapeutics is a Gilead subsidiary that produces authorized generics of Epclusa and Harvoni for treatment of chronic HCV. Through Asegua, Gilead offers flexible pricing and payment options that help break down barriers to access caused by insurance policy limitations, budget challenges for public health organizations and other causes. In June 2019, Gilead announced a five-year partnership with the Louisiana Department of Health to implement an innovative payment model designed to help the state eliminate HCV in its Medicaid patients and its prison population. The agreement allows Louisiana to purchase an unlimited amount of Asegua’s authorized generic of Epclusa while capping the state’s medication costs. The subscription model supports the state’s goal of treating at least 31,000 people by the end of 2024 — more than 75% of Medicaid beneficiaries and prison inmates estimated to be infected with HCV. 88 2019 2019 89 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w The partnership demonstrates the flexible options Asegua offers for health authorities Advocacy for public health initiatives and policies that maximize and nonprofits to improve treatment options for their communities. Asegua offers patient reach and prevent new infections innovative support options for patients throughout the U.S., including copay and financial assistance, help determining insurance coverage and requirements, prior authorization information, and a nurse hotline to answer treatment-related questions. Strengthening health systems to bolster diagnostic, treatment and surveillance capacity Access to Our Medicines Around the World Collaborative research that targets innovative therapies, informs Gilead works with public health officials, community advocates, researchers, doctors drug delivery and helps countries map disease burdens and patients to carry out a variety of programs that provide access to our medicines in lowand middle-income countries. Because there is no single solution to the worldwide challenge of access, Gilead For more information about these and other initiatives to improve global has carried out pioneering programs and partnerships that focus on communities access to lifesaving medicines and public health education, refer to the Our Purpose impacted by HIV, viral hepatitis and visceral leishmaniasis. We apply a variety of section of our website. approaches to increase disease awareness, engage partners strategically and deliver medicines efficiently. These include: Tiered pricing, with discounts on medicines based on disease burden and national per-capita income Responsible generic licensing of our products to enable highquality, low-cost versions of our HIV and viral hepatitis medicines in lowand middle-income countries 90 2019 2019 91 We’re Ready for a Sustainable Future 92 2019 2019 93 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 6 At a Glance 7 Delivering Our 7 The world’s natural systems are delicately balanced. Many human activities affect this balance, and their 13 Responsible Growth 12 impact on the health of the planet and society are becoming increasingly understood. At Gilead, we work Strategy 13 Through our responsible growth strategy, we are investing in operating our business to grow responsibly, reduce our consumption of natural more efficiently and sustainably while fulfilling our mission to discover, develop and resources and factor the resilience of our business into commercialize innovative therapeutics for some of the world’s most serious illnesses. everything we do. From reducing our greenhouse gas We believe environmental issues should be viewed not only as sustainability (GHG) emissions to conserving energy and donating challenges but also as human health challenges. Global temperature and precipitation lab supplies, we are committed to ensuring our growth changes can shift populations of disease-bearing insects, leading to a rise in vectorborne diseases. Crowded roadways mean more air pollution, which can lead to doesn’t come at the expense of people, communities and asthma and other respiratory ailments. And improper disposal of pharmaceuticals the environment. can contaminate drinking water supplies. While the potential impacts of our society’s activities may be far-reaching, they are not necessarily borne equally by each of its members: As a biopharmaceutical company, we recognize that the burden is disproportionately borne by the same underserved, at-risk populations that we look to reach with our treatments. 94 2019 2019 95 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Improving lives is our purpose, and that’s why we’re ready for a sustainable future. retrofit existing buildings to these standards. When leasing space, we prioritize At the center of our environmental strategy is a goal to reduce our GHG emissions buildings that have been recognized for their sustainability performance or are able to across Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (emissions from generation of the be brought up to standard. energy we purchase and consume) by 25% by 2025, compared with a 2016 baseline. Gilead currently manages 7.3 million square feet of facilities worldwide. In 2019, we Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts are driven by the CSR Committee, added six new LEED buildings and one new BREEAM site, growing our portfolio to which is responsible for embedding and integrating climate change, energy and a total of 43 facilities that are either currently certified or pursuing green building other material CSR issues into our overall business strategy and operations. The recognition. Three additional sites are currently under construction. committee reports to our board of directors at least annually on our management of these issues. As we continue to grow and expand our business, we expect that our aggregate energy use may increase. For example, in 2018 our total energy consumption increased by 2% compared with consumption in 2017. However, we focus on Green Buildings generating and procuring cleaner sources of energy as we grow our business to reduce our total GHG emissions. Due to increased renewable energy generation and Around the world, construction, building operations and transportation account for procurement, we reduced our overall Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by nearly over 50% of energy-related CO2 emissions. As a company that operates 175 sites 2,700 metric tons of CO2e in 2018 compared with 2017. in 36 countries and employs ~12,000 people worldwide, we are able to make a significant difference with respect to reducing our GHG footprint. As we open new labs for our scientists and new offices for the people who connect our products to the world, we’re partnering with architects, engineers and Our new LEED lab in Foster City: Our new central lab facility contractors who share our commitment to sustainability. We’re adopting green and research headquarters in Foster City, California, came building and renovation strategies — sourcing materials responsibly, promoting online in 2019. At 357,000 square feet, it was designed to efficiency in energy and water use, and improving indoor air quality to promote the health, well-being and productivity of our people. conform with the LEED Gold standard (certification pending). As part of our strategy, we are aligning all building projects to green construction standards such as LEED and BREEAM, and we are looking into opportunities to 96 2019 2019 97 Foster City Laboratory 324 was designed to: A More Flow more sunlight into workspaces Save 737,875 kWh/year of energy via solar panels on the parking garage Sustainable Use 307,000+ fewer gallons of water indoors Save 54.9% on total energy costs via Footprint each year with features such as low-flow central heating hot water plant and highbathroom plumbing (toilets, showers and efficiency boilers metered faucets) and other efficiency strategies Reduce annual outdoor potable water use by 111,000+ gallons through low-flow With facilities occupying more than 7.3 million square irrigation technologies feet of space, we understand the impact our operations have on people and the environment. As we advance therapies for life-threatening diseases worldwide, we are Employees Take the Lead on the path to a low-carbon future to help mitigate the Moving to Lab 324 was about more than just opening the doors to a new building — it was about embracing effects of climate change. sustainability in everything we do, including in managing the disposal of leftover supplies from our former labs. Instead of simply discarding these supplies, Gilead employees united to create a plan centered on principles of reuse and recycling. Employees collected and donated the supplies to Bio-Link Depot, a Bay Area nonprofit that equips teachers with science supplies from regional biotech companies. In addition to inspiring more efficient supply ordering practices to help reduce waste at Gilead, and establishing a newly designated drop spot for Inside Laboratory 324 employees to collect and donate unneeded lab materials, the combined effort resulted in: 6.7 1,670+ $13,000+ Since July 2018, 100% of the electricity supplied to our worldwide headquarters in Foster City, California, has been sourced from renewable energy. But achieving that goal was just the beginning. In 2019, we opened our new laboratory, Foster City Building 324, a state-of-the-art, sustainably designed research space where Gilead scientists can pursue groundbreaking science in responsible, earth-friendly ways. tons of lab materials pounds of plastic recycled and saved in disposal costs collected, decontaminated, diverted from landfills sorted and donated 98 2019 2019 99 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Alternative Transportation As we grow, we aim to do so in a way that doesn’t add to regional transportation challenges, such as reduced local air quality, or increased congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. We actively promote more efficient and cleaner transportation options for our employees by offering our own commuter bus service in Foster City and Santa Monica and encouraging the use of electric and hybrid vehicles by providing on-campus charging stations. Bus Ridership in Gilead’s Foster City Commuter Bus Program to and from Ev charging station Bart or rail train Electric car our campus now serves 30% of the campus’s employees, with nearly Globe with pin. 500 commuters riding at least one way daily. Bus At our facilities around the world, we’re installing EV charging stations Ev charging station Bart or rail train Electric car Globe with pin. to meet demand and encourage greater uptake. We have more than 150 stations worldwide. Kite earned a platinum achievement award from the City of Santa Monica’s GoSaMo Transportation Management Organization for its Bus Ev charging station Bart or rail train Electric car Globe with pin. outstanding sustainable commuting program, in which a third of all Kite employees participate. Europe operations launched a campaign to encourage employee adoption of hybrid and low-emissions vehicles for corporate fleet cars. Around the world, proximity to public transportation is a priority when selecting new Gilead facilities locations. 100 2019 2019 101 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w GHG Reduction Goals and Progress GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION GOAL PROGRESS At the center of our environmental strategy is the goal to reduce our greenhouse gas From 2016 to 2018, we achieved a 12% reduction in GHG emissions.* emissions across Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (emissions from generation of the energy we purchase and consume) by 25% by 2025, compared with a 2016 baseline, which aligns with the 2015 Paris Agreement. To meet our GHG emissions goal, we have developed a multiyear plan that includes Progress: 48% 2025 Goal: procuring renewable energy for high-impact locations combined with efficiency Reduce total GHG technologies and practices to improve the performance of our facilities. emissions by 25%* of goal CO2e Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal (reduction of ~9,952 MT CO2e) Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) emissions In 2018, Gilead reduced absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by nearly 2,700 metric tons of CO2e from the previous year. From 2016 to 2018, we achieved a 12% reduction in GHG emissions — halfway to our 2025 goal of a 25% reduction relative to a 2016 baseline. Gilead’s GHG reporting boundary includes all facilities over which Gilead maintained operational control between January 1, 2018, and December 31, 2018. As in previous *Compared to our 2016 baseline years, our 2018 GHG emissions inventory has been verified by a third party, and the third-party’s assurance statement is available upon request. The verification was We are currently developing our GHG emissions inventory for calendar year 2019. performed to a limited level of assurance using the International Organization for Following third-party verification in 2020, the inventory will be made public on our Standardization (ISO) 14064-3 verification standard for GHG assertions. website. 102 2019 2019 103 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 GHG EMISSIONS FROM GILEAD WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS Reporting Units: MT CO2e 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 44,531 46,330 46,446 Scope 2 (Market-based) 38,719 29,389 26,577 Scope 2 (Location-based) 48,296 46,217 45,938 Scope 3 (Business air travel) 32,003 33,056 38,186 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY Reporting Units: kg CO2e per square foot 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 9.01 7.08 7.53 Scope 2 (Market-based) 7.83 4.49 4.31 Scope 2 (Location-based) 9.77 7.06 7.45 Gilead’s GHG reporting boundary includes all facilities over which Gilead maintained operational control between January 1, 2018, and December 31, 2018. As in previous years, our 2018 GHG emissions inventory has been verified by a third party. The verification was performed to a limited level of assurance using the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3 verification standard for GHG assertions. We are currently developing our GHG emissions inventory for calendar year 2019. Following third-party verification in 2020, the inventory will be made public on our website. 104 2019 2019 105 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 6 Reducing As we expand our manufacturing and supply chains globally, we are committed to doing so in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. Across all our Environmental Impact operations, we’re moving away from a “take, make, waste” model and promoting an 7 ethos of resource conservation, efficiency and waste reduction. 12 Like all businesses, ours is a system of inputs and outputs: taking raw materials, transforming them into lifesaving treatments and distributing them to patients around Green Chemistry the world. The principles of green chemistry are incorporated into our drug development process from the outset, which allows us to cut our carbon footprint while delivering our Part of our challenge is understanding the environmental impact of each step of our medications with greater efficiency and lower cost. business lifecycle — from the manufacturing of our treatments to the disposal of our drug packaging — and determining how to introduce increasingly sustainable methods Led by a team of some two dozen process chemistry professionals at our Foster City into our practices. and Edmonton facilities, green chemistry is a day-to-day discipline spanning early drug development to manufacturing. Leveraging their own research and expertise To drive this effort, we have established a Global Sustainability Committee composed and learnings from Gilead’s membership in the American Chemical Society’s Green of representatives from each of our sites across both Gilead and Kite. Members of Chemistry Institute Roundtable, team members are tasked with identifying substances the committee regularly share best practices with one another to promote consistent and processes that are cleaner, more resource-efficient and better for Gilead’s bottom sustainability approaches across our operating regions, and the committee reports its line. We evaluate and compare new ideas against our current methodologies, and findings to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. present alternative processes for our scientists to adopt across areas such as chemical Our facilities personnel continuously monitor building energy use to identify and bio catalysis and the use of greener solvents. Because our employees think about opportunities to implement efficiency solutions, benefitting both our sustainability sustainability in their day-to-day research and decision-making, we are able to deepen goals and our operating costs. the pool of resources available to us on our sustainability journey. Our manufacturing sites continue to make great strides adopting cleaner, safer and more efficient green chemistry alternatives. We also take measures to ensure zero active pharmaceutical compounds are released into the environment via discharge, waste and post-consumer disposal. 106 2019 2019 107 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Making a Positive Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PiE) and Sustainable We are working hard to prevent active Green Chemistry Impact pharmaceutical compounds from contaminating the environment. Gilead Transforms APIs We are focused on improving the way we work to upholds strict operational standards in all be more efficient and to lower our environmental our R&D and manufacturing facilities and Green chemistry, and more specifically manages wastewater discharge and solid our commercial Active Pharmaceutical impact. Through efforts like green chemistry, our waste disposal to ensure that no active Ingredient (API) process optimization scientists are using fewer natural resources to group, helps to optimize the manufacturing deliver more to our patients around the world. pharmaceutical ingredients are released process by improving on efficiencies into the environment. while ensuring high product quality. Such Meet our team at Gilead.com/YIR2019. approaches have enabled Gilead to In 2019, Gilead contributed nearly $17,000 synthesize a main ingredient in our HIV to support consumer-focused drug treatment Biktarvy while using only 47% of take-back and stewardship initiatives the energy and 57% of the water required by Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship under its original synthesis method. Work Group MED-Project, which performs medication education and disposal work Biktarvy Starting Material Efficiency Improvements: New Route as a % of across the country. As of December 2019, Original Route MED-Project serviced approximately 836 active kiosks that collected more than 229 metric tons of unwanted medications and 57% 47% sharps. WATER USEAGE MASS OF INPUT 46% 47% EUTROPHICATION ENERGY POTENTIAL 54% 43% ACID RAIN GREENHOUSE GAS POTENTIAL EMISSIONS 108 2019 2019 109 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Worldwide Energy Consumption WORLDWIDE FACILITIES AND ENERGY CONSUMPTION As we expand our ability to treat more people, our energy use will naturally increase. Units 2016 2017 2018 Our challenge is to reduce our carbon footprint while meeting this increased demand. Total area of facilities worldwide Million under operational control sq. ft. 4.94 6.54 6.17 By tracking our total corporate energy use from nonrenewable and renewable sources and our energy use intensity at individual sites, we are able to generate a comprehensive view of Gilead’s energy consumption. This informs our global energy management strategy and allows us to evaluate efficiency site-by-site as our facilities Energy Source Energy Consumption (MWh) Energy Use Intensity (kWh/sq. ft.) portfolio grows. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 For 2018, our total energy consumption rose by 2% compared with the previous Total energy consumption from year. Renewable sources accounted for 10% of that total, with total renewable energy 0 9,199 36,105 0 1.4 5.9 renewable sources* consumption nearly quadrupling since 2017. Total energy consumption from 355,380 353,604 332,722 71.9 54 53.9 nonrenewable sources Total combined energy consumption 355, 380 362,803 368,827 71.9 55.4 59.8 * This figure includes renewable energy purchased through the grid and renewable energy procured from other sources. Renewable energy generation: Renewable energy procurement: New on-site solar panels at our Cambridge Our Cambridge, Stockley Park, Kite Santa facility generated an estimated 51,256 Monica and Oceanside sites procured 100% kilowatt hours in 2019, while design and of their energy from renewable sources construction of on-site solar projects in Foster for the first time in 2019. Throughout 2019, City, La Verne and Oceanside commenced. 100% of the electricity supplied to our Foster City campus and our Cork facility continued to come from renewable sources. 110 2019 2019 111 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Energy Efficiency In 2019, we implemented a new Plant Information system at our Foster City headquarters to monitor and track facility data, proactively manage operational performance, and quickly identify operational abnormalities. Leveraging this data, our Corporate Engineering and Facilities teams have implemented more than 40 new measures to improve operational efficiency and save energy. In 2019, Gilead implemented over 50 energy conservation efforts, which we estimate will deliver annual savings of 1.91 MWh and 140,000 therms. We also continued our program of retro-commissioning older Gilead buildings to higher environmental standards, investing in efficiency benefits that will cascade across the coming years. Water Management With our home state of California and many other operating regions facing long-term water shortages and other symptoms of prolonged water stress, we have increased our focus on water conservation. Our Foster City headquarters, for example, added evapotranspiration controllers to its irrigation system in late 2018, resulting in irrigation water consumption falling by over 15 megaliters in 2019 — the equivalent of six Olympic-size swimming pools. WORLDWIDE WATER USAGE 2017 2018 Water Source Megaliters Megaliters Indoor use 366 377 Irrigation 78 80 Fire/life safety NA 0 Total water usage 444 457 112 2019 2019 113 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Waste Reduction and Recycling WORLDWIDE WASTE DISPOSAL In 2018, Gilead diverted over half its waste from landfill, 2017 2018 recording a 58% diversion rate against 2017’s 47% rate. Nonhazardous Waste Disposal Metric Tons Landfill 3,699 5,052 Composting 926 2,139 Conservation is both a core part of our corporate sustainability plan and the result of Recyclables 2,299 4,850 individual initiative among our people, and in 2019, both business-led initiatives and personal adjustments produced positive impacts. Incineration 27 25 Other 58 NA For example, large-scale employee events in Foster City featured initiatives to reduce Total 7,009 12,066 waste-to-landfill and plastic consumption — including a zero-waste-to-landfill employee picnic. In addition, our Foster City headquarters partnered with on-site coffee vendor Penelope’s to incentivize use of reusable mugs, saving over 2,000 disposable cups in 2017 2018 the first three months of the launch. Nonhazardous Waste Disposal Metric Tons Incineration 1,154 1,342 E-waste recovery 19 NA On-site storage 4 NA Neutralization 2 1 Solvent recovery 4 8 Metal recovery 1 0 Recovery for reuse 0 NA Deep-well injection 2,328 1,568 Landfill 0 NA Incineration with Energy Recovery 9 129 Recycling 1 5 Other NA 5 Total 3,522 3,058 114 2019 2019 115 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 12 Increasing Business Working With Suppliers That Share Our Values Resiliency Gilead’s supply chain extends beyond the companies with which we do business directly, encompassing those suppliers’ own vendors. In 2019, we worked with over Building a resilient business is vital to Gilead’s continued impact on global health. 800 direct suppliers and over 22,000 indirect suppliers across the globe. To ensure That’s why we strive to anticipate and mitigate the range of environmental, supplythat we are consistently providing the highest quality therapies, and that our supplier chain and ethical risks that could affect the longevity of our operations. ecosystem operates in accordance with our values, we enforce a rigorous vetting process to identify partners that share similar principles regarding responsible Gilead’s worldwide headquarters are in California, where we experience the effects sourcing, supplier inclusion, risk management, sustainability and auditing. of climate change in more frequent and severe wildfires, droughts that threaten our water security and agriculture, and heatwaves that can affect the health and As referenced in our Supplier Code of Conduct, across our supply chain, we oppose workforce productivity. Events such as these have brought into focus the importance and condemn the use of child labor and forced labor; human trafficking; unfair of addressing climate issues in ensuring business continuity and resilience. treatment, wages, benefits and working hours; and discrimination based on race, color, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity/expression. We also Our business depends on being able to secure the raw materials that go into our support full compliance with all applicable legislation including the United Kingdom products. For this reason, we’re focused on growing and diversifying our supplier Modern Anti-Slavery Act. base, prioritizing small and diverse suppliers as a way of leveraging different backgrounds and perspectives to spur broad-based innovation. At the same time, Responsible Sourcing Program we’re making sure our partners share our ethical and environmental commitments. Gilead launched a three-year Responsible Sourcing strategic plan in 2018 to ensure We also work to sustain the integrity of the Gilead name by upholding the highest that as we grow, we select suppliers that share our commitments to inclusion and standards of drug safety, exercising transparent labelling and marketing practices, and diversity, human and labor rights, anti-corruption, environmental performance, health taking measures to eliminate the distribution of counterfeit medicines. and safety, and other criteria. 116 2019 2019 117 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Supplier Inclusion we make. And by prioritizing spend with small suppliers, we benefit from their greater agility and In 2016, Gilead added inclusion as one of our core values, recognizing that people from diverse backgrounds bring a broader arc of life experiences and perspectives quicker response times. Moving Beyond and make us a stronger, better-informed and more innovative company. In 2018, In 2019, Gilead and Kite were able to collectively Spend to devote $369 million of spend to small and small we took this commitment further by creating inclusion targets for our supply chain, challenging ourselves to spend $302 million with small businesses, establish supplier diverse businesses. We also improved our Measure Impact inclusion champions in select business functions, and more deeply integrate supplier supplier vetting process to increase spend with Supplier diversity can have positive inclusion into our procurement processes and procedures. By boosting our spend existing diverse suppliers, reduce onboarding impacts on businesses and communities, with small and diverse suppliers — including women-, minority-, veteran-, and LGBTQ+ of unnecessary new suppliers and help stabilize but many companies struggle to design owned businesses — we continue to realize our purpose with every transaction our supply base. To ensure sustained focus on and implement a successful program. supplier diversity, we created and implemented We believe Gilead’s path toward greater a Supplier Inclusion Champions program supplier diversity can be a model for THREE PILLARS OF RESPONSIBLE SOURCING successfully across several departments. other companies and industries, and in 2019 we worked with CVM Solutions to Gilead suppliers must align with our core values and meet financial and performance In addition to our own supplier inclusion publish a white paper, “2018 State of criteria in order to be qualified to do business with Gilead. programs, we’re also advocating for it throughout Supplier Diversity Report”, along with a the healthcare and general procurement spaces supporting article, “Supplier Inclusion: by aligning with industry councils and authoring Moving Beyond Spend to Measure thought-leadership articles for industry-focused Impact,” detailing our belief that a publications. broader lens is needed to capture the full impact of supplier diversity. In 2019, we continued our partnership with the Supplier Diversity Pharmaceutical Forum to build further capacity and grow relationships with new inclusive suppliers. Gilead also joined the Western Regional Minority Supplier Development Council, Expand & Audit and in 2019 had a member of our Procurement Supplier Inclusion Risk Mitigation & Inclusion of small and/or Performance OMO omission, leadership team serve on its Steering Committee. diverse suppliers ISO risk, financial risk, environmental impact, geographic risk, green procurement supplier code 118 2019 2019 119 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Risk Management and Performance available across our value chain. We’re working initially with select suppliers to establish GHG reduction plans, and by the end of 2019 had received or requested Gilead is continuously improving and evolving, and it is crucial that our expectations for GHG reduction plans from 122 indirect suppliers representing $1.7 billion in spend. suppliers follow suit. Our Supplier Code of Conduct conveys those expectations to all This effort will help us begin measuring and managing Scope 3 GHG emissions vendors with whom we do business, as well as their subcontractors. The code’s provisions resulting from our suppliers’ activities, contributing significantly to Gilead’s long-term cover ethical practices (including diversity and inclusion, business integrity, and animal carbon-reduction goals. welfare), labor and human rights, health and safety, environmental practices, and the management systems used to facilitate continual improvement and compliance with the Auditing Procedures code. In 2019, we updated our Supplier Code of Conduct to capture additional components that reflect evolving stakeholder expectations. These updates were created collaboratively Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EH&S) audit program for drug substances between Gilead and Kite, and for the first time cover all suppliers to both business units. was established in 2015, and has allowed Gilead to significantly increase supplier visibility and accountability. In 2019, Gilead’s EH&S auditors conducted audit We are actively working toward our goal to have 90% of our suppliers (by annual spend) compliance assessments for more than 120 suppliers representing 80% of our global agree to our Supplier Code of Conduct, and have made a further commitment to require spend, including manufacturers of chemical raw materials and suppliers of finished 100% of new indirect suppliers to agree to our Supplier Code of Conduct in 2020. active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). Audits determine the extent to which these companies align with our EH&S standards for practices such as capture of Supplier Sustainability volatile organic compounds, disposal of chemical solid waste, solvent recycling, and compliance with local and international standards. Opportunities to engage with suppliers and cultivate better sustainability practices are Our assessment, risk mitigation and auditing procedures evolve continuously to ensure that our products are produced to our required level of consistency. In line with the requirements of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations overseen by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other global regulatory agencies, Gilead’s suppliers for APIs and drug products are held to strict standards governing all aspects of production, including manufacturing procedures, testing methods, maintenance of premises and equipment, training, personal hygiene of staff, and Initial Assessment Supplier Reporting Expand & Audit System Integration Initial Assessment Implement selfExpand selfResponsible sourcing appropriate documentation. We work closely with our suppliers to identify practical of suppliers through assessment tool and assessment and audit fully integrated, improvement areas and share best practices for reducing or eliminating risks. supplier code and PSCI send to top 80% + critical suppliers including buy-desk/ “secondary critical” supplier onboarding suppliers and SRM 120 2019 2019 121 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w We monitor our supply chain continuously for adequate capacity, diversification, To protect personal data, we use a combination of in-house technology and thirdpotential risks, and adherence both to Gilead policies and to governing regulations party security services and systems to comply with data protection regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection such as the European Union General Data Protection Directive. There were no Act and other applicable labor and environmental regulations. substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data in 2019. If we encounter actual or potential violations of our company policies or governing regulations, we recommend corrective action and flag the supplier for follow-up Our anti-counterfeiting team consists of brand protection, legal, security, supplyevaluations. Certain violations — such as environmental negligence, human trafficking chain, quality and packaging professionals who protect patient safety by using or the use of forced labor — would prompt Gilead to terminate our agreement with the measures to help detect, stop, deter and report illicit sales of counterfeit or diverted supplying organization and remove it from our supply chain. medicines. Safety, Ethics and Transparency Gilead adheres to strict product safety, labeling, marketing, data security and anticounterfeiting guidelines. All our products undergo rigorous development, testing and clinical trials, and we use labeling and marketing practices pursuant to governing policies and regulations. Gilead did not receive any official warnings, fines or penalties in 2019 related to our marketing or labeling practices. Environmental Data Content, Period and Boundaries The environmental data and charts included in this section cover the calendar year January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2018. We are currently working to validate and verify environmental data from calendar year 2019; however, these figures will not be finalized at the time this report is published. Gilead will publish 2019 environmental data on our website when it is available. The environmental activities and initiatives described in this report section occurred in calendar year 2019. 122 2019 2019 123 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Appendix 124 2019 2019 125 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w About Gilead Our Governing Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a research-based biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical need. We strive to transform the promise of science and technology into therapies that have Principles the power to cure diseases or revolutionize the standard of care. Gilead’s primary As a company driven by science and dedicated to improving patient care and quality areas of focus include viral diseases, inflammatory diseases and oncology. of life, Gilead adheres to the highest legal and ethical standards of business conduct to protect patient safety, the company and its employees. Headquartered in Foster City, California, Gilead employed ~12,000 full-time employees and engaged 1,157 temporary/agency* workers in more than 35 countries on six Gilead’s board of directors serves stockholders by overseeing the management of continents in 2019. our business. The board, our leadership team and all employees at Gilead are responsible for upholding the corporate values of integrity, inclusion, teamwork, *Individuals employed or engaged as an agency worker by a third-party temporary agency, and excellence and accountability, and for compliance with our various business conduct compensated by the same, to perform work for Gilead for a predefined timeframe. and corporate policies. Our board has four committees: (1) Audit Committee, (2) Compensation Committee, (3) Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and (4) Scientific Committee. Our Board Guidelines and Committee Charters can be found on the Investors page of our website. Listing rules require that a majority of the members of a public company’s board of directors qualify as “independent.” All our committees are composed of independent members. As of December 31, 2019, 8 out of our 9 members were independent. 126 2019 2019 127 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w The Code We Stand By In 2019, there were no findings of corruption, anti-competitive behavior, violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation, or other healthcare compliance violations from any government body. All of Gilead’s governance bodies and employees must comply with our Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy. ABAC training is part of all Gilead new-hire trainings, and in 2019 we rolled out a revised global ABAC policy along with an assigned training module for all employees. These and other corporate policies are Our Approach to CSR available on GNet, our company intranet, which is accessible to 100% of managers and employees. In 2019, additional ABAC trainings were provided to our Audit Committee, For more than 30 years, Gilead has discovered, developed and expanded access which is a subset of our board of directors, and regional business partners and to best-in-class therapeutics that treat life-threatening illnesses. To ensure we distributors located in Europe, Asia, Africa, North America and South America. can continue to execute this mission in the future while reducing the social and environmental impacts resulting from our business activities, we have built a CSR The success of Gilead’s Code of Ethics depends upon employee compliance with program that focuses on patients, society, the planet and our business. relevant laws, rules and regulations associated with their employment, including laws prohibiting insider trading. We have formal mechanisms in place to address employee We take a precautionary approach to managing social and environmental activities to concerns around potential violations of Gilead’s Code of Ethics. (See section 9 of our minimize any potential harm or threat. Our objective is to reduce our climate change Code of Ethics). impacts, foster better communities, attract and retain top-tier employees, mitigate supply-chain risks, and prepare for future regulatory changes. We assess the adequacy of our key corporate policies annually to help ensure they are consistent with current regulations and good governance practices. Our CSR committee shepherds our vision and builds accountability for driving positive social and environmental change across our company and supply chain. With products distributed throughout the world, Gilead, our affiliates and entities acting Composed of leaders from Human Resources, Legal, Operations and Public Affairs, on our behalf are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices the committee is responsible for reviewing and making decisions on CSR-related Act (FCPA), the UK Bribery Act and all other applicable anti-corruption laws. Gilead strategies, stakeholder engagement, reporting, risk mitigation and other relevant offers training materials to employees and other relevant individuals and organizations activities of Gilead and our subsidiaries. At least annually, the CSR committee to communicate Gilead’s prohibition against corrupt or unethical activity. provides a report to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Gilead’s board of directors. Gilead performs internal and external audits to monitor for compliance with regulatory and company policies. In 2019, 21 audits were performed in roughly 16 countries for financial or FCPA compliance. 128 2019 2019 129 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality External Stakeholders Gilead uses a companywide management approach that continuously monitors our Gilead’s external stakeholders include 17 stakeholder groups across the following four operations to reduce potential or actual negative material impacts, both internal and categories. external. Business leaders with direct oversight over each topic area are responsible for managing these impacts, and internal and external stakeholders (see below) conduct annual evaluations of our management approach each year to identify Banks & Global Insurers NGOs strengths and areas for improvement. CSR Ratings Regulators & Indices Internal Stakeholders Academic Institutional Institutions To review sustainability-related topics, we assembled a team of internal stakeholders Investors & INVESTORS RULE-MAKERS from across Gilead, representing Corporate Communications, Corporate Contributions, Analysts & RISK & WATCHDOGS ASSESSORS Media Access Operations and Emerging Markets, Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacturing, Global Commercial, Commercial Process Optimization, Environmental Stockholders Health and Safety, Facilities, Human Resources, Legal, Tax, Investor Relations, and Industry Associations Regulatory Affairs. Healthcare Providers Partners CUSTOMER & PEERS & Insurance COMMUNITY BUSINESS Peers Providers PARTNERS Patients Suppliers Communities Generic Drug Manufacturing 130 2019 2019 131 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Materiality Material Topics MATERIAL TOPIC TOPIC DESCRIPTION TOPIC BOUNDARY Through our Sustainability Materiality Assessment, business leaders from across the company Impacts Occur Impacts Occur selected the following material topics for our CSR Program based on the level of Gilead’s internal or Inside Gilead Outside Gilead external influence, our relative impact, peer evaluations, and due diligence. Corruption and Compliance with state, federal and international laws bribery pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. X X We are currently assessing relevant and meaningful disclosures to measure progress on these topics Drug safety and Recalls and adverse events; providing relevant anti-counterfeiting information; efforts against counterfeiting. X X and plan to enhance our coverage of these topics, including the management approach for each, in future reporting. Providing access to products around the world, including Access and pricing efforts to ensure fair pricing. X X Charitable efforts aimed at reducing disparities, Giving providing access, advancing medical education and X X supporting local communities. Efforts to eliminate all serious accidents and manage Employee health and safety occupational health and safety risks to ensure X employees do not come to any harm while at work. Employee wellness, Efforts to promote employee wellness, development development and and engagement; employee benefits and well-being; X engagement recruiting and retention. Inclusion and diversity Efforts to promote inclusion and diversity. X X Reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with Climate change and energy company operations and products by using energy X X efficiently. Ethical sourcing, ensuring suppliers uphold appropriate Ethical supply chain standards on corporate responsibility issues. X X Manufacturing Managing quality, production capacity and inventory in and supply-chain manufacturing and supply chain. X X management Design of chemical products and processes that reduce Green chemistry or eliminate the generation of hazardous substances. X X Responsible Efforts to ensure that marketing is conducted ethically marketing and complies with local laws and regulations. X X Waste Hazardous and nonhazardous waste recycling. X X Efforts to manage or reduce water use from our Water operations. X X 132 2019 2019 133 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w GRI Content Index GENERAL DISCLOSURES GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization Gilead Sciences 2, 4, 5, 6 102-9 Supply chain Working With Suppliers That Share Our Values 8, 9, 10 Pipeline and Portfolio Activities, brands, products 102-2 A complete list of our medicines can be found on our website Significant changes to the Green Buildings and services 102-10 organization and its supply chain Worldwide Energy Consumption 102-3 Location of headquarters Foster City, CA Precautionary principle 102-11 Our Approach to CSR 7 or approach 102-4 Location of operations About Gilead A full list of external frameworks Gilead has aligned with is Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a publicly traded 102-12 External initiatives 102-5 Ownership and legal form available on our website Delaware corporation. Partnerships and Collaborations: Setting the Stage for Our prescription products are publicly available to customers Transformative Treatments. 102-6 Markets served in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Middle East, North America Gilead is a member of many industry associations, including the and South America. 102-13 Membership of associations following: American Chemical Society’s Green Chemistry Institute Roundtable, Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Work Group, The Why Behind Our Work Supplier Diversity Pharmaceutical Forum, and Western Regional 102-7 Scale of the organization A Look at 2019 Minority Supplier Development Council. About Gilead About Gilead Workforce Demographics Information on employees 102-8 While we track employees by contract type, we do 6 and other workers not have this breakdown available by gender and region (information is not available). 134 2019 2019 135 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w GENERAL DISCLOSURES GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Statement from senior Identifying and selecting 102-14 A Letter From Our Chairman and CEO 102-42 CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality decision-maker stakeholders ETHICS & INTEGRITY Approach to stakeholder 102-43 CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality engagement 1, 2, 3, 4 Values, principles, standards CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 102-16 The Code We Stand By 5, 6, 7, 8 and norms of behavior 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 9, 10 Material Topics Mechanisms for advice and REPORTING PRACTICE 102-17 The Code We Stand By 1, 2, 7, 10 concerns about ethics Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 About This Report GOVERNANCE financial statements Our Governing Principles Defining report content and 102-18 Governance structure 10 102-46 Report Content, Period and Boundary topic Boundaries Our Approach to CSR 102-47 List of material topics Materiality 102-19 Delegating authority Our Approach to CSR Minor adjustments have been made to all environmental data Executive-level responsibility previously reported in Gilead’s 2018 Year in Review. This has 102-20 for economic, environmental Our Approach to CSR impacted our reported progress toward our GHG reduction goal. and social topics These adjustments are due to improved alignment of data estimation methodologies across 2016, 2017 and 2018 reporting periods and Our Governing Principles 102-48 Restatements of information the reverification of GHG inventories for these years; the retroactive Composition of the integration of environmental data from business entities acquired by 102-22 highest governance body We report on select information about our board of directors 6 Gilead during those periods; and corrections to any discrepancies and its committees on our website. that were identified after the publication of the 2018 Year in Review. Of our 12 board members, 4 identify as female. The data contained in this report has been collected using the most robust systems and tools available for this reporting period. Nominating and selecting the 102-24 Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter 6, 10 highest governance body 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-50 Reporting period Report Content, Period and Boundary Internal Stakeholders 102-51 Date of most recent report Gilead’s 2018 Year in Review was published in May 2019. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups External Stakeholders 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and Spain 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements (3% of worldwide workforce) were subject to collective bargaining 3 Contact point for questions Korab Zuka, Vice President, Public Affairs 102-53 agreements in 2019. regarding the report csr@gilead.com Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 102-54 with the GRI Standards Core option. 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index GHG Reduction Goals and Progress 102-56 External assurance A copy of our third-party assurance statement can be obtained by emailing sustainability@gilead.com. 136 2019 2019 137 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC MANAGEMENT APPROACH ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR Explanation of the material A Look at 2019 The Code We Stand By 103-1 10 topic and its boundary Our Governing Principles Legal actions for anti-competitive In 2019 there were no findings of corruption, anti-competitive 206-1 behavior, anti-trust and behavior, violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation, 10 The management approach A Look at 2019 monopoly practices or other healthcare compliance violations from any 103-2 10 government body. and its components Our Governing Principles 103-3 Evaluation of the A Look at 2019 10 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES management approach Our Governing Principles MANAGEMENT APPROACH ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE We’re Ready for a Sustainable Future At a Glance Direct economic value generated A Look at 2019 Explanation of the material 201-1 103-1 Delivering our Responsible Growth Strategy 7, 8, 9 and distributed Annual Report on Form 10-K, pg. 46 topic and its boundary Reducing Environmental Impact Defined benefit plan obligations Compensation and Financial Benefits 201-3 We’re Ready for a Sustainable Future At a Glance and other retirement plans Annual Report on Form 10-K, pg. 83 The management approach 103-2 Delivering our Responsible Growth Strategy 7, 8, 9 and its components Reducing Environmental Impact PROCUREMENT PRACTICES We’re Ready for a Sustainable Future At a Glance Gilead spent 14% of its annual procurement spend in California on Evaluation of the local suppliers. Gilead’s most significant location of operation is 103-3 Delivering our Responsible Growth Strategy 7, 8, 9 management approach Proportion of spending on its headquarters in Foster City, CA, and we have a large presence Reducing Environmental Impact 204-1 local suppliers in California. In this instance, we define “local” as any supplier that has identified its company headquarters as located in the ENERGY state of California. Energy consumption within ANTI-CORRUPTION 302-1 Worldwide Energy Consumption 8, 9 the organization Gilead performs internal and external audits to monitor for Energy consumption outside Gilead does not currently track energy consumption outside compliance with regulatory and company policies. In 2019, 302-2 of the organization the organization, but may do so in the future. Operations assessed for risks Gilead performed 21 audits in roughly 16 countries for financial 205-1 10 related to corruption or Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) compliance. Gilead 302-3 Energy intensity Worldwide Energy Consumption 8 does not disclose significant risks related to corruption identified through FCPA compliance audits (specific legal prohibitions). Gilead does not currently track the reductions in energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption consumption directly related to efficiency initiatives, 8, 9 Communication and training but may do so in the future. 205-2 about anti-corruption policies The Code We Stand By 10 and procedures WATER AND EFFLUENTS The Code We Stand By Worldwide Water Usage Confirmed incidents of In 2019 there were no findings of corruption, anti-competitive 205-3 10 303-3 Water withdrawal Gilead does not track water by withdrawal source, 8, 9 corruption and actions taken behavior, violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation, but primarily uses municipal sources of water. We have not yet or other healthcare compliance violations from any conducted a water stress evaluation for all our operations. government body. 138 2019 2019 139 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES SOCIAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 8 Explanation of the material We're Ready to Elevate Our People At a Glance 1, 2, 3, 4, 103-1 topic and its boundary Global Workforce 5, 6 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 305-2 Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 8 GHG emissions The management approach 1, 2, 3, 4, 103-2 We're Ready to Elevate Our People At a Glance and its components 5, 6 Other indirect (Scope 3) 305-3 Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 8 GHG emissions Evaluation of the 1, 2, 3, 4, 103-3 We're Ready to Elevate Our People At a Glance management approach 5, 6 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 8 EMPLOYMENT 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 7, 8, 9 Workforce Demographics Emissions of ozone-depleting Gilead does not currently track ozone-depleting substances, New employee hires and 305-6 401-1 Gilead does not currently track or report on new hires and 3, 6 substances (ODS) but may do so in the future. employee turnover turnover by age, gender or region (information is not available). EFFLUENTS AND WASTE How We Reward, Recognize and Retain Employees Waste by type and Benefits provided to Gilead provides a comprehensive company-paid benefits 306-2 Waste Reduction and Recycling 7, 8 package including health, dental, vision, life insurance, disposal method full-time employees that are 401-2 and long-term disability insurance plans, along with the 6 not provided to temporary or part-time employees option to participate in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT and 401(k) plan. Full-time employees working 30 hours or more (unless otherwise specified) are eligible for these benefits. New suppliers that were screened 308-1 Risk Management and Performance 7, 8 using environmental criteria 401-3 Parental leave Parental Leave Data 6 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workforce Safety management system Gilead employees have access to licensed occupational health services (OHS) during working hours, and we are able to arrange transportation to OHS locations. OHS providers 403-3 Occupational health services converse in the official country language. OHS and Gilead comply with privacy laws and local requirements for protecting personal health information. Workforce Safety Gilead uses hazards exposure assessments to identify general Worker training on occupational and specific OHS trainings. We ensure that training content 403-5 health and safety aligns with regulatory standards and that trainers meet local competency requirements. Trainings are provided free of charge and during paid working hours. Workforce Safety 403-9 Work-related injuries Workforce Data 140 2019 2019 141 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w SOCIAL DISCLOSURES SOCIAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2019 Response UN SDG UNGC TRAINING AND EDUCATION LOCAL COMMUNITIES Professional and Personal Development Operations with local Gilead Employees Give Back Average hours of training per Gilead’s employees participate in an average of 4.2 hours community engagement, 100% of our global employees are offered one paid day off 404-1 6 413-1 year, per employee of professional training per year. We do not currently track our impact assessments and to volunteer with an organization of their choice. Gilead offices investments in training specifically by gender or employee development programs worldwide hold events for our annual Week of Service. category (information is not available). SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT Percentage of employees 100% of Gilead employees receive annual performance 404-3 receiving regular performance and career development reviews. New suppliers that were and career development reviews 414-1 Risk Management and Performance 1, 2, 4 screened using social criteria DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Workforce Demographics Assessment of the health Diversity of governance bodies We have provided ethnicity data for Gilead Sciences in the U.S. 416-1 and safety impacts of product Safety, Ethics and Transparency 405-1 Privacy regulations restrict collection of this information in many 6 and service categories and employees countries. We also do not track or manage diversity by age group, or manage diversity beyond gender (information is not available). MARKETING AND LABELING Compensation and Financial Benefits Incidents of noncompliance Gilead’s salary ratio for women to men in the United States Gilead did not receive any official warnings, fines or penalties in Ratio of basic salary and 417-2 concerning product and service 405-2 is 99.931:100. At this time we are not in a position to report on 6 2019 related to our service information and labeling practices. remuneration of women to men information and labeling pay parity for each employee category by significant locations of operations. Incidents of noncompliance Gilead did not receive any official warnings, fines or 417-3 concerning marketing NONDISCRIMINATION penalties in 2019 related to our marketing communications. communications Gilead tracks all incidents of discrimination and corrective CUSTOMER PRIVACY actions taken; however we do not publicly report on this Incidents of discrimination and 406-1 due to employee privacy concerns and any pending legal 6 Substantiated complaints corrective actions taken Gilead did not have any substantiated complaints in or regulatory actions (information is subject to specific concerning breaches of confidentiality constraints). 418-1 2019 concerning breaches of customer privacy or losses customer privacy and losses of customer data. of customer data CHILD LABOR Operations and suppliers at 408-1 significant risk for incidents of Risk Management and Performance 1, 2, 5 child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Operations and suppliers at 409-1 significant risk for incidents of Risk Management and Performance 1, 2, 4 forced or compulsory labor 142 2019 2019 143 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w SASB Index The mission of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is to help businesses around the world identify, manage and report on the sustainability topics that matter most to their investors. SASB standards differ by industry, enabling investors and companies to compare performance from company to company within an industry. Currently, we do not track all metrics included in the Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals Standards, but we will continue to evaluate them in the future. SASB DISCLOSURES Code Description Disclosure Location ACCESS TO MEDICINE Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to health care products Access to Our Medicines Around the World HC-BP-240a.1 for priority diseases and in priority countries as defined by the Access to Medication Access Global Access Medicine Index AFFORDABILITY & PRICING Number of settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved payments and/or provisions HC-BP-240b.1 Annual Report on Form 10-K, pg. 83 to delay bringing an authorized generic product to market for a defined time period ACTIVITY METRICS Portfolio Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in HC-BP-000.B research and development (Phases 1-3) Pipeline 144 2019 2019 145
