Sustainability Report 2019 Lundin Petroleum is one of the leading independent oil and gas exploration and production companies in Europe. Our operations are focused on Norway, where we develop our resources efficiently and responsibly for a low carbon energy future. Our Global Compact Global Reporting commitment Initiative (GRI) We support the 10 United Nations Lundin Petroleum’s 2019 Sustainability Global Compact Principles on human Report is in accordance with the Global rights, labour standards, environment Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard and anti-corruption. Guidelines. United Nations Sustainable Extractive Industry Development Goals Transparency Initiative We promote the Sustainable Development We support and promote EITI’s efforts Goals (SDGs) throughout our value chain. to combat corruption. This Report constitutes Lundin Petroleum’s disclosure on non-financial & diversity information in accordance with the Swedish law implementing the EU Directive 2014 / 95 / EU Sustainabilty Report 2019 Foreword by the CEO 2 About this report 4 Business context 6 Our ESG approach 8 Stakeholder engagement 10 Risk management 12 Environment 14 Climate change and energy transition 17 Biodiversity 20 Water 20 Waste 21 Well abandonment and decommissioning 21 Social 22 Employment 23 Health and safety 24 Human rights 27 Governance 28 Corporate Responsibility e-learning 30 Code of Conduct 30 Whistleblowing 30 Anti-corruption 30 Competition 30 ESG ratings 31 Corporate citizenship 32 Sustainability data 34 GRI index 38 Tell us what you think 42 pages pages 17-19 24-25 CLIMATE HEALTH CHANGE AND SAFETY page page 27 30 HUMAN CODE OF RIGHTS CONDUCT page pages 31 32-33 ESG CORPORATE RATINGS CITIZENSHIP Foreword by the CEO I am pleased to present Lundin Petroleum’s fifth annual Through continued stakeholder engagement, we have Sustainability Report, where we invite readers to understand furthered our efforts to address climate change. Research and how we identify, manage and perform in relation to our development projects have been supported, and we have taken material environmental, social and governance issues over part in dialogues intended to share industry best practice. We the calendar year. Our annual disclosure is in line with our have followed with interest global debates and rising activism. commitment to responsible business practice. The Report also We share climate related concerns, and as our Report will serves to recognise stakeholders’ demand for transparency, demonstrate, we strive to address these issues while continuing as they seek to gain further understanding of our industry’s to provide the energy which the world requires in the most evolving business, and our role therein. We acknowledge sustainable way. the responsibility of reporting in a transparent, consistent, complete and accurate manner. In recognising the value of maintaining high ethical standards of performance within our Company and across At Lundin Petroleum we have yet again experienced an our value chain, we continue to support the UN Sustainable exceptional year. Both operational and financial objectives Development Goals (SDGs) and the UN Global Compact’s were achieved, with no material safety or environmental 10 Principles on human rights, labour standards, environment incidents. A stand out moment for us was first oil from the and anti-corruption. world class Johan Sverdrup Phase 1 project, in October 2019. As an important development, we have sanctioned the full At Lundin Petroleum, we have a strong corporate culture of electrification of the Edvard Grieg facility as part of the Utsira entrepreneurship, innovation, openness, trust, honesty and High Area power grid, which is being developed together with diversity, with a dedicated, competent workforce. Our success Johan Sverdrup Phase 2. This means that once the area solution over the years attests to the great people working for us, and is available, towards the end of 2022, our two key assets Edvard to them all, I express my sincerest thanks. Together, I know we Grieg and Johan Sverdrup, which today account for over can and will continue to make a difference! 80 percent of the Company’s production, will have emissions of below 1 kg of carbon dioxide per barrel of oil equivalent Yours Sincerely, (CO2/boe) produced, about one-twentieth of world average and indeed one of the lowest of any offshore fields. Alex Schneiter This is in line with our Board endorsed Decarbonisation President and CEO Strategy, which provides the Company with a roadmap to maintain our position as one of the most efficient offshore oil and gas producers in terms of emissions per barrel produced. Our aim is to continue to further reduce our carbon footprint, through energy efficiency initiatives, investments and innovative approaches. We have established a target to become carbon neutral in our exploration and production activities by 2030. In line with this, we have invested in a hydropower project in Norway and a wind farm in Finland. These projects will bring additional renewable energy to the market and help us replace our net electricity consumption from power from shore, with renewable energy. We have also supported a tree plantation project in Spain to offset our annual business and operationally related air travel emissions for 2018 and 2019. 2 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 2019 highlights Operating Contingent Production cost Reserves resources 93.3 Mboepd 4.03 USD/boe 693 MMboe 185 MMboe Free Proposed EBITDA CFFO cash flow dividend 1,918 1,378 1,272 MUSD MUSD MUSD 511MUSD Safe Carbon operations Oil spills intensity ESG ratings Zero serious Zero recordable 5.4 kg CO2/boe TOPquartile injuries spills Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 3 About this report Sustainability Report purpose Promoting the Sustainable The annual Sustainability Report reviews Lundin Petroleum’s Development Goals activities over the 2019 calendar year. We identify material Lundin Petroleum recognises the urgent call for issues resulting from our activities and highlighted as such action to achieve a better and more sustainable by our stakeholders, to prioritise pertinent sustainability future for all, through the 17 UN SDGs, which are at issues to report on. The latter require active engagement the heart of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. and management to deliver positive outcomes, both for the Throughout the Report, readers will find the SDG symbols for Company and for society at large. The Report provides clear areas we have had an impact on. No poverty (1), good health and comprehensive understanding of our activities and (3), education (4), gender equality (5), clean energy (7), decent management of material issues, through qualitative and work (8), innovation (9), reduced inequalities (10), responsible quantitative data. consumption (12), climate action (13), life below water (14), life on land (15), institutions (16) and partnerships (17) feature Material issues are grouped under Environment, Social among the showcased goals. and Governance (ESG) chapter headings, three central and well-recognised pillars to assess corporate sustainability, Reporting changes since 2018 responsibility and ethical impact. This year, the Report has reverted to the common practice of reporting data over the course of three years. The data As part of our commitment to the United Nations (UN) provided under our Sustainability data section will cover Global Compact, the Report furthermore acts as our years 2017, 2018 and 2019. This reporting practice enables annual Communication on Progress (CoP). We describe stakeholders to obtain a comprehensive view of performance practical actions the Company has taken to implement the trends. As Lundin Petroleum spun off its non-Norwegian 10 Principles, and highlight the ways in which we address the assets in 2017, all data stated herein is readily measurable and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Report also information comparable. See reporting boundaries for further meets the non-financial reporting requirements set out in the data clarification. Swedish law implementing the EU Directive 2014/95/EU. Scopes 1, 2 & 3 emissions are reported as per GHG Protocol Mission statement guidelines. Our mission is to explore for, and produce oil and gas in an efficient and sustainable way to meet society’s current and GHG emissions are now reported on both an operational and a future energy needs. We create value by fostering a culture of net equity basis. responsible entrepreneurship, with an organisation dedicated to producing reliable and low carbon intensity energy. We GRI conformity consider the needs and aspirations of our shareholders, This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI employees and contractors, the owners of the resources and the Standards: Core option. It makes further reference to the G4 environment. Sector Disclosure ‘GRI Oil and Gas Sector Supplement’ issued in 2012, which remains relevant to our activities. Reporting boundaries The Company’s corporate head office is located in Sweden. Third party verification Operational offices and assets are based in Norway. Lundin In line with the Swedish law implementing the EU Petroleum also has employees carrying out corporate functions Directive 2014/95/EU and to render the information stated in Switzerland and in the Netherlands. herein credible, external limited assurance is provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). The Assurance Report (p. 40) Our reporting boundaries are as listed below for ESG categories, concludes that Lundin Petroleum’s 2019 Sustainability Report our E data being reported for Norway only, as our sole area of has been prepared in all material respects, in accordance operations. with the GRI Standards Core reporting level. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, as well as the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and corporate management, have been met based on the limited assurance procedures performed by PwC. Norway How to use the GRI content table Sweden Our readers are invited to refer to the GRI Content Index (pp. 38–39). The Content Index is divided into ‘Standard Switzerland Disclosure’, ‘Description’ and ‘Reference’ columns, to help navigate the Report and to identify desired content at quick Netherlands glance. 1 operational/net equity basis 4 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Maintain high ethical conduct Uphold people’s health and safety Minimise environmental impact Focus on carbon efficiency Promote Sustainable Development Goals Partake in industry-wide collaborative efforts 2019 goals Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 5 Business context Upstream Midstream Downstream Oil & gas exploration Transport Product preparation and production and storage and usage Oil & gas exploration, Storage, Refining, retail geological surveys, drilling, transportation & marketing of development, production & distribution petroleum products & sales and marketing of crude oil Exploration and Appraisal Production Lundin Petroleum focuses on building core The production phase is defined as exploration areas and on assembling integrated everything from extraction and processing teams of geoscientists and technical experts to delivering the oil or gas for sale. Lundin that have a creative and innovative approach to Petroleum significantly increased its finding oil and gas resources. Lundin Petroleum’s production this year, with Johan Sverdrup exploration and appraisal plans target near field, on stream since October 2019. mature basin and frontier prospectivity accross its seven core areas. Sales and Development Marketing Following exploration and appraisal, the strategy is Lundin Petroleum sells and delivers its to convert discoveries into reserves and production. produced crude oil directly to customers, After a development plan has been approved, generally to their own refineries. The sales construction of facilities can start, to which wells and marketing activity within Lundin and infrastructure are connected so that production Petroleum, which was established for first can begin. Lundin Petroleum has four projects oil from Edvard Grieg, is the last part of the under development including Phase 2 of the giant crude oil supply chain. Johan Sverdrup field. 6 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Southern Barents Sea Area Lundin Petroleum is one of Alta/Gohta the leading independent upstream oil and gas companies in Europe. With a strategic focus on Norway, our aim is to develop oil and gas resources efficiently and responsibly for a sustainable and low carbon Harstad energy future. 7 core areas Norwegian Sea 7 new discoveries Northern North Sea Horda Norway 4 projects in Frosk Area Gekko appraisal phase Alvheim Area Johan Sverdrup Oslo Alvheim Phase 2 Edvard Grieg Utsira High Area Edvard Grieg Infills Jorvik/Tellus East Lille Prinsen 4 projects Solveig Rolvsnes Sele High underway Central Graben Core Area Production Appraisal/development project Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 7 Our ESG 7 approach The world is moving fast and so is Lundin Petroleum. Since the Paris Agreement there has been a surge in concern around climate challenge and how to address it. Yet, the International Energy Agency’s 2019 World Energy Outlook highlights that despite the need for worldwide carbon emissions reductions, Our ESG journey energy demand continues to increase. This highlights the gap between the expectations of a fast, renewables driven energy transition and the reality of today’s energy system, with a 2019 Decarbonisation Strategy significant reliance on fossil fuel. Climate Strategy Statement Our Sustainability approach, initiated in 2001, seeks to ensure 2018 Corporate Responsibility E-learning ethical business conduct through our Corporate Responsibility Framework in alignment with international initiatives. 2017 Diversity Policy New Code of Conduct We did not await the ratification of the Paris Agreement to integrate climate change into our business conduct. We 2016 Competition Law Policy issued our first Climate Statement in 2007, which has since HSEQ Leadership Charter undergone two revisions, with the latest update in 2019. Since 2015 2009, we actively report on our climate strategy, management First GRI Sustainability Report and performance to CDP and have achieved the Nordic Contractor Declaration Leadership Index twice. 2014 First Corporate Responsibility In 2011, as part of our Edvard Grieg Plan for Development 2013 E-learning and Operations (PDO), we committed to equip our platform Biodiversity Statement to receive power from shore when an area solution becomes available. In 2015, as part of the Johan Sverdrup field 2012 UN Call to Action development plan, we committed to fully electrify the field. EITI Supporting Company This means that as of first oil production in October 2019, 2011 Johan Sverdrup has been using electricity, generated mainly Stakeholder Engagement Policy from hydropower, as its sole power source. Full electrification 2010 UN Guiding Principles on Business of Edvard Grieg is to be achieved when additional power & Human Rights capacity is available by end 2022. 2009 Human Rights Policy Our net capital investment in power from shore facilities Anti-Corruption Policy at Edvard Grieg and Johan Sverdrup will be approximately 2008 MUSD 500, 60 percent of which has already been spent by year UN Global Compact end 2019. These investments have resulted in Johan Sverdrup 2007 Carbon Disclosure Project producing among the lowest carbon intensity barrels in the world, at below 1 kg CO2 per barrel of oil produced, compared First Climate Change Statement to a world industry average of 18 kg CO2 per barrel of oil 2006 Whistleblowing Statement produced. This leading level will also be achieved on Edvard Grieg, confirming Lundin Petroleum as an industry leader in Sustainable Investment Programme low carbon footprint. 2005 Corporate Donations Policy Our search for innovative solutions has not stopped there. 2004 Community Relations Policy Starting with the Board ESG/H&S Committee then moving on to HSE Management System the full Board of Directors, we have reviewed our current and 2003 Human Rights Primer future carbon footprint strategy and performance, taking into consideration external views and expectations, expressed in Environmental Policy such initiatives as the Task Force on Climate Related Financial 2002 Disclosure (TCFD). This initiative is increasingly considered as Health and Safety Policy the authoritative guidance in terms of climate change strategy 2001 Code of Conduct and management. Initiatives / Corporate Governing Documents 8 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 “ I am pleased to join the Company at a time it has committed to long-term carbon neutrality. “ I am proud that Lundin Petroleum is recognised for its ESG performance and am convinced the Company will continue to find opportunities of producing energy Zomo Fisher more efficiently. Vice President Sustainability Christine Batruch Former Vice President Corporate Responsibility As a result, the Board endorsed a Decarbonisation Strategy Christine Batruch has been a valuable employee of (more information on p. 16), confirming Lundin Petroleum’s the Company for close to 20 years and an appreciated focus on its core oil and gas activities, while committing Vice President Corporate Responsibility since 2002. to find and support innovative ways to further reduce its On 31 December 2019, she stepped down from this exploration and production related carbon footprint to as low position, but the Company will continue to leverage as practicable, with a target for carbon neutrality by 2030. Christine’s competences in the ESG area through her Strategic Advisory role. The Board also sanctioned an investment in a hydropower project in Norway. This investment aims to achieve two goals: to incrementally replace our net electricity consumption on Johan Sverdrup and to hedge possible upward and downward As part of our Decarbonisation Strategy we also decided fluctuations in the price of electricity. It also provides a to offset our business and operationally related air travel good rate of return on a leveraged basis. In addition, Lundin emissions for 2018/2019 and going forward, through a Petroleum has invested in a wind farm project in Finland, reforestation project in Spain, led by Land Life Company, an which will not only replace all of its non-renewable energy internationally recognised organisation specialising in the consumption, but will also provide additional renewable natural capture of carbon. energy to the market. We are proud to provide the energy required to meet the A climate workshop was held with senior corporate and world’s growing demand. We recognise the challenge posed operational management, to seek further ways in which by climate change and the role that forward-thinking oil and Lundin Petroleum could implement its Decarbonisation gas companies like us must play in addressing it. Through Strategy and continue to reduce its direct and indirect our Decarbonisation Strategy, we will strengthen our position emissions. A number of action points resulted from this as one of the most sustainable oil companies providing the workshop such as updated environmental goals and targets best barrel in the world: safe, responsible, low cost and low and the elaboration of a Roadmap for Energy Efficiency. emissions. Climate change Employment Protected areas Health and safety Water Human rights E S Waste Community Energy efficiency engagement Greenhouse gas emissions Labor standards Biodiversity Diversity Decommissioning Corporate citizenship Code of Conduct G Anti-corruption Whistleblowing Competition International commitments Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 9 Stakeholder engagement What it means to us The online survey featured a wide-ranging list of potentially Stakeholders are people or organisations which may be relevant material issues to our Company and to our industry, impacted by, or impact Lundin Petroleum’s activities. as defined by the GRI Standards and based on ESG rating Stakeholder engagement, a key element of our value creation agencies’ questionnaires. Stakeholders were requested to model, is the process by which information and viewpoints in rank material issues in terms of importance, considering relation to the Company’s activities are exchanged together Lundin Petroleum’s exploration and production activities in with our stakeholders. Close engagement and long lasting Norway. Stakeholders were further requested to indicate issues relationships are embedded throughout our activities, from considered relevant to the industry, as these may differ from exploration and development planning phases through those considered material to Lundin Petroleum. The survey to field operations and ultimately decommissioning. Our provided respondents the possibility to raise other relevant Stakeholder Policy and Guidelines outline how to define issues, capturing any potential emerging or omitted issues. stakeholders and the method of engagement depending on the nature of the impact, interest and influence of the Additionally, we held interviews with a selected number stakeholder. Our engagement seeks to contribute to the better of stakeholders. The objective was to obtain a qualitative understanding of the oil and gas industry and the importance understanding of expectations on Lundin Petroleum. We did and impact of our corporate responsibility on our business not prompt respondents with suggested topics, allowing them conduct. to independently raise issues of concern. Better reputation among the youth The 2019 materiality review confirms the relevance of topics – an important social responsibility featured within our Sustainability Reports, current and 2019 marks 50 years since the beginning of the Norwegian oil previous. saga. Norway is recognised for its strong social, governance and environmental system. The oil and gas industry has contributed to offering economic stability, acting as a High Prevention springboard for Norwegian industry and technological Governance of major innovation. & compliance Health accidents & safety Anti-corruption The Norwegian oil and gas industry has supported the Paris & whistleblowing Energy efficiency Agreement goals and initiatives leading to it. However, the & GHG emissions Profitability road to achieve them is a demanding and complex one. Importance to stakeholders Lundin Petroleum believes our most important contribution Contractors to the mitigation of climate change is to produce and deliver Equal the oil that will be needed in the future in the most carbon opportunity efficient and responsible manner. We are among the world Environmental leaders with respect to carbon efficient production and intend impact & climate change to remain an industry leader. Training Defining materiality Community engagement While no significant changes have occurred in the location – Norway – or the manner – responsible operations – in which we carry out our activities since our 2017 materiality assessment, we are committed to review our material issues on a comprehensive bi-annual basis. We therefore initiated Influence on business success Low High a qualitative materiality analysis revision to help define ESG issues that matter most to our stakeholders and to the Company in 2019. Two methods were used to obtain stakeholder feedback: an online survey and in person Following is a highlight of stakeholders we have engaged with meetings. While we did not require respondents to have in 2019, and main topics addressed. in-depth knowledge of our previous Sustainability Reports, we did expect them to have a stake in how we conduct our We value stakeholder feedback, and encourage our readers to activities, whether as shareholders, staff, authorities or civil provide comments or suggestions. Kindly refer to page 42 for society. information on how to get in touch with Lundin Petroleum. 10 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Labour unions The Norwegian · Safety & working Clean Seas Association environment for Operating Companies · Business ethics Business · Oil recovery preparedness · Job creation partners · Contingency plans · Operations Employees · HSE · Business ethics Regional / · HSE Shareholders local authorities · Operating responsibly · Ripple effects · Financial performance · Impact assessment Media · Transparency · Safeguarding people, environment · Operations · Contributions and assets Fisheries · Environment to society · Co-existence with other industries · Licence requirements · Innovation · Local community development · Impact assessments programs · Mitigation · Emergency response · Climate change Authorities Think tanks · Prudent operator · Climate · Job creation · Security · Safeguarding people, environment and assets Community · Payments to the government organisations · Revenue transparency Students · Ripple effects · EU ETS · CO2 tax · Job creation Suppliers · Socio-economic and · Technology environmental impacts · Business development ethics · Emergency · Innovation response · HSE Our Academia Industry associations stakeholders · Innovation · Economic role · Digitalization · Job creation · HSE · HSE · Ripple effects · Innovation The big picture Lundin Norway is contributing to the “big picture” initiative, as part of its affiliation with the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association. Young oil workers, including two from Lundin Norway, are engaged in creating a fact-based and balanced debate about the industry in their workplace, schools and among young politicians. We believe it is important to contribute with good ambassadors in a debate that needs nuance and credible voices. Through the initiative, we can gradually motivate over 200,000 oil workers in Norway to partake in the dialogue. Dialogue is an important tool to help develop a common understanding of societal challenges and how we can be part of the solution towards a low carbon society. Great idea! The innovation conference that unites the oil industry To increase understanding and acceptance of our industry in the broader society, Lundin Norway believes it is crucial to highlight the contributions we make in terms of innovation and technology development. As such, the annual Innovation Day at Lundin Norway is an important contribution to stakeholder engagement. The programme committee, which consists of Norwegian researchers, oil and gas experts and members of broader energy industries in Norway, assist in setting the agenda. The conference makes way to future topics of relevance and the development and implementation of potential solutions in the near and long-term. In 2019, themes addressed included offshore hydrogen technology and reservoir modelling. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 11 Risk management Risk management creates value by enabling Lundin Petroleum to deal effectively with issues which could potentially arise in our operations and business environment. Through this process, we bring together the identification, Emerging ESG risks and opportunities were reviewed assessment and review of possible scenarios in terms of in 2019 in the context of the CDP to re-assess long-term risks and opportunities to increase risk awareness at all corporate internal and external threats. These risks and levels. This process gives management the ability to make opportunities were discussed at local management level, informed decisions to face potential challenges. reviewed at corporate and presented to the Board of Directors and its ESG/H&S Committee. For further information of Lundin Petroleum’s primary risks, see Annual Report 2019 (pp. 32–35). 12 Main Sustainability long-term corporate risks ENVIRONMENT / Climate change Risk Response Lundin Petroleum faces a number of Lundin Petroleum has the opportunity to respond to climate risks including but not limited to: climate change risks. To date, the Company: • Stricter regulations related to • Communicates proactively on its low carbon intensity GHG emissions • Invests in renewable energy sources to replace its • Stranded assets electricity usage in its operations • Lack of investment towards • Supports the United National Global Compact clean energy Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goal • Stringent emissions policies 13 on climate action • Physical climate risks • Engages in active stakeholder dialogue • Regulatory costs • Invests in climate-related R&D opportunities • Increased costs of carbon • Partakes in industry collaboration emissions • Discloses to third party ESG raters • Insufficient investment in R&D • Adoption of its Decarbonisation Strategy SOCIAL / Stakeholder perceptions Risk Response As the global debate on the To effectively deal with risks associated to stakeholder perceptions, energy industry develops, the Company: Lundin Petroleum faces the • Engages in extensive stakeholder engagement to show how following stakeholder our ESG approach means we are part of the solution towards perception risks: a low carbon future • Increased investment • Invests significantly in actions to reduce our carbon footprint curtailing to the lowest possible level (e.g. power from shore) • Stakeholder activism • Transparently discloses its ethical commitment and • Negative public opinion performance GOVERNANCE / Ethical misconduct Risk Response Non-compliance may lead to investigation, litigation To effectively uphold good business conduct, and other risks such as: the Company: • Non-compliance of internal controls • Operates in Norway where there is world • Losing social license to operate or limiting access leading environmental legislation and to acreage governance • Not meeting evolving regulatory and policy • Monitors foreseeable applicable regulation requirements proactively Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 13 ENVIRONMENT Lundin Petroleum aims to operate with the highest environmental standards. To achieve this, it requires a thorough understanding of, and respect for, the natural environment and the impacts it may have in conducting its activities. Lundin Petroleum is committed to the precautionary principle, and to minimise risks to the natural environment. To ensure continued success, it must actively manage its environmental impacts. Measures encompassing research and development, environmental assessments and monitoring, as well as the use of new and improved technologies, help fulfill our commitment. Lundin Petroleum’s environmental strategy and targets set the Company’s ambitious roadmap for monitoring and handling emissions to air, discharges to sea and waste handling. By focussing on those issues, Lundin Petroleum has succeeded in meeting and even surpassing, all of its environmental targets in 2018 and 2019. As a result, it has revised its targets for 2020 and beyond to ensure a low environmental footprint is achieved. Carbon intensity ~ 18 kg CO2/boe ~ 8 Lundin Petroleum 5.4 Target < 4 (operational emissions) <2 Carbon Neutral 2030 World 1 Norway 1 2019 2020–2022 2023 (IOGP) onwards 1 Sources NOROG/IOGP 14 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 12 Our Governance Our Environmental Strategy explicitly states environmental Environmental considerations are managed at all levels of the protection as a priority and an essential element of Company. Lundin Petroleum’s executive team has a percentage operational planning and execution. Lundin Norway’s Energy of its annual incentive related to corporate responsibility issues, Policy complements the strategy with a framework for HSE, CO2 emissions and maintaining top quartile ESG ratings. optimized production and continuous improvement within energy management. Lundin Petroleum’s Environmental Policy sets out the Board of Director’s and management’s commitment to minimise Lundin Petroleum’s Decarbonisation Strategy the Company’s environmental impact. The Board’s ESG/H&S In 2019, Lundin Petroleum’s Board of Directors endorsed a Committee reviews actions taken to embed these commitments Decarbonisation Strategy, confirming our focus on oil and gas on a bi-annual basis. To help ensure environmental activities, while committing to find and support innovative considerations are indeed managed at all levels, including ways to further reduce our exploration and production at staff level, senior management has a shared responsibility related carbon footprint, with a target to become carbon to raise awareness of guiding policies and ensure effective neutral by 2030. mechanisms are in place. <2 <4 5.4 A lifetime operated portfolio 2 carbon intensity (kg CO2/boe) 1 Long-term envrionmental target < 15 < 15 9.9 Oily water discharges (ppm) 2019 performance Lifetime produced water > 95 > 95 97.4 2020 target injection regularity (%) > 95 > 95 97.5 Waste sorting (%) > 75 > 80 91 Waste recovery (%) Spills to sea (nb) 0 0 0 1 This KPI is reported on a net equity basis. 2 Our long-term carbon intensity target has been revised down to <2 kg CO2/boe in 2020 from <10 kg CO2/boe (set in 2017) to reflect our new Decarbonisation Strategy. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 15 Decarbonisation Strategy 2018 From 2018 offset Lundin Petroleum’s target for carbon all yearly business and operationally neutrality as an oil & gas exploration related air travel and production company is 2030 emissions 2019 We recognise the challenges of climate change combined with the increasing energy needs linked to a growing global population, the international community’s commitment to Johan Sverdrup reduce global carbon emissions and the role that Phase 1 electrification forward-thinking companies can play in this. Lundin Petroleum is a leading oil and gas producer in 2020 terms of efficient and responsible production but we want to do more. First renewable Our commitment is to reduce our carbon footprint to the project lowest possible levels, through an effective combination of (hydropower) emission reductions, energy efficiency, targeted research & on-stream development and carbon capture mechanisms. We will also invest in renewable energy projects to replace our net 2021 electricity consumption, providing that these projects generate a good rate of return on a leveraged basis. 30% of the R&D yearly budget allocated to environmental Roadmap projects From 2018 offset all yearly business and operationally Second renewable related air travel emissions through natural carbon project capture (wind farm) on-stream In 2019 full electrification of Johan Sverdrup Phase 1 2022 From 2020 limit our average operated and non-operated Johan Sverdrup portfolio carbon intensity to below 4 kg CO2/boe, and Phase 2 from 2023 to below 2 kg CO2/boe electrification In 2022 fully electrify Edvard Grieg and Johan Sverdrup Edvard Grieg Phase 2, to achieve carbon intensity for these assets of electrification less than 1 kg CO2/boe By 2023 replace our net electricity usage from power 2030 from shore, through investments in renewable power generation Target for Carbon Neutrality 16 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 13 Climate change and energy transition Our operating context Climate change is currently at the frontline of the global Lundin Petroleum’s operations all take place offshore agenda. Most nations today support a just transition Norway from fields located on the Norwegian Continental towards a low carbon economy. Shelf. Lundin Petroleum acknowledges the challenge of reaching Norway has a regulatory regime which requires extensive an energy balance and seeks to contribute, through its documentation of best available technology, and a fiscal high energy efficiency measures, including its power from regime that sets a significant tax on CO2 emissions. Norway shore investment and Decarbonisation Strategy, to the is also a part of the EU-ETS CO2 quota regime. Lundin transition to a low carbon society. We cooperate closely Petroleum’s carbon intensity on a net equity basis stands with authorities, industry research institutions and other at 5.4 kg CO2/boe in 2019, lower than the Norwegian stakeholders to further promote carbon efficient practices, Continental Shelf industry average which stands at to help develop ambitious goals and achieve significant approximately half of the world industry average. Lundin emissions reduction. Petroleum sees its low carbon intensity position as a competitive advantage, helping the Company secure a Our goal is to be an industry leader in exploring for and future within the context of the Paris Agreement. producing oil and gas with a minimal carbon footprint. Carbon pricing and taxes are an effective measure to In 2019 the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association revised promote efficient production and consumption patterns. its 2016 Roadmap to 2030 and 2050, outlining the Lundin Petroleum’s experience in Norway demonstrates industry’s path to emission reductions in the relevant that despite one of the highest carbon tax effective in an timeframe, resulting in more ambitious emission reduction oil and gas producing country, in the order of USD 60 per commitments by the industry. Lundin Norway actively tonne of CO2 in 2019, we are able to achieve low operating participated in the work of the Association and in particular costs together with strong safety and environmental its Climate Committee. performance. Kårstø Haugsneset Edvard Grieg electrification Johan Sverdrup Existing power 2022 electrification system Phase 1 – 2019 Phase 2 – 2022 Ivar Aasen 300 MW Gudrun 28 MW 50 MW Gina Krog 190 MW 27 MW Power from shore Johan Sverdrup Phase 2 and Utsira High power 5 MW from shore (4Q 2022) 17 Sleipner Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse gas emissions CO2 CH4 N2O PFCs SF6 HFCs SCOPE 1 Direct emissions to air from SCOPE 2 Lundin Petroleum’s exploration SCOPE 3 and production activities Indirect energy emissions All other indirect emissions from generation of resulting from Lundin purchased electricity Petroleum’s activities occurring consumed by from third party sources (travel, Lundin Petroleum logistics, product use) A main area of focus for the Company in 2019 has been to identify measures to reduce emissions in its entire value chain. Setting emissions reduction goals helps ensure effective and innovative carbon emission management. Our actions S1 The Company has set ambitious long-term targets in its Starting in 2018, our operations team developed an Decarbonisation Strategy to reduce emissions to air and online energy monitoring system which displays real-time promote energy efficiency with a target to become carbon energy consumption at the Edvard Grieg platform. It neutral by 2030. The combination of world class facilities, interfaces energy measurement sensors and analytical high-value assets and ambitious goals help ensure that we tools to understand the energy management and potential will have among the lowest carbon emitting portfolios in the for process optimisation. The system can be used to track industry. energy performance of individual process equipment, as well as that of the entire platform. Norway has a no production flaring requirement. Our flaring strategy for Edvard Grieg describes the Company’s We fund and are on the board of the Norwegian Carbon commitment to flaring reduction and stipulates that process Capture and Storage Research Centre (NCCS). The operations and start-up of new wells shall be performed in objective of the NCCS is to fast-track CCS deployment such a way that flaring is minimised. Edvard Grieg has a through industry-driven, science-based innovation. This system in place for possible re-injection of gas into the includes addressing technical and legal barriers, through reservoir, allowing for continued production without flaring. targeted research covering the full CCS chain. The NCCS brings together over 100 participants from research, academia and industry, in an ever-evolving R&D portfolio. Lundin Norway’s Environmental Strategy includes a target of It has grown to be one of the largest centres of excellence 30% of our R&D budget to be allocated to the environment. on CCS, in terms of people involved and results produced. In 2019 we funded and were represented on the board of the LowEmission Research Centre. The Centre is a research center for a low-emission petroleum industry on the When considering environmental impact within our value Norwegian Continental Shelf. It helps develop new technology chain, our focus is on supply vessels, and integrating for offshore energy systems and seeks to integrate renewable specific measures within contracts and incentive schemes. power production technologies to accelerate the development As a result, the semi-submersible drilling rig West Bollsta, and implementation of low-emission offshore technologies. which will be on contract for Lundin Norway in 2020, will The Centre strives to pave the way for zero-emission be the first fully MARPOL Annex VI Tier III compliant rig. petroleum production by 2050, improving the competitiveness This means it will meet the most recent and strict MARPOL of the Norwegian oil and gas industry. We view the Centre as requirements, with special emphasis on reduced NOx a platform for innovation and interaction, which can generate emissions. Similar incentives are being evaluated in relation innovative solutions for the industry. to construction sites, factories, logistic supplies, etc. 18 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 15 S2 Lundin Petroleum signed an agreement with Sognekraft AS In 2019, together with our licence to acquire a 50% non-operated interest in the Leikanger partners we approved the technical hydropower project, in midwest Norway. Once it is fully solution and corresponding costs operational in 2021, Leikanger will produce around 208 GWh associated with the full electrification of per annum gross from a river run off hydropower generation our Edvard Grieg platform. The power scheme and will help replace our net electricity consumption from shore project will be implemented from power from shore, from Johan Sverdrup. in 2022, upon the completion of Johan Svedrup’s Phase 2. The Johan Sverdrup field, in which Lundin Petroleum has a Lundin Petroleum has acquired a 100% interest (intended to 20% working interest, started be farmed down to 50%) in the Metsälamminkangas (MLK) production in October 2019. The wind farm project, in northwest Finland. Managed by our estimated carbon footprint for both partner OX2, the MUSD 200 MLK project will produce fields will be less than 1 kg CO2/boe. around 400 GWh per annum gross, once fully operational in Edvard Grieg alone will have an 2022, from 24 onshore wind turbines. The Leikanger and estimated 200,000 tonnes per year MLK projects combined will replace around 60% of our net reduction in CO2 emissions, as a result electricity usage from 2023, with renewable energy. of the full electrification. S3 Lundin Petroleum decided to offset annual Increased aim to reduce business and operationally business and operationally related air travel related air travel. emissions through natural carbon capture. The Company initiated this effort through a reforestation project in Spain with Land Life Within our value chain, incentives are being evaluated Company. The project entails planting over in relation to construction sites, factories, logistic 26,000 trees on 24 hectares of degraded supplies, etc. In 2019, we developed increased land offsetting our combined 2018 and 2019 requirements for our contracted supply vessels with travel emissions. regards to emissions to air. Lundin Petroleum (Edvard Grieg & Johan Sverdrup) Net Power Usage and Replacement 600 Leikanger / MLK generation Estimated power consumption 500 (renewable sources) Estimated power consumption (non-renewable sources) 400 GWh p.a. 300 200 100 0 2020 2021 2022 2023 onwards 19 Biodiversity Our actions Lundin Petroleum is committed to the conservation of Our studies have an impact on the selection of well locations and biological diversity, safeguarding ecosystems, species and other submarine structures locations. In 2019, Lundin Norway genetic diversity. We acquire information and increase our relocated a well drilled in the southern Barents Sea, from its understanding of those ecosystems in which we operate, preliminary location in order to ensure minimum impact. Anchor including potential impacts of our activities. Environmental lines are also surveyed and relocated where necessary to minimize mapping, risk analyses and impact assessments are potential damage to marine life on the seabed. conducted to help us make decisions regarding the time and place of our operations. Through the Barents Sea Exploration Collaboration (BaSEC), Lundin Norway has gained and shared valuable insights regarding Our operating context the biodiversity in the area and measures which need to be put The Norwegian Continental Shelf (NCS) is among the in place to preserve it. The collaboration has resulted in extensive most extensively mapped, analysed and managed marine mapping of birds and fish species, a heightened understanding of area in the world. Norwegian authorities have applied seasonal dynamics and the ecological importance of polar fronts. management plans that set out the operational conditions Shared oil spill plans have also been developed. for activities within the area, including for exploration We have also maintained our participation in studies of seabird and production of oil and gas. Area sensitivity is weighed migrations from their Northern Atlantic breeding colonies to against industrial activities, local interests and international open waters in the Northern Atlantic oceans. These feed into our treaties. Operational conditions may be imposed upon environmental risk and impact assessments. licence awards, including periodical drilling restrictions, special monitoring, oil spill response measures and so forth. There are extensive efforts invested into rendering analytical Lundin Petroleum does not have any activities or acreage tools’ capabilities to acquire understanding on the effects of oil in the International Union for Conservation of Nature spills on the marine environment. OSECA, a joint initiative, aims protected areas. All of Lundin Petroleum’s activities on to advance the proficiency of spill simulation technologies. The the NCS with any potential for affecting the environmnet Company will use this technology to assess the ecological impact undergo public consultation and authority approval. of oil spills on early life stages of six fish species on the NCS. Through our participation in the ERA Acute model development, Biodiversity management is set out in the Company’s we will also implement a new generation of environmental risk Environmental Policy, while our Environmental Strategy analysis tool. outlines and defines biodiversity criteria and targets. The Fateice project focuses on analysing and assessing the fate All acreage is internally assessed with particular attention and ecological effects of weathered crude oil on ice covered areas. to areas in proximity of sensitive coastal habitats, fish Activities in the southern Barents Sea region, although highly spawning and seabird breeding or feeding grounds, coral unlikely, may result in spills with a potential to reach ice edges. reefs, fisheries, etc. This project has mapped the migration of hydrocarbons in this The Company has several environmental management environment, and has helped develop and mature oil spill and processes, including specifications for when and how to weathering models. perform environmental assessments, acceptance criteria and conditions to operate within production licences. Water Biodiversity related risks are addressed within risk Lundin Petroleum’s water management issue is operational management processes. Typical risks include potential harm discharges to sea. Produced water, slop and bilge water have to the ocean, its fauna and flora, due to a major event such adverse effects on the aqueous environment unless properly as an oil spill. cleaned. VesselAdmin VesselAdmin is a Norwegian technology company that aims to accelerate the green shift in shipping and offshore activity. The company offers a digital platform for transparent, compliant and fair chartering, where charterers and vessel owners connect directly in a friction-free and automated process. The co-founder and CEO of VesselAdmin is a former Lundin Norway employee. “It was during my years in Lundin Norway that it became clear to me that our industry needed a specific procurement system for hiring vessels and rigs. I discussed several times with my colleagues in Lundin Norway how helpful a digital procurement system would be if we could connect it to a live market for rigs and vessels”, explains CEO. A significant share of the environmental impact of oil companies can be traced back to the emissions from vessels and rigs they hire. Most oil companies establish goals to reduce the emissions from the vessels and rigs they use in their operations, but until now it has been challenging for charterers to compile and process this data. With input from Lundin Norway and three other oil companies, VesselAdmin expanded the evaluation criteria for tenders to include information about fuel types and emission reduction measures. VesselAdmin now provides oil companies with the opportunity to integrate these sustainability criteria in their tenders which makes it easy to compare the environmental performance of bidders. In December 2019, Lundin Norway issued a live tender that required a detailed fuel and emissions evaluation of the bidder’s vessels. 20 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 14 Our operating context The campaign has been expanded from our fixed platform Our Company operates exclusively offshore on the NCS. While to include all our operated assets. On-going focus in 2019 water scarcity is an issue for the industry, it is not material for has incentivized further waste reduction measures, and our Norwegian offshore operations, where limited freshwater is identified logistical solutions to reduce our total waste withdrawn. Our water management includes strict monitoring generation. of discharges to sea. Well abandonment and decommissioning Our actions Lundin Norway has cessation plans for exploration wells in We have implemented internal water related targets of monthly conformity with Norwegian regulations. In 2019, we drilled averages of less than 15 ppm oil in water and of more than 15 explorations wells, three of which were operated by us. 95 percent of produced water to be reinjected into our wells. Two appraisal wells were also drilled, but are not operated Norwegian regulations state that no stream shall have monthly by us. Out of the 17 wells in total, 16 were permanently averages above 30 ppm oil in water. Both targets were met in plugged and abandoned, and one was plugged and will be 2019, with a 9.9 ppm oil in water content, and 97.4 percent abandoned as the Frosk/Bøyla fields retire. In addition, one of produced water reinjected. For our operated Edvard Grieg well needed a re-spud and was temporarily plugged, with platform, an online oil-in-water analyser for produced water has a view to permanently plug it in 2020. Decommissioning been approved for regulatory reporting. The analyser ensures plans must describe a proposal for disposal solutions, while continuous monitoring of the water-oil separation efficiency. accounting for technical, safety related, environmental, The other major discharge streams to sea are drill cuttings and economic factors. Prior to decommissioning, an impact drill fluids. In 2019, drilling discharges have occurred from our assessment is to be carried out. exploration activity, which has focused on eliminating chemicals In 2019, no decommissioning activity occurred, but plans with unwanted properties. Our focus for discharge reduction have been prepared for Gaupe and Brynhild, which in case in 2019 has been on chemicals, prioritising the substitution of of the latter will take place in 2020–2021. chemicals with the most adverse properties to less hazardous substitutes. Audits The Norwegian Environment Agency did not conduct any Waste audits of Lundin Norway in 2019. However, 2019 activities Waste disposal is an important responsibility for corporations, included the verification of EU-ETS by authorised third which must seek ways to reduce overall amounts of waste party verifiers. produced. As part of the rig intake of the mobile drilling unit rigs Our operating context West Bollsta and Rowan Viking coming into contract with At Lundin Petroleum, our focus on waste management is set at Lundin Norway in 2020, several verification activities were the operational and office levels. From a company perspective, undertaken by Lundin Norway and contracted companies. we monitor our waste disposal practices to meet and exceed best practice. The Norwegian system implies a ‘see-to-duty’, whereby oil companies have a duty to ensure that all contractors and Our actions subcontractors comply with applicable regulations. In line A waste reduction campaign was initiated in 2018 for all with its ‘see-to-duty’, Lundin Norway has conducted more offshore installations, focusing on reducing the use of than 20 audits in 2019. The scope of the audits includes non-renewable materials, single use utensils and Styrofoam contractors, operators of fields where Lundin Norway is a packaging. At Edvard Grieg, waste generation, sorting and waste partner, as well as internal audits. All findings are followed recovery is a high focus area. In 2019 the platform has sorted up until closure. 99 percent of generated waste. FT Energy Transition Strategies Summit Lundin Petroleum’s President and CEO joined a panel at the FT Energy Transition Strategies Summit to discuss how the low carbon energy transition is changing the nature of the oil and gas industry, redefining what it will take to be successful in the future. He presented Lundin Petroleum’s approach to carbon reduction and record low carbon operational footprint. He confirmed our intention to continue to contribute towards a low carbon future. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 21 SOCIAL Lundin Petroleum nurtures and protects its most important asset, its people. We want everyone working on our behalf, whether directly or indirectly, to be safe, to have equal opportunities and to be fairly compensated and respected. We expect all employees to follow our Environment, Social, Governance (ESG) commitments, our Code of Conduct and applicable policies. In doing so, we seek to ensure that everyone working at Lundin Petroleum has a common understanding regarding the uphold of ethical social conduct. 444 year end employees Women Women Women 33% 23% 28% Board of Managers Employees Directors Men Men Men 67% 77% 72% 22 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 5 8 Our governance Our employees enjoy freedom of association. Lundin Norway is Lundin Petroleum’s electronic Employee Handbook outlines a member of the Association of Norwegian Enterprises (NHO) terms and conditions complementary to those contained in and its subsidiary the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association the Statement of Terms and Conditions of Employment. Our (NOROG). NOROG has framework agreements with affiliated corporate policies, procedures and guidelines are available for unions. We conduct central and local salary negotiations all employees. Each affiliate has its own management system, annually, and revise the agreements on a bi-annual basis. which meets the expectations of the corporate policies. The The level of union participation has been steady, with around CEO ensures the implementation of governing documents, 50 percent of employees in Norway represented by labour while day-to-day responsibility sits with the appropriate heads unions. of departments and with the Vice President Sustainability. Lundin Petroleum uses competence, experience and personal Lundin Norway has an onshore Working Environment suitability as the selection criteria for new hires. Candidates are Committee (WEC) where employees are represented by an selected in cooperation between relevant department managers employee elected Main Safety Delegate and an employee and Human Resources. While we seek the inclusion of at least representative. The Managing Director and Human Resources one female candidate at the final interview stage to increase Director act as representatives on behalf of the management gender balance, we hire the best candidate for the position. We team. The Committee Chair alternates on an annual basis, do not tolerate any form of recruitment discrimination. between employee and management representatives. WEC meetings are conducted quarterly. Our actions Lundin Petroleum conducts regular town-hall meetings for There is also a coordinating WEC for Edvard Grieg, consisting employees and consultants. In Norway, these meetings are of Lundin Norway and contractor personnel with equal broadcasted to the Edvard Grieg platform and the Harstad representation from employees and management. Meetings are office. Town halls serve as an effective tool for management held on a quarterly basis. to keep the team up to date and engaged on important information, as well as to reinforce our company culture and Employment values. Our operating context We actively engage and promote good employee relations Quarterly cooperation meetings are conducted with and sound employment practices, offering attractive and representative leaders from the unions, ensuring effective safe working conditions. In 2019, Lundin Petroleum had cooperation and communication. Additional meetings are held 444 permanent employees at year end, and approximately as needed. 60 consultants. Our employees are located either at our offices or offshore facilities. As a member of the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association, Lundin Norway participates in its various workgroups in order At Lundin Norway, approximately 22 percent of staff work in to contribute to further enhance the quality and performance an offshore rotation, which implies working two weeks on, of our industry. Lundin Norway’s Managing Director was the four weeks off, the standard practice in Norway. chair of the board of NOROG until November 2019. Over the year, Lundin Petroleum hired 53 new employees, Managers are responsible for conducting at least one annual of which 40 percent of new hires were women. Women appraisal with all employees. Appraisals include discussing represent 28 percent of the total workforce and 23 percent future career development, training requirements and of our managerial positions. We strive to improve the gender performance reviews. balance through our recruitment practices. The average age of new hires is 37, while the average age of Lundin Petroleum In 2019, we conducted working environment surveys to employees is 44. Our retention rate in 2019 is 93 percent. understand employees’ perceptions at work. The overall response rate (95 percent) shows a high level of commitment Lundin Petroleum offers competitive remuneration and benefit and allows for representative interpretation of the results. packages, such as pension schemes, insurances, bonuses, Aggregated results were presented to employees. Relevant parental leave, additional vacation days, exercise facilities, business units used the results to reinforce areas of cultural activities, etc. improvement within their remit. The surveys reflect overall employee satisfaction. We prioritise employee development through on the job trainings, courses and further educational activities. In 2019, our employees completed 2,324 hours of health, safety and environment (HSE) training and 3,489 hours of other training including Leadership Development training. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 23 3 Health and safety Audits Our operating context The Petroleum Safety Authority Norway conducts regular The Norwegian parliament has set as a clear ambition on the audits on all companies operating on the Norwegian petroleum industry to be a world leader in terms of health and Continental Shelf. In 2019, it conducted 4 audits on Lundin safety. Norway, including: • Security aboard the Edvard Grieg offshore platform, Lundin Petroleum’s objective is to provide a safe and healthy helicopter base and marine base working environment for all employees, contractors and other personnel working for us. The control and management • Edvard Grieg working environment of health and safety issues are considered at all stages of • Edvard Grieg material handling, lifting and maintenance operational and commercial activities. We fully recognise • Solveig field development project the value of the people working for us, and consider their well-being as an important element of our business success. There were no critical findings from the audits. At Lundin Petroleum, we ensure all persons working on our behalf understand our expectations in terms of health and Contracts safety. In 2019, Lundin Petroleum revised its HSEQ requirements within Contracts to ensure increased emphasis on security Our actions issues. Examples include the responsibility of the contractor 2019 has been an excellent year for Lundin Petroleum with to implement security measures which protect the Company respect to its health and safety results. We have had no serious against relevant threats of harm, including systems and incidents or injuries resulting in days away from work. There processes for information security management and physical has been one minor injury requiring medical treatment, security. The Contractor is also obliged to perform security resulting in an overall total recordable incident frequency of training issued by the Company. 0.63, well below industry average. Lundin Petroleum has not had any process safety incidents since 2016. In 2019, we continued to promote Lundin Calling, a framework for fostering a proactive Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) culture launched in 2018. Lundin Calling is specifically tailored to enhance communication relating to risks and mitigating measures. To reinforce the messaging of Lundin Calling, examples are cited and presented in management meetings, town halls and external events. To assist in the HSEQ culture building efforts, 2019 also saw Arctic Offshore Regulator Forum the production of an interactive HSEQ course. The training In 2019, Lundin Norway was invited by the material serves as a tool to encourage personnel to reflect Petroleum Safety Authority to present its mitigating upon how daily choices can impact the risks associated with actions to minimise HSE risks related to our Barents the activities carried out. Building on the Lundin Calling Sea operations at the Arctic Offshore Regulator framework, this training is an integral part of our HSEQ Forum. induction. 24 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Safety highlights Lost time incident rate 2019 2018 2017 0 per million 0.50 per million 0.47 per million hours worked hours worked hours worked Total recordable incident rate 2019 2018 2017 0.63 per million 1.01 per million 3.30 per million hours worked hours worked hours worked Safe operations 2019 2019 2019 Zero fatalities Zero process safety 2,324 hours HSE incidents training Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 25 26 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 10 Human rights All our employees and contractors have completed our new Our operating context Corporate Responsibility e-learning course, including a We actively engage and promote good employee relations and module on human rights with a compulsory test. 75 percent sound employment practices. We respect human rights in of the Corporate Responsibility e-learning training is related all our activities as required by our Human Rights Policy and to human rights policies and procedures. Guidelines, abiding by the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Our human rights process remains in place and we are We are compliant with the Norwegian Working mindful of potential impacts from our activities across Environment Act, which addresses human rights issues the value chain. Lundin Petroleum’s main activities are including whistleblowing and a ban on child labour. in Norway and we ensure human rights requirements We are also compliant with the Norwegian Equality and are covered in agreements with our contactors and Anti-Discrimination Act, which includes the International subcontractors with fabrication sites both in and outside of Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Norway. Discrimination. In 2019, no cases involving the rights of indigenous people Our actions or of discrimination have been reported. There were also no Lundin Petroleum endorsed the United Nations Guiding cases of whistleblowing or child labour in any of our areas of Principles in 2012, and remains committed to the promotion activities. of human rights in its sphere of influence. Sudan In June 2010, the Swedish Prosecution Authority began a preliminary investigation into alleged complicity in violations of international humanitarian law in Sudan during 1997–2003. The Company has cooperated extensively and proactively with the investigation by providing information regarding its operations in Block 5A in Sudan during the relevant time period. We remain convinced that Lundin was a force for good for the development in Sudan. Ian H. Lundin and Alex Schneiter have been interviewed by the Swedish Prosecution Authority and have, together with the Company, been notified of the relevant suspicions and have received final notice of the investigation, which is being reviewed by the defence. No new final notice deadline has yet been set by the Swedish Prosecution Authority. In 2018, the Company was notified by the Swedish Prosecution Authority that the Company may be liable to a corporate fine of SEK 3 million and forfeiture of economic benefits from the alleged offense in the amount of SEK 3,282 million, based on the profit of the sale of the Block 5A asset in 2003 of SEK 720 million. Any potential corporate fine or forfeiture could only be imposed after the conclusion of a trial, should one occur. In 2018, the Swedish Prosecution Authority began a preliminary investigation into alleged interference in a judicial matter as a result of allegations of witness harassment. The Company and its representatives are not aware of any details of the alleged actions, despite several requests for information, and reject any knowledge of, or involvement in, any wrongdoing. Ian H. Lundin and Alex Schneiter have been interviewed by the Swedish Prosecution Authority and have been notified of the suspicions that form the basis for the investigation. Neither investigation mean that charges have been, or will be, brought against any individuals or the Company. Lundin Petroleum knows that there are absolutely no grounds for any allegations of wrongdoing by the Company or any Company representatives in respect of any of these allegations. More information regarding the past operations in Sudan during 1997–2003 can be found on www.lundinsudanlegalcase.com. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 27 GOVERNANCE Good governance is critical to ensure ethical behaviour across the Company. It requires having in place relevant policies and practices which set out the conditions under which the Company carries out its activities and continuous monitoring of their implementation. Governance is essential to all branches within the wider remit of ESG. Lundin Petroleum – governance structure External Nomination audit Shareholders’ meeting Committee Board of Directors Audit Compensation ESG/H&S Committee Committee Committee Independent Internal audit CEO and Group management qualified reserves auditor 28 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 “ Our corporate governance structure is fundamental for achieving our ambition of being one of the most sustainable oil and gas companies in the world. Ian H. Lundin Chairman of the Board Our governance ESG/H&S Committee Since its creation in 2001, Lundin Petroleum has been guided The Environmental Social Governance/Health and Safety by general principles of corporate governance. These principles, Committee (ESG/H&S Committee, renamed from CR/HSE integrated in our Code of Conduct, and aligned with the Swedish Committee) assists the Board to monitor the performance Code of Corporate Governance, form an integral part of Lundin and key risks that the Company faces in relation to Petroleum’s business model. environmental, social, governance and health and safety matters. The ESG/H&S Committee’s responsibility is to Lundin Petroleum’s principles of corporate governance seek to: oversee the Company’s conduct and performance on ESG/H&S matters, to inform the Board and make recommendations • Protect shareholder rights to the Board it deems appropriate on any area within its • Provide a safe and rewarding working environment to all remit where action or improvement is needed. The ESG/H&S employees Committee’s tasks further include reviewing and monitoring • Ensure compliance with applicable laws and best industry ESG/H&S policies and the effectiveness of compliance, as practice well as considering ESG/H&S issues, risks, strategies and responses to climate change issues. The ESG/H&S Committee • Ensure activities are carried out competently and sustainably reviews Group management’s proposals on ESG/H&S targets • Sustain the well-being of local communities in areas of and goals, monitors the appropriateness of ESG/H&S audit operation strategies and plans, the execution and results of such plans and reviews and makes recommendations to the Board in Lundin Petroleum adheres to principles of corporate governance relation to the Company’s Sustainability Report. found in both internal and external rules. In doing so, Lundin Petroleum decreases the risks associated with unclear ESG/H&S Committee’s work during 2019: allocation of responsibilities. It also enables the Company to • Review of ESG/H&S Committee terms of reference manage its responsibilities clearly as well as to avoid conflicts of interest between its shareholders, management and the • Review of policies and conduct of the Company in respect Board of Directors. Abiding to corporate governance principles of ESG/H&S matters builds trust in Lundin Petroleum, which results in increased • Review of major ESG/H&S issues or risks of public concern shareholder value. By ensuring the business is conducted in and the Company strategy to address them a responsible manner, the corporate governance structure • Assessing current status of international climate ultimately paves the way to increased efficiency. initiatives and stakeholder expectations on Board oversight Our operating context Lundin Petroleum aims to create value for its shareholders • Review of the Company’s strategy and response to climate through an organic growth strategy, while operating in a change issues and the Company’s Decarbonisation responsible way for the benefit of all its stakeholders. To Strategy achieve this, Lundin Petroleum applies a governance structure • Review of ESG/H&S performance and monitoring of that favours straightforward decision making processes. It also potential and/or large reputational risk for the Company provides the necessary checks and balances for the control of with particular focus on corrective actions the activities, both operationally and financially. The standard practice within the oil and gas industry is to operate through • Monitoring the appropriateness of ESG/H&S audit joint ventures, which emphasises the need for a clear division strategies and plans, and the execution and results of of responsibilities not only within Lundin Petroleum but also such plans between Lundin Petroleum and its partners. In each joint • Review of the cyber security risks and awareness venture, one of the parties is designated as the operator in programme charge of the day-to-day operations, in accordance with a Joint Operating Agreement. All key decisions, including approval of • Review of the 2020 ESG/H&S plan yearly budgets, work programmes, where and how operations • Discuss third party ESG rating assessments of Lundin shall be conducted, are decided at joint committee meetings Petroleum between the joint venture parties. The joint venture partners • Discuss the change of name of the Committee to the have on-going audit rights to ensure that the necessary checks ESG/H&S Committee and balances are in place to monitor compliance with the Joint Operating Agreement and legal requirements. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 29 16 Our actions Anti-corruption Corporate Responsibility e-learning All forms of corruption are strictly prohibited at Lundin Corporate responsibility is an evolving sphere, as such it is Petroleum. To ensure everyone working for or on behalf important to refresh our knowledge and understanding of the of Lundin Petroleum understands their responsibilities, systems in place, and to challenge our critical thinking on such information and training is provided throughout our matters. With this in mind, Lundin Petroleum issued a revised operations. We encourage alleged cases to be reported. Corporate Responsibility e-learning course in 2019. The latter is All alleged cases of corruption are to be investigated, and mandatory for all staff, including the Board. The course is split appropriate actions taken. Anti-corruption forms a part of into various modules covering our Code of Conduct as well our contractor evaluations. Anti-corruption clauses also as our policies, commitments and requirements in relation to feature as part of our Contractor Declaration, revised in HSE, anti-corruption, anti-competition, human rights, diversity 2019, outlining ethical criteria and expectations. In the event and stakeholder engagement. Each module is followed by a of non-compliance and depending on the severity thereof, compulsory test. contracts may be terminated or remedial actions sought. Code of Conduct In 2019, Lundin Petroleum had no cases of corruption, Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct is a set of principles significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for formulated by the Board to give overall guidance to employees, non-compliance. contractors and partners on how the Company is to conduct its activities in an economically, socially and environmentally Lundin Petroleum participates in the following global responsible way, for the benefit of all stakeholders, including initiatives promoting anti-corruption: shareholders, employees, business partners, host and home • The United Nations Global Compact governments and local communities. The Company applies the same standards to all of its activities to satisfy both its • The United Nations Global Compact Nordic Network commercial and ethical requirements and strives to continuously • The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) improve its performance and to act in accordance with good oilfield practice and high standards of corporate citizenship. The Competition Code of Conduct is an integral part of the Company’s contracting Lundin Petroleum’s Competition Law Policy demonstrates procedures and any violations of the Code of Conduct will be our commitment to business practice compliant with legal the subject of an inquiry and appropriate remedial measures. In requirements and of best industry practice. Competition laws, addition, performance under the Code of Conduct, sustainability including in Norway, prohibit agreements, practices and and corporate responsibility is regularly reported to the Board. conduct with a damaging effect on competition. Breach of the The Code of Conduct is available on the Company’s website. Competition Law can lead to criminal and corporate liability and can severely damage company reputation and standing. Whistleblowing We seek to ensure integrity is maintained in all business Our Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure provides a means dealings and set out employee responsibility and requirements for legitimate concerns regarding misconduct in the workplace within our Competition Law Policy. to be raised without reprisals or victimisation. People working on behalf of Lundin Petroleum are encouraged to voice concerns regarding possible unethical or illegal conduct. Whistleblowers’ identities are kept anonymous upon request, and are protected against retaliation. Concerns can be submitted to line managers, supervisors, anonymously via e-mail, or through an independent third party, at any time. Reported complaints are notified to the Board Audit Committee and follow-up actions depend upon the nature of the concern. In 2019, there were no cases raised through the whistleblowing procedure. For information on our Remuneration Policy, see the Annual Report 2019. For details concerning taxes paid, see Sustainability data (p. 37) and the Annual Report 2019. 30 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 ESG ratings Shareholders and other stakeholders want to understand ESG assessments how the oil and gas sector is evolving. They seek disclosures Investor related ESG assessments are conducted by the investment on business impacts looking at how companies address risks, community. These assessments rely on internal resources and opportunities, considering business and societal trade-offs. often involve dialogue with the Company. They also rely on We have observed a surge in interest within the investor rating agencies, which can help determine the level of material community regarding the way in which companies integrate sustainability-related risks and opportunities linked to potential Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues into their investment decisions. business model and how this impacts their performance. An increasing number of banks and investment institutions We welcome rating agencies’ assessments of Lundin Petroleum, have become signatories to the UN Principles of Responsible and disclose our existing ESG scores to contribute to the shaping Investment, an explicit commitment to integrate ESG of investor-relevant decision-making processes. While investor considerations into investment decisions. This heightened ratings of Lundin Petroleum are not publicly communicated, attention underscores the need for best in class ESG some rating agencies communicate their evaluations publicly. performance, as assessed by external ESG rating agencies and/or by internal ESG professionals within the investment Lundin Petroleum has noted the following themes of interest by community. ESG ratings are pushing for better quality ESG rating agencies over the course of 2019: reporting and greater transparency, leading to enhanced • Climate change management business value and clarified purpose, improved operations and increased credibility. • Sustainability linked executive compensation • Health and safety Lundin Petroleum welcomes the heightened interest in sustainability, as it confirms the Company’s belief that ESG • Human capital development stewardship and business success go hand in hand. • Employee diversity • Supply chain management Lundin Petroleum has been reporting publicly about its ESG approach since 2001 through various outlets. Initially, We are pleased that the Company is ranked in the top quartile our corporate responsibility approach was described in among the main rating agencies. We are also proud to have our Annual Reports. Since 2015, in addition to the Annual received the Nasdaq ESG Transparency Badge for our engagement Report, Lundin Petroleum has been publishing an annual in market transparency and raising environmental standards. Sustainability Report, which provides qualitative and quantitative ESG data, in accordance with the Global Following engagement with Bloomberg in 2019, it included the Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Company also discloses Company in its Gender-Equality Index (GEI) 2020. The GEI seeks annually to international initiatives such as the United to set an example to advance women in the workplace through Nations Global Compact, the CDP and various rating measurement and transparency. agencies. ESG Ratings 2019 Top 10 ESG in Europe Top 5 on human rights globally Prime Status AA Outperformer B Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 31 1 17 Corporate citizenship Societal Contributions Operational context As a responsible corporate citizen, Lundin Petroleum seeks Lundin Petroleum has partnered with the Lundin Foundation to have a positive impact on society, in particular in areas to reinforce its actions in support of its commitments to the it has presence, at national and local levels. The Company UN Sustainable Development Goals and the transition to a is proud to support individuals and institutions who share sustainable, low carbon energy future. The partnership supports common values of innovation, entrepreneurship and team the growth of innovative start-ups tackling climate change, spirit. Lundin Petroleum believes in investing for the future healthy oceans, and inclusive communities. Through the and in supporting talent. Foundation, the Company makes direct impact investments into promising start-ups and strengthens the Scandinavian impact Partnership with the Lundin Foundation investing ecosystem by funding innovative business incubators The Lundin Foundation, established in 2005, elevates and accelerators. The support provided includes business environmental and social governance practice across the coaching, mentoring, access to industry experts and investors as Lundin Group of Companies to deliver lasting economic, well as early stage financing for high potential start-ups. environmental and social benefits to local communities. Since its inception, the Foundation has disbursed over Our actions MUSD 65 to initiatives that enable local employment, In 2019, our efforts focused on three accelerator programmes, nurture small business growth and support financially Katapult Ocean, the Arctic Accelerator and Charge, as well as viable social and environmental solutions. two direct investments into leading enterprises in Scandinavia, Evoy and Trine. Our partnership has helped contribute to The Lundin Foundation has been recognised by the UN the development of 51 innovations, with 76 percent of them Global Compact in 2018 and 2019, for its contribution to launched onto the market, MUSD 1.9 generated in revenues the UN Sustainable Development Goals in relation to its and a further MUSD 8.3 in funding secured from third party partnership with Lundin Gold. investors. 32 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 4 9 Katapult Ocean (Oslo, Norway) was launched in 2019 by Corporate sponsorship Katapult, a leading Norwegian business incubator, and WWF Lundin Petroleum is a long-term sponsor of the Good to Great with the goal of developing solutions to preserve the health Tennis Academy in Sweden, which supports young athletes of our oceans. Based in Norway, the 12 week accelerator by providing them with the opportunity to train and excel in programme and seed investment fund supports promising tennis. In 2019, our contribution covered 15 scholarships for early stage ocean technology companies from around the elite juniors, eight girls and seven boys, and an after-school world. In its inaugural year, 23 companies were accepted programme aimed at supporting health and education. Our into the programme, from over 800 applicants. The results of contribution also enabled the employment of a school mentor the first cohort are promising, with 55 percent of businesses and a sports psychologist, to ensure the well-being and health launching into the market, and 64 percent having secured of the young athletes. funding from third party investors. In 2019, Lundin Norway sponsored the women’s national Arctic Accelerator (Tromsø, Norway) promotes Arctic Norway ski jumping team. The team has achieved impressive results, as an attractive location for innovative and sustainable including a bronze medal in the first-ever team competition business. Lundin Foundation is a founding partner of the for women in the world championship last winter. The team accelerator, which supports early stage start-ups focused on has been working on promoting equality in sport. Efforts to clean energy, circular economy and sustainable use of Arctic promote gender equality resonate with us and we are therefore resources. Since its inception in 2016, it has grown into a proud to support these values in other parts of society as well. unique programme serving Arctic Norway, recognised for its pipeline of promising start-ups. In 2019, MedSensio, a health Lundin Norway continues to support the Norwegian College of technology company, which had gone through the accelerator Elite Sport, which enables youth to participate in international programme was awarded “Founder of the Year” in Agenda sports competition while pursuing their schooling. It has also Nord-Norge. In 2019, the accelerator programme supported sponsored the Astrup Fearnley Museum of Modern Art in Oslo. 15 start-ups engaged in a range of sectors including ocean The museum exhibits leading artists from around the world technology, sustainable agriculture, sustainable clothing and and has found an innovative way of rendering contemporary health. 80 percent of the start-ups have launched into the art more accessible by having young experts respond to any market, and 40 percent have secured funding from third party queries related to an art piece or its author. Finally, Lundin investors. Norway has an extensive R&D programme, supporting over a hundred projects which look at new technology Charge (Oslo, Norway) supports first generation immigrants and equipment to increase the effectiveness of oil and gas to launch and grow businesses as a strategy to improve operations and low carbon emission technology. integration and employment outcomes. Charge is unique insofar as it embeds start-ups within established businesses to enhance learning opportunities for first-time entrepreneurs. Lundin Foundation provided a strategic grant for the launch of the inaugural 2019 programme, supporting 11 start-ups addressing a range of social and environmental issues, of which 55 percent were led by female founders. 91 percent of supported businesses launched into the market, generated revenues. Lundin Petroleum, via Lundin Foundation, will support an expanded Charge programme in 2020 that will include a seed fund for the most promising businesses. Evoy (Bergen, Norway) is an award-winning start-up that develops high-speed electric engine and propulsion systems for small and medium sized commercial boats. It was part of the Katapult Ocean accelerator programme, and investments therein help achieve the goal of zero emission commercial boats along the Norwegian coastline and beyond. Trine (Gothenburg, Sweden) is an award-winning company that supports renewable energy for households in developing countries. It is a funding platform that enables investors to lend working capital to clean energy companies, addressing a major constraint along clean energy value chains. Lundin Foundation has made a debt investment with Trine to scale household access to clean energy in Africa. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 33 Sustainability data Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 Environment 1 2 3 Unplanned releases to sea or land Oil spills Number 0 0 0 Volume m3 0 0 0 Chemical spills Number 0 1 2 Volume m3 0 31 16.38 Hydrocarbon leaks Number 0 0 0 Mass kg 0 0 0 Fresh water use Freshwater withdrawal m3 5,157 4,155 4,417 Total water withdrawal, incl. potable water 4 m3 30,887 34,694 – Withdrawal from areas with high water stress m3 0 0 0 Effluents Produced water discharged to sea m3 3,302 1,164 5,668 Total water discharges 5 m3 10,147 11,933 16,335 Regular discharges of oil to water t 0.10 0.12 0.27 Drill cuttings t 4,370 7,938 13,859 Waste Hazardous waste generated t 1,313 8,036 16,612 Hazardous waste recovered t 232 596 426 Non-hazardous waste generated t 326 585 603 Non-hazardous waste recovered t 294 507 500 Energy consumption Total energy consumption 6 TJ 3,348 4,778 3,805 Energy consumption from renewable sources TJ 6.7 6.8 7.1 GHG emissions – operated Direct CO2 emissions t 296,045 392,093 328,668 Direct CH4 emissions t 197.6 125.4 104.3 Emission intensity 7 kg CO2/boe 5.1 6.6 5.9 Scope 1 GHG emissions 8 t CO2e 300,985 395,227 331,275 Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 t CO2e 35.3 31.0 37.0 Scope 3 GHG emissions Product use 10 MT CO2 21.3 21.7 20.7 Travel and logistic supply 11 MT CO2 0.029 0.045 0.048 GHG emissions – net Direct CO2 emissions 12 t 184,054 157,978 167,948 Direct CH4 emissions 13 t 129.9 114.2 207.8 Emission intensity 14 kg CO2/boe 5.4 5.3 5.3 Scope 1 GHG emissions 15 t CO2e 187,302 160,833 173,143 Scope 2 GHG emissions 16 t CO2e 783.3 31.0 37.0 Scope 3 GHG emissions Product use 17 MT CO2 12.6 10.9 11.6 Other emissions to air NOX t 530.1 1,198 1,137 SOX t 8.2 25.8 25.8 nmVOC t 111.7 249.1 121.0 34 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 Environment (continued) Flared emissions Edvard Grieg (gas) Sm3 8,112,735 10,021,602 13,456,445 Cold vented hydrocarbons 18 Edvard Grieg (gas) Sm3 187,643 52,618 45,770 Flaring during well tests Gas Sm3 4,000 13,584,350 112,354 Oil Sm3 26 8,308 1,132 Social 19 Health and safety Fatalities Employees 0 0 0 Contractors 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 Lost time incidents Employees 0 0 1 Contractors 0 1 0 Total 0 1 1 Restricted work incidents Employees 0 0 0 Contractors 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 Medical treatment incidents Employees 0 0 1 Contractors 1 1 5 Total 1 1 6 Lost time incident rate 20 Employees (per million hours worked) 0 0 1.30 Contractors (per million hours worked) 0 0.83 0 Total (per million hours worked) 0 0.50 0.47 Total recordable incident rate 20 Employees (per million hours worked) 0 0 2.61 Contractors (per million hours worked) 1.30 1.67 3.69 Total (per million hours worked) 0.63 1.01 3.30 Exposure hours Employees (hours) 813,529 785,916 767,609 Contractors (hours) 770,980 1,200,314 1,355,856 Total (hours) 1,584,509 1,986,230 2,123,465 Near misses with high potential 0 0 1 Contractor screening using HSE & CR criteria 21 New contractors (%) 100 100 100 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 35 Indicator 2019 2018 2017 Social (continued) People Employees Total 22 444 412 411 Employee turnover (%) 23 3.99 4.10 1.89 New hire rate (%) 23 11.94 7.90 6.35 Gender diversity Number of men 320 298 298 Number of women 124 114 113 Women in workforce (%) 28 28 25 Women in management (%) 23 26 27 Women in the Board of Directors (%) 33 33 38 Employees by age groups (%) < 30 years 8 5 5 30–50 years 55 56 60 > 50 years 37 39 35 Board of Directors by age groups (%) > 50 years 100 100 100 Incidents of discrimination 0 0 0 Governance 24 Society Communication of Anti-corruption Policy Board of Directors (%) 100 100 100 Employees (%) 100 100 100 Training on anti-corruption 25 Board of Directors (%) 100 100 100 Employees (%) 100 100 100 Confirmed incidents of corruption Number of incidents 0 0 0 Impact on employees 0 0 0 Impact on contractor relations 0 0 0 Legal cases 0 0 0 Report to the EITI Norway Norway Norway Anti-corruption Disputes associated with operations 26 0 0 0 Actual impacts on local communities 0 0 0 Corporate donations (USD) Sustainable investments / corporate sponsorships 400,473 33,063 103,129 Contribution to the Lundin Foundation 1,713,064 1,693,500 1,159,900 Total 2,113,537 1,726,536 1,263,029 Contributions to initiatives (USD) United Nations Global Compact 15,000 15,065 10,000 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 40,000 40,000 40,000 CDP 9,121 9,444 2,795 Land Life Company 143,667 – – Total 207,788 64,509 52,795 36 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Indicator 2019 2018 2017 Governance (continued) Compliance Significant fines Number 0 0 0 Value (USD) 0 0 0 Environmental fines Number 0 0 0 Value (USD) 0 0 0 Non-monetary sanctions Number 0 0 0 Environmental non-monetary sanctions Number 0 0 0 Production Total Taxes Royalties Fees Payments to governments (TUSD) 27 entitlement 2019 Norway 145,565 n/a 30,382 n/a 175,947 1 The Environment data boundary represents operational emissions from Norway, with the exception of energy consumption and GHG emissions which are at Corporate level. Apart from GHG emissions which are presented on both a net equity and operational basis, all data presented is on an operational basis (100% basis). 2 The Norwegian Environment Agency conducts verifications of all reported environmental data post Sustainability Report publication. This may result in minor variations of the environment data for non-operated assets in Q3 2020. 3 Emission factors used are sourced from Norwegian Oil & Gas Guidelines. 4 The total freshwater withdrawal is the sum of all potable and drilling water loaded onto supply vessels for offshore use, and reported water consumption at office premises. 5 Total water discharges is the sum of produced water and treated drainage water from Edvard Grieg platform and drilling rigs. Only water treated for oily water content is reported. 6 Sum of all energy sources consumed during operations, including fuel/flare gas, diesel and electricity, from offshore installations, drilling rigs and office premises. Energy indicators follow the CDP methodology of reporting. 7 Emission intensity includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emissions. Based on production at Edvard Grieg hub. 8 Scope 1 on an operated basis accounts for all direct emissions to air from operated assets, including drilling rigs. 9 Scope 2 on an operated basis accounts for indirect emissions from electricity consumption at the Lundin Norway office. 10 Based on total production from operated assets. 11 Includes emissions from supply vessels, helicopters, export tankers and business travel. 2018 and 2017 figures excluded tanker emissions. 12 Excludes exploration drilling emissions in 2018 and 2017. 13 Exploration drilling emissions in 2018 and 2017 not available. 14 Emission intensity includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emissions. Excludes exploration and drilling emissions in 2018 and 2017. Based on net sales. 15 Scope 1 on a net basis takes into account our net equity of operated and non-operated assets, including drilling. 16 Scope 2 emissions on a net basis includes emissions from head office in Oslo and power consumption from Johan Sverdrup (net basis) from 2019. 17 Based on net sales. Emissions factors used sourced from Norwegian Oil and Gas Guidelines. Fraction of hydrocarbons combusted based on assumption from ENDRAVA. 2018 and 2017 figures have been restated due to a change in calculation methodology. 18 2019 data increase is due to a revised emission factor, not performance. 19 The Social data boundary includes Norway, Switzerland, Sweden and the Netherlands. As the majority of the organisation is located in Norway, the information is disclosed at Corporate level rather than per region. 20 Employee and contractor frequency data is obtained by inserting the number of injuries as the numerator and the hours worked as the denominator. 21 We report on main contractors which are determined based on the scope of work, contract duration, contract value and/or relevant risk factors. 22 The Sustainability Report accounts for permanent and ﬁxed term employees by end of year paid directly by the Company, whereas the Annual Report accounts for average numbers for the year. Data is not broken down by gender (only total) and employment type due to our size. 23 Employees are not broken down by age group, gender and region due to our size. 24 The Governance data boundary includes Norway, Switzerland, Sweden and the Netherlands. 25 Since the introduction of the e-learning course, everyone working in the Company has completed the training, including new hires and Board members. Business partners are not included in this data. 26 The data covers the full scope of our operations. 27 The report on payments to governments with details of payments is available on www.lundin-petroleum.com. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 37 GRI index Lundin Petroleum’s 2019 GRI index, in accordance with the GRI Standard Guidelines “core” level, provides references to the indicators the Company reports on. Standard Disclosure Description Reference GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2016) 1. Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation SR front/back cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services SR 6-7 102-3 Location of headquarters SR back cover 102-4 Location of operations SR 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form SR back cover 102-6 Markets served SR 6 & 9 102-7 Scale of the organisation AR 56, 60 & 86 102-8 Information on employees and other workers SR 22-25 & 35-36 102-9 Supply chain SR 6 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain SR 10 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach SR 14 102-12 External initiatives SR inside cover 102-13 Membership of associations SR inside cover & 23 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 2 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities SR 5 & 12-13 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour SR 3 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics SR 30 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure SR 28 102-19 Delegating authority SR 9 & 29 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics SR 9 & 19 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics SR 10-11 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees AR 42-43 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR 42 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 40 102-25 Conflicts of interest AR 42-43 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy AR 41 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body AR 41 & 46 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance AR 46 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts SR 9-10 & 29 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes SR 12-13 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social impacts SR 10 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting SR 2 102-33 Communicating critical concerns SR 29 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 47-54 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 44 & 47-54 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration AR 39 & 47-54 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements SR 23 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 10 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 10 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 11 6. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 97 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries SR 4 102-47 List of material topics SR content page & 9 102-48 Restatement of information SR 4 102-49 Changes in reporting SR 4 102-50 Reporting period SR 4 102-51 Date of most recent report SR 42 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR 42 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR front cover & 4 102-55 GRI content index SR 38-39 102-56 External assurance SR 40-41 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary SR 4 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 15, 23 & 29 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 29 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016) 205-2 Communications and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 30 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR 30 GRI 302: ENERGY (2016) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 35 302-3 Energy intensity SR 14 & 35 GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS (2018) 303-3 Water withdrawal SR 34 303-4 Water discharge SR 34 38 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Disclosure Description Reference GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY (2016) 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas SR 20 304-3 Habitats protected or restored SR 20 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations SR 20 GRI 305: EMISSIONS (2016) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR 34 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR 34 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions SR 34 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 34 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (Nox), sulfur oxides (Sox), and other significant air emissions SR 34 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (2016) 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination SR 34 306-3 Significant spills SR 34 GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (2016) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 37 GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (2016) 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR 35 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT (2016) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR 36 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (2018) 1. Management approach disclosures 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system SR 24 403-3 Occupational health services SR 24 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety SR 24 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety SR 25 403-6 Promotion of worker health SR 24 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships SR 24 2. Topic-specific disclosures 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and managament system SR 24 403-9 Work-related injuries SR 25 & 35 GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION (2016) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs SR 23 & 30 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews SR 23 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (2016) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR 22-23 GRI 406: NON DISCRIMINATION (2016) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 27 & 36 GRI 408: CHILD LABOUR (2016) 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour SR 27 GRI 411: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (2016) 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples SR 27 GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (2016) 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights rewiews or impact assessments SR 27 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR 27 GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES (2016) 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs SR 10 & 32-33 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities SR 36 GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (2016) 414-1 New suppliers that were screened used social criteria SR 35 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (2016) 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area SR 37 G4: OIL AND GAS SECTOR DISCLOSURE (2012) G4-OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production SR 3, AR 20 & 110 G4-OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water SR 34 G4-OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons SR 35 G4-OG7 Drilling waste SR 34 G4-OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indegenous peoples SR 36 G4-OG11 Decomissioned sites and sites that are in the process of being decomissioned SR 21 AR: Annual Report / SR: Sustainability Report Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 39 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To Lundin Petroleum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556610-8055 Introduction We have been engaged by Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Lundin Petroleum’s Sustainability Report for the year 2019, which also constitutes the company’s statutory sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Responsibilities of the Board and Management The Board of Directors and the Group Management are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on the inside front cover. The criteria consist of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, as well as the Annual Accounts Act, and the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed. This responsibility includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a sustainability report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the Auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed, and to make a statement on the statutory sustainability report. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by IAASB and our examination of the statutory sustainability report in accordance with RevR 12 Auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the sustainability report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Such an engagement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. The audit firm applies ISQC 1 International Standard on Quality Control and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We confirm that we are independent in relation to Lundin Petroleum according to generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, and have fulfilled our professional ethics responsibility according to these requirements. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Group Management as described above. We consider these criteria as suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. Conclusions Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Management. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, March 2, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Johan Rippe Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability Expert Member of FAR 40 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Forward-looking statements Certain statements made and information contained herein constitute “forward-looking information” (within the meaning of applicable securities legislation). Such statements and information (together, “forward-looking statements”) relate to future events, including Lundin Petroleum’s future performance, business prospects or opportunities. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to estimates of reserves and/or resources, future production levels, future capital expenditures and their allocation to exploration and development activities, future drilling and other exploration and development activities. Ultimate recovery of reserves or resources are based on forecasts of future results, estimates of amounts not yet determinable and assumptions of management. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. Statements concerning proven and probable reserves and resource estimates may also be deemed to constitute forward-looking statements and reflect conclusions that are based on certain assumptions that the reserves and resources can be economically exploited. Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, using words or phrases such as “seek”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “continue”, “estimate”, “expect”, “may”, “will”, “project”, “predict”, “potential”, “targeting”, “intend”, “could”, “might”, “should”, “believe” and similar expressions) are not statements of historical fact and may be “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that these expectations and assumptions will prove to be correct and such forward-looking statements should not be relied upon. These statements speak only as on the date of the information and Lundin Petroleum does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable laws. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties relating to, among other things, operational risks (including exploration and development risks), productions costs, availability of drilling equipment, reliance on key personnel, reserve estimates, health, safety and environmental issues, legal risks and regulatory changes, competition, geopolitical risk, and financial risks. These risks and uncertainties are described in more detail under the heading “Risk management” and elsewhere in Lundin Petroleum’s Annual Report. Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. Lundin Petroleum References to “Lundin Petroleum” or “the Company” pertain to the corporate group in which Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) (company registration number 556610–8055) is the Parent Company or to Lundin Petroleum AB (publ), depending on the context. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 41 Tell us what you think We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you might have about this report and our performance. Please send your feedback to info@lundin.ch Previous sustainability reports are available at www.lundin-petroleum.com Your feedback is valued i Stay up to date with Lundin Petroleum’s news and events by visiting our website Follow us on www.lundin-petroleum.com social media Access Lundin Petroleum’s latest information anytime, anywhere by downloading the Lundin Petroleum IR App onto your phone or tablet 42 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2019 Printed by Exakta Print Malmö and Landsten Reklam, Sweden 2020. Exakta Print is FSC® and ISO 14001 certified and is committed to all round excellence in its environmental performance. The paper used for this report contains material sourced from responsibly managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC® and is manufactured by Exakta Print to ISO 14001 international standards. Corporate Head Office Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) Hovslagargatan 5 SE-111 48 Stockholm, Sweden T +46-8-440 54 50 F +46-8-440 54 59 E info@lundin.ch W lundin-petroleum.com
