n ual report an 2 019 ’S L E A DIN G BREWER W E AR E THE WORLD D R IVEN BY OUR “ O IS D EVER Y THING WE D P L E TOGETHE R AN G P EO BRINGIN ER WORLD .” DREAM OF FO R A B ET T AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Contents Letter to our shareholders 2 Key figures 2019 6 Highlights of the year 8 Who we are & what we do 10 Where we operate 14 Dream-people-culture 16 Market context 20 Strategy 22 Performance 24 Innovation 30 Better world 36 Community Engagement 38 Sustainability 44 Integrity 53 Report scope 54 Corporate governance statement 58 1 LETTER TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS ette r t o o u r L r e h o lders sh a 2 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 To our shareholders: Our performance in 2019 was below our expectations, and we are not satisfied with the results. There were many successes, but we also faced many challenges. We understand that in order to reach our ambitious goals, we need to embrace these challenges head-on and transform them into opportunities for success. W e are a strong, diversified company with an unrivaled geographic footprint, portfolio of brands, talent pool and a clear commercial strategy. As the world’s leading brewer, our commitment to grow the beer category is unwavering. We will use the learnings from 2019 to better position ourselves to deliver long-term sustainable top and bottom-line growth. We are a company of owners, who take results personally. As we We also took significant steps to deleverage toward our optimal capital structure, resulting in a leverage ratio of 4.0x on 31 December 2019 (accounting for the proceeds expected to be received from the divestment of the Australian operations while excluding the last 12 months EBITDA from the Australian operations). Growing the global beer category We remain focused on driving beer category growth by leverlook to the future, we are determined to lead growth through aging the interlocking frameworks of the market maturity consumer-centricity, operational excellence and innovation. We model, category expansion framework and growth champions. have a unique opportunity to build a stronger business which The category expansion framework provides a roadmap for is more connected than ever to our consumers and customers, growing the beer category by offering a full portfolio of options leveraging our assets to create lasting value. spanning different styles and price points to reach more consumers on more occasions. Reflecting on our performance Core lager is at the center of the category expansion frameIn 2019, we continued to enhance our focus on top-line growth work and is the heart of our business. We have made signifiand value creation while adopting a more balanced strategy cant advances in elevating our core brands around the world between volume and revenue per hl growth. We grew volumes by segmenting our core lagers into easy drinking lagers and by 1.1% in 2019, our third consecutive year of volume growth classic lagers, which have different liquid profiles and cater to with the rate of growth accelerating each year. Combined with different consumption occasions. By doing so, we drive increrevenue per hl growth of 3.1%, we delivered top-line growth of mental growth by reducing cannibalization, while strengthen4.3%. ing the relative positioning of each brand. While our core portfolio declined in volume in 2019, it was an improved trend from Our EBITDA grew by 2.7% with margin contraction of 65 bps 2018 and we delivered strong growth from our core brands in to 40.3%, below where we wanted to be. We faced significant meaningful markets such as Mexico, Colombia and Nigeria. headwinds in our cost base driven primarily by the highest annual increase in commodity and transactional currency costs Premiumization, a consumer trend across all our markets, is in the past decade, which held back EBITDA growth a key element of the category expansion frameby approximately 200 bps. Additionally, challengwork and our commercial strategy, as it generates ing macroeconomic environments in many of our relevant markets pressured consumer disposable income, resulting in trade-down and consumption 4.3% incremental top and bottom-line growth. It is a critical growth driver for the global beer category, especially as consumers are trading up from core contraction. TOP-LINE GROWTH brands. Our above core brands now comprise more than a quarter of our We achieved a major milestone in 2019 total volume and are growing ahead with the successful completion of the of the total company. Our High End listing of a minority stake of our Asia Company is leading the way, growing Pacific business (Budweiser APAC) on top and bottom line by double-digits in the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for 2019 off a meaningful base. 5.75 billion USD, recognizing the value we have created in the APAC region Our global brands are at the forefront throughout the past decade. The listing of our premiumization strategy and creates a regional champion in the conhad a very strong year, growing revsumer goods space and an attractive enue by 8.0% outside of their home platform for M&A. markets where they command a pre3 LETTER TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS mium. Budweiser grew 3.3% outside of the US, led by strong Responding to a changing world performances from Brazil, Europe and India, but was negatively impacted by the softness in the nightlife channel in China, We are a company driven by communities, fueled by innovation where it has a leading position. Stella Artois delivered growth and centered on consumers. Several key trends, both ongoing of 6.5% outside of Belgium, with meaningful growth in the US and emerging, are affecting our consumers and their behavior. and Brazil. Corona continued to lead the way with growth of An aging population, social isolation and a movement towards 21.0% outside of Mexico, with major contributions from margender equality are giving rise to major behavioral trends such kets such as China and South Africa. The strong equity of our as health and wellness and a greater need for digitization and global brands was also recognized by Interbrand, which ranked connection. Budweiser and Corona in its list of the top 100 global brands. We need to embrace every aspect of our evolving world. We They were the two highest ranked beer brands, improving their must answer to new consumers and stakeholders by leveraging rankings from last year and increasing their brand value on a the capabilities we have built and accelerating our plans while dollar basis. acknowledging our gaps and exploring growth opportunities. Smart affordability is another critical pillar of This means our company must evolve. After the category expansion framework, as price is all, we are owners, building a company to last. a major barrier to entering the beer category Dreaming big is in our DNA. We see challenges for many consumers. This is especially true as opportunities, and we are never completely in many emerging markets, where consumer satisfied with our results. disposable income growth often considerably lags inflation. This has impacted the relative Reimagining what our affordability of beer and, in many cases, negcompany can become atively affected per capita consumption. In response, we have elevated our smart affordWhile we have made significant strides in our ability strategy. We have been expanding our transformation, we need to move faster. In portfolio through initiatives such as new pack2020 and beyond, we will move with greater aging formats and brands, including beers speed and agility to develop new capabilities brewed with local crops. These innovations are and ways of thinking. We are positioning our driving meaningful incremental profits in key company for greater success by scaling up our markets, but generally have a dilutive impact growth platforms: on revenue per hl.  ecoming an even better beer company – B In addition to differentiating beers by price We will continue delivering results while also point, the category expansion framework transforming our core business. We will con+2.7% extends the beer category with flavored beers tinue to innovate and brew superior beers so and other beer styles, which appeal to differwe can address more consumers needs on ent taste profiles and bring beer to a wider set more occasions. As consumers interact with of occasions. We have meaningfully enhanced EBITDA GROWTH IN 2019 each other in new ways, especially through our portfolio offerings in both flavored beers technology, we need to engage with them and other beer styles, particularly through ZX where they are, in the formats they want and in ways that are convenient for them while 5.75 Ventures, our disruptive growth organization. ZX Ventures continues to fuel our top-line also offering more experiences. We will use results, accounting for more than 15% of our technology to better engage with our cusrevenue growth. tomers as a gateway to our consumers. billion USD ccelerating our premiumization strategy A We are proud of the advancements we have made across our portfolio to meet the needs of VALUE OF THE Across the world and especially in mature a broad set of consumers across price points, MINORITY STAKE OF markets, consumers are looking for affordstyles and occasions. We will continue to innoOUR ASIA PACIFIC able luxuries in all consumer goods cateBUSINESS LISTED ON gories, including beer. We will leverage our vate and enhance our offerings as we seek to THE HONG KONG STOCK unparalleled portfolio of premium beers and lead the growth of the global beer category. EXCHANGE innovation capabilities to capitalize on our leadership position in the premium category. 4 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 E  xpanding beyond beer As consumer tastes fragment, we need a broader portfolio of offerings for more consumers on more occasions, including beverages other than beer to address their needs. We need to become the company that brings all people, not just “beer people”, together. E  mbarking on new ventures and offering new solutions to our customers and consumers We will leverage the unmatched platform and rights of way we have built over the years to create new businesses that will create incremental value. We can help our customers become more efficient and profitable. We can provide convenience to customers and consumers by delivering more products and services to more places by leveraging our existing assets and capabilities. We believe these platforms will strengthen our core while adding new muscles to help us deliver our long-term growth aspirations. We are leveraging technology to transform ways of workworkers to detect people at risk and undertake corrective meaing to be more agile so we can create better solutions and value sures. The learnings from these pilot programs are open to all for our customers and our consumers around the world. Our and can be used to replicate these results in places with similar talented people and our commitment to innovation will help us conditions. deliver growth. We are leveraging technology to ensure that we are always operating at the highest ethical standards. Our award-winning Committed to a Better World compliance platform, BrewRIGHT, is an innovative use of artifiWe are determined to build a company to last. To do that, we cial intelligence to help detect and prevent fraud and corrupneed a healthy environment and thriving communities. Through tion. We are exploring the creation of a consortium of users that our 2025 Sustainability Goals, we are committed to creating a would help drive scale, which is critical to accelerate progress better world for all of our stakeholders while also creating value and maximize impact. for our business. In 2019, we continued to support our farmers through agriMobilizing our company for evolution cultural development, working with over 20 000 farmers in There is a fundamental truth about beer: it brings people 13 countries to grow the best barley, wheat, cassava, hops, together. We are the world’s leading brewer and everything we maize, rice and sorghum. We set an ambitious goal that 100% do is driven by our dream of bringing people together for a of our direct farmers will be skilled, connected and financially better world. empowered by 2025. Today, 50% of our direct farmers are Brewing the world’s most loved beers, building iconic brands skilled, 45% are connected and 35% are financially empowered. and creating meaningful experiences are what energize and Climate change impacts our business and the communities in inspire us. We are committed to making beer part of life’s greatwhich we live and work. We have committed that 100% of our est moments, and we strive to make every experience with beer global purchased electricity volume will come from renewable positive. sources by 2025. Today, 61% of our purchased electricity volThrough hard work and the strength of our people, we can ume is under contract from renewable sources. achieve anything. Together, we will deliver sustainable growth We also made progress this year toward our ambition for every and continue bringing people together for the next 100 years experience with beer to be a positive one. In support of the to come. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and World Health Organization goals, we launched plans to reduce the harmful use of alcohol in pilot cities across our major markets, developed in conjunction with the local communities and led by local authorities. These include novel road safety programs, the use of mystery shoppers to prevent underage drinking and Marty Barrington Carlos Brito the deployment at large scale of “screening and brief intervenChairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer tions”, a simple but effective survey that allows public health 5 KEY FIGURES Key Figures 2019 Performance Operations DreamPeople-Culture 4.3% 260 ~170,000 REVENUE GROWTH BREWERIES COLLEAGUES 21,078 69 31% million USD VERTICALIZED OPERATIONS (HOP FARMS, BARLEY MALTING, ETC.) OF OUR SALARIED WORKFORCE 2019 NORMALIZED EBITDA ARE WOMEN 561.4 50+ 105+ OPERATIONS IN MORE THAN 50 COUNTRIES million hl NATIONALITIES REPRESENTED ACROSS OUR COMPANY 2019 TOTAL VOLUMES 100% 2.7% SCORE ON THE HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN CORPORATE EQUALITY EBITDA GROWTH WITH MARGIN INDEX IN NORTH AMERICA FOR CONTRACTION OF 65 BPS TO 40.3% THE FIFTH CONSECUTIVE YEAR AND A 100% SCORE FOR THE SECOND YEAR IN A ROW IN MEXICO Brands 630 BEER AWARDS WON, 191 BRONZE, 267 SILVER AND 172 GOLD MEDALS, AT 31 MAJOR INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIONS IN 2019 6 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Community Sustainability Ethics Support & Road Safety 50% 14 OF OUR DIRECT FARMERS POLICIES WERE REVISED IN 2019 20,000+ ARE SKILLED; 45% ARE CONNECTED AND 35% ARE FINANCIALLY EMPOWERED FARMERS WORK WITH US GLOBALLY ~10,000 9.39% FTEs TRAINED IN ETHICS WITH NEW ANIMATION EPISODES 6,200 DECREASE IN OUR TOTAL WATER USAGE SINCE 2017 JOBS CREATED THROUGH OUR SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES’ 35 ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROGRAM 40.9% million PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS WERE OF OUR VOLUME IS IN RISK SCORED BY BREWRIGHT, 15,000 RETURNABLE PACKAGING OUR COMPLIANCE MACHINE LEARNING PLATFORM, TO ENABLE PRIORITIZED BUSINESSES SUPPORTED VIA OUR MONITORING SMALL RETAILER DEVELOPMENT RECYCLED CONTENT IN OUR PROGRAM PRIMARY PACKAGING: 59.1% IN CANS 42.3% IN GLASS 200+ 2-year 22.8% IN PET PARTICIPANTS JOINED OUR ANTITRUST ACADEMY IN 2019, WHICH INCLUDED 7 LECTURES ROAD SAFETY PARTNERSHIP EXTENSION WITH UNITED NATIONS FROM TOP EXPERTS. INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING AND RESEARCH (UNITAR) 6.9% REDUCTION IN EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3) ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN SINCE 2017 PER HECTOLITER 61% OF OUR GLOBAL PURCHASED ELECTRICITY VOLUME IS UNDER CONTRACT, ATTAINED FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES. of our Nearly half the US breweries in ale m are led by fe rs brewmaste 7 HIGHLIGHTS Highlights of the year May Our North America team hosted an March AB InBev Investor Day in New York, showcasing our five commercial priorities for the We strengthened our portfolio in France US, our portfolio of brands (including innowith the launch of Budweiser. Coupled vations) and our team in charge of leading with its launch in the Netherlands later future growth. in the year, Budweiser became our fastest growing brand in Europe. June We launched Z-Tech—a new innovation To celebrate Sustainability Week, over group with the mission to catalyze the 1,200 of our colleagues in Nigeria came growth of small and medium businesses together through our Better World Chamworldwide, through technology. pions initiative to participate in street cleanups, rehabbing local roads, planting trees, January Castle Lager launched an iconic supporters’ jersey for all South African sports coaching students, recycling and more. We were selected for the 2019 Bloomberg enthusiasts made up of jersey strips from As an extension of a longstanding partnerGender-Equality Index as one of 230 comsix unifying sporting moments in the counship with Parley for the Oceans, Corona panies around the world working toward try’s history. The jersey was manufactured began accepting plastic intercepted in citmore equal, inclusive workplaces. to inspire the national teams and simultaies and on coastlines around the world as neously fuel fan passion, helping the brand payment for beer during the week of World February continue its presence as a national unifier through sports. Oceans Day. Stella Artois launched a Super Bowl campaign with actors Jeff Bridges and Sarah Jessica Parker, as part of our partnership April with Water.org. The spot earned 7.6 billion We were recognized among Fast Comimpressions and received 418,000 social pany’s World-Changing Ideas 2019 and mentions while providing clean water Forbes’ inaugural Blockchain 50 list for access to 270,000 people in the developing our partnership with BanQu, a startup world. from our 100+ Sustainability Accelerator which helps provide financial identities to Skol Puro Malte was introduced in our unbanked farmers in Uganda and Zambia. South America Zone during an official launch during Carnival in February. It has become the biggest innovation in the Zone in recent years in terms of volume. July We announced our agreement to divest Carlton & United Breweries We introduced Leffe Blond 0.0%, the first (CUB) to Asahi Group Holding, Ltd. for 0.0% abbey beer. It debuted in Belgium 16 billion AUD, equivalent to approxithen, later in the year, the Netherlands and mately 11.3 billion USD in enterprise finally in France to very positive reactions. value. We launched the Road Safety Toolkit in partnership with the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), which implements solutions to reduce traffic accidents and save lives. Budweiser kicked off its global “Be a King” campaign and became the official beer of both the Premier League and La Liga, two of the most amazing football leagues with millions of fans around the world. 8 August We were ranked number 19 on Fortune’s 2019 “Change the World” List in recognition of our agricultural development initiatives to help farmers become more finanNovember cially empowered. Corona joined forces with big wave surfer Frank Solomon to debut the documentary Our Africa Zone teamed up with five Street Surfers on local South African telewomen in the beer industry to create a spevision. The film is a thought-provoking look cial limited-edition brew that celebrated at a unique band of heroes in South Africa women in brewing, and embodied the charwho are making an impact to address acteristics of strong independent women. global pollution. On November 21, we partnered with Nikola Motor Company and BYD (Build Your Dreams) to complete the first ever ‘Zero-Emission Beer Delivery’ in the US, delivering beer from the Anheuser-Busch brewery in St. Louis, US using only zero-emission trucks. October October marked the three-year anniSeptember versary of our combination with SAB and we completed the delivery of the 3.2 billion USD synergies and We completed the initial public offercost savings on a constant currency ing (IPO) of a minority stake of our Asia basis as of August 2016. Pacific business (Budweiser APAC) on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for 5.75 billion USD. By doing so, we created a superior Budweiser partnered with global regional champion in the consumer goods football champion Sergio Ramos in a space positioned to expand across the fastnew installment of our “Be a King” est growing markets in the APAC region. campaign. This partnership helps December inspire people worldwide by bringing them closer to a king of football. We led Global Be(er) Responsible Day, engaging 69,000 colleagues worldwide Our GITEC team unveiled a new digital to promote smart drinking. Together, we printing technology that imprints brandreached 3.9 million consumers and 1.5 miling onto the bottles directly, eliminating lion customers across more than 40 counthe need for paper or plastic labels and tries with responsible drinking messages. providing potential environmental and economic benefits. To launch the initiative, we released 200,000 bottles of a We reinforced our commitment to sustainlimited-edition run of Beck’s Artist Series. able development and the UN Sustainable Development Goals during the week of the 74th session of the United Nations GenWe celebrated contracting our first eral Assembly and demonstrated how we series-produced electric trucks in Europe, leverage the power and reach of our global one of several planned that will help reduce brands to inspire action. our carbon footprint in getting our beers to customers across Europe in 2020. 9 WHO WE ARE & WHAT WE DO HARD “THROUGH THE WORK AND T R EN G TH OF OUR S E CAN PEOPLE, W CH IE VE A NYTHING. A G E TH ER , WE WILL TO NT IN UE BRINGING CO GETHER PEOPLE TO EXT 100 FOR THE N COME.” YEARS TO 10 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 We are building a company to last With centuries of brewing history and operations in more than 50 countries, we exist to bring people together and create meaningful experiences. We have seen countless new friendships, connections and experiences built on a shared love of beer. Our diverse portfolio offers more than 500 brands and eight of the top 10 most valuable beer brands worldwide, according to BrandZ™. By brewing beer and building brands that consumers love, we will continue to bring people together for the next 100 years and beyond. Our stakeholders OUR SHAREHOLDERS We value the trust of our shareholders and are OUR PEOPLE constantly working to provide positive results. Our greatest strength is our people. Our peoWe are committed to creating value and delivple are curious, bold and resilient. We recruit, ering consistent, profitable growth. develop and retain people who can be better than ourselves. OUR COMMUNITIES We are closely connected to the communities OUR CUSTOMERS where we live and work. We strive to contribWe partner with valued retailers, bar owners, ute positively to important issues such as suswholesalers and distributors to bring our beers tainability, smart drinking and road safety in to our consumers, while supporting their busisuch communities. We are focused on matters ness growth, striving to provide best-in-class where we can be part of the solution and make service as well as pursuing extraordinary exeur brands the greatest positive impact. cution of our brands on and off-trade. “Some of o back 600 have roots We’re here for the beer nd while years ago a OUR CONSUMERS definitely We have a passion for beer. It is at the center of Our consumer is the boss. Beer brings peothe beer is everything we do, including our Dream of bringday, it different to ple together to celebrate life, and we serve ing people together for a better world. Ever since our consumers by offering the highest-quality been a has mostly our oldest brands debuted over 600 years ago, products and meaningful brand experiences, learning always in a responsible way. journey of beer has brought people together. We strive to ting, and perfec continue this tradition with our portfolio of over wledge passing kno n to OUR SUPPLIERS 500 iconic brands, 260 breweries and 13,000+ tio owned retail locations around the world. Relationships are essential to our operations— from genera e to b especially with our suppliers. Mutual collabgeneration INTEGRATING OUR 10 BREWING PRINCIPLES re today oration is a key element to creating a resilient where we a Over the past year we have been working to supply chain that delivers value and contributes g acy toward our sustainability goals. with our le include our brewing principles more clearly into brands.” all of our operations. To help share our passion OUR PARTNERS OUWEN, for beer, we stepped up our communication CHARLES N D OF both internally and externally and built a global We recognize no single organization can solve GLOBAL H EA R BEER network to bring passion for beer to all our today’s global challenges alone – effective partPASSION FO workplaces around the world. We even evolved nerships are critical to addressing the most spaces to give more visibility to our brands and pressing challenges of today, and tomorrow, built custom programs to further educate our and the private sector must play a proactive teams about beer. This year we won more beer role. awards than ever before, and that is a result of our continuous efforts to elevate quality through our brewing principles. 11 WHO WE ARE & WHAT WE DO Our 10 Brewing Principles We are all Heritage Preservatives Stakeholders Ingredients brewers We protect the We strive for We value and address We only select Passion for beer heritage and integrity zero added external stakeholder ingredients that meet is our life of our brands preservatives perspectives our standards Consumer choice Transparency Sustainability Quality Freshness We respect the We believe in We preserve our We never Fresh beer tastes consumer desire for transparency natural resources compromise on better choice quality We showcased our passion for beer by holding CONNECTING WITH CONSUMERS our annual Senior Leadership Conference (SLC) In 2019, we continued to connect with conin Belgium, paying homage to our Stella Artois sumer passion points to build iconic brands. brand and European beer legacy. 2019 also For instance, Budweiser announced multi-year included a company-wide celebration of Intersponsorships with the Premier League and La national Beer Day and the release of three docLiga and became first official beer sponsor umentaries that celebrate and demonstrate our of the US National Women’s Soccer League. passion for beer—”Kings of Beer,” “Em Busca We also continue to innovate how consumers Da Cerveza Perfeita” and “Beers of Joy.” can enjoy our products. For the first time, we To teach the fundamentals of beer and beer culintroduced Corona in draft format in Europe, in ture in an engaging format, we developed and countries such as the UK. 2019 was a historireleased a new internal app called Hoppy. While cal year for the United States where we celestill in the early phases, Hoppy has been rolled brated the 50th anniversary of man landing out across all zones and we presented the app on the moon with a limited-edition Budweiser at the Fast Company Innovation Festival. Discovery brew. Plus, we continued tapping into consumer health and wellness trends with To stay true to our transparency principle, we atics “We are fan innovations in the noand low-alcohol beer refreshed our consumer platform called Tap ality (NABLAB) space, including low calorie options, e q u Into Your Beer (www.tapintoyourbeer.com) about th low carb options and organic beer like Michelob that helps people discover more about beer, of our b e e r! Ultra Pure Gold. vest brewing, our brands and our smart drinking While we in o lo g y to initiatives. It also offers consumers information in techn Checking in with our such as beer styles, taste profiles, Alcohol by e th e quality global brands improv Volume (ABV), and more. ency of and consist e use the To reach more consumers in different occaWe aid in the development of quality beer and our beers, w ts and sions, our complementary global brands prodien ingredients by supporting many programs same ingre vide premium options defined by occasion, including the Brewers of Europe, European e p rinciples the sam taste profile and price point. In 2019, our global Brewing Convention and Hop Growers of d over America. We have four hop farms around the that we use brands continued to deliver strong results and go.” connect with consumers in exciting ways. world where we breed varieties of the future 600 years a SOENEN, for different flavors and sustainability. Our hop ALEXANDER NAGER, BUDWEISER Y M A farms are located in the state of Idaho in the US, BREWER Budweiser revenue grew 0.2% globally and in the heart of Bavaria in Germany, near George LEUVEN 3.3% outside of the US. in South Africa and Patagonia in Argentina.  e continued to champion our transition to W To celebrate our cultural heritage and passion renewable electricity with a 100% logo and a for beer, this year several of our colleagues, commercial during Super Bowl LIII in Atlanta, including Charles Nouwen, Global Head of PasGeorgia that celebrated our wind farm at sion for Beer, Ariane Lepas, Project Manager Thunder Ranch, Oklahoma. of Bosteels Brewery and Fabio Sala, President In 2019 Budweiser scaled its global assets of our Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg by becoming the official beer of the Premier business (BU Central) were knighted by the League and La Liga. Activated in 22 differBrewers’ Guild in a medieval-era celebration ent countries, these partnerships allow us to in Belgium. Individuals knighted have made a reach an audience of 3.2 billion consumers significant contribution to the Belgian brewing every year, transforming our global reach. This profession and community. campaign was developed as an integrated 12 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 marketing platform that lands the message of “Be A King” worldwide, celebrating the power of the kings of the game on and off the pitch. We helped bring people together by celebrating the 50th anniversary of the historic moon landing with Budweiser Discovery, collaborating with iconic American brands like Jim Beam to brew Budweiser Copper Lager, and working with one of our multi-generational barley growers in Idaho, US to create Budweiser Harvest Reserve. W  e kicked off the global “Be a King” campaign with Sergio Ramos, a football champion who is currently the captain of Real Madrid as well as the Spanish national team. Ramos embodies the ambition of Budweiser celebrates his CORONA journey of becoming one of football’s greats Corona grew double-digits for the fifth conby using the meaning and symbolism of his secutive year, with revenue up 13.3% globally tattoos to showcase his achievements. To and 21.0% outside of Mexico. spark conversation around the partnership, In 2019, Corona continued its partnership we released a hero film and social media with Parley for the Oceans overdelivering assets, as well as limited edition tattoo boton the joint commitment to protect 100 tles for e-commerce. This unique packaging islands by 2020, one year ahead of schedis digitally enabled and allows consumer to ule. During the summer this year, Corona scan QR codes to unlock exclusive content. and Parley completed 214 clean ups in 13  dditionally, Budweiser became the first ever A countries covering 9 million square meters beer brand to partner with the England senior of beach. Additionally, Corona enabled women’s football team, championing them in consumers to Pay for Corona with Plastic their World Cup bid. during Oceans Week, generating conversaWe also created the Budweiser ReCup Arena, a unique foottion about the issue. ball pitch in Sochi, Russia made from more than 50,000 recyW  e expanded the local production of Corona outside of cled plastic cups collected at arenas and fan celebrations Mexico into China, Colombia, Brazil, Argentina and a numafter the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™. ber of European markets, including the UK and Belgium, which allows us to better serve our consumers and customSTELLA ARTOIS ers while reducing our carbon footprint. Stella Artois delivered solid revenue growth of 6.5% globally. C  orona launched a collection of beach apparel, Protect  e continued our partnership with Water.org, enabling W Paradise, reinforcing its connection with the beach while clean water access for another half a million people in 2019, providing consumers with an opportunity to protect the driven by the highly successful “Change Up The Usual” prooceans. Each item of the collection is made of upcycled gram in the US which was one of the most awarded camplastic, helping keep our oceans plastic-free. The line is sold paigns of the Super Bowl. In September, our CEO Carlos at e-commerce platforms in Brazil, China, South Korea and Brito and Water.org co-founder Gary White participated Australia. in the “Aquanomics: Water, Wall Street & Climate Change”  e also introduced Corona in draft form in Europe for the W event during the week of the 74th United Nations General first time, in countries such as the UK. Assembly in New York City. W  e kicked off our presence in the entertainment industry, W  e ran a successful pilot of our future premium packaging having produced various short and mid length documenin the US which saw sales increase by 10%. taries, including the partnership with surfer Frank Solomon W  e engaged consumers with the “Stella Friends” YouTube to create Street Surfers, a thought-provoking documencontent series in Brazil, bringing high profile influencers tary about a unique band of heroes in South Africa who together to share a meal and Stella Artois while discussing are making an impact to address global pollution. The film relevant cultural events. drove positive conversation on social media and won over The Stella Artois “Icons” campaign in South Korea celefour international awards. brated the stories of inspiring female leaders and the idea ogether with the World Surf League, we co-produced T that success tastes better if you earn it. “Road to the Highline,” which follows the journey of profes tella Artois launched the seasonal beer “Midnight Lager” S sional surfer Mike February across the coastline of South in the US which secured strong wholesale and retail supAfrica as he prepares for the Corona Pro in Jeffreys Bay, port for the brand over the key holiday period. South Africa. 13 WHERE WE OPERATE Global scale, local presence We are well-diversified geographically with a balanced exposure to developed and developing markets, operating in more than 50 countries worldwide. Our team of approximately 170,000 colleagues span the globe, organized in five distinct management Zones to maximize growth opportunities. North America Middle B udweiser generated over 5.5 billion earned media impressions and 2.3 milAmericas lion social mentions through campaigns  e opened a new brewery in Apan W such as “This Bud’s for 3” featuring Dwy(Hidalgo), Mexico. The plant has the ane Wade and The Official Supporter of capacity to produce up to 24 million the National Women’s Soccer League hectoliters per year and to become the (NWSL) campaign. second-largest brewery in the world; it  ichelob Ultra continued to grow both M will be used to produce beers including volume and dollar sales at double-digit Corona, Stella Artois and Michelob Ultra. rates, becoming the #2 biggest beer In Peru, we expanded our craft portfoby dollars in the US (IRI year ending lio with the acquisition of Barbarian and 29 December 2019). celebrated 140 years of operations in S tella Artois launched a Super Bowl campaign in which actors Jeff Bridges Backus.  e began selling our leading portfolio in W South and Sarah Jessica Parker reprised their iconic roles as The Dude and Carrie ~4,400 OXXO retail locations in Mexico as part of a roll-out plan to eventually be America Bradshaw to encourage viewers to reach present in their ~17,000 stores across the  kol Puro Malte was introduced during S for a Stella instead of their usual drink to country. Carnival in February. It has become the help end the global water crisis. As part biggest innovation in the Zone in recent of our partnership with Water.org, the ZONE HEADQUARTERS: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO years in terms of volume. spot earned 7.6 billion impressions and received 418,000 social mentions while COUNTRIES: MEXICO, COLOMBIA, PERU,  ur premium portfolio was enhanced O ECUADOR, HONDURAS, EL SALVADOR, providing clean water access to 270,000 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, PANAMA, GUATEMALA, with the addition of new packaging forpeople in the developing world. BARBADOS, PUERTO RICO AND CARIBBEAN mats and the launch of new brands such ISLANDS as Beck’s and Colorado Ribeirão Lager,  ur innovation pipeline is strong and O TOP LOCAL BRANDS: CORONA, VICTORIA, which has already become the largest continues to grow, contributing ~50% of MODELO, AGUILA, CLUB COLOMBIA, PILSEN brand in our craft segment. innovation in the US industry. CALLAO, CRISTAL, CUSQUEÑA, PILSENER, CLUB, SALVA VIDA, PRESIDENTE, BALBOA, ATLAS  e successfully expanded our regional W GOLDEN LIGHT brands Nossa, Magnífica and Legítima, brewed with Cassava from local farmers and connecting with local culture. These brands increase our presence in relevant states by offering consumers an accessible price point, which results in lower revenue per hectoliter while maintaining comparable margins to our core portfolio. ZONE HEADQUARTERS: ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, UNITED STATES ZONE HEADQUARTERS: SÃO PAULO, BRAZIL COUNTRIES: U.S., CANADA COUNTRIES: ARGENTINA, BOLÍVIA, BRAZIL, TOP LOCAL BRANDS: BUDWEISER, BUD LIGHT, CHILE, PARAGUAY AND URUGUAY MICHELOB ULTRA, STELLA ARTOIS, GOOSE ISLAND TOP LOCAL BRANDS: QUILMES, PATAGONIA, ANTARCTICA, BRAHMA, SKOL, MALTA 14 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 EMEA Asia Pacific B  udweiser became our fastest growing  e continued our premiumization trend W brand in Europe, as we brought the King across the Zone by securing the distriof Beers to France and the Netherlands, bution rights of the German-style beer where Budweiser is now the official beer brand Blue Girl in mainland China. The of Amsterdam’s football team Ajax. We brand has seen continued growth in popalso launched in key cities and counularity across mainland China. tries including Warsaw, Poland; Vienna, O  ur innovation portfolio was expanded Austria; Tel Aviv, Israel and Dubai, United to address emerging trends and increase Arab Emirates. consumption occasions, with the addiW  e announced a partnership with Spain’s tion of Bud 0.0, Harbin Crystal and leading brewer, Mahou San Miguel (MSM), Hoegaarden Rosée. that will see MSM distribute and sell our We introduced the easy-drinking cat brands in Spain and brew certain brands egory in India and Vietnam with the within its Spanish breweries beginning 1 launch of Beck’s Ice. January 2020.  We completed the initial public offer e have also fully invested in innovation W ing (IPO) of a minority stake of our in the UK, bringing Corona in draft, Mike’s Asia Pacific business (Budweiser APAC) Hard Sparkling Water and Bud Light and its listing on the Hong Kong Stock Golden Can into the market. Exchange.  outh Africa, Zambia and Uganda had S  e agreed to divest Carlton & United W strong results and our Nigeria operation Breweries (CUB) to Asahi Group Holding, grew double-digit volume and revenue Ltd. to become the second largest brewer in the country. ZONE HEADQUARTERS: SHANGHAI, CHINA  orona experienced significant volume C COUNTRIES: CHINA, INDIA, SOUTH KOREA AND growth across the Africa Zone in FY19 VIETNAM due to growing awareness and peneTOP LOCAL BRANDS: BUDWEISER, tration in South Africa. In South Africa, CASS, CORONA, HARBIN, HOEGAARDEN, volume grew 128% with revenue up 95% STELLA ARTOIS versus FY18. ZONE HEADQUARTERS: LEUVEN, BELGIUM EUROPE AND MIDDLE EAST COUNTRIES: BELGIUM, FRANCE, THE NETHERLANDS, SWEDEN, DENMARK, NORWAY, FINLAND, ITALY, SPAIN, THE CANARY ISLANDS, PORTUGAL, GREECE, RUSSIA, UKRAINE, UK, IRELAND, GERMANY, LUXEMBOURG, CZECH REPUBLIC, AUSTRIA, POLAND, SWITZERLAND, ISRAEL AND UNITED ARAB EMIRATES AFRICA COUNTRIES: SOUTH AFRICA, NIGERIA, UGANDA, ESWATINI, NAMIBIA, BOTSWANA, ETHIOPIA, GHANA, KENYA, LESOTHO, MALAWI, MOZAMBIQUE, SOUTH SUDAN, SWAZILAND, TANZANIA, UGANDA, ZAMBIA AND ZIMBABWE EUROPE AND MIDDLE EAST TOP LOCAL BRANDS: STELLA ARTOIS (LOCAL TO BELGIUM AND GLOBAL) JUPILER, LEFFE, TRIPLE KARMELIET, HOEGAARDEN, HERTOG JAN, CAMDEN HELLS, BASS, SPATEN, BECK’S AFRICA TOP LOCAL BRANDS: CASTLE LAGER, CARLING BLACK LABEL, BRUTAL FRUIT, IMPALA, FLYING FISH 15 DREAM-PEOPLE-CULTURE G BIG IS IN OUR “DREAM IN U GH H AR D WORK DNA. THRO GT H OF OUR TR EN AND THE S A N ACHIEVE , W E C TEAM .” ANYTHING 16 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 We dream big Our colleagues drive our success every day by leading change and delivering results. With a workforce of approximately 170,000, people truly are our greatest strength, and we are committed to attracting and retaining talented people around the world who can help build our company to last. Constantly driving towards a better future Brewing careers to last Our people are curious, bold and resilient. We see challenges as As a company of owners, we encourage our colleagues to take opportunities and are excited by the possibilities they offer. We on new experiences and explore new places leading to fast are constantly learning and growing. We recruit, develop and career growth and early leadership. retain people who have the potential to be even better than One of our expedited paths is through our Global Management ourselves. We know that through hard work and the strength of Trainee (GMT) Program which takes driven university graduour team, we can achieve anything. ates through a 10-month rotation that offers in-depth exposure to our business operations and global projects. In addiDREAM tion, our one-year Global Management Business Administration 1O ur shared Dream energizes everyone to work in the same (GMBA) program lets graduates experience the operations of direction: Bringing people together for a better world. several Zones, provides exposure to global leaders and offers an opportunity to develop impactful projects in the business. PEOPLE The class demographics of our GMT and GMBA programs 2 O  ur greatest strength is our people. Great people grow at exemplify our focus on bringing in diverse talent and improvthe pace of their talent and are rewarded accordingly. ing gender parity. Our 2019 GMT class was made up of 55% 3 W  e recruit, develop and retain people who can be better than men and 45% women, including participants from 35 different ourselves. We will be judged by the quality of our teams. nationalities. Our 2019 GMBA class was made up of 56% men and 44% women, including participants from nine different CULTURE nationalities. 4W  e are never completely satisfied with our results, which are the fuel of our company. Focus and zero-complacency guarMeasuring employee engagement antee lasting competitive advantage. In order to encourage continued motivation and a culture of 5 T he consumer is the boss. We serve our consumers by offerownership, as well as reduce turnover, improve productivity and ing brand experiences that play a meaningful role in their create more overall employee satisfaction, we place a strong lives, and always in a responsible way. emphasis on employee engagement. This starts with measuring engagement to identify gaps and then building initiatives to 6W  e are a company of owners who take results personally. We improve engagement moving forward. lead by example and do what we say. In 2019, our people’s satisfaction and sense of ~170,000 7W  e believe common sense and simplicity are pride in working at AB InBev strengthened. usually better guidelines than unnecessary While our results are above the Willis Towsophistication and complexity. ers Watson Food & Beverage benchmark for PEOPLE AROUND THE employee engagement, we take engagement 8W  e manage our costs tightly, to free up WORLD seriously and are never completely satisfied resources that will support sustainable and with our results. To that end, we will continue profitable top-line growth. investing in improving our people’s experience. 9 L eadership by personal example is at the core of our culture. We do what we say. 10 W  e never take shortcuts. Integrity, hard work, quality and responsibility are key to building our company. 17 DREAM-PEOPLE-CULTURE EXPLORING WAYS TO ADVANCE Diversity & inclusion GENDER EQUALITY We are committed to a work environment Currently, 31% of our salaried workforce are that is both diverse and inclusive, where all women (+3pp since 2016), with 22% female colleagues feel respected and empowered to representation among our partners (+5pp since bring their authentic selves to work every day. 2016). We know that we have gaps to fill and With 105+ nationalities represented across our are working to advance our progress. In 2019, company and 55 nationalities represented in 36% of the new hires in our salaried workforce our Global Headquarters, we have a unique were women. 105+ opportunity to attract talent from many difTo further advance gender equality, we joined ferent backgrounds. We strongly believe that the LEAD Network in Europe as a Gold Level a diverse and inclusive workforce helps us Partner. Our initiatives to empower women develop stronger ideas and deliver results, putwere recognized as a case study in the 2019 NATIONALITIES ting us in a better position to understand and AROUND THE WORLD McKinsey Women in the Workplace report. serve the needs of our global consumer base. In Argentina, our local company Quilmes Our policies and initiatives strive to create received an award from UN Women for being greater diversity and provide all colleagues with one of the first companies in the country to 31% a fair and equal chance to succeed. We recogaccomplish the action plan that they built as nize that this takes commitment, hard work and part of our commitment to the UN Women’s time and we are dedicated to our progress. Empowerment Principles. OF WOMEN IN SALARIED WORKFORCE CELEBRATING PRIDE & SUPPORTING LGBTQ+ ISSUES The global reach of our brands gives us significant opportunity to drive positive change in culture. In 2019, we celebrated LGBTQ+ Pride in more than 10 countries around the world. In the US, Bud Light released special edition rainbow bottles, with proceeds going to the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD). Our SKOL brand in Brazil partnered with Pantone to create a rainbow pack of cans, the UK activated with a Budweiser campaign to raise awareness of all groups under the LGBTQ+ umbrella, and our Victoria brand in Mexico ran a campaign honoring the Las Muxes community of transgender women. In South Africa, we sponsored Pride in Johannesburg for the first time and participated by marching in the parade. 18 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 On the International Day Against Homophobia, CHAMPIONING FEMALE ATHLETES TO Biphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT), colCHALLENGE SOCIAL BARRIERS leagues from our LAGER LGBTQ+ community Budweiser has been a sponsor of the US Womin the US created a video for the “It Gets Better en’s National Soccer Team for more than 30 Project” about their personal coming out stoyears. We continued our support during their ries. Additionally, we worked with the Stone2019 World Cup championship bid, and also wall charity in the UK and Ireland as a Diversity became an official partner of the England Champion, to ensure that all our LGBTQ+ colWomen’s Football Team in March 2019. In July, leagues are accepted in the workplace. Budweiser became the first official beer sponWe are proud to have earned a 100% score on sor of the National Women’s Soccer League the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equal(NWSL) in the US. These partnerships aim to ity index for the past five years in the US and help drive real change by breaking down social a 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign barriers and perceptions and showcasing the Equidad MX index for the past two years in a value in rallying behind female athletes. row. We also participated in the South African FOCUSING ON DIVERSIFYING Workplace Equality Index for the first time this OUR TALENT POOL year. To help attract and retain diverse talent, we COMMITTING TO MORE INCLUSIVE MARKETING partnered with organizations whose purpose is We use the power of our brands to drive impact rooted in connecting diverse candidates to the and encourage social change in our company workforce. We joined the AdFellows program in and our industry. In 2019 this was demonstrated the US, which is designed to help diverse canwith our involvement in the #SeeHer movement didates break into marketing and advertising. in the US, which aims to deliver a more accurate We began working with the Forte Foundation, portrayal of women and girls in advertising and which aims to change the balance of power in media. We kicked off our partnership with a the workplace by opening doors for women. #SeeHer Bootcamp that reviewed our adverWe also were a sponsor of Management Leadtising campaigns for unconscious bias, immediers for Tomorrow and continued our work as a ately putting our findings to use by integrating sponsor of the Reaching Out MBA Conference #SeeHer tip sheets into our creative effectivefor the third year in a row. ness program and introducing monthly meetCREATING A MORE INCLUSIVE AND ings with our brand teams to provide feedback SAFE WORK ENVIRONMENT on direction. mes “When it co e In late 2019, South African Breweries continued ,w Additionally, we partnered with the Alliance for to our beers to take action against gender-based violence te d are commit Inclusive and Multicultural Marketing (AIMM) on with Carling Black Label's #NoExcuse camtheir industry-wide #SeeAll movement to drive n our g to promoti paign. As part of the 16 Days of Activism they representation of multicultural and inclusive balanced brands in a launched a Domestic Violence Leave Policy to demographics in ads. a great support colleagues who are victims of physical, way. Beer is lizer, so sexual or psychological violence and abuse. The social equa To begin bringing more diversity to depictions of beer in marketing, our US Craft Brewer’s Alliv e for us policy will make it easier for people to report ance created a library of stock photos that feait’s imperati and seek assistance when experiencing or ve.” ture gender, racial and ability diversity and are to be inclusi recovering from domestic violence. Colleagues free for anyone to download on photo websites DENBERG, can make temporary adjustments at work as PAULA LIN needed and receive referrals to specialists and Pexels and Unsplash. OF AB INBEV PRESIDENT counseling, where available. ND UK & IRELA 19 MARKET CONTEXT Responding to consumer trends A variety of societal changes such as an aging population, focus on gender equality and increasingly digital lifestyles are giving rise to several key consumer trends. Based on these trends, we can identify clear growth opportunities in each market where we operate. 20 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Premiumization Another example of this is the growth of hard seltzer across a wide spectrum of consumers, In mature markets, people are trading up for primarily in the US and just starting also in other more affordable luxuries. Across the world, the markets. As a consumer-centric company, we beer category is premiumizing, and we continue are taking a portfolio approach with the cateto invest behind the growth of our unparalleled gory with Bon & Viv (launched in 2015), Natural portfolio of premium brands to address this Light Seltzer, Mike’s Hard Sparkling Water in the trend. In addition to the success of our global UK and Bud Light Seltzer (all launched in 2019). brands and the High End Company, we have built an exceptional portfolio of craft and specialty beers around the world. We are seeing accelerFrictionless economy ated growth in our craft portfolio, especially in With the rise of technology around the world, the US, where it grew by more than 20% in 2019, people are changing the way they behave and outpacing the industry and the rest of the craft interact with brands. It has become the expecsegment. This was driven by 3 of the top 10 fasttation in many markets to be able to purchase est growing national brands in the country – Elyproducts online, on demand. sian, Golden Road, and Breckenridge – and 4 of We see technology as a huge enabler for the the top 10 fastest growing Regional brands in the future of our company and have increased digital US – Karbach, Wicked Weed, 10 Barrel, and Four interactions with our customers through online, Peaks (according to IRI). mobile and app-based ordering as part of our As we continue to build our premium brand portcontact strategy. folio, we are also opening up opportunities for Additionally, we are using new disruptive techgrowth via entering other categories outside of nologies to bring consumers what they want and beer. We have seen promising growth with innoreach them across multiple platforms. For examvation focused on a disruptive approach to wine ple, we have significantly expanded our e-com(such as casual wine and sparkling wine in cans), merce efforts, with operations in 20 countries. spirits (including ready-to-drink cocktails) and This year our e-commerce business grew over non-alcoholic beverage categories (including 50%, led by the expansion of our direct to consoft drinks and teas). In partnership with Keurig, sumer businesses in South America and Europe. we launched the Drinkworks Home Bar, an appliance to prepare cocktails, beer, and more using proprietary pods. The appliance and the pods are Authenticity & purpose now available in a number of states in the US. New generations of adults continue to shift cultural norms and expectations. As a result, conSmart affordability On the other end of the price spectrum, we also see a clear opportunity for volume growth in 80+ sumers today are looking for brands that reflect their personal values including diversity, authenticity and purpose. OFFERINGS IN OUR emerging markets. We use affordability to proNABLAB PORTFOLIO We demonstrated how we leverage the power vide consumers in emerging markets with affordand reach of our global brands to inspire action: able, high quality, branded alternatives to replace Budweiser’s commitment to source 100% of purillegal or illicit alcohol. Our initiatives are driving chased electricity from renewable sources, Stella meaningful results in major markets, such as BraArtois’ commitment to provide access to clean zil, Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador and South Africa. We believe water in the developing world in partnership with Water.org, we are uniquely positioned to lead growth in emerging markets and Corona’s campaign inviting consumers to clean beaches in a responsible manner, given our diverse portfolio of brands of plastic pollution. tailored to a variety of consumer price points and occasions. As the world’s leading brewer, our global reach is only matched by our deep local connections. By championing equality, diverHealth & wellness sity and inclusiveness, we are uniquely positioned to make a Due to increasing awareness and demographic changes, peoreal and lasting change in the communities where we live and ple are becoming more aware of their health and taking steps work. to ensure that they are living a healthy lifestyle. An aging popWe are working on many internal diversity and inclusion initiaulation in many markets, combined with the health-forward tives (see page 18) as well as using our brands externally to attitudes of Millennials and Gen Z, clean eating trends and the drive positive change in culture. For example, SKOL was the personalization of wellness have been growing steadily. first beer brand in Brazil to promote LGBT inclusion, and BudTo continue to deliver products that meet consumer demand, weiser joined the #SeeHer movement in the US to help create we are offering more choice with the highest-quality noand more positive portrayals of women in our advertising and crelow-alcohol beer (NABLAB) options, which can be an importative work. In South Africa, Carling Black Label’s #NoExcuse ant way to help reduce the harmful use of alcohol. We see campaign helped raise awareness about domestic violence and ourselves as leaders in the NABLAB segment and are building Castle Lager’s #SmashTheLabel campaign worked to combat our NABLAB portfolio with more than 80 offerings for differharmful stereotypes. We will continue to use our brands and ent consumer occasions. NABLAB products made up approxglobal reach to champion initiatives that make real change imately 7% of our global beer volume in 2019, with the longaround the world. term goal of NABLAB reaching at least 20% of our global beer volume by 2025. 21 STRATEGY Organizing for growth In 2019 we worked to build from our history and redefine ourselves for the future. Over the course of the year, we made progress against a transformational agenda that will see us become a more consumer and customer focused organization with a clear growth mindset, enabled by technology and analytics. Our strategy remains consumer focused and consistent. One clear strategy Our strategy is developed in response to our operating enviplicity of natural ingredients. To showcase that Bud Light ronment and represents the highest value choices we will is brewed with only four ingredients (water, barley, rice and make in order to achieve our ambition. hops), we listed nutritional information in our primary and secondary packaging and reinforced the message with a comIn 2019 we combined our growth and transformation agenda mercial aired during the Super Bowl. with our commercial priorities to create one clear strategy across the company. Overall, our commercial strategies remain We are well-positioned in emerging markets, which now proconsistent with 2018, focusing primarily on premiumization, vide more than 70% of our volume and almost 60% of our revdifferentiating the core and growth via adjacencies. In parallel enue, setting us up for long-term growth despite short-term we are transforming our business to ensure we are well posivolatility. We work with local authorities as well as partner with tioned for future growth. local farmers to incorporate their crops into our recipes so that we can offer new affordable brands and gain share in the Our commercial strategy is underpinned by three interlocking value segment. A great example is in Brazil, where our smart frameworks: the market maturity model, category expansion affordability strategy is centered around regional brands such framework and growth champions. We utilize these frameas Nossa, Magnífica and Legítima, brewed with ingredients works to lead and shape the beer category across all occagrown by local farmers, which continue to gain share in the sions and price points and develop the right portfolio for every value segment. market. The market maturity model is utilized to classify our markets PREMIUMIZE AT SCALE against a maturity level and share of beer, so we can identify We continue to lead the way with our unparalleled portfolio best practices to be shared among markets with similar feaof premium brands, as we believe premiumization requires a tures. portfolio approach to meet consumer needs. We anticipate our global brands and the High End Company will contribute The category expansion framework helps us identify which significantly to this growth with global brand revenue growth types of beer will best fit the adapting needs of an evolving of 5.2% globally (8.0% outside of the brands’ market, so we can shape our brand portfolio home markets) and High End Company reveaccordingly and deliver the types of beer our 70% nue growth of double-digits in 2019. We project consumers want. that the majority of all beer growth will come We use growth champions to ensure that we from Premium offerings, with additional Core expand our portfolios and commercial pracOF OUR VOLUME CAME volume growth from emerging markets. tices effectively and efficiently. The process FROM EMERGING MARKETS Examples from this year include double-digit benchmarks best practices for topline growth revenue growth of Budweiser and Corona, around the world to implement them across globally. Premiumization is also trending in Brasimilar markets. zil, with our global brands each experiencing DIFFERENTIATE THE CORE & double-digit growth, led by Corona. Michelob SMART AFFORDABILITY Ultra, another premium offering, is our fastest growing brand in North America, the second Our portfolio of core brands is focused on crebiggest beer brand in the US and is experiencating meaningful emotional and functional difing strong growth in Mexico as well as certain ferentiation. One example of how we achieved European markets. this in 2019 was with a Bud Light campaign in the US that focused on celebrating the sim22 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 t e nc ie s s tr ategy is buil “Our adjac d isruptive w ays to fin d in g around nsumers e g m e n ts a nd offer co merenter s sitio n s th a t are consu .” new propo a nd fu tu re-focused centr ic GROWTH VIA ADJACENCIES Our adjacencies strategy is built around finding disruptive ways to enter segments and offer consumers new propositions that are consumer-centric and future-focused. After assessing adjacent beverage segments, we have idensuch as Tônica Antarctica. In Colombia, we tified two distinct long-term directions for launched Pony Malta Vital, a new malt with growth: 40% less sugar, and a new water brand that helps preserve vegetation in the country. In 1. F ocusing on premium alcohol beverages in Argentina, we had record share and grew mature markets. Examples of this in the US in 2 percentage points, achieving our highest 2019 include the acquisition of the remaining share ever. Non-alcohol also recorded share stake in the disruptive wine company Babe gains in El Salvador and Honduras. In the Wine in June, the purchase of the craft distillUS, our non-alcohol portfolio includes Teavery Cutwater Spirits and the launch of Drinkana tea in collaboration with Starbucks and works Home Bar by Keurig, a pod-based Hi-Ball sparkling energy water. cocktail-making appliance. Another example is our partnership with the spirits company Atom Group in the UK, which includes brands Focusing on growth & change such as Bathtub Gin. While beer remains the Our ambition is to deliver results while simulcore of our business, we continue to build an taneously evolving our company. We have exciting portfolio of brands beyond beer to defined a number of initiatives for transforming meet evolving consumer tastes. our business, so we can continue to lead future growth through consumer-centricity, opera2. Scaling non-alcohol beverages. In 2019, our tional excellence and innovation. non-alcohol portfolio had its best topline performance in over a decade, with douWe have the unique opportunity to drive ble digit growth in net revenue and step growth by building a stronger business which changes in all of the top business units. In is more connected than ever to our consumBrazil, non-alcohol completed a transformaers and retail customers, and by leveraging our tion and experienced revenue growth of 17% existing assets to create value and using techwith very strong growth of premium brands, nology and analytics as enablers. 23 PERFORMANCE OUT “THROUGH WE THE YEAR, OUR ENHANCED TOPFOCUS ON TH AND LINE GROW ATION VALUE CRE PTING WHILE ADO LANCED A MORE BA STRATEGY.” 24 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Assessing our performance Our performance in 2019 was below our initial expectations, and we are not satisfied with our results. There were many successes, but we also faced many challenges. We understand that in order to reach our ambitious goals, we need to embrace these challenges head-on and transform them into I opportunities for success. n 2019, we continued to enhance our focus on top-line Divesting our Australian subsidiary growth and value creation while adopting a more balanced strategy between volume and revenue per hl growth. We In July we agreed to divest Carlton & United Breweries (CUB) grew volumes by 1.1% in 2019, our third consecutive year of to Asahi Group Holding, Ltd. for 16 billion AUD, equivalent to volume growth with the rate of growth accelerating each approximately 11.3 billion USD in enterprise value. We have year. Combined with revenue per hl growth of 3.1%, we delivgranted Asahi the rights to commercialize our portfolio of ered top-line growth of 4.3%. brands in Australia. Our EBITDA grew by 2.7% with margin contraction of 65 bps Once completed, the divestiture of CUB will help us expand to 40.3%, below where we wanted to be. We faced signifiinto other fast-growing markets in the APAC region and cant headwinds in our cost base driven primarily by the highacross the globe, by allowing us to create additional shareest annual increase in commodity and transactional currency holder value by optimizing our business at an attractive price costs in the past decade, which held back EBITDA growth by and further deleverage our balance sheet. approximately 200 bps. Additionally, challenging macroeconomic environments in many of our relevant markets pressured Creating new opportunities consumer disposable income, resulting in trade-down and conin the Asia Pacific region sumption contraction. On September 30, we completed the initial public offering (IPO) of a minority stake of our Asia Pacific business (BudPremiumizing the beer category weiser APAC) and its listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Our premiumization strategy continued to deliver results in for 5.75 billion USD. Our objective is to create a regional cham2019, with our High End Company and global brand portfopion in the consumer goods space with a local identity and lio both growing ahead of our total company. Our High End enhance connectivity with our stakeholders in Asia Pacific. Company grew by double-digits while the global We also believe it provides an attractive curbrands grew by 8.0% outside their home markets. rency for potential M&A in the region. The strong equity of our global brands was also We see great potential for our business in APAC recognized by Interbrand, which ranked Budand the region remains a growth engine within weiser and Corona in its list of the top 100 global our company, including principal markets in brands. They were the two highest ranked beer China, India, South Korea and Vietnam. We brands, improving their rankings from last year believe that being close to our markets in the and increasing their brand value on a dollar basis. region will allow us more localized and focused decision making. While China remains our largest beer market in APAC, we will leverage a Celebrating a truly diversified pan-regional platform and utilize our successful combination market maturity model to accelerate expansion October marked the three-year anniversary of into fast-growing markets and drive operational our combination with SAB and completed the efficiency to further enhance margins. delivery of our cost synergies target of 3.2 billion USD, one year ahead of our initial schedule and Evaluating our progress with 750 million USD more savings than origitowards deleveraging nally planned. This combination has been transformational—bringing together the best-in-class EBITDA increased by 2.7% in 2019 to 21 078 mil+3.1% brands, geographic footprints and talent of two lion USD as a result of top-line growth and great companies has made us smarter, more straenhanced by cost discipline and synergy captegic and more growth-oriented than ever before, ture, partially offset by elevated cost of sales positioning us to lead the long-term growth of the REVENUE PER HL throughout the year. global beer category. 25 PERFORMANCE After the successful completion of the listing We estimate our innovations contributed of Budweiser APAC and accounting for the approximately half of the total innovation volproceeds expected to be received from the ume in the industry once again this year, led by divestment of the Australian operations (while Naturdays, Michelob Ultra Infusions and Natural excluding the last 12 months EBITDA from the Light Seltzer. Australian operations), our net debt to EBITDA Our mainstream brands lost an estimated ratio fell to 4.0x in 2019. 140 bps of market share in 2019, as consumers continue to trade-up to higher price tiers. Evaluating regional Within the mainstream segment, our market performances share declined by 15 bps, which compares to In 2019, our Middle Americas region became our a 35 bps decline in FY18, a trend improvement largest and fastest growing region by EBITDA, of 20 bps. Share declines of Bud Light and led by strong growth in Mexico and Colombia. Budweiser were partially offset by share gains Revenue grew by 7.2%, delivered with a healthy of our value portfolio, led by the Natural Light balance of volume growth of 3.8%. family (excluding Natural Light Seltzer, which is not included in the mainstream segment). Conversely, we faced softer consumer demand in several key markets due to challenging macThe hard seltzer segment is drawing new conroeconomic conditions, including Argentina, sumers to the malt beverage category and we Brazil, South Africa and South Korea. As a are increasing investment behind our brands result, we have been advancing our affordabilto accelerate our growth in the segment. ity strategy in emerging markets, by offering Bon Viv and Natural Light Seltzer are growing more accessible price points to more consumat a strong rate, and in January 2020, we added ers, creating new packaging formats and introBud Light Seltzer to our portfolio, with a very ducing beers brewed with local crops. We are successful nationwide launch that is already confident in our brand portfolio and focused on yielding positive results from both our custommaintaining a consistent strategy to position us ers and consumers. We are confident that we for growth in the long-term. can leverage our strong portfolio, coupled with our best-in-class brewing capabilities and disMajor country performances tribution network, to accelerate our momentum in this fast-growing segment. UNITED STATES EBITDA grew by 1.1% in FY19 with margin In 2019, we continued to make progress across expansion of 28 bps to 40.8%, driven by posour five commercial priorities in the US, resultitive brand mix and ongoing cost efficiencies. ing in revenue growth of 0.5% and revenue per hl growth of 2.8%. Our revenue per hl growth MEXICO was impacted by the earlier timing of our price Mexico delivered very strong top and botincrease this year, which had a one-time positive tom-line growth this year. Revenue grew by impact of approximately 80 bps on a full-year double-digits, driven by a balanced contribubasis. We estimate that industry sales-to-retion from mid-single digit growth of both voltailers (STRs) declined by 1.4%, while our own umes and revenue per hl, which grew ahead of STRs were down by 2.4%. Our sales-to-whole4.3% inflation and was enhanced by brand mix. We salers (STWs) were down by 2.3%, converging grew volumes ahead of the industry, resulting with STRs on a full-year basis. in our estimated highest ever market share in Our total market share declined an estimated REVENUE GROWTH the country. We delivered growth across our 50 bps in 2019, predominantly driven by mix brand portfolio, with a particularly strong perdue to the growth of hard seltzer within the flaformance in the above core segment. 20% vored malt beverage (FMB) category. Our marWe remain focused on developing our portfolio ket share excluding FMBs declined by 10 bps, in line with the category expansion framework an improvement in trend of 20 bps from FY18, to clearly differentiate our brands. Our core due to the consistently strong performance OUR CRAFT PORTFOLIO brands continue to grow supported by a strong of our above core brands and further trend GREW BY MORE THAN innovation pipeline, consistent brand messagimprovement within the mainstream segment. 20% IN THE US ing and entrance into new occasions. Our preOur above core portfolio gained 90 bps of mium portfolio also contributed meaningfully total share, due to strong performances from to top-line growth, with double-digit volume 4,000+ Michelob Ultra, Michelob Ultra Pure Gold, our growth of the Modelo family, Michelob Ultra, regional craft portfolio and our innovation pipeStella Artois and our local craft brand, Cucapá. line. Michelob Ultra continues to grow by douOXXO STORES IN MEXICO Earlier this year, we signed a contract with ble-digits and is now the second largest brand NOW CARRY OUR BEERS OXXO, the largest c-store chain in Mexico, in the country by retail sales, according to IRI. to begin selling our portfolio of beers in their Michelob Ultra Pure Gold grew by triple-digits, 17,000+ stores in order to reach more consumwhile our craft portfolio grew by more than ers in more occasions. We expanded in the 20%, gaining share within the craft segment regions of Guadalajara and Mexico City this according to IRI. year, with our portfolio quickly reaching fair 26 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 share in the 4,000+ stores in which we are now Our non-beer portfolio delivered mid-single digit present. While the majority of our growth was volume growth, led by the expansion of Malta driven by existing channels, our entrance into Leona and the launch of our new purpose-driven OXXO also made a meaningful contribution. water brand, Zalva, from which the profits will We launched the next phrase of the roll-out contribute to the recovery of Colombian wet7.0% in January 2020, and our portfolio will prolands. gressively become available in all OXXO stores EBITDA grew by high single digits with margin across the country by the end of 2022 with the IN BRAZIL WE GREW expansion of more than 50 bps. next expansion having started in January 2020. REVENUES BY 7.0% The strong top-line performance, continued IN FY19 BRAZIL cost discipline and additional capacity which Brazil was our leading contributor to organic topdrove efficiencies across our entire supply line growth this year. We grew revenue by 7.0% chain, contributed to FY19 EBITDA growth of in FY19, with total volume growth of 5.0%. Our mid-teens with margin expansion of more than beer volumes grew by 3.0% while our non-beer 250 bps. volumes grew by 11.2%. According to Nielsen, the beer industry grew by 2.4% and the non-beer COLOMBIA industry grew by 2.7%. Revenue per hl growth We had a very strong year in Colombia with a of 1.9% resulted from ongoing premiumization healthy balance between volume and revenue and a price increase in our beer business, parper hl growth. Revenue grew by mid-single tially offset by geographic mix and the increased digits with revenue per hl growth of low sinrelevance of our smart affordability strategy. gle digits. Our total volumes grew by mid-sinAdditionally, our revenue per hl was impacted gle digits, with consistent growth in our beer by category mix from the rapid growth of our and non-beer portfolios leading to our highest non-beer business, which has a lower average annual volume growth in Colombia since the revenue per hl than our beer business. SAB combination. We continue to utilize a portfolio approach to We continue to successfully expand the prewin in the premium category as we can reach mium segment, led by our global brand portmore consumers on more occasions through folio, which grew by more than 50% this year. our complementary brand portfolio. In 2019, our At the other end of the price spectrum, we premium portfolio grew by double-digits, led are bringing new consumers into the category by our global brands and local premium offerthrough smart affordability initiatives, such as ings, such as Original and our craft brands. Our the expansion of our 1 liter returnable glass botglobal brand portfolio grew by double-digits off tle sharing pack. Our local core portfolio deliva meaningful base, with strong performances ered consistently strong results throughout the from all three brands. Beck’s, our premium Geryear, led by Aguila, which grew by double-digits man pure malt brand, was also recently added and ended the year with a powerful campaign to our portfolio. It is off to a very strong start in focused on responsible drinking. the regions where it has been launched and we 27 PERFORMANCE context of a continued challenging macroeconomic environplan to expand its geographic footprint throughout 2020. In ment with consumers remaining under pressure. the core plus segment, Bohemia is accelerating its momentum, delivering four consecutive quarters of triple-digit growth. Our We continue to focus on growing the beer category and estiSkol Puro Malte innovation, which was rolled-out nationally in mate we gained share of total alcohol this year. The premium the second quarter, continues to grow at a rapid pace, enabling segment, where we under-index, continues to grow faster than the Skol family volumes to stabilize the full year and to grow in the total industry. We achieved our highest ever market share the fourth quarter. Our smart affordability strategy continues in this segment in 2019 as our premium brands continue to to gain traction, with our regional brands Nossa, Magnífica and outperform, led by Corona. Our flavored malt beverages also Legítima performing very well. Each has delivered meaningful performed very well this year, growing by double-digits led by share gains in the states in which it was launched, and MagníBrutal Fruit and Flying Fish. We have also enhanced our smart fica is now the leading brand in the value segment in the state affordability strategy in South Africa to ensure our portfolio of Maranhão. These brands, offered at an accessible price point includes accessible offerings for more consumers in light of the and brewed with local crops, deliver incremental volume and challenging macroeconomic environment. profitability by increasing our presence in relevant states. EBITDA declined by high single digits with margin compression In FY19, EBITDA declined by 4.4% with margin compression of of over 600 bps. Strong top-line growth was more than off489 bps to 41.1%. This was driven by higher CoS resulting from set by higher CoS per hl due to the timing of commodity and commodity prices and the devaluation of transactional curtransactional currency headwinds, and significant increases in rency, which held back our EBITDA growth by approximately marketing investments behind our growing premium brand 300bps and our EBITDA margin by 135bps. Our EBITDA marportfolio and on-trade programs. gin was also impacted by the increased weight of one-way bottles and aluminum cans in our CHINA packaging mix, as we aim to meet consumer Revenue grew by 3.3% as premiumization led 3.3% needs across increasingly diversified and more to revenue per hl growth of 6.5%, which was premium occasions. partially offset by volume declines of 3.0%. Our volume performance in the second half of the SOUTH AFRICA REVENUE GROWTH year was impacted by the continued softness in Our business in South Africa delivered balanced IN CHINA the nightlife channel, where our portfolio has a top-line results this year, with revenue growth of leading position, as well as a difficult comparable. mid-single digits driven by low single digit revIn 2019, we estimate we gained market share in enue per hl growth and mid-single digit volume every channel. However, out overall market share growth. The results were delivered even in the declined by approximately 50 bps, resulting from channel mix shift given our position in the nightlife channel. Our super premium brands continued to grow by strong double-digits, led by Corona, Blue Girl and Hoegaarden. We estimate that Corona is the number one brand in the super premium segment. Blue Girl, which joined our portfolio in May 2019, is one of the fastest growing super premium brands with a meaningful base. Hoegaarden grew volumes significantly this year, as the leading and fastest growing wheat beer in China. We also continue to lead the beer category in the e-commerce channel, which grew by strong double-digits. During the Double-11 e-commerce campaign in November, the largest e-commerce sales event in China, Budweiser was the #1 brand and Corona, Hoegaarden and Harbin were also among the top five beer brands by retail sales value on both the Tmall and JD platforms. Budweiser declined by mid-single digits, driven by the softness in the nightlife channel, as Budweiser is well-established as the leading brand of the nightlife occasion. Nevertheless, Budweiser remains the number one brand in the premium segment and we have made additional commercial investments to accelerate the brand’s expansion into other channels. EBITDA grew by 17.0% with margin expansion of 440 bps, due to strong brand mix, ongoing cost discipline and localization initiatives that helped to offset the declines in the nightlife channel, one of our most profitable channels. 28 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Highlights from other countries In Canada, top-line declined low single digits, driven by a volume decline primarily due to a weak beer industry. This was partially offset by revenue per hl growth, driven by positive brand mix from our premiumization strategy. Our High End Company continues to gain share of the premium segment, led by share gains from our premium import brands, including Corona and Hoegaarden, and strong volume growth from our Craft portfolio. In the core segment, Bud Light grew share for the 24th consecutive year, and in the core plus segment, Michelob Ultra continued to be the fastest growing beer brand in the country. In Peru, we grew revenue by mid-single digits with a volume decline of low single digits more than offset by revenue per hl growth of high Within EMEA, Europe grew revenue by low sinsingle digits. The strong revenue per hl growth gle digits, with volume growth partly offset by was driven by revenue management initiatives lower revenue per hl as we expand our portfolio as well as positive brand mix, driven by the across more price segments. We estimate we growth of our global brands. In light of the chalgained market share on a full year basis, and in lenging consumer environment, we launched all of our markets, with particularly strong gains a new product called Golden, as part of our in France and the Netherlands after successful smart affordability strategy. Golden is brewed Budweiser launches. Budweiser is now our fastusing ingredients with strong cultural relevance est growing brand in Europe. The UK continues to strengthen our ties to local farming, and is to deliver volume-led revenue growth fueled off to a very strong start. In Ecuador, revenue by the continued growth of our global brands, declined by low single digits, driven by a volume particularly the double-digit growth of Corona. decline of low single digits, which more than offEBITDA declined this year as top-line growth set revenue per hl growth of low single digits. was offset by higher sales and marketing While our global brands continued to perform investments behind new brand launches, higher well with double-digit volume growth, a softer CoS per hl driven by commodity costs and the consumer environment impacted the beer catimpact of route to market changes that allow egory throughout the year. In response, we are us to distribute directly in key countries across enhancing our core offerings across a variety of Europe. Additionally, strong volume growth led price points to ensure consumers have accessito capacity constraints and increased distribuble options within the beer category. tion expenses. We are investing in our capacity footprint to alleviate these constraints. In Africa In Argentina, volumes declined by mid-single excluding South Africa, we delivered strong digits, as we continue to face consumption volume growth in Zambia and Uganda, though contraction resulting from ongoing challengvolume was lower in Tanzania and Mozambique. ing macroeconomic conditions. Our revenues In Nigeria, we grew volume by double-digits as and revenue per hl grew by double-digits in the we continued to gain market share and despite context of a highly inflationary environment. cycling a challenging comparable from the Despite the difficult consumer environment, opening of our fourth brewery last year. we achieved slight volume growth in the fourth quarter as we continue to invest behind our Our business in South Korea had a challenging strong portfolio of brands. Our premium brands year, with declines in both revenue and volume. performed well in 2019 and gained share within this performance was primarily the result of the segment, led by our global brands and an overall industry decline in light of weaker our local premium brand, Patagonia. Our local consumer sentiment. In late October 2019, champion in the core plus segment, Andes Oriwe rolled back our price increase previously gen, grew by double-digits. Our smart affordimplemented in April 2019 to revitalize the beer ability initiatives continue to gain traction, led industry during the economic downturn. Our by packaging innovations such as the 340ml premium portfolio continued to grow throughreturnable glass bottle. out the year, led by Stella Artois and Budweiser. 29 INNOVATION RNAL “OUR INTE N TEAMS INNOVATIO E UNIQUE GIVE US TH E OF ADVANTAG A COMBINING INDSET START-UP M OMPANY WITH BIG C E.” EXPERIENC 30 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Using new disruptive technologies to transform our future W e are relentlessly committed to innovation and exploring new products and opportunities to excite consumers around the world. Innovation is an important driver of our commercial strategy, our supply chain, our processes for supporting our colleagues and recruiting future talWe introduced a unique operating system, the Venture OS, to better support businesses during the different stages – seed, launch, grow and scale. We also ran our internal accelerator program, the Zxlerator, bringing together participants from seven countries over the 11-week program and resulting in several products seeded in market in 2019. The program was recognized by WayUp, a job site and mobile app ent and helps us build a sustainable business to for college students and recent graduates, as a improve lives in communities around the world. top 100 internship program in the US. Our teams in ZX Ventures, Beer Garage, GITEC E-COMMERCE & OMNICHANNEL and Z-Tech focus on innovations that drive In Brazil, our on-demand delivery service Zé growth across all aspects of our company, from “If you want Delivery reached 1 million orders and grew by nd to understa the brewing process to product, commercial s, double-digits each month while maintaining a initiatives and more. consu mers’ need 4.8 rating in the Google app store. fulfill These teams give us the unique advantage and you can ing needs We are also proud to announce that Atom of combining a start-up mindset with big their chang Group, our disruptive drinks group partner in ay, ZX in an agile w company experience. We harness creativity, the UK which includes Master of Malt, Atom new ideas and the entrepreneurial mindset of to be. is the place Brands and Maverick Drinks, was recognized successful start-ups and combine it with the ation is resources and optimization of a leading comOur organiz with the prestigious Queen’s Award for Enterts the pany. This allows us to create and scale great agile, reflec prise International Trade award, in addition to ends in changing tr the Grand Master at the Spirits Masters, Gin ideas and great beers, to bring consumers We have the market. Producer of the Year by IWSC, Rum Producer more of what they love. make of the Year by the International Spirits Chalthe ability to ZX Ventures Transforming hanges lenge and Online Retailer of the Year by Whisstructural c key Magazine’s Icons of Whisky Awards. for the long-term and prioriti ze rd in g ly .” CRAFT & SPECIALTIES As our growth and innovation group, ZX Venacco E, tures plays an important role in supporting and EGO-MOOR Our mission is to lead the craft beer revolution growing the products and services of tomorDIANA ORR by supporting brewers and fostering a pasPP LY row, from technology to consumer products GLOBAL SU sion for beer globally. To that end, we partner HAIN D IR ECTOR and more. We have made more than 50 investC with multiple breweries from around the world, IES, ZX ments and currently have 1,500 employees in CAPABILIT including Colorado in Brazil, Camden Town VENTU R ES 18 countries around the world. ZX Ventures in the UK and Cucapá in Mexico, among othnow represents nearly 15% of AB InBev’s revers. Last year we extended our family through enue growth. new partnerships with Barbarian in Peru, Crew Republic in Germany and Temple in Argentina. 2019 was a big year for ZX Ventures, bringing changes to the structure to support long-term 2019 was also a year in which we delivered evolution and a greater focus on bringing learntowards our promise to help our brewers reach ings and innovation to the broader company. larger audiences and push the boundaries of We also expanded capabilities, launching new product innovation and beer experience. Camteams focused on adjacencies and omnichanden Town Brewery became the official beer nel. partner of Arsenal in the UK and Ireland, bringing its beer freshness experience to thousands of fans during the season. 31 INNOVATION On the innovation front, we introduced a Beer Garage Revolutionizing refreshed version of Hoegaarden Rosée in our operations with China, a beer with 3% ABV and 100% natural emerging technology ingredients, launched Colorado Ribeirão Lager in Brazil, La Cotidiana in Colombia and Pata“The Beer Ga rage Our technology innovation lab, Beer Garage, gonia Hoppy Lager in Argentina. Collectively, Incubator w s a a explores emerging technologies and builds er for new capabilities that address evolving business our heritage brands and craft breweries won game chang n d my challenges and consumer needs. my career a 572 awards, including prestigious awards at the Brussels Beer Challenge, European Beer Star . Being personal life In 2019, Beer Garage hosted the second annual and World Beer Awards. in the able to live Tech Incubator, a one-of-a-kind product develon opment, talent exchange, and technical internADJACENCIES heart of Silic under ship. In August, the group held a Demo Day for in g Our newly launched Adjacencies team aims to Valley, work the 11 projects in the 2019 cohort. Cross-funce n and disrupt wine and spirits by seeding and launcha data driv tional teams composed of business experts, c u lt ure, ing new products in categories adjacent to innovative erent external tech talent, and graduate interns comf d iff beer. After quickly setting up structures at the with a lot o pleted a 10-week program of development mindsets, people and global and Zone levels with teams in Argentina, trainings and worked in partnership with exterAustralia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Mexade the definitely m nal Silicon Valley start-ups to productize their ico, South Africa, South Korea and the UK, the fo r the ideas. The final 11 projects seek to tackle chalunit had a successful start. difference e n t and lenges like risk assessment, automated content developm This was highlighted by our acquisition of the n t of my development, and customer behavior insights remaining stake in disruptive wine company deployme with a combination of innovative data analysis, Babe Wine and partnership with Cutwater project.” Internet of things (IoT), and software solutions. ISTINA Some examples of the 2019 cohorts are: Spirits. Our agile teams created and launched RENATA CR , new products in market including Mike’s Hard CASTANHA GUTIERRES SENSAI Sparkling Water in the UK, Beats GT in Brazil TEAM, ABCREDIT E and Blasfemia, the first-ever canned wine in TH A M ERICA ZON A system that utilizes machine learning to SOU improve and standardize the beer’s quality and Argentina. flavor. By way of the Sensory Grade, the tool MERCHANDISE assesses real-time analytics and data collected This year marked the launch of the Budduring the brewing process – from levels of CO2 weiserXHype clothing merchandise licensing used in the processes to the time dedicated to partnership with an estimated gross merchaneach different stage – to predict qualities of the dise volume (GMV) of more than 1 million USD. beer. Additionally, our B2B teams sold more than ABCREDIT 2 million Stella Chalices through gift packs in beer retailers or standalone in non-beer retailPiloting in Brazil, it uses algorithms to predict ers resulting in millions of new consumers expepersonalized credit limits and payment terms riencing the Stella Artois ritual at home. that best suit an individual customer. This information contributes to agile and more productive relationships with our retail customers. ALEHOUSE CREATIVE This marketing solution allows ad teams to submit creative briefs and receive real-time insights on how to alter their work to change the impact and audience for their ad. The tool is powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI) that analyzes the historic performance of advertising material and imagery, to learn what works and what does not to attract consumers. Additionally, this year we expanded the Beer Garage to Tel Aviv, Israel. As home to one of the world’s largest technology ecosystems, this location is a great environment for open innovation. In this foundational year, we have focused on partnering with food, agriculture and sustainability technology companies. 32 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Recently, the Tel Aviv team has grown to enable expansion into commercial tech. We will continue to grow our work in both offices, with pilot projects and scale emerging technologies that will propel our company into the future. GITEC Using teamwork to develop new products and technologies Our Global Innovation and Technology Center (GITEC) in Leuven, Belgium brings together scientists and specialists from more than 20 countries around the globe to innovate alongside our packaging, product and process development teams. To implement these innovations, we rely on local innovation centers in six regions called ZITECs (Zone Innovation and Technology Centers). DEVELOPING BETTER TECHNOLOGY FOR FRESHER BEER In November, we won the World Beverage Innovation award for our PureDraught™ Keg System, a unique bottle-in-bottle keg that prevents any air or dispense gas from contacting the beer. This allows the beer to remain fresh label and allowing for potential environmental for 30 days after being tapped instead of just a and economic benefits. The technology was week. Rather than standard 30 liter steel kegs, utilized for the first time on a larger scale as PureDraught kegs come in convenient 6, 12 and part of a limited edition run of our Beck’s Artist 18 liter sizes, which gives bar and restaurant Series to celebrate up and coming artists. An owners more flexibility, allows for less wasted initial release of 200,000 bottles were launched product and offers more efficient storage. The in the UK with nine bottle designs. We plan to n printing one-way system means that kegs can be put “Rather tha continue expanded use of digital printing in the nd putting directly into local recycling bins, removing the on a label a coming year. to a bottle, need for reverse logistics. PureDraught is being the label on ng directly USING TECHNOLOGY TO BREW we’re printi utilized in more than a dozen countries, includttle. We’re MORE SUSTAINABLY onto the bo ing Brazil, China, Italy, Colombia, Mexico, Japan and South Korea, as well as in other areas of n entire We are striving for sustainability, flexibility and removing a productivity in our operations, while staying Europe and in Africa. , a n entire substrate fully connected with beer lovers and changing terial, an PIONEERING NEW TECHNOLOGY piece of ma demands in the market. on from the TO REVOLUTIONIZE LABELING entire secti Carbon neutrality is an ongoing shift of our .” In 2019, we made strides in developing a new supply chain breweries to optimize and reduce energy conpackaging innovation to evolve from using L EY, GLOBA sumption. Our strategy is anchored on a clear paper labels on beer bottles to imprinting GREG BENTL Y PRIMAR roadmap of technology and smart processes branding on the bottles themselves. The proDIRECTOR N A GIN G INNOVATIO that will transform our operations over the next cess uses a newly developed technology from PACK LLY DIG ITA ten years. As technology is evolving constantly, our Tattoo Alpha Plant in Haasrode, Belgium ON BECK’S OTTLES we are always scouting, developing and validatcalled Direct Object Printing. This technology PRINTED B ing new technologies at big scale production to allows us to print ink and varnish directly onto strengthen and improve our technology pipethe glass of the bottle, removing the plastic line. 33 INNOVATION Z-Tech Providing technologybased solutions to help smalland medium-sized businesses thrive Z-Tech launched in March 2019 with the mission of catalyzing the growth of small and medium businesses (SMBs) through technology. Z-Tech is retail customer-centric, focusing on providing small and medium businesses (SMBs) with everything they need to succeed and empower growth among retailers, g n for creatin bars, restaurants and other related businesses. It is headquare alw ay s h ad a passio pe rien ce s tered in New York City and with operations in Brazil and Mexico. “I hav a nd c ust omer ex cts great produ an impact in re to make We are helping SMBs enter the digital economy through two a d esi an do as we ll a s e d Z -T ech because I c main verticals: Marketplace and FinTech. Ventures in our Marjoin nd the world. I periences a ketplace vertical are connecting merchants with diverse supc re ate e xc eptional ex ou sa nds pliers, delivering fair and timely access to essential goods. Our both, c t o n th e lives of th pa FinTech vertical is focusing on providing access to fair credit, make an im C o w ners.” payment and other services by digitizing the traditional trade. of PO OF USER MANAGER After extensive market research, we have kicked off investH, GLOBAL RIDDHI SHA ments or the incubation of three new tech ventures, among E, Z-TECH EXPERIENC others: DONUS This multi-purpose payment institution offers a digital account and payment services to better manage cash flow and empower merchants in Brazil. The platform provides SMBs with One example is a sustainable technology called Simmer & Strip wire transfer, e-wallet, bill pay, cash-back, integration with POS that limits the amount of water and heat needed for the brewsystems and debit cards, plus low monthly transaction fees. ing process, resulting in a reduction of water consumption and carbon emissions. In 2019 we rolled out Simmer & Strip technolMENU ogy out to 10 new breweries, for a total of 44 breweries within A business-to-business marketplace that optimizes the buying our global operations. To bring even more people behind our process by enabling Brazilian merchants to find all their prodsustainability efforts, we are offering free licenses of this techucts with great prices in an user-friendly and trustworthy digital nology to small independent brewers. platform. DEVELOPING A PLATFORM TO EDUCATE CONSUMERS MIMERCADO To stay true to our transparancy principle, we refreshed our A digital platform for Mexican merchants to purchase a wide consumer platform Tap Into Your Beer (www.tapintoyourbeer. selection of products in a convenient, one-stop-shop busicom). The website uses an engaging environment to help peoness-to-business marketplace. ple discover about more about beer, brewing, our brands and our smart drinking initiatives. This platform offers consumers To support these ventures and our plans for future growth, information such as beer styles, taste profiles, ABV (alcohol by Z-Tech is building a team of digitally native talent. volume), and more. 34 G H L I G H T S T I O N H I INNOVAM OUR ZONES FRO Lock in the cool No more worrying about keeping beer cool. This year in South Africa, we developed Castle Lite Cold Lock: a first-of-its-kind insulated multi-pack that stays cold for up to three hours after it has been brought out of the fridge. Natural Light crashes the seltzer party In August we launched Natural Light Seltzer in our North America Zone to respond to the need for a fun-loving, price conscious option in the competitive hard seltzer landscape. The launch included two flavors: “Aloha Introducing Skol Beaches” and “Catalina Lime Mixer.” Natural Light Seltzer has already become one of the Top 5 share gainers and a top six innovation Puro Malte of 2019. In February 2019, we leveraged the timing TOP 5 of Carnival in February to launch Skol Puro Malte, the pure malt version of the popular beer brand Skol, in our South America Zone. It has become the biggest innovation in the Zone in recent years in NATURAL LIGHT SELTZER WAS ONE OF terms of volume. THE TOP 5 SHARE GAINERS IN OUR NORTH AMERICA ZONE Smart Protein for a changing world eet amazing sw We are one of 33 partners “I love the ing at a spot of work a large working on a European Unionfunded Horizon 2020 Project h in start-up wit to repurpose products from the . Our assetcorporation manufacturing of pasta, bread and beer. Our contribution makes light start u p DNA allow ore risk s a n s d The Dominican us to take m Republic goes digital use of our brewers’ saved yeast consume rto be ultra and a side product from the malting process called barley il st counting centric wh We launched a new digital platform to offer a rootlets to help produce plantstem on the ecosy t te to marke based meats, fish, seafood, cheese, better experience to our small to medium retail u infant formula, sports drinks and (funding, ro e) customers. This tool supports many aspects expertis more, taking strides towards a speed and of their business, including access to online st ablished of a well-e circular economy to help feed the orders from anywhere, budget control system, once we are purchase history review, recommendations and corporation growing global population. r celerate ou special offers for products offered by Cerveceria ready to ac Nacional Dominicana, among other features. bets.” We currently have more than 14,000 active L retailers on the platform, almost 100% of our HO, GLOBA ISABEL PIN OFFICE, local footprint. , GR OW TH DIRECTOR ES ZX VENTUR 35 BETTER WORLD Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Brewing great beers depends on a healthy natural environment and thriving communities. We depend on water and other natural ingredients to brew our beers and we are committed to sustainability initiatives that support our commitment to build a company to last for the next 100 years and beyond. W e support the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. We are working to contribute directly to many of these goals through our 2025 Sustainability Goals, Smart Drinking Agenda, Road Safety initiatives, volunteering programs, small retailer development and disaster relief efforts. During the development of the Sustainability Goals, each goal was evaluated against the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to identify how they impacted each SDG. According to our 2017 Materiality Assessment the most material issues of these goals are water, agriculture, and responsible drinking. A new assessment is currently being developed and will be released in 2020. SMART DRINKING 36 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Global Smart Drinking Goals Our 2025 Sustainability Goals We support the World Health Organization (WHO) We are doing our part to tackle shared global environmental target of reducing the harmful use of alcohol by and social challenges. Our 2025 Sustainability Goals aim to at least 10% in every country by 2025, and United deliver a measurable, positive impact on the environment and Nations Sustainable Development Goal (UN SDG) our communities. target 3.5 to strengthen the prevention of harmful use of alcohol globally. Our Global Smart Drinking Goals are intended to drive SMART AGRICULTURE real progress to help meet these ambitions. 100% of our direct farmers will be skilled, connected and financially empowered. CITY PILOTS  educe the harmful use of alcohol by at least 10% in R WATER STEWARDSHIP six cities by the end of 2020 and implement the best 100% of our communities in high stress areas will have practices globally by the end of 2025. measurably improved water availability and quality. SOCIAL NORMS CIRCULAR PACKAGING Influence social norms and individual behaviors to reduce 100% of our products will be in packaging that is harmful use of alcohol by investing at least 1.0 Billion returnable or made from majority recycled content. USD across our markets in dedicated social marketing campaigns and related programs by the end of 2025. CLIMATE ACTION 100% of our purchased electricity will be from NOAND LOWALCOHOL BEER renewable sources and we will reduce our carbon Ensure Noor LowAlcohol beer products represent at emissions by 25% across our value chain. least 20% of our global beer volume by the end of 2025. LABEL AND ALCOHOL HEALTH LITERACY Place a guidance label on all of our beer products in all of our markets by the end of 2020*. Increase alcohol health literacy by the end of 2025. * The guidance label will be implemented only in markets without substantive government-mandated labeling legislation, and where it is permissible by local regulation. Metric 2019 2017 We updated our materiality assessment in 2017, identifying key Total water use (in billion hl) 1.642 Ⓐ 1.775 Ⓐ environmental and social issues for our company and stakeWater use by hectoliter of production 2.80 Ⓐ 3.09 Ⓐ holders and aspire to update and localize the assessment in (hl/hl) 2020. More information on our materiality assessment, includTotal GJ of energy (in millions) 61.4 Ⓐ 61.4 Ⓐ ing Boundary Analysis Table, and GRI Index for this year’s report can be found at www.ab-inbev.com Total GJ of energy purchased (in 59.4 Ⓐ * millions) Ⓐ Assured Metric Energy usage per hectoliter 104.6 111.6* (please refer to External Assurance Report on page 56) of production (in Mj/hl) Our goals on water, GHG emissions per hectoliter of producEnergy purchased per hectoliter 101.2 Ⓐ * tion and energy pertain to our beverage facilities only and do of production (in Mj/hl) not encompass our vertical operations such as malt plants Total direct and indirect GHG emissions 5.36 Ⓐ 6.18 Ⓐ and packaging facilities. (Scopes 1 and 2 in million metric tons of CO2e) Total direct and indirect GHG emissions data encompass bevTotal direct and indirect GHG emissions 31.8 Ⓐ 32.35 erage facilities and most vertical operations, including malt (Scopes 1,2, and 3 in million metric tons plants and packaging facilities. of CO2e) Scope 1 accounts for 67% of our operational emissions and Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions per 6.92 Ⓐ 8.55 Ⓐ includes CO2 equivalent (CO2e) from fuel used in our manuhectoliter of production (in kg Co2e/hl) facturing processes and in cogeneration plants that generate Scopes 1,2, and 3 GHG emissions per 55.3 Ⓐ 59.4 on-site electricity. Scope 2 accounts for about 33% and rephectoliter of production (in kg Co2e/hl) resents emissions from purchased electricity. % Renewable Electricity 20% Ⓐ -S  cope 3 emissions constitute estimates based on a mix of % Returnable Packaging 40.9% Ⓐ 46% supplier-based numbers, global emission factors and assump% Recycled Content in primary tions. Data’s main categories include, Purchased Goods and packaging Glass 42.3% Ⓐ 37% Services, Upstream and Downstream Distribution, Product Cans 59.1% Ⓐ** 59% Cooling (including on and off premise but excluding at home PET 22.8% Ⓐ 21% cooling), and End of Life. Around 50% of emissions are calcuDirect farmers skilled, connected, and lated with own data or data reported by suppliers through the financially empowered*** Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Skilled 50% -Connected 45% -* In line with our new sustainability goals, energy reporting will shift to energy purchased versus energy usage. Energy purchased per hl aligns with our RE100 sustainFinancially Empowered 35% -ability goal of offsetting 100% of our purchased electricity with electricity sourced from renewable resources. Energy purchased per hl was not reported for breweries acquired from SABM in 2017. ** 2018 Recycled content percentage in primary packaging for cans has been updated. The data correction has been done following the external supplier audits. *** Smart Agriculture data is based on up-to-date estimates. 37 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT “WE ARE TO DEDICATED ING OU R IMPACT US TO AND SCALE ITIVE DRIVE POS H AN GE A ROUND C ” THE GLOBE 38 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Making a positive impact As the world’s leading brewer, we are dedicated to using our impact and scale to drive positive change around the globe. This commitment is reflected in our Global Smart Drinking Goals, Road Safety initiatives, volunteering and disaster relief efforts, and our commitment to respecting human rights. In 2019, we have been making progress towards our goals in each of these areas in both a global and local context. Smart drinking OUR GLOBAL SMART DRINKING GOALS We believe that every experience with beer ALIGN DIRECTLY WITH Goals, created a Global Smart Drinking Toolkit, should be positive and are committed to SEVERAL UN SDGS: designed to equip users with an understandreducing the harmful use of alcohol around the ing of effective prevention approaches and world. We support the World Health Organirecommend potential interventions based on zation (WHO) target of reducing the harmful the specific needs of a community. Created use of alcohol by at least 10% in every counby a technical advisory team of experts from try by 2025, and the United Nations SustainThe Ohio State University, San Diego State Uniable Development Goals (UN SDG) ambition versity, and Tufts Medical School, the toolkit is to strengthen the prevention of harmful use of designed to help communities drive meaningalcohol globally. We are using our Global Smart UN SDG 3: ful, positive behavior progress towards reducDrinking Goals as benchmarks to shift social Ensure healthy lives and ing harmful alcohol use. norms and behaviors around harmful alcohol promote well-being for use while improving our own business pracall at all ages Additionally, the Team of Evaluators of the tices. Global Smart Drinking Goals from HBSA published an article titled “Design and Outcome We recognize that partnerships are essenMeasures for the AB InBev Global Smart Drinktial to achieving our goals and are taking a ing Goals Evaluation” in the December 2019 multi-stakeholder approach. Since 2016, we issue of Contemporary Clinical Trials Commuhave been collaborating with public health nications. The publication describes the overall experts to help reduce the harmful use of alcodesign of evaluation for the six City Pilots inihol around the world. tiative CITY PILOTS SOCIAL NORMS Our goal: Reduce the harmful use of alcohol UN SDG 17: Our goal: Influence social norms and individby at least 10% in six cities by the end of 2020 Strengthen means ual behaviors to reduce harmful use of alcohol and implement the best practices globally by of implementation by investing at least 1 billion USD across our the end of 2025. and revitalize markets in dedicated social marketing camglobal partnership paigns and related programs by the end of Building a company to last relies on thriving for sustainable development 2025. communities across the globe where the harmful use of alcohol no longer presents a social We continue to make progress towards our challenge. Our City Pilots in Brasilia (Brazil) Social Norms goal by investing in social marZacatecas (Mexico), Johannesburg (South keting programs and campaigns to influence Africa), Jiangshan (China), Leuven (Belgium) behavior. and Columbus, Ohio (United States), serve as laboratories for identifying initiatives worth In 2019, for the second consecutive year we scaling as well as programs that are not effecran a social marketing competition among tive in their communities. our teams around the world to promote smart drinking messaging through innovative conIn two of these city pilots, Zacatecas, Mexsumer-facing campaigns. We received more ico and Brasilia, Brazil, we have seen progress than 45 submissions from our local brands through evidence-based programs. During across 23 countries. Two social marketing camthe same period, the AB InBev Foundation, paigns were selected as winners; one from an independent non-profit established to supChina with Harbin beer and one from Colombia port achievement of our Global Smart Drinking For more information please visit with Poker beer. www.abinbevfoundation.org 39 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Our local teams are also doing their part to help reduce the Our NABLAB efforts are also having a positive impact on harmful use of alcohol. In the US, we launched our largest sustainability. In 2019 we partnered with Ecover in Belgium to responsible drinking social marketing campaign in the country launch ‘Too Good to Waste,’ a dishwashing detergent made to date. The “Drink Wiser” campaign from Budweiser features from residual alcohol from the brewing process of our noactor Anthony Anderson and NBA basketball player Danny alcohol beers such as Jupiler 0.0% and Leffe Blonde 0.0%. Green and focuses on educating beer drinkers about the importance of hydrating between beers. The campaign video has LABELING AND ALCOHOL HEALTH LITERACY been viewed more than 250,000 times across Our goal: Place a Guidance Label on all of our all social media channels, helping to spread our beer products in all of our markets by the end responsible drinking messages. of 2020. Increase alcohol health literacy by the end of 2025. In Colombia, our Aguila brand launched the “Live Responsibly” campaign to motivate conWe believe in transparency and in helping our sumers to moderate consumption so they can consumers understand why and how alcohol live their fullest lives. Through this campaign should be consumed within limits. For these and targeted intervention, we continue to reasons, we are working to increase alcohol litchange alcohol consumption behaviors and eracy among them. challenge social norms. In 2019, we voluntarily updated the global polNOAND LOWALCOHOL BEER icy governing the labels in our bottles and cans with a guidance label to improve alcohol health Our goal: Ensure Noor LowAlcohol beer literacy across more than 20 countries. One products represent at least 20% of AB InBev’s of the first countries where we rolled-out our new labels was global beer volume by the end of 2025. China. The new labels are expected to reach the market in most We continue to build our portfolio of great-tasting noand countries by the end of 2020. lowalcohol beer (NABLAB). In 2019, NABLAB accounted for approximately 7% of our global beer volume with more than Road safety 80 NABLAB offerings for different consumer occasions. In countries such as China, Colombia, Australia, Ecuador, Costa CREATING SAFER ROADS FOR OUR PEOPLE Rica and Panama NABLAB accounts for more than 20% of the AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES total beer volume sold in those markets. With a significant fleet and colleagues and their families on the road around the world, road safety continues to be a top priorTo promote our no-alcohol brand Jupiler 0.0% in Belgium, we ity for our company. We are aligned with the UN SDG’s ambilaunched a campaign in Leuven against irresponsible alcohol tious target of halving the global number of deaths and injuries consumption among students (above legal drinking age). We from road traffic crashes by 2020. created a commercial featuring Belgian singer Arno and the band Triggerfinger performing the Eurovision-winning song We recognize that most underlying road safety risk factors are “J’aime la vie” with rewritten lyrics that urged students to pracultimately within human control. Collective action to address tice responsible alcohol consumption. these factors is critical to achieving the SDG target – and we believe the private sector industry has an important role to play. We also recognize that impaired driving is one of the important road safety risk factors to address. Eliminating drinking and ce vely influen tak in g a cti on to positi p lay a “Brands potential to s has great nsumers an d social norm in engaging co ohol” an t ro le se o f alc signific lin g the harmful u tack ING proactively OFESS OR OF SOC IAL MARKET CH, PH.D., PR S SCHOOL JEFF FREN ER SITY BUSINES N U N IV AT BRIGHTO 40 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 driving is an essential component of our smart drinking commitments and our company Dream in creating a better world. We believe that when you drive you should not drink, so we fully support all targeted legislation and enforcement measures to reduce impaired driving, including strict Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) limits and enforcement. PARTNERING TO ACHIEVE IMPACT AT SCALE Our road safety partnership with the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) continued across 2019. We launched the Management Practices for Safer Roads Toolkit, which provides stakeholders with an open source methodology for improving road safety. The toolkit outlines best practices for data collection, identifying key risk factors linked to road traffic accidents, corrective measures and impact measurement. The toolkit is an interactive e-learning tool that can be used by government officials, road engineers, planners and policy makers from the public and private sector. It highlights case studies and best practices from different countries across continents including Brazil, China, the Dominican Republic, India, Mexico and South Africa, thereby highlighting the feasibility of its recommended measures and its application in various contexts. In 2019, we committed to extending our partnership with UNITAR for two more years with a continued commitment to work together and with other stakeholders to deliver impact. Phase In the US, our Anheuser-Busch Emergency Drinking Water two of the partnership will focus on empowering and supportProgram partnered with the National Volunteer Fire Council ing road safety stakeholders to implement toolkit best practo deliver critical hydration to volunteer firefighters starting in tices, with a focus on identifying and implementing technology advance of wildfire season. By donating these cans of emersolutions that can deliver transformative impact at scale. This gency drinking water and raising awareness on the challenges includes a strategic collaboration with UNITAR that firefighters face, we aim to do our part to and the municipality of Shanghai in China that support volunteers as they heroically protect will apply digital innovation to identify and test their friends and neighbors. To date, we have solutions to road safety challenges. partnered with 130 local wholesalers through For more information about UNITAR, visit: the expanded program to deliver over 1.6 We also continue to chair ‘Together for Safer www.un-roadsafety-learn.org/ million cans of emergency drinking water to Roads’ (TSR), a coalition of private sector comnearly 300 fire departments. panies working together to tackle road safety challenges through knowledge sharing, demonIn addition, we donated over 850,000 cans of stration projects and data sharing. In 2019, we emergency drinking water to 11 states this year collaborated with TSR in road safety initiatives through our ongoing disaster relief program in Houston, Texas and New York, New York. in partnership with the American Red Cross. The Anheuser-Busch Foundation also donated Our partnerships extend well beyond global For more information about 1 million USD to the American Red Cross relationships, with our family of local compa‘Together for Safer Roads’, visit Annual Disaster Giving Program. nies engaging with local partners to implement www.togetherforsaferroads.org road safety solutions specific to their market. VOLUNTEERING IN COMMUNITIES For example, in Brazil, our local business Ambev has impleAll around the world, our people are passionate about empowmented Road Safety programs since 2014 in Sao Paulo and ering communities. We encourage these efforts through most recently in 2017 we rolled out programs in Brasilia, with numerous volunteering opportunities. To demonstrate our a focus on applying technology solutions for greater impact. commitment, this year we launched a global volunteering policy that gives every employee the opportunity to do pro bono Volunteering and disaster relief work for 16 hours during paid work time. Every year, communities around the globe are affected by A key initiative in 2019 was Global Be(er) Responsible Day, a floods, wildfires, droughts, earthquakes and other natural disasworldwide campaign that promotes responsible drinking. In ters. We believe we can play a positive role in helping commu2019, 69,000 AB InBev colleagues reached 3.9 million consumnities to prepare and respond to disasters by working with govers and 1.5 million customers across more than 40 countries ernment, civil society and other private sector organizations. with responsible drinking messages. In January, we responded to the Brumadinho dam disaster by Our local teams also took part in volunteering efforts. In Nigeria, providing drinking water to the region. We worked with the we launched an employee volunteering initiative called Better Rappi app to set up a flash campaign where consumers could World Champions. Through this program, more than 1,200 voleasily donate AMA water brand and we matched all donations. unteers came together to give back to their communities during In addition to immediate support during the disaster, we led the Sustainability Week in June and participated in street cleanups, coordination of a group of companies to assist in the recovery repairing local roads, planting trees, coaching students, recyof the city. cling and more. 41 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT In Brazil, our skills-based volunteering program volunteering We are continually evolving and strengthening our approach program VOA provided mentoring and capacity building to to respecting human rights. Through the policy refresh pro115 non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Selected organicess, we recognized there was an opportunity to improve our zations receive a management course consisting of nine modcompany-wide approach to human rights due diligence. We ules to help NGOs achieve their dreams. analyzed existing internal and external good practices and designed a new model for testing. The model was piloted in In our Middle Americas Zone, over 26,000 volunteers came India and involved cross-functional participation from commertogether across 109 activities to celebrate World Environcial, operational and corporate affairs functions. The model is ment Day. With the collective efforts of our colleagues, over being refined based on pilot results and will be scaled into other 12,000 trees were planted and over 94 tons of garbage were markets in 2020 through a Due Diligence Implementation Toolcollected. kit. We are also developing ways of working with our procurement teams, in China we conducted 590 responsible sourcing Small retailer development assessments with suppliers and we continue to develop our SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES AND approach with suppliers leveraging our procurement processes. COMMUNITIES TO GROW AND THRIVE As a global brewer, the sourcing of raw materials is fundamenSmall businesses and entrepreneurs play a critical role in ecotal to the success of our business and plays an important role nomic development and are an important source of incomes in how we contribute to the incomes and livelihoods of farmand livelihoods in local communities. ers around the world. Following the 2018 publication of our Responsible Sourcing Principles for Farms, in 2019 we trained Across our distribution chain, we engage every day with milour procurement agronomy teams on the principles and comlions of retail customers who play a critical role for our busimunicated them to our direct farmers. We also conducted a ness as an important point of connection with our consumers. baseline assessment of our direct farmer supply chain (aligned In 2019, our small retailer development program spanned eight to the principles) to identify potential gaps. This survey was countries, providing over 15,000 businesses with access to tools conducted by our agronomy teams across 11 countries, 4 crops such as business management training, affordable financial and covering over 20,000 farmers. Results of the survey will be services and store infrastructure improvements. In Colombia, integrated into in action plans to be put in place throughout Ecuador and Peru the program specifically focuses on female 2020. entrepreneurs, helping play a role in advancing gender equality and women’s economic empowerment. We believe technology and digital innovation offers a significant opportunity to enable companies to strengthen their approach Beyond this, in South Africa we established the South African to respecting human rights, particularly to help increase transBreweries (SAB) entrepreneurship program to help create parency with potentially affected stakeholders We are currently sustainable jobs and drive an inclusive economy. To date, we testing BanQu, a non-crypto currency blockchain solution in have contributed to the creation of over 6,200 jobs, against our supply chains beyond agriculture in South Africa and Zambia, ambition to help create a total of 10,000 jobs. In 2020, the proand are identifying other technology partners to collaborate gram will be focused on women owned small retail outlets, and with in 2020. women farmers. We continue to participate in industry and NGO initiatives Human rights that seek to improve business’ approach to respecting human rights. We are a longstanding member of AIM-Progress, a COMMITTED TO HUMAN RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBLE SOURCING global forum that aims to enable and promote responsible Respecting human rights is a non-nesourcing practices, and a founding member of the Centre for gotiable commitment for our busiSports and Human Rights. In 2019, ness. We have been a signatory to we continued to engage with exterthe United Nations Global Compact nal human rights stakeholders to help since 2005 and are committed to the inform our company-wide approach principles and guidance contained in to human rights. This led to joining the UN Guiding Principles on BusiShift’s Business Learning Program ness and Human Rights. In 2019, we and collaborating with a range of refreshed our Global Human Rights human rights organizations such as Policy strengthening provisions Arche Advisors, Partner Africa and related to the prohibition of forced Landesa. To inform and support us labor and child labor and reinforcing in measuring our approach to human our commitment to the provision of rights, we engage with the Corporate effective remedy. Human Rights Benchmark. We were rated 35.7% in 2019 and are integrating actions into our 2020 plans to further improve. For more information about our policies related to human rights, please visit www.ab-inbev.com/our-policies. html#humanrightspolicy.html. 42 A G E M E N T I T Y E N G COMMUN T S F R O M HIGHLIGH OUR ZONES Celebrating Smart Drinking in China We partnered with the Ministry of Public Security, Shanghai Traffic Police Bureau and the China Alcoholic Drinks Association to celebrate responsible drinking by staging an awareness gala in Shanghai. To connect with consumers, the campaign was reinvented with a multi-cultural approach where heritage meets new lifestyles, featuring a virtual character under our popular Harbin brand, plus an animation co-produced with the Beijing Forbidden City Culture Development Company. The No DrunkDriving Design 15,000 RETAILERS Providing relief after disaster were trained through Contest our retail development program this year. The retailers were equipped After category-5 Hurricane Dorian hit the northern Bahamas in September, our Middle America Zone provided In celebration of the Global Be(er) support through an internal fundraising Responsible Day, our South Korea team with business skills to campaign that aided thousands of co-hosted a car sticker design contest improve their sales and families in the region. with Korea Road Traffic Authority livelihood. (KoRoad) to raise awareness of a newly enforced drunk-driving law in Korea. Award-winning designs were utilized through various campaigns to spread our smart drinking messages nationwide. NABLAB “We’ve bee n doing with a lot of work and innovations: students to tr y a ttitudes to Leffe Blonde 0.0% change th alcohol and e ir encourage drinking. & Hertog Jan 0.0% responsible ched zero We’ve laun Leffe Blonde 0.0% was alcohol bee students ha rs and the ve embrace d Improving road launched, the first 0.0% abbey beer in Belgium, the Netherlands and them as an to regu laraltern st rength a ti ve safety in South France. In November, the Netherlands expanded beer. Now 4 drunk in Be % of beers lgium are Africa NABLAB offerings even l and I’m zero alcoho e In South Africa, we launched None d of how w further with the launch of really prou for the road campaign, which Hertog Jan 0.0%. ute d to th is re-branded our local distribution have contrib vehicles to display messaging that change.” encouraged responsible behavior and ATE S –CORPOR ultimately safe roads. FLEUR POET , EU ROPE IRECTOR AFFAIRS D 43 SUSTAINABILITY OUG H OUR 2025 “T HR ITY GO A LS, WE AIM IL SUSTAINAB UR A B LE P OSITIVE MEAS TO CREATE R OW TH AND IV E G IMPACT, DR RO SS O U R ENTIRE IVES A C IMPROVE L IN” VALUE CHA 44 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Working Towards our 2025 Sustainability Goals At AB InBev, we are determined to build a company to last, but we know we can only do that with a healthy environment and thriving communities. As the world’s leading brewer, we remain firmly committed to creating a better world for all of our stakeholders, while also creating value for our business. Through our 2025 Sustainability Goals, our most ambitious set of public commitments yet, we aim to create measurable positive impact, drive growth and improve lives across our entire value chain—from our growers and retailers to our consumers and their communities. We are proud of our progress against our 2017 baseline. Smart Agriculture – PARTNERING TO ENSURE THE LONGTERM PRODUCTIVITY OF OUR 100% of our direct farmers LARGEST SOURCING REGION are skilled, connected and financially empowered Over one fourth of our total barley needs are sourced from Argentina, so it is critical that In 2019 we continued to support our farmers we continue to develop new, improved varietin our approach to agricultural development, ies for the region as well as work with farmers working with over 20,000 farmers in 13 counto enable adoption of sustainable, productive tries to support the growth of our six priority practices. As with many of our agricultural crops (barley, cassava, hops, maize, rice, sordevelopment programs, partnerships play a ghum). We have developed a framework under key role. In 2019, we worked with Ackermann. the pillars of “skilled, connected and finana to release two new higher-quality, higher-yieldcially empowered” to ensure that farmers have “To address ing varieties – Yanara and Alhue, which were g e lik e access to good varieties and technical training challen named with the help of our Marketing team c h a n ge (skilled), improved insights and information climate drawing inspiration from the local Mapuche (connected), and the ability to invest in and 0 , w e need by 203 language. We also collaborated with crop nutrion a combinati urs grow their business for the long term (finantion experts Yara to develop crop nutrition cially empowered). We are making progress e p re n e towards our goal—as of 2019, 50% of our direct of entr protocols that help farmers grow to meet the ti n g a t high-quality standards for Budweiser while at farmers met our criteria for skilled; 45% for coninnova eeds n e c k s p the same time reducing their costs and limiting nected and 35% for financially empowered. break environmental impact. and industry to The 2019 crop year proved to be challenging dy in many growing regions across the globe, leaders rea nd BUILDING OUR ANALYTICS m e n t a with weather events threatening both qualexperi Bev’s CAPABILITIES IN THE FIELD y . A B In ity and yield. Whether it was rain at harvest deplo SmartBarley has been our primary agricultural rator or drought during critical growth periods, cli100+ Accele the development program since 2013. Currently live d has provide s mate change continues to increase the intenin 12 countries across five continents, SmartBasity and frequency of these potentially devc t c a n v a rley utilizes data and technology that enables perfe ng astating weather events. Increasing farmer c c e le ra ti our agronomists to help growers improve profor a resilience and reducing production volatility arthly ductivity. In 2019 we enhanced this innovation through improved breeding and crop manageimpact for E avoid by partnering with Sentera to pair field-level ment practices will continue to be a focus for Labs’ goal to of CO data from SmartBarley with weather and imags 1 billion ton 2 our Research and Agronomy teams. We are ery analytics. This data will help our agronoworking diligently to ensure our framework of emis sio n s ” mists support farmers, leading to the produc“skilled, connected, and financially empowered” tion of quality crops and helping to combat the GE, CEO appropriately supports farmers to adopt the AMY GEOR impact of climate change. TH LY LA BS practices and tools they need to address the EAR challenges they face in their local environments. 45 SUSTAINABILITY EXPANDING THE CAPABILITIES availability and quality for both our breweries OF A SUCCESSFUL TOOL and our communities, because when our comled to “I am humb with After an initial pilot in Zambia with positive munities thrive our business thrives. But we e ri ng know we cannot do this work alone. We have be partn results in 2018, BanQu joined our 100+ Accelerator and we worked together to expand the e le rator established global water partnerships with The 100+ Acc platform to India and Uganda, connecting more se r-Busch Nature Conservancy (TNC) and World Wildlife & Anheu Fund (WWF) to invest financial and technical farmers across our cassava and barley supply ng endchains. BanQu employs an SMS-based service InBev to bri chain resources including green infrastructure initialy that uses blockchain technology to record purto-end supp nd tives, conservation and reforestation projects, ity a chasing and sales data of our value chain offertraceabil habitat restoration efforts, and improved water n c y to transpare ing farmers a digital financial identity. In addiinfrastructure. Both of these organizations d ’s la rgest share our belief that measurable impact at tion to the geographic expansion, we increased the worl scale is the next frontier in water stewardship. brewer.” our capabilities with the service to send digital payments, reducing cash transactions and DNIS, CEO, IMPROVING OPERATIONAL WATER EFFICIENCY thereby lowering the risk for our farmers. ASHISH GA We aim to brew our beers at the highest level of BANQU UPSKILLING OUR FARMERS water efficiency and we continually challenge To bridge the gap between small research trial ourselves to do even more. We have set ambiplots and large-scale industrial farms, we are tious water efficiency targets across our busiutilizing model farms to test new ideas, validate ness, with even more ambitious goals for our them at scale and then share those learnings breweries located in communities facing high 100% broadly with growers. Our first model farm, the water stress. In 2019 we implemented innovaCaledon Research and Development Centre in tive technology and process improvements South Africa, is focusing on long term priorities to reduce our per hl water use to 2.80 hl/hl. A including rotations, tillage practices, nitrogen clear example of how innovation is improving OUR AMA WATER BRAND IN trials, farm profitability and sustainable agriBRAZIL DONATES 100% OF our operational processes is through a pilot culture practices. We will continue to develop ITS PROFITS TO PROJECTS we implemented at our Bucaramanga brewmodel farms across other zones and regions, THAT BRING DRINKING WATER ery in Colombia with EcoWorld Technologies with the intention of creating more skilled farmTO POVERTY-STRICKEN (EWTech), one of our 100+ Accelerator starters across our supply chain. COMMUNITIES ups. EWTech offers a green replacement for caustic soda used in the industrial cleaning Water Stewardship – process. In the pilot test in Bucaramanga, it showed a 70% reduction in water usage ver100% of our communities in sus traditional disinfecting chemicals and 60% high stress areas will have reduction in cleaning cycle time, resulting in measurably improved water savings on energy consumption and freeing availability and quality up time on the bottling lines. We are now rollWater is a key ingredient in all of our products, ing out the technology to 16 of our breweries so we value every drop. But more than just a across Colombia, Peru, Mexico, Honduras and key resource for our business, clean water is a El Salvador. critical resource for the economic, social and environmental well-being of every commuCREATING MEASURABLE IMPACT IN nity around the world—and unfortunately, it is WATERSHEDS FACING WATER STRESS becoming increasingly scarce in many parts Climate pressures, inadequate infrastructure of the world. Efforts to increase our water effiand poor governance tend to magnify water ciency, which began decades challenges. While there is no ago, have expanded beyond single solution to water chalour walls into watershed prolenges, we continue to make tection efforts across the world. progress in achieving measurWe believe water and climate able impact in high risk commuchange are closely linked: clinities. To address the challenges mate change is making water specific to the different environmore variable, reducing availments we operate in, we develability, and degrading quality. oped a comprehensive 7-step water management process at As the world’s leading brewer, sites located in water-stressed we are committed to being areas. So far, 100% of our sites part of the solution to some of have conducted local outreach, the growing water challenges determined water solutions spein areas where we operate. Our ultimate goal is to ensure water 46 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 cific to their community and identified potential solutions. Since then, we have started to implement these solutions in 67% of sites located in areas facing water stress. We are also including our consumers in our watershed protection efforts. Following the successful launch of AMA water brand in Brazil (which donates 100% of its profits to projects that bring drinking water to poverty-stricken communities), we launched Zalva, a water brand whose proceeds are used to protect the high Andean wetlands that serve as critical ecosystems for Colombia’s water sources. MAKING PROGRESS THROUGH TRUSTED PARTNERSHIPS In 2019 we continued our partnership with The Nature Conservancy (TNC), taking the lead in funding and piloting the acceleration of the establishment of water funds in Argentina, Colombia, El Salvador and Mexico and directly engaging in watershed protection projects in California and Colorado in the US. Our collaboration with TNC also extends to the Jaguari River Basin in Brazil, where we have invested in watershed protection efforts and created a program to incentivize the adoption of conservation practices in the area aimed at improving water quality and availability. Circular Packaging – We also continued our work with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), focusing on addressing local water challenges in 100% of our products will be in Bolivia, Mozambique, Uganda and Zambia. After conducting packaging that is returnable or made in-depth situational analyses and completing the first phase of from majority recycled content. work this year, we will begin phase two in 2020, implementing We are constantly looking for ways to increase the recycled identified solutions in the field. content in our packaging, support recovery and reuse of bottles, lightweight our packaging and continue to advocate for returnable solutions. To achieve our circular packaging vision, we focus on four key areas: Reuse, Reduce, Recycle, and Rethink. We intend to overcome the challenges in packaging such as low recycling rates in packaging material by working with trusted partners, our 100+ Accelerator, technological innovations and our brands. 47 SUSTAINABILITY REUSE 150 influential leaders across the metal packaging industry to In 2019, we continued our efforts to protect and promote our focus on solving circular packaging issues in China, the largest returnable volume in many markets, where decline continues cansheet producing country in the world. to be one of our biggest challenges. In Colombia, we partnered RETHINK with several retailers like Makro, Olimpica, and Ara to introduce and pilot returnable bottles. We continue to innovate, and rethink ways we can raise public awareness of recycling and reuse. In 2019, our Corona brand REDUCE worked to educate consumers about the amount of plastic that New technologies are enabling us to drive sustainable packenters the oceans every year. Launched on Oceans Day, “Pay aging initiatives across our brands. In 2019 in Belgium, we with Plastic Project” allowed us to accept plastic waste as paylaunched a 100% recycled shrink package for our Jupiler brand. ment for beer at hundreds of recycling machines at retailers and In the UK, Budweiser Brewing Group announced a 6.3 million popular bars in Brazil, Colombia, Italy, Mexico and Spain. The GPB investment in new technologies that will allow the elimplastic received during the initiative was upcycled and given a ination of plastic rings from all UK-produced beer by the end second life. Corona also installed large plastic sculptures near of 2020. This will remove 850 tonnes of plastic per year, or the beaches in Brazil and South Korea to raise awareness about equivalent weight of 425 taxi cabs, 67 double decker buses, or plastic waste and encourage participation in marine cleanup. 10 blue whales. Climate Action – RECYCLE 100% of our purchased electricity In its first year, our 100+ Accelerator was able to provide excitwill be from renewable sources and ing new opportunities for circular packaging. In partnership carbon emissions will be reduced with Brazilian startup Green Mining we collected more than 25% across our value chain. 578,000 kg of glass across 14 collection points operating in Climate change has far-reaching impact on our business and different states. Once the glass bottles are “mined” they are the communities where we live and work. At AB InBev, we sent to our glass operation in Rio de Janeiro. We plan to bring are building climate resilience by committing to transition our this reverse logistics solution to different countries throughout global operations to 100% renewable electricity and reduce our Latin America to increase recycled content in our glass bottles. emissions by 25% across the value chain. These science-based In addition to this, we are partnering with waste management targets keep our global emissions in line with 1.5 degrees Celorganizations around the world, including the Manja Pamodzi sius, as per the recommendation issued by Intergovernmental project in Zambia, an organization that sets up waste collecPanel on Climate Change (IPCC). Specifically, we will reduce our tion points in local communities and has collected more than emissions in Scopes 1 and 2 by 35% from our 2017 baseline year 10,000 tons of post-consumer packaging waste since the start and we will reduce our emissions across our value chain by 25% of the project, improving local sanitation as a result. by 2025. We are also partnering with our suppliers to increase recycling. We have committed that 100% of our global purchased elecIn September, we collaborated with suppliers in China to put on tricity volume will come from renewable sources by 2025 and the “China Sustainable Development of Aluminum Packaging intend to reach this goal by adding renewable capacity in all Summit Forum.” Together with Nanshan, we hosted more than of our markets. Today, 61% of our purchased electricity volume 48 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 is under contract from renewable sources. We INCREASING ENERGY EFFICIENCY estimate a reduction of 6.9% kgCO2e/hl vs 2017 In addition to transitioning to renewable elecon the total scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. We tricity, we continue working on improving our have reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by energy efficiency. In 2019, we reduced our 13.27% in absolute value and 19.06% in intensity energy purchased in our breweries by 5.21% vs (kgCO2e/hl) vs 2017. 2018. We are also switching to more environmentally friendly refrigerants and increasing MAKING PROGRESS IN RENEWABLES efficiency in 100% of our coolers across the 61% AROUND THE WORLD world. Coolers represent 20% of our carbon Through 2019, we worked alongside different footprint and through this new technology we partners across the world, looking for ways will bring an additional decrease in emissions to bring additional renewable capacity to the across our value chain. OF OUR GLOBAL grids. PURCHASED CONTINUING OUR JOURNEY TOWARDS In 2019 we signed solar contracts for our ELECTRICITY VOLUME IS UNDER CONTRACT, FLEET ELECTRIFICATION Dominican Republic electricity volume that, when operational, will bring 74 GWh of renewATTAINED FROM Logistics accounts for around 9% of our carRENEWABLE SOURCES bon footprint, making the transport industry a able electricity to the country. In addition to this, we signed a solar contract with Casaforte prime source for innovative sustainability soluInvestimentos for a 30% of the total volume in tions. As we roll out more efforts in the electriBrazil. fication of our fleet, we continue to get closer 5.21% to our 2025 goal of reducing our emissions by In celebration of World Environment Day, we 25%. In 2019 we introduced the first pilot of our announced that we aim to achieve 100% renewzero-direct emission delivery truck in Mexico able purchased electricity in the US by 2021, and successfully tested electric vehicles to add upon completion of a 2,000-acre solar energy REDUCTION OF PURCHASED ENERGY to our fleet in the Colombian cities of Bogota, facility. In Argentina, we celebrated becoming Cartagena and Medellin. IN OUR BREWERIES VS. the first consumer goods company in the coun2018 try to commit to 100% renewable electricity in In July, in partnership with FoQi and FeiChi, 2020, supplied by Budweiser Wind Park. we began to use a hydrogen-powered truck for B2B beer deliveries in China, becoming the first beer company to use this technology in the country. In addition, in the US we made our first Zero-Emission delivery in the country on November 21 in St. Louis. This follows a signed intent to contract 800 hydrogen-powered, electric semi-trucks from Nikola Motors in 2018 and the announcement of 21 electric trucks with BYD in the state of California. 49 SUSTAINABILITY ENGAGING OUR SUPPLIER BASE 100+ Accelerator More than 80% of our emissions lie in our supply chain. We are Following the launch of our 100+ Accelerator in 2018, we working to engage our largest suppliers to set their own susselected 21 startups to pilot innovative solutions across our tainability goals so we can scale and accelerate impact. To help operations and supply chain in key markets. Following a leanachieve this, in 2018 we launched Eclipse, our supplier-focused startup bootcamp, mentoring sessions and on-the-ground collaboration platform, and we hosted a supplier event in the pilots, the first cohort demonstrated their pilot results during a US where more than 100 professionals and influential leadDemo Day during 2019 Climate Week in New York City where ers came together in St. Louis to discuss critical sustainability select startups pitched their solutions to investors. 12 of the issues. Eclipse seeks to launch collaboration projects with our startups have signed commercial contracts with our business suppliers, solving for our most critical shared susoutside of the 100+ Accelerator pilot. Their solutainability issues, including transportation, ag tech, tions are being implemented across the globe and packaging innovation and recycling infrastructure brands like Corona, Goose Island, Leffe and Jupiler transformation. have supported some of the projects. Our Management Approach Sustainability is an important issue in AB InBev’s ~9% We launched our second round of applications in October for piloting in 2020 and we received over 1,200 applications from over 30 countries (comagenda. We formed a sustainability council, comOF OUR CARBON pared to 650 applications from 20 countries in posed of senior leaders in the organization. StaFOOTPRINT COMES FROM 2018). So far, the startups in our cohorts have jointly tus of commitments and other relevant topics LOGISTICS addressed 15 out of the 17 UN Sustainable Developor material issues that arise are discussed and ment Goals. The 100+ Accelerator and our startups approved during council meetings which take have earned awards and recognition from Fortune, place on a recurrent manner. In addition to this, Fast Company, Ethical Corporation Responsible updates to the CEO and Board members are made Business and Financial Times Intelligent Business throughout the year. Awards. 50 G H L I G H T S B I L I T Y H I SU S T A I N A E S O U R Z O N F R O M Reducing our CO2 impact through green logistics Our green logistics campaign took 20,000 trucks off Belgian roads this year with the launch of a new “beer boat” in April to ship Stella Artois from Liège to Antwerp that will reduce our CO2 emissions by 30% and a beer train in the port of Antwerp in October that will reduce our CO2 impact by 75%. Protecting drinking water Contract In Colombia, 70% of all drinking water comes from the páramos (wetland) for Change ecosystems. To help protect these valuable spaces, we launched the water brand Zalva in October, with the promise to protect a square meter of In July, Michelob wetland for every bottle purchased. To Ultra Pure Gold date, 2.3 million bottles have been sold, announced an initiative protecting 2.3 million square meters of to support American natural land and resources. barley farmers who 50,000 want to transition to organic production by helping them navigate the steps required to RECYCLED PLASTIC CUPS grow certified organic crops. The campaign Showcasing our were collected by Budweiser at arenas after the 2018 FIFA World resulted in nearly 20 million earned media commitment to Cup Russia™ and made into a unique football pitch called the impressions. emerging farmers ReCup Arena to help showcase our commitment to sustainability. In Africa, we invested R80 million (5.3 million USD) in a Research and Development Center that will enable our world-class research and training Brazil’s first canned water to benefit farmers and the agricultural sector as a whole. The center officially opened in September with an event attended by 300 delegates from In 2019, we announced our plans to government, research institutions, package our Brazilian mineral water industry bodies and farmers. brand AMA in aluminum cans, making it the most sustainable water brand in the country. AMA donates 100% of its Going solar “It’s all abo the world in ut leaving a better profits to projects that bring drinking water to poverty-stricken communities in Brazil. in China is at the state than it st moment, I’ m ju We are committed to solar nate about passio projects at all of our key make that breweries in China, including helping to a 2 megawatt rooftop solar happen.” R project launched in May in HOCHREITE Yunnan Province. JAQUELINE LEAD , BILITY – SUSTAINA EUROPE 51 WORKPLACE SAFETY Making safety a priority Ensuring the safety of our employees and communities is critical to our business. We continue to build strong safety leaders throughout the organization and work towards an injury-free workplace by leading multiple global and Zone-specific safety initiatives. To that end, in 2019 we oversaw a serious injuries and fatalWe use the same high safety standards for our contractor ity prevention program and a safety analysis of our global employees: overall, we reduced the number of Contractor LTI machines. We also created a violence prevention strategy and with 47%. toolkit focused on keeping our delivery teams safe in the marWe regret to report 7 occupational fatalities (against 14 in 2018), ket. of which 4 occurred inside the plants and 3 occurred in the Additionally, we continued the global roll-out of our Operafield (outside our premises). We will continue our focus on pretional Leadership Training and Global Safety Operator Training venting serious injuries and fatalities in the future with improved to improve safety leadership, coaching and overall safety cultraining and safety programs in 2020 and beyond. ture. This program is a key initiative for creating safety ownership at every level of the organization and driving the company 2019 2018 safety culture to the next level. Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) To help further reduce serious incidents and fatalities on roadSupply Employees 98 Ⓐ 135 Ⓐ ways, we continued to develop our internal strategy and toolSecond Tier/Sales Employees 208 Ⓐ 318 Ⓐ kits. We have created over 100 new training communications; Contractors (All) 262 492 toolbox talks and engaging videos to help our management teams raise awareness around road safety. We also continue Total Recordable Injuries (TRIs) to work closely with our Together For Safer Roads (TSR) partSupply Employees (Own) 315 Ⓐ 415 Ⓐ ner to expand our work externally. In addition to improving our Second Tier/Sales Employees 1,177 1,116 communication strategy, we have further integrated safety Fatalities* technology into our business that will help us improve our Supply Employees 1Ⓐ 1Ⓐ road safety performance. In South America, we placed camSecond Tier/Sales Employees 1Ⓐ 4Ⓐ eras on our trucks to map driver efficiency and increase safety by collecting data to proactively improve driving performance. Contractors (All) 5Ⓐ 9Ⓐ We are also leveraging technology to improve safety in North America, with an innovative pilot that uses AI technology to monitor and coach drivers. Ⓐ Assured Metric please refer to External Assurance Report on page 56 Safety is also an integral part of the Global Technical Standards. * Fatalities data do not include commuting and community related fatalities Detailed safety specifications are in place to ensure safety in all as per AB InBev’s reporting definitions. The table also does not include road equipment and processes, with increased focus on higher risk fatalities of contractors which are fully managed by the contracted firm/ company. operations that include ammonia, dust, steam and electricity. We continue to closely monitor these types of operations and Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) ensure compliance to protect our employees and contractors. Occupational injury resulting in more than one-day absence from work. We made significant progress in our key safety metrics, with a Total Recordable Injuries 40% reduction in total Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) globally. These LTIs + modified duty injuries + medical treatment injuries. changes can be attributed to the increased implementation of our VPO and DPO management systems that define our safe Supply Employees work practices, drive performance improvement, and ensure Brewery and manufacturing facility employees, including first-tier logistics. that safety is integrated throughout all aspects of our business. Second Tier/Sales Employees 2019 marked a year of significant progress in our individual Second-tier logistics, sales, Zone and global corporate employees. Zones. Compared to 2018, the number of LTI for Own Employees reduced by 32 % (27 % for Supply, 35 % for Second Tier/ Commuting Fatality An incident that occurs while coming to work or going home Sales Employees) resulting in a fatality to our employee(s). Community Fatalities Fatalities that occur to people outside of our operation in the course of doing business. 52 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Integrity is core to our business Integrity and ethical behavior are essential to our business, core values and competitive advantages. We strive to continuously improve our investigative process and carefully manage high-risk transactions. Developing and adopting a successful tool against bribery and corruption as well as various government conflict of interest and public disclosure laws. Our program is driven by innovation and empowered by stateof-the-art data analytics tools such as BrewRIGHT, our innovative and award-winning compliance analytics solution. It works Improving our training approach to aggregate, standardize and visualize multiple company sysWe strive for effective communication in elevating awareness tems to identify, detect and prevent fraud and corruption within of ethics and compliance issues, including anti-bribery, anti-corour operations. It applies machine learning to improve models ruption, anti-harassment and discrimination, conflicts of interand optimize performance. ests, antitrust, and digital ethics. To this end, we used digital innovation to make training more productive and enjoyable by In 2019, we significantly increased the adoption of BrewRIGHT transitioning our training approach from a slide deck presentain our Zones. Each Zone reviewed thousands of transactions tion to interactive animations that portray possible scenarios to improve the machine learning models of the platform. An based on real life cases. The online training was supplemented agile working model helped to accelerate the development and with live sessions and internal communications. improvement of several BrewRIGHT dashboards. Additionally, we leveraged our partnerships with universities The capabilities of BrewRIGHT have expanded with the integraand antitrust experts to pilot our Antitrust Academy with teams tion of machine learning and improved algorithms from rulein certain zones. We look forward to further expanding its covbased tests, driving transparency and providing a platform to erage. support proactive usage by internal stakeholders, collaboration and behavior. These expanded capabilities have allowed our Ethics & Compliance team to work in a more agile style, improvFocusing on digital ethics ing efficiencies and engagement. Moving forward, a key chalIn 2019, we continued to revise our digital ethics and data prilenge will be to make BrewRIGHT real-time predictive, which vacy strategies and agenda with a cross-functional approach in tests on our machine learning model. order to ensure it moves along with our digital transformation. In 2019, the BrewRIGHT Antitrust rollout included the trial of a dashboard which displays antitrust risks across all of our markets in real time, enhancing conventional audit tools such as interviews and document reviews. The system simulates thousands of hours of legal and economic review across systems to assess information about commercial activity fed into the system and prioritizes activity that warrants the most compliance scrutiny. The data analytics not only rank which trends to focus on but assign a risk score to each identified risk pattern, for a holistic view of the company’s overall antitrust risk. BrewRIGHT Antitrust analytics was shortlisted for two awards at the FT Innovative Lawyers Awards Europe 2019. Revamping our policies In 2019, we overhauled some of our policies in order to bring additional clarity to our rules and drive more transparency across our operations. For example, the Anti-Corruption Policy states we have zero tolerance towards bribery and corrupt conduct in any form. This policy prohibits both active and passive bribery and other corrupt payments in both the public and commercial sectors. It supplements the general provisions set out in the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and is designed to help colleagues comply with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, other applicable laws 53 REPORT SCOPE Report scope The Sustainability section of the 2019 Annual Report provides information about the progress towards our 2025 Sustainability Goals launched in March of 2018. Together with our corporate website, they provide an update of Anheuser-Busch InBev’s performance on key metrics during the 2019 calendar year. This chapter, along with the sections on Smart helped identify the key issues that are of most Drinking & Road Safety, Dream-People-Culimportance to our stakeholders and our comture (including D&I), Better World, Community pany. For more information on our materiality Engagement, Workplace Safety and the Busiassessment, including Boundary Analysis Table, ness Ethics Description on page 53, as well as and GRI Index for this year’s report can be the risks on environmental, social, personnel, found at www.ab-inbev.com. human rights and anti-bribery matters that Our 2025 Sustainability Goals and overall susare described in the Risks and Uncertainties tainability agenda aligns with several of the UN section of the Management Report section of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) estabthe 2019 Annual Report, have been established lished by the United Nations in 2015. Activities in accordance with the law of September 3, throughout our operations and supply chain 2017 implementing Directive 2014/95/EU of are aligned to the metrics that are considered October 22, 2014 amending Directive 2013/34/ the most material to our business and critical EU regarding disclosure of nonfinancial and to our stakeholders. We are focused on areas diversity information by certain large undertakwhere we can make the most significant posings and groups. Together, they form the nonitive impact. financial statement required under the referred law and include an overview of our environThe data and stories presented on this report mental, social and personnel related matters, were gathered and verified with the assistance as well as human rights and anti-bribery matof content owners across all functions and geoters. Some of the SDGs in relation to our goals graphic zones. refer to Improved Healthcare, Clean Water and Sanitation, Renewable Energy, Reducing Waste AB InBev has established processes to ensure generation, Reduction of GHG Emissions and accurate and consistent reporting of Smart energy consumption, among others. Drinking and Safety, 2025 Sustainability Goals, and Safety performance data, as well as key Alongside our environmental sustainabilperformance indicators. In the Assurance ity, information on Smart Drinking and Road Report of the Independent Auditor (page 56), Safety, Workplace Safety, and Business Ethics and in key places along the report, we have can be found on pages 39, 40, 41, 52 and 53 identified which metrics have been exterof this report. Additional information on volunnally assured by KPMG. Financial information teering and disaster response is also included included has also been audited by Pricewaterin this report (page 42). These sections are houseCoopers (PwC). intended to provide updates to stakeholders, including investors, employees, governments, Environmental data from newly acquired operNGOs, costumers, and consumers in countries ations are excluded from the running cycle. For more information on our where we operate in. materiality assessment, including These facilities will be included in future reportBoundary Analysis Table, and GRI ing. Safety data is immediately tracked and AB InBev prepared the 2019 report (these Index for this year’s report can be monitored for all sites and included unless found at www.ab-inbev.com. chapters and website) using the Global Reportotherwise stated in text or footnotes. For all ing Initiative’s (GRI) Standards as a guide. environmental and safety data, divestitures and To help determine the content developed, a closures are removed from the scope for the materiality assessment was conducted, which reporting year, but prior years are not adjusted. 54 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Global goals on water, energy purchased, and greenhouse gas facturing of beer. A hybrid approach, that has been validated emissions presented in this section, as well as key performance by the Science Based Target Initiative and the Carbon Discloindicators such as energy usage, include AB InBev’s whollysure Project is used, which entails a mix of own data, supplier owned operations unless stated otherwise in text or footnotes. data, and market estimates. Scope 3 includes the following out Energy usage and purchased excludes the energy exported of the 15 categories: Purchased Goods and Services, Upstream to third parties and certain projects under construction. The and Downstream Distribution, Use of Product (Product Cooling excluded energy use and purchase does not reflect the amount including on and off premise but excluding home cooling), and of energy used in our beer brewing processes. End of Life. Categories excluded include: Capital Goods, Waste For recycled content calculation, a weighted average of recygenerated in operations (more than 98% of waste generated cled content is calculated based on purchases for each supis recycled), Business Travel, Employee Commuting, Upstream plier and recycled content in the material. Data on recycled and Downstream leased assets, Processing of sold products, content percentage is provided by suppliers and tracked on a Franchises, Investments. These categories represent approxiregular basis. Packaging purchases are derived from AB InBev’s mately less than 20% of total Scope 3 emissions. owned procurement system. Recycled content percentages are This report contains forward-looking statements regarding obtained from our suppliers. In 2019 we started with suppliers estimations into the future. These generally include words and/ audits to assess reliability of the provided data. In the following or phrases such as “will likely result”, “aims to”, “will continue”, years, we will enhance the number of supplier audits to guaran“Is anticipated”, “it is estimated”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “projtee reliability of the data. ect”, “result”, “is predicted”, “may”, “might”, “could”, “believe”, In the scope of our reported Sustainability goals, both our bev“expect”, “plan”, “potential”, or other similar expressions. These erage and vertical operations are included in addition to our statements are subject to uncertainties. Actual results may Scope 3 emissions regarding information beyond our operadiffer from those stated in this report due to, but not limited, tions and that impact our supply chain with exception of the impact to climate change, water stress, financial distress, negKPIs on energy and water usage and the KPI on Scope 1+2 emisative publicity, our availability to hire and/or retain the best sions per hectoliter of production (in kg CO2/hl)”, as the relative talent, emerging regulations, and reputation of our brands, the KPI regarding scope 1 and 2 emissions also excludes vertical ability to make acquisitions and/or divest divisions, access to operations. For our beverage and vertical operations, including capital, volatility in the stock market, exposure to litigation, and malting and packaging facilities use our Voyager Plant Optimiother associated risks not mentioned as well as risks identified zation (VPO) global management system. This data is reported in our Form-20 led with the US Securities and Exchange Comannually to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Specific data mission. Additional information about AB InBev’s climate and tables contain footnotes for additional data. Scope 3 emissions water risks, management and performance of such is available are estimated values based on a mix of own and third party through CDP. data and total percentage follows the Science Based Target Initiative, where at least 66% of emissions are to be included in target scope. Approximately 50% of Scope 3 data is own data and data provided by suppliers via the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP data is used to calculate supplier-based emissions of raw and packaging materials used in the manu55 ASSURANCE REPORT Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor To the readers of the Anheuser-Bush InBev 2019 Annual Report This review engagement is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the review of Introduction the Selected Information’ of our report. We were engaged to provide limited assurance on the following Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of, and is subject information in the Anheuser-Busch InBev 2019 Annual Report to, the matters outlined in this report. (hereafter ‘the Selected Information’) of Anheuser-Busch InBev We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and SA/NV (hereafter ‘AB InBev’) based in Leuven, Belgium: appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. W  ater Use by Hectoliter of Production and Total Water Use (page 37) Scope of the group review T  otal Energy purchased and Energy purchased per Hectoliter AB InBev is the parent company of a group of entities. The of Production (page 37) Selected Information incorporates the consolidated informa ercentage of purchased electricity from renewable sources P tion of this group of entities as disclosed in the section ‘Report (page 37) Scope’ on page 54 in the 2019 Annual Report.  otal Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions and GHG Emissions T Our group review procedures consisted of both review proceper Hectoliter of Production (page 37) dures at corporate (consolidated) level and at site level. Our T  otal GHG Emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions) and total selection of sites in scope of our review procedures is primarily GHG Emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions) per Hectoliter of based on the site’s individual contribution to the consolidated Production (page 37) information. Furthermore, our selection of sites considered relPercentage of returnable primary packaging (page 37) evant reporting risks and geographical spread. P ercentage of recycled content in primary packaging By performing our procedures at site level, together with addi(page 37) tional procedures at corporate level, we have been able to L  ost Time Injuries (LTI) – Supply Employees (own), Second obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence about the group’s Tier and Sales Employees (page 52) reported information to provide a basis for our conclusion on the Selected Information. otal Recordable Injuries (TRI) – Supply Employees (own) T (page 52) Fatalities (page 52) Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the Selected Information The information reviewed as part of our limited assurance The Board of Directors of AB InBev is responsible for the engagement has been indicated throughout the 2019 Annual preparation of the Selected Information in accordance with the Report with the symbol ‘Ⓐ’. applied reporting criteria as described in the section ‘Report Scope’ on page 54 in the 2019 Annual Report, including the Conclusion identification of stakeholders and the definition of material Based on our procedures performed and evidence obtained, matters. The choices made by the Board of Directors of AB nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe InBev regarding the scope of the information in the 2019 Annual that the Selected Information is not prepared, in all material Report and the reporting policy are summarized in the section respects, in accordance with the applied reporting criteria as ‘Report Scope’ on page 54 in the 2019 Annual Report. disclosed in the section ‘Report Scope’ on page 54 in the 2019 The Board of Directors is also responsible for such internal conAnnual Report. trol as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Selected Information that is free from Basis for our conclusion material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We have performed our review on the Selected Information in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. 56 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our responsibilities for the review Procedures performed of the Selected Information Our limited assurance engagement on the Selected Information Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engageconsists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible ment and to express a conclusion based on the work perfor the preparation of the Selected Information, and applying formed. We conducted our engagement in accordance with analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as approInternational Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) priate. These procedures included, among others: 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews Identifying areas of the Selected Information where material of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International misstatements are likely to arise, designing and performing Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That Standard limited assurance procedures responsive to those areas, and requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain obtaining assurance evidence that is sufficient and approprilimited assurance about whether the Selected Information is ate to provide a basis for our conclusion; free from material misstatement. D  eveloping an understanding of internal control relevant to Procedures performed in an assurance engagement to obtain the limited assurance engagement in order to design assura limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the plausiance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, bility of information and are less extensive than a reasonable but not for the purpose of expressing a conclusion on the assurance engagement. The level of assurance obtained in effectiveness of the company’s internal control; limited assurance engagements is therefore substantially less than the level of assurance obtained in a reasonable assurance  valuating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used E engagements. and their consistent application, including the reasonableness of estimates made by management and related disclosures to Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considthe Selected information; ered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the inforon the basis of the Selected Information. The materiality affects mation for, carrying out internal control procedures on the the nature, timing and extent of our review procedures and the Selected Information and consolidating the data in the 2019 evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conAnnual Report; clusion. V  isits to seven production sites in South-Africa, Brazil (two We apply the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and sites), China, Russia, the United States of America and Peru accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality conaimed at, on a local level, validating source data and evalutrol including documented policies and procedures regarding ating the design and implementation of internal control and compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards validation procedures; and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  eviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on R We have complied with the independence and other ethical a limited test basis, in order to determine the reliability of the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional AccounSelected Information; tants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for P  reliminary and final analytical review procedures to confirm Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of our understanding of trends in the Selected Information at integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, site and corporate level. confidentiality and professional behaviour. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accorAntwerp, 27 February 2020 dance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, ethical requirements and independence KPMG Bedrijfsrevisoren CVBA requirements. Mike Boonen Partner 57 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Governance Statement Contents Introduction 59 The Board of directors 61 Chief Executive Officer and Executive Management 67 Senior Leadership Team 68 Internal control and risk management systems 70 Shareholders’ structure 72 Items to be disclosed pursuant to article 34 of the Belgian Royal Decree of 14 November 2007 74 Remuneration 78 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 1. Introduction 1.1. The Belgian Code on Corporate Governance The corporate governance practices of Anheuser-Busch InBev are reflected in its Corporate Governance Charter, which is available on https://www.ab-inbev.com/investors/corporate-governance/corporate-governance-documents.html. The Charter is regularly updated. Anheuser-Busch InBev is a company incorporated under Belgian law with a primary listing on Euronext Brussels (Euronext: ABI) and with secondary listings on the Mexico Stock Exchange (MEXBOL: ANB) and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE: ANH) (ISIN: BE0974293251) and with American Depositary Shares (“ADS’s”) listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As a Belgian company with primary listing on Euronext Brussels, Anheuser-Busch InBev adhered in 2019 to the principles and provisions of the Belgian Corporate Governance Code, published in March 2009 (www.corporategovernancecommittee.be) (“the 2009 Corporate Governance Code”), taking into account its specific status as a multinational group with secondary listings in Mexico and Johannesburg and with ADS’s listed in New York. In line with AB InBev’s specific shareholding structure and the global nature of its operations, the company has departed in 2019 from the following principles of the 2009 Corporate Governance Code: Principle 5.3./1 (Appendix D) of the 2009 Corporate Governance Code: “the Board should set up a nomination committee composed of a majority of independent non-executive directors”: The Board of Directors appoints the chairman and members of the Nomination Committee from among the directors. As the committee is composed exclusively of non-executive directors who are independent of management and free from any business relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment, the Board considers that the composition of this committee achieves the Code’s aim. Principle 7.7. of the 2009 Corporate Governance Code: “Non-executive directors should not be entitled to performance-related remuneration such as bonuses, stock-related, long-term incentive schemes, fringe benefits or pension benefits”: The remuneration of the Board members in 2019 was composed of a fixed fee and a number of restricted stock units corresponding to a fixed monetary value, which makes it simple, transparent and easy for shareholders to understand. The company’s long-term incentive plan for directors deviated from the 2009 Corporate Governance Code in 2019 as it provided for sharebased payments to non-executive directors. The successful strategy and sustainable development of the company for over a decade demonstrates that the compensation of directors, which included a number of restricted stock units corresponding to a fixed monetary value, does ensure that the independence of the Board members in their role of guidance and control of the company is preserved, and that the directors’ interests remain fully aligned with the long-term interests of the shareholders. In particular, the vesting period of 5 years should foster a sustainable and long-term commitment to pursue the company’s best interests. The annual award of restricted stock units was approved by the annual shareholders’ meeting in April 2019 and replaced the grant of stock options to which the Directors previously were entitled. This shift from stock options to restricted stock units is aligned with the recommendation of the 2020 Belgian Corporate Governance Code which favors compensation of non-executive board members in shares. As from 1 January 2020, AB InBev adheres to the 2020 Belgian Corporate Governance Code. Any deviation to such code will be reported in the 2020 Corporate Governance Statement. 1.2. New York Stock Exchange Listing Further to the New York Stock Exchange listing of American Depositary Shares (“ADS’s”) representing ordinary shares of AB InBev, the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance rules for Foreign Private Issuers are applicable to the company. AB InBev has also registered under the US Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As a result, it is also subject to the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and to certain US Securities laws and regulations relating to corporate governance. 1.3. Specific Corporate Governance initiatives 1.3.1. Fostering ethical conduct The Board of Directors of AB InBev encourages management to promote, adhere to and maintain the highest standards of ethical behavior and transparency. Therefore, ethical rules have been established and are reinforced by internal codes and policies. This fosters responsible business conduct by all employees. AB InBev’s Code of Business Conduct sets out the ethical standards to which all employees are expected to adhere. It requires employees to comply with all laws, to disclose any relevant conflicts of interests, to act at all times in the best interests of the company and to conduct all their dealings in an honest and ethical manner. The Code of Business Conduct also covers the confidentiality of information, limits on the acceptance of gifts or entertainment, and the appropriate use of the company’s property. The Code of Business Conduct is supplemented by several other policies, including the Global Anti-Corruption, Anti-Harassment, Human Rights and Conflict of Interest Policies which define employees’ responsibilities and expected behavior, and provide governance for interactions with third parties. For example, the Global AntiCorruption Policy states clearly that AB InBev’s employees are strictly prohibited from, either directly or indirectly, offering, promising, authorizing or giving anything of value to any individual with the aim of improperly obtaining or retaining business or influencing business or governmental decision-making in connection with AB InBev’s commercial activities. AB InBev has also implemented a data privacy compliance program. In line with this commitment to integrity, AB InBev has implemented a whistle-blowing system by means of a Compliance Helpline that provides employees with simple and secure ways to confidentially and, if so desired, anonymously, report activities that violate the Code of Business Conduct based on a clear policy and applicable legislation. 1 59 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 1.3.2. Demonstrating commitment to shareholder communication AB InBev is committed to creating value for its shareholders. The company encourages its shareholders to take an active interest in the company. In support of this objective, it provides quality information, in a timely fashion, through a variety of communication tools. These include annual reports, half-yearly reports, quarterly statements, financial results announcements, briefings, and a section that is dedicated to investors on the AB InBev website (www.ab-inbev.com/investors.html). AB InBev recognizes that a commitment to disclosure builds trust and confidence with shareholders and the public in general. The company adopted a Disclosure Manual to demonstrate its commitment to best practices in transparency. This manual is designed to ensure that there is full, consistent and timely disclosure of company activities. 1.3.3. Upholding shareholder rights Prior to the annual shareholders’ meeting, shareholders are invited to submit any questions they have for the Chairman or the CEO for discussion during the meeting. The agenda for the shareholders’ meeting and all related documents are also posted on the AB InBev website at least 30 days in advance of any shareholders’ meeting. Shareholders have the right to vote on various resolutions related to company matters. If they are unable to attend a meeting, they can submit their votes by mail or appoint a proxy. Minutes of the meetings and results of the votes are posted on the AB InBev website shortly after the meeting (www.ab-inbev.com/investors/corporate-governance/shareholder-meetings.html). 1.3.4. Preventing the abuse of inside information The company’s Code of Dealing is applicable to all members of the Board of Directors and to all employees. The Code of Dealing aims to prevent the abuse of inside information, especially in periods leading up to an announcement of financial results or leading up to price-sensitive events or decisions. The Code of Dealing prohibits dealing in the company’s securities during any closed period, e.g. a period of 30 days preceding any results announcement of the company. In addition, before dealing in any securities of the company, the members of the Board of Directors and members of senior management must obtain clearance from a Clearance Committee. Compliance with the Code of Dealing is reinforced and monitored through the company’s Compliance Program. In accordance with EU Regulation 596/2014 on market abuse (MAR), the company establishes lists of insiders when required. In addition, pursuant to the same regulation, (i) members of the Executive Committee (“ExCom”) and (ii) members of the Board of Directors notify their trades (above a 5,000 Euro yearly threshold) to the company and to the Belgian Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA), which publishes these notifications on its website. 1.3.5. Corporate Social Responsibility AB InBev’s Dream is bringing people together for a better world. Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability are central to the company’s culture and embedded in the way it does business. We are building a company to last, brewing beer and building brands that will continue to bring people together for the next 100 years and beyond. In accordance with article 3:6, §4 and article 3:32, §2 of the Belgian Code of Companies and Associations (the “Belgian Companies Code”), which implement Directive 2014/95/EU of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by certain large undertakings and groups, AB InBev has included in this Annual Report a non-financial statement reporting on corporate social responsibility matters. 1.3.6. Diversity The company strives to make AB InBev a community where everyone is included and respected. The company believes that a diverse team improves the quality of decision-making, and ultimately improves overall performance. Diversity and inclusion is a global priority for AB InBev’s Senior Leadership Team, as they are important enablers of the success of the company and its people. The company believes that its greatest strength is its diverse team of people and that its people deserve to feel comfortable being their authentic selves at work every day, regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation or other characteristics that make our colleagues unique. A diverse and inclusive workforce enables the company to better understand its equally diverse consumers and stakeholders. This has resulted in AB InBev’s decision to launch a new Global Diversity & Inclusion policy in November 2018 as part of the company’s Global Code of Business Conduct. The Global Diversity & Inclusion policy provides additional guidelines for cultivating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive culture. In addition, we launched our first Global Parental Standard in 2018 and updated our Global Policies on Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and Human Rights in 2019, which also contribute to a more diverse and inclusive environment. While all of the company’s geographic zones are covered under the global policy, in order to acknowledge that there is no one-size-fits-all approach to diversity and inclusion, each of the zones has the flexibility to adapt the policy locally to include more information relevant to their local markets. In line with its culture, AB InBev is committed to track progress on diversity and inclusion. We measure colleague sentiment about diversity and inclusion in the company’s annual engagement survey. AB InBev is proud to have an employee base of over 100 nationalities across the business, with 30 nationalities represented on the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) and the senior management level below. There is one woman out of 17 members on the SLT (compared to zero last year) and a slight increase in women in the senior management level below. AB InBev continues working on further improving all aspects of diversity of its senior management team, with a focus on building a diverse talent pipeline, considering the respective skills, education, experience and background. Reference is made to section 4 of this Corporate Governance Statement for a short biography of each of the members of the SLT, including their qualifications and background. The process for nominating and selecting candidates for the Board of Directors is described in the Corporate Governance Charter of AnheuserBusch InBev. The company aims to have a balanced and diverse Board primarily considering, among other things, the respective skills, education, experience and background. Currently, five out of 15 Board members are women (compared to two out of 15 last year). Reference is made to section 2.1 of this Corporate Governance Statement for a short biography of each of the members of the Board of Directors, including their qualifications and background, as well as for further information on the applicable Belgian legal gender diversity requirements. 2 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2. The Board of Directors 2.1. Structure and composition The Board of Directors currently consists of 15 members, all of whom are non-executives. The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its composition, structure and organization are described in detail in Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Corporate Governance Charter. This Corporate Governance Charter includes the criteria that directors must satisfy to qualify as independent directors. Unless the shareholders’ meeting decides on a shorter term, directors (other than the Restricted Share Directors) are appointed for a maximum term of four years, which is renewable. In accordance with article 19.4 (b) of our Articles of Association, Restricted Share Directors are appointed for renewable terms ending at the next ordinary shareholders’ meeting following their appointment. The appointment and renewal of directors (i) is based on a recommendation of the Nomination Committee, taking into account the rules regarding the composition of the Board that are set out in the Articles of Association (e.g., rules regarding number of independent directors and directors appointed upon proposal of the AB InBev Reference Shareholder and the Restricted Shareholders), and (ii) is subject to approval by the shareholders’ meeting. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Board is composed as follows: • three directors shall be independent directors appointed by the shareholders’ meeting upon proposal by the Board; and • so long as the Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev (the “Reference Shareholder”) and/or any of its Affiliates, any of their respective Successors or Successors' Affiliates own, in aggregate, more than 30% of shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, nine directors shall be appointed by the shareholders’ meeting upon proposal by the Reference Shareholder and/or any of its Affiliates, any of their respective Successors or Successors' Affiliates; and • so long as the holders of Restricted Shares (the “Restricted Shareholders”) (together with their Affiliates, any of their respective Successors and/or Successors' Affiliates) own in aggregate: o more than 13.5% of the Shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, three directors will be appointed by the shareholders’ meeting upon proposal by the Restricted Shareholders (each such director a “Restricted Share Director”); o more than 9% but not more than 13.5% of the Shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, two Restricted Share Directors will be appointed; o more than 4.5% but not more than 9% of the Shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, one Restricted Share Director will be appointed; and o 4.5% or less than 4.5% of the Shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, they will no longer have the right to propose any candidate for appointment as a member of the Board and no Restricted Share Directors will be appointed. The Articles of Association set out detailed rules regarding the calculation of the company’s share capital owned by the Reference Shareholder and the Restricted Shareholders for the purpose of determining directors’ nomination rights. Affiliates and Successors have the meaning set out in the Articles of Association. The composition of the Board will be balanced primarily considering the respective skills, education, experience and background of each of the Board members. According to the Belgian Companies Code, at least one third of the directors will have to be women. As a newly listed company having securities admitted to trade on Euronext Brussels on 11 October 2016, AB InBev will need to comply with this gender diversity requirement as from 1 January 2022. The company is currently already compliant with the requirement. Following the appointment of Ms. Sabine Chalmers, Ms. Xiaozhi Liu and Ms. Cecilia Sicupira as Board members by the annual shareholders’ meeting of 24 April 2019, the number of women on our Board increased from two to five members (out of a total of 15 Board members). AB InBev will continue its efforts towards fostering gender diversity on its Board in the coming years. At the annual shareholders’ meeting held on 24 April 2019, the mandate of Mr. Olivier Goudet, independent director and Chairperson of the Board, and the mandates of Messrs. Stéfan Descheemaeker, Alexandre Behring and Carlos Sicupira ended. Ms. Xiaozhi Liu was appointed as a new independent director for a term of 4 years. Likewise, Ms. Sabine Chalmers, Mr. Claudio Garcia and Ms. Cecilia Sicupira were appointed as new members of the Board upon proposal of the AB InBev Reference Shareholder for a term of 4 years. Mr. Martin J. Barrington succeeded to Mr. Goudet as Chairperson of the Board. In addition, the mandates of all three Restricted Share Directors, i.e. Messrs. Martin J. Barrington, William F. Gifford and Alejandro Santo Domingo, ended at the annual shareholders’ meeting in April 2019. In accordance with article 19.4 (b) of our Articles of Association, their mandates were renewed for a one year term ending at the upcoming annual shareholders’ meeting to be held on 29 April 2020. 3 61 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The composition of Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Board of Directors at the end of the reporting period is as follows: Date of Current birth Term Term Name Nationality Function started expires Independent Directors Xiaozhi Liu °1956, Non-Executive Independent director 2019 2023 German Michele Burns °1958, Non-Executive Independent director 2016 2020 American Elio Leoni Sceti °1966, Non-Executive Independent director 2016 2020 Italian Directors upon proposal of the AB InBev Reference Shareholder Maria Asuncion °1963, Non-Executive, Non-Independent director 2018 2020 Aramburuzabala Mexican Paul Cornet de Ways Ruart °1968, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2018 2020 Belgian class A Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Sabine Chalmers °1965, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2019 2023 American class A Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Grégoire de Spoelberch °1966, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2018 2020 Belgian class A Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Alexandre Van Damme °1962, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2018 2020 Belgian class A Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Claudio Garcia °1968, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2019 2023 Brazilian class B Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Paulo Lemann °1968, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2018 2020 Brazilian class B Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Cecilia Sicupira °1981, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2019 2023 Brazilian class B Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Marcel Herrmann Telles °1950, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2018 2020 Brazilian class B Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Directors upon proposal of the Restricted Shareholders (Restricted Share Directors) Martin J. Barrington °1953, Non-Executive director, nominated by Altria 2019 2020 American William F. Gifford °1970, Non-Executive director, nominated by Altria 2019 2020 American Alejandro Santo Domingo °1977, Non-Executive director, nominated by Bevco 2019 2020 Colombian Ms. Aramburuzabala is a non-executive member of the Board. Born in 1963, she is a citizen of Mexico and holds a degree in Accounting from ITAM (Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de Mexico). She has served as CEO of Tresalia Capital since 1996. She is currently the chairperson of the Boards of Directors of Tresalia Capital, KIO Networks, Abilia and Red Universalia. She is also a member of the Advisory Board of Grupo Modelo and was formerly a member of the Grupo Modelo Board of Directors, and is currently on the Boards of Consejo Mexicano de Negocios and El Universal, Compañía Periodística Nacional and is an Advisory Board member of ITAM School of Business. Mr. Barrington is a representative of the Restricted Shareholders. Born in 1953, he is an American citizen and graduated from The College of Saint Rose with a Bachelor’s Degree in History, and from Albany Law School of Union University with a Juris Doctorate Degree. He is the retired Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Altria Group. During his 25 years at Altria Group, he served in numerous legal and business roles for Altria and its companies. These include Vice Chairman of Altria Group; Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Altria Group; Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Philip Morris International (a separate public company spun-off from Altria Group in 2008); and Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Philip Morris USA. Before joining Altria, Mr. Barrington practiced law in both the government and private sectors. Ms. Burns is an independent member of the Board. Born in 1958, she is an American citizen and graduated Summa Cum Laude from the University of Georgia with a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration and a Master’s Degree in Accountancy. Ms. Burns was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer LLC from 2006 until 2012. She currently serves on the Boards of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, where she chairs the Compensation Committee, Cisco Systems, where she chairs the Finance Committee, Etsy and Circle Online Financial, a private company. From 2003 until 2013, she served as a director of Wal-Mart Stores. From 2014 until 2018, she served on the Board of Alexion Pharmaceuticals. She currently serves on the Advisory Council of the Stanford Center on Longevity at Stanford University. Ms. Burns began her career in 1981 at Arthur Andersen, where she became a partner in 1991. In 1999, she joined Delta Air Lines, assuming the role of Chief Financial Officer from 2000 to 2004. From 2004 to 2006, Ms. Burns served as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Restructuring Officer of Mirant Corporation, an independent power producer. From March 2006 until September 2006, Ms. Burns served as the Chief Financial Officer of Marsh and McLennan Companies. 4 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Ms. Chalmers is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., the holder of the Class A Stichting certificates). Born in 1965, Ms. Chalmers is an American citizen and holds a bachelor’s degree in Law from the London School of Economics and is qualified to practice law in England and New York State. Ms. Chalmers is the General Counsel of BT Group plc and serves on the Board of Directors and Audit & Finance Committee of Coty Inc. Prior to joining BT, she was the Chief Legal and Corporate Affairs Officer & Secretary to the Board of Directors of AB InBev, a role she held from 2005 to 2017. Ms. Chalmers joined AB InBev after 12 years with Diageo plc where she held a number of senior legal positions including as General Counsel of the Latin American and North American businesses. Prior to Diageo plc, she was an associate at the law firm of Lovell White Durrant in London, specializing in mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Cornet de Ways Ruart is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., the holder of the Class A Stichting certificates). Born in 1968, he is a Belgian citizen and holds a Master’s Degree as a Commercial Engineer from the Catholic University of Louvain and an MBA from the University of Chicago. He has attended the Master Brewer program at the Catholic University of Louvain. From 2006 to 2011, he worked at Yahoo! and was in charge of Corporate Development for Europe before taking on additional responsibilities as Senior Financial Director for Audience and Chief of Staff. Prior to joining Yahoo!, Mr. Cornet was Director of Strategy for Orange UK and spent seven years with McKinsey & Company in London and Palo Alto, California. He is also a non-executive director of EPS, Rayvax, Adrien Invest, Floridienne S.A. and several privately held companies. Mr. Garcia is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by BRC S.à.R.L., the holder of the class B Stichting certificates). Born in Brazil in 1968, he is a Brazilian citizen and is a graduate from Universidade Estadual do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil with a B.A. in Economics. Mr. Garcia interned at Companhia Cervejaria Brahma in 1991 and was employed as a Management Trainee in February 1993. From 1993 until 2001, Mr. Garcia worked in several positions in finance, mainly in the area of corporate budgeting. In 2001, he started the first Shared Service Center for Ambev and in 2003 he became the head of both the Technology and Shared Services operations. Mr. Garcia participated in all M&A integration projects from 1999 until 2018. In 2005, he was appointed Chief Information and Shared Service Officer for Inbev (following the combination of Ambev and Interbrew) in Leuven, Belgium. From 2006 to 2014, Mr. Garcia combined the functions of Chief People and Technology Officer. From 2014 to January 2018, Mr. Garcia was the Chief People Officer of Anheuser-Busch InBev. Mr. Garcia is a board member of Lojas Americanas, the Garcia Family Foundation, Chairman of the Telles Foundation and a Trustee at the Chapin School in New York City. Mr. Gifford is a representative of the Restricted Shareholders. Born in the United States in 1970, he is an American citizen and graduated from Virginia Commonwealth University with a Bachelor’s Degree in Accountancy. He serves as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Altria Group. In this role, he is responsible for overseeing Altria’s core tobacco businesses, the sales and distribution business and the Finance and Procurement Functions. He also oversees the financial services business of Philip Morris Capital Corporation. Prior to his current position, Mr. Gifford was Senior Vice President, Strategy & Business Development. Since joining Philip Morris USA in 1994, he has served in numerous leadership roles in Finance, Marketing Information & Consumer Research and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Philip Morris USA. Prior to that, he was Vice President and Treasurer for Altria where he led various functions including Risk Management, Treasury Management, Benefits Investments, Corporate Finance and Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis. Prior to joining Philip Morris USA, Mr. Gifford worked at the public accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand, which currently is known as PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Lemann is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by BRC S.à.R.L., the holder of the class B Stichting certificates). Born in Brazil in 1968, he is a Brazilian citizen and graduated from Faculdade Candido Mendes in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil with a B.A. in Economics. Mr. Lemann interned at PriceWaterhouse in 1989 and was employed as an Analyst at Andersen Consulting from 1990 to 1991. Mr. Lemann also performed equity analysis while at Banco Marka and Dynamo Asset Management (both in Rio de Janeiro). From 1997 to 2004, he developed the hedge fund investment group at Tinicum Inc., a New York-based investment office that advised the Synergy Fund of Funds, where he served as Portfolio Manager. Mr. Lemann is a Founding Partner at Vectis Partners and is a board member of Lojas Americanas, Lemann Foundation and Lone Pine Capital. Mr. Leoni Sceti is an independent member of the Board. Born in 1966, he is an Italian citizen who lives in the UK. He graduated Magna Cum Laude in Economics from LUISS in Rome, where he passed the Dottore Commercialista post-graduate bar exam. Mr. Leoni Sceti has over 30 years’ experience in the fast-moving consumer goods and media sectors. He is Chief Crafter & Chairman of The Craftory, a global investment house for purpose-driven challenger brands in FMCG. Mr. Leoni Sceti is Chairman of London-based LSG holdings and an early stage investor in Media & Tech, with over 25 companies in his portfolio. He is also an independent member of the Board at cocoa and chocolate leader Barry Callebaut. Elio’s roles in the non-profit space include being a Trustee and Counsellor at One Young World (young leaders from over 190 countries), and an advisor UK board member at Room to Read (promoting literacy and gender equality in education, globally). His previous roles included: CEO of Iglo Group whose brands are Birds Eye, Findus & Iglo until May 2015, when the company was sold to Nomad Foods; Global CEO of EMI Music from 2008 to 2010; and prior to EMI an international career in marketing and senior leadership roles at Procter & Gamble and Reckitt Benckiser, where he later was CMO, global head of Innovation and then head of the European operations. Dr. Liu is an independent member of the Board. Born in 1956 in China, she is a German citizen and is the founder and CEO of ASL Automobile Science & Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. since 2009 and is an independent director of Autoliv (NYSE) and Johnson Matthey Plc. Previously, she held various senior executive positions, including Chairman & CEO of Neotek (China), Vice-Chairman and CEO of Fuyao Glass Group, Chairman and CEO of General Motors Taiwan, Director of concept vehicle for Buick Park Avenue and Cadillac, Vehicle Electronics-Control and Software Integration for GM North America, CTO and Chief Engineer of General Motors Greater China Region, and Representative Managing Director of Delphi Automotive in Shanghai China. Prior to 1997, she was responsible for Delphi Packard China JV Development, Sales & Marketing as well as New Business Development. Besides these executive roles, Dr. Liu also served as an independent director of CAEG (SGX) from 2009 to 2011 and an independent director of Fuyao Glass Group (SSE) from 2013 to 2019. Dr. Liu has rich professional experience covering the areas of general management of enterprises, P&L, technology development, marketing & sales, mergers & acquisitions, including in the United States, Europe and China at global Top 500 companies and Chinese blue-chip private enterprises. She earned a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering, a master’s degree of Electrical Engineering at the University of Erlangen/Nuremberg Germany and a bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering at Xian Jiao Tong University in Xian China. She also attended the Dartmouth Tuck School of Business for Executives. 5 63 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Mr. Santo Domingo is a representative of the Restricted Shareholders. Born in 1977, he is a Colombian citizen and obtained a B.A. in History from Harvard College. He is a Senior Managing Director at Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. in New York City. He was a member of the Board of Directors of SABMiller Plc, where he was also Vice-Chairman of SABMiller Plc for Latin America. Mr. Santo Domingo is Chairman of the Board of Bavaria S.A. in Colombia. He is Chairman of the Board of Valorem, a company which manages a diverse portfolio of industrial & media assets in Latin America. Mr. Santo Domingo is also a director of JDE (Jacobs Douwe Egberts), ContourGlobal plc, LifeTime, Inc., Florida Crystals, the world’s largest sugar refiner, Caracol TV, Colombia’s leading broadcaster, El Espectador, a leading Colombian Daily, and Cine Colombia, Colombia’s leading film distribution and movie theatre company. In the non-profit sector, he is Chair of the Wildlife Conservation Society and Fundacion Mario Santo Domingo. He is also a Member of the Board of Trustees of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, a member of the Board of Channel Thirteen/WNET (PBS), a member of the Board of DKMS, a foundation dedicated to finding donors for leukemia patients, and he is a member of the Board of Fundacion Pies Descalzos. He is a member of Harvard University's Global Advisory Council (GAC) Mr. Santo Domingo is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Mount Sinai Health System. Ms. Sicupira is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by BRC S.à.R.L., the holder of the class B Stichting certificates). Born in 1981, she is a Brazilian citizen and is a graduate from the American University of Paris with a bachelor’s degree in International Business Administration and of Harvard Business School’s Owner/President Management (OPM) program. Ms. Sicupira currently serves on the board of Lojas Americanas S.A (BOVESPA: LAME4), where she is member of the Finance and People Committees, and of Ambev S.A (BOVESPA: ABEV3). She previously served on the board of Restaurant Brands International (NYSE: QSR) and of São Carlos Empreendimentos S.A. (BOVESPA: SCAR3). Ms. Sicupira began her career in 2004 as an analyst within Goldman Sachs’ Investment Banking Division covering Latin America. Today she is a director and partner of LTS Investments. Mr. de Spoelberch is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., the holder of the Class A Stichting certificates). Born in 1966, he is a Belgian citizen and holds an MBA from INSEAD. Mr. de Spoelberch is an active private equity shareholder and his recent activities include shared Chief Executive Officer responsibilities for Lunch Garden, the leading Belgian self-service restaurant chain. He is a member of the board of several family-owned companies, such as Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., Verlinvest and Cobehold (Cobepa). He is also an administrator of the Baillet-Latour Fund, a foundation that encourages social, cultural, artistic, technical, sporting, educational and philanthropic achievements. Mr. Telles is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by BRC S.à.R.L., the holder of the class B Stichting certificates). Born in 1950, he is a Brazilian citizen and holds a degree in Economics from Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and attended the Owners/Presidents Management Program at Harvard Business School. He was Chief Executive Officer of Brahma and Ambev and was a member of the Board of Directors of Ambev. He served as member of the Board of Directors of H.J. Heinz Company and the Kraft Heinz Company and now serves as member of the Board of associates of Insper. He is co-founder and Board member of Fundação Estudar, a nonprofit organization that provides scholarships for Brazilians and a founder and Chairman of Ismart, a non-profit organization that provides scholarships to low-income students. He is also an ambassador for Endeavor, an international non-profit organization that supports entrepreneurs in developing markets. Mr. Van Damme is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., the holder of the Class A Stichting certificates). Born in 1962, he is a Belgian citizen and graduated from Solvay Business School, Brussels. Mr. Van Damme joined the beer industry early in his career and held various operational positions within Interbrew until 1991, including Head of Corporate Planning and Strategy. He has managed several private venture holding companies and is currently a director of several family-owned companies such as Patri S.A. (Luxembourg), Restaurant Brands International (formerly Burger King Worldwide Holdings) and the Kraft Heinz Company. 6 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2.2. Functioning In 2019, the Board of Anheuser-Busch InBev held 10 meetings. Several of the meetings were held in the geographical Zones in which the company has operations. On these occasions, the Board was provided with a comprehensive briefing of the relevant geographical Zone and market. These briefings included an overview of performance, key challenges facing the market and the steps being taken to address the challenges. Several of these visits also provided the Board members with the opportunity to meet with employees, trainees, consumers, customers and other stakeholders. Major Board agenda items included the long-range plan; achievement of targets; sales figures and brand health; reporting and budget; consolidated results; strategic direction; culture and people, including diversity & inclusion and management succession planning; new and ongoing investment; capital market transactions; financial profile; transformation initiatives; external growth and acquisitions; marketing strategy; consumer insights; corporate social responsibility and sustainability as well as discussions on governance and Board succession planning. The average attendance rate at Board meetings in 2019 was 97%. In 2019, the Board has been assisted by four Committees: the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. As per the date of this report, the composition of the Committees is as follows: Audit Nomination Finance Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala Martin J. Barrington Member Member Michele Burns Chair Member Member Sabine Chalmers Paul Cornet de Ways Ruart Member Grégoire de Spoelberch Member Claudio Garcia Member William F. Gifford Member Paulo Lemann Member Xiaozhi Liu Member Alejandro Santo Domingo Elio Leoni Sceti Member Member Cecilia Sicupira Member Marcel Herrmann Telles Chair Chair Alexandre Van Damme Member Chair Audit Committee In accordance with the requirements of the Belgian Companies Code, the Audit Committee is composed exclusively of non-executive Board members and at least one of its members qualifies as an independent director under Belgian law. In addition, Ms. Burns has extensive experience in accounting and audit matters. Reference is made to section 2.1 for a short biography and an overview of her qualifications and experience. A majority of the voting members of the Audit Committee are independent directors as defined in the company’s Corporate Governance Charter and all of them are independent as defined in Rule 10A-3(b)(1)(ii) under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In 2019, the Audit Committee met nine times. During its meetings, the Committee reviewed the financial statements of the company, the annual report, half-yearly and quarterly statements, as well as related results announcements. The Committee also considered issues arising from internal audits conducted by the Internal Audit department and the implementation of the company’s Compliance Program. Obligations under Sarbanes Oxley, the review of the independence and appointment of the external auditor and a quarterly status of significant litigation were some of the other important topics on the agenda of the Committee. The members of the Committee attended all meetings except for Ms. Michele Burns who was absent at one meeting. Finance Committee The Finance Committee met four times in 2019. Committee discussions included treasury updates and overall risk management strategy including but not limited to risks related to commodities, interest rates, currencies and liquidity, hedging policies, the debt profile and capital structure of the group, pensions and dividends. The members of the Committee attended all meetings except for Ms. Michele Burns who was absent at one meeting. Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee’s principal role is to guide the Board succession process. The Committee identifies persons qualified to become Board members and recommends director candidates for nomination by the Board and appointment by the shareholders’ meeting. The Nomination Committee met three times in 2019. Discussions included the nomination of directors for appointment or renewal, management targets, the global management trainee program and succession planning for key executive functions. The members of the Committee attended all meetings. 7 65 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration Committee In accordance with the requirements of the Belgian Companies Code, the Remuneration Committee is composed exclusively of non-executive Board members and a majority of its members, i.e. Ms Michele Burns and Mr Elio Leoni Sceti, qualify as independent directors under Belgian law. The Remuneration Committee’s principal role is to guide the Board on decisions relating to the remuneration policies for the Board, the CEO, the Executive Committee (ExCom) and the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) and on individual remuneration packages of directors, the CEO and members of the ExCom and members of the SLT. The Remuneration Committee met five times in 2019. Discussions included achievement of targets, Executive and Board compensation, Executive shares, restricted stock units and options schemes, Long Term Incentive grants to directors, new compensation models and special incentives. The members of the Committee attended all meetings except for Ms. Michele Burns who was absent at one meeting. 2.3. Evaluation of the Board and its committees For each financial year, the Board performs an evaluation of its performance at the initiative of the Chairman. The evaluation constitutes a separate agenda item for a physical meeting of the Board. Discussions take place in executive session in the absence of management. A third party may act as facilitator. As part of this evaluation process, each director is requested to comment on and evaluate the following topics: • effectiveness of Board and committee operations (e.g. checking that important issues are suitably prepared and discussed, time available for discussion of important policy matters, checking availability and adequacy of pre-read, etc.); • the qualifications and responsibilities of individual directors (e.g. actual contribution of each director, the director’s presence at the meetings and his/her involvement in discussions, impact of changes to the director’s other relevant commitments outside the company). • effectiveness of oversight of management and interaction with management; • composition and size of the Board and committees. Examples of relevant criteria that are considered include: o director independence: an affirmative determination as to the independence in accordance with the independence criteria published in the Corporate Governance Charter. o other commitments of directors: the outside Board commitments of each director enhance experience and perspective of directors, but will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to ensure that each director can devote proper attention to the fulfilment of his oversight responsibilities. o disqualifying circumstances: certain circumstances may constitute a disqualification for membership on the Board (e.g. Board membership of a major supplier, customer or competitor of the company, membership of a federal or regional government). Circumstances will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis to ensure that directors are not conflicted. o skills and previous contributions: the company expects that all directors prepare for, attend and participate actively and constructively in all meetings; exercise their business judgment in good faith; focus their efforts on ensuring that the company’s business is conducted so as to further the interests of the shareholders; and become and remain well informed about the company, relevant business and economic trends and about the principles and practices of sound Corporate Governance. Following review and discussion of the responses, the Chairman of the Board may table proposals to enhance the performance or effectiveness of the functioning of the Board. Advice can be requested from a third-party expert. The evaluation of the Audit Committee is a re-occurring agenda item for the Committee and is performed about once a year. This evaluation is discussed at a Committee meeting and includes assessment of its planning going forward, the appropriateness of the time allocated to its various areas of responsibility, its composition and any areas for improvement. Any major action points resulting therefrom are reported to the Board. 2.4. Certain transactions and other contractual relationships There are no transactions or other contractual relationships to be reported between the company and its Board members that gave rise to conflicting interests as defined in the Belgian Companies code. The company is prohibited from making loans to directors, whether for the purpose of exercising options or for any other purpose. 8 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 3. Chief Executive Officer and Executive Management The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is entrusted by the Board with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the company. The CEO has direct operational responsibility for the entire company. The CEO leads an Executive Committee (ExCom) which comprises the CEO, the Chief Financial & Technology Officer, the Chief People & Transformation Officer and the Chief Legal & Corporate Affairs Officer. The ExCom was established with effect as from 1 January 2019 and is the successor to the former Executive Board of Management. It reports to the CEO and works with the Board on matters such as corporate governance, general management of our company and the implementation of corporate strategy as defined by our Board. The ExCom performs such other duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the CEO or the Board. As per 1 January 2020, our Executive Committee consisted of the following members (1) (2): Carlos Brito CEO David Almeida Chief People & Transformation Officer Felipe Dutra Chief Financial & Technology Officer John Blood Chief Legal & Corporate Affairs Officer and Corporate Secretary (1) David Kamenetzky, former Chief Strategy & External Affairs Officer, was a member of the ExCom until 30 June 2019. (2) David Almeida, Chief People & Transformation Officer, became a member of the ExCom on 1 July 2019. The company announced on 6 February 2020 that, with effect as from 29 April 2020, Fernando Tennenbaum will succeed Felipe Dutra as the company’s Chief Financial Officer and member of the ExCom, It was also announced that David Almeida will become Chief Strategy & Technology Officer with effect as from 29 April 2020. David Almeida will continue to be a member of the ExCom. Accordingly, as of 29 April 2020, the Executive Committee will be comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Carlos Brito, the Chief Financial Officer, Fernando Tennenbaum, the Chief Strategy & Technology Officer, David Almeida, and the Chief Legal & Corporate Affairs Officer, John Blood. 9 67 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 4. Senior Leadership Team The Senior Leadership Team (“SLT”) was established with effect as from 1 January 2019. The SLT reports to the Chief Executive Officer and consists of the members of the ExCom, all other functional Chiefs and Zone Presidents, including the Chief Executive Officer of Ambev and the Chief Executive Officer of Bud APAC, who report into the Board of Directors of Ambev and Bud APAC respectively. The SLT has an advisory role to the Board and the ExCom and drives the commercial and operational agenda, reflecting the strategy set out by the Board. In addition, the SLT performs such duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the CEO, ExCom or the Board. As per 1 January 2020, our Senior Leadership Team consisted of the following members (1): Carlos Brito – CEO Members of the ExCom (other than the CEO) Zone presidents Chief People & David Almeida Jan Craps Asia Pacific (APAC) Transformation Officer Chief Legal & Corporate Affairs John Blood Michel Doukeris North America Officer and Corporate Secretary Chief Financial & Felipe Dutra Jean Jereissati South America Technology Officer Other Functional Chiefs Carlos Lisboa Middle Americas Katherine M. Barrett General Counsel Ricardo Moreira Africa Chief Marketing & Pedro Earp Jason Warner Europe ZX Ventures Officer Chief Non-Alcohol Lucas Herscovici Beverages Officer Peter Kraemer Chief Supply Officer Chief Sustainability & Tony Milikin Procurement Officer Pablo Panizza Chief Owned-Retail Officer Ricardo Tadeu Chief Sales Officer (1) The company announced on 6 February 2020 that, with effect as from 29 April 2020, (i) Fernando Tennenbaum will succeed Felipe Dutra as the company’s Chief Financial Officer, (ii) David Almeida will become Chief Strategy & Technology Officer, and (iii) Nelson Jamel will become the company’s Chief People Officer. Carlos Brito is AB InBev's CEO. Born in 1960, he is a Brazilian citizen and received a Degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and an MBA from Stanford University Graduate School of Business. Mr. Brito joined Ambev in 1989 where he held roles in Finance, Operations, and Sales, before being appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2004. He was appointed Zone President North America at InBev in January 2005 and Chief Executive Officer in December 2005. He is a member of the board of directors of Ambev. He is also an Advisory Council Member of the Stanford Graduate School of Business and serves on the Advisory Board of the Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management. David Almeida is AB InBev's Chief People & Transformation Officer. Born in 1976, Mr. Almeida is a dual citizen of the U.S. and Brazil and holds a Bachelor's Degree in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania. Most recently, he served as Chief Integration Officer and Chief Sales Officer ad interim having previously held the positions of Vice President, U.S. Sales and of Vice President, Finance for the North American organization. Prior to that, he served as InBev's head of mergers and acquisitions, where he led the combination with AnheuserBusch in 2008 and subsequent integration activities in the U.S. Before joining the group in 1998, he worked at Salomon Brothers in New York as a financial analyst in the Investment Banking division. Katherine Barrett is AB InBev’s General Counsel. Born in 1970, Ms. Barrett is a U.S. citizen and holds a bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Saint Louis University and a Juris Doctorate degree from the University of Arizona. Ms. Barrett joined Anheuser-Busch in 2000 as a litigation attorney in the Legal Department. She most recently served as Vice President, U.S. General Counsel & Labor Relations, where she was responsible for overseeing all legal issues in the U.S. including commercial, litigation and regulatory matters and labor relations. Prior to joining the company, Ms. Barrett worked in private practice at law firms in Nevada and Missouri. John Blood is AB InBev's Chief Legal & Corporate Affairs Officer and Company Secretary. Born in 1967, Mr. Blood is a U.S. citizen and holds a bachelor’s degree from Amherst College and a JD degree from the University of Michigan Law School. Mr. Blood joined AB InBev in 2009 as Vice President Legal, Commercial and M&A. Most recently Mr. Blood was AB InBev’s General Counsel. Prior to the latter role, he was Zone Vice President Legal & Corporate Affairs in North America where he has led the legal and corporate affairs agenda for the United States and Canada. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Blood worked on the legal team in Diageo's North American business and was in private practice at a law firm in New York City before that. 10 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Jan Craps is AB InBev's Zone President Asia Pacific since 1 January 2019 and CEO and Executive Director of Budweiser Brewing Company APAC since 8 May 2019. Born in 1977, Mr. Craps is a Belgian citizen and obtained a Degree in Business Engineering from KU Brussels and a Master's Degree in Business Engineering from KU Leuven, Belgium. Mr. Craps was an associate consultant with McKinsey & Company before joining Interbrew in 2002. He acquired a range of international experiences in a number of senior marketing, sales and logistics executive positions in France and Belgium. In 2011, he relocated to Canada where he was appointed Head of Sales for Canada followed by his appointment as President and CEO of Labatt Breweries of Canada in 2014. Until 31 December 2018, he held the position of Zone President Asia Pacific South. Michel Doukeris is AB InBev's Zone President North America since 1 January 2018. Born in 1973, he is a Brazilian citizen and holds a Degree in Chemical Engineering from Federal University of Santa Catarina in Brazil and a Master's Degree in Marketing from Fundação Getulio Vargas, also in Brazil. He has also completed post-graduate programs in Marketing and Marketing Strategy from the Kellogg School of Management and Wharton Business School in the United States. Mr. Doukeris joined Ambev in 1996 and held sales positions of increasing responsibility before becoming Vice President, Soft Drinks for AB InBev's Latin America North Zone in 2008. He was appointed President, AB InBev China in January 2010 and Zone President, Asia Pacific in January 2013. In January 2017, Mr. Doukeris became Chief Sales Officer. Felipe Dutra is AB InBev's Chief Financial and Technology Officer. Born in 1965, Mr. Dutra is a Brazilian citizen and holds a Degree in Economics from Candido Mendes and an MBA in Controlling from Universidade de Sao Paulo. He joined Ambev in 1990 from Aracruz Celulose, a major Brazilian manufacturer of pulp and paper. At Ambev, he held various positions in Treasury and Finance before being appointed General Manager of one of AB InBev's subsidiaries. Mr. Dutra was appointed Ambev's Chief Financial Officer in 1999 and Chief Financial Officer in January 2005. In 2014, Mr. Dutra became AB InBev's Chief Financial and Technology Officer. He is also a member of the board of directors of Ambev and of the advisory board of Grupo Modelo and was formerly a member of the Grupo Modelo board of directors. Pedro Earp is AB InBev's Chief Marketing & ZX Ventures Officer since 1 January 2019. Born in 1977, he is a Brazilian citizen and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Financial Economics from the London School of Economics. Mr. Earp joined Ambev in 2000 as a Global Management Trainee in the Latin America North Zone. In 2002, he became responsible for the Zone's M&A team and in 2005 he moved to InBev's global headquarters in Leuven, Belgium to become Global Director, M&A. Later, he was appointed Vice President, Strategic Planning in Canada in 2006, Global Vice President, Insights and Innovation in 2007, Global Vice President, M&A in 2009 and Vice President, Marketing for the Latin America North Zone in 2013. He was appointed Chief Disruptive Growth Officer of AB InBev in February 2015 and held such role until 31 December 2018. Lucas Herscovici is AB InBev’s Chief Non-Alcohol Beverages Officer since 1 January 2019. Born in 1977, he is an Argentinean citizen and received a Degree in Industrial Engineering from Instituto Tecnológico de Buenos Aires. Lucas joined the group in 2002 as a Global Management Trainee in Latin America South Zone and has built his career in Marketing and Sales. After working in Argentina in several commercial roles, he became head of innovation for global brands and later Global Marketing Director of Stella Artois in 2008. In 2011 he was responsible for opening the “Beer Garage”, AB InBev’s Global digital innovation office, based out of Palo Alto, California. In 2012, he joined the North America Zone to become VP Digital Marketing and in 2014 he was appointed VP Consumer Connections for USA. In 2017, he was appointed Global Marketing VP of Insights, Innovation and Consumer Connections and held such role until 31 December 2018. Jean Jereissati Neto is AB InBev’s Zone President South America and CEO of Ambev. Born in 1974, he is a Brazilian citizen and received a Degree in Business Administration from Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV) and an Executive Education at Insead and Wharton. Mr. Jereissati joined Ambev in 1998 and held various positions in Sales and Trade Marketing prior to becoming CEO of Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana, in 2013, making a successful integration with CND. In 2015, he joined Asia and Pacific North Zone to become Business Unit President for China and in 2017 he was appointed Zone President of the Zone, leading one of the most complex and fast-growing business. Most recently, Mr Jereissati held the role of Business Unit President for Brazil. Peter Kraemer is AB InBev's Chief Supply Officer. Born in 1965, he is a U.S. citizen. A fifth-generation Brewmaster and native of St. Louis, Mr. Kraemer holds a Bachelor's degree in Chemical Engineering from Purdue University and a Master's degree in Business Administration from St. Louis University. He joined Anheuser-Busch 30 years ago and has held various brewing positions over the years, including Group Director of Brewing and Resident Brewmaster of the St. Louis brewery. In 2008, Mr. Kraemer became Vice President, Supply, for AB InBev's North America Zone, leading all brewery operations, quality assurance, raw materials and product innovation responsibilities. He was appointed Chief Supply Officer of AB InBev in March 2016. Carlos Lisboa is AB InBev's Zone President Middle Americas since 1 January 2019. Born in 1969, Mr. Lisboa is a Brazilian citizen and received a Degree in Business Administration from the Catholic University of Pernambuco and a Marketing specialization from FESP, both in Brazil. Mr. Lisboa joined Ambev in 1993 and has built his career in Marketing and Sales. He was responsible for building the Skol brand in Brazil in 2001 and after that became Marketing Vice President for AB InBev's Latin American North Zone. Mr. Lisboa then led the International Business Unit in AB InBev's Latin America South Zone for two years prior to becoming Business Unit President for Canada. In 2015, he was appointed Marketing Vice President for AB InBev's Global Brands. Most recently, Mr. Lisboa held the role of Zone President Latin America South until 31 December 2018. Tony Milikin is AB InBev's Chief Procurement and Sustainability Officer. Mr. Milikin joined AB InBev in May, 2009 and is globally responsible for Procurement, Sustainability, Vertical Operations and Value Creation. Born in 1961, Mr. Milikin is a U.S. citizen. He is responsible for $35B+ in purchases and working capital annually. Mr. Milikin manages our Vertical Operations consisting of 70+ facilities and over 8,000 employees and is a strategic partner to our Supply Organization. AB InBev’s Value Creation uses circular economy opportunities to create businesses from our waste and underutilized assets. Mr. Milikin holds an undergraduate Finance Degree from the University of Florida and an MBA from Texas Christian University. Mr. Milikin joined AB InBev from MWV, where he was Senior Vice President, Supply Chain and Chief Purchasing Officer. Prior to joining MWV, he held various purchasing, transportation and supply positions with increasing responsibilities at Monsanto and Alcon Laboratories. Ricardo Moreira is AB InBev's Zone President Africa since 1 January 2019. Born in 1971, he is a Portuguese citizen and received a Degree in Mechanical Engineering from Rio de Janeiro Federal University in Brazil and a specialisation in Management from University of Chicago in the U.S. Mr. Moreira joined Ambev in 1995 and held various positions in the Sales and Finance organisations prior to becoming Regional Sales Director in 2001. He subsequently held positions as Vice President Logistics & Procurement for Latin America North, Business Unit President for Hispanic Latin America (HILA) and Vice President Soft Drinks Latin America North. In 2013, Mr. Moreira moved to Mexico to head AB InBev's Sales, Marketing and Distribution organisations and lead the commercial integration of Grupo Modelo. Most recently, Mr. Moreira held the role of Zone President Latin America COPEC until 31 December 2018. 11 69 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Pablo Panizza is AB InBev’s Chief Owned-Retail Officer since 1 January 2019. Born in 1975, he is an Argentinean citizen and holds a degree in Industrial Engineering from Universidad de Buenos Aires. Mr. Panizza manages our Direct to Consumer business, coordinating crossmarket initiatives, sharing best practices and shaping its strategy. He joined our company in 2000 as a Global Management Trainee in South America Zone and has spent almost two decades developing a career in the commercial area. After holding senior roles in Argentina and Global Headquarters, he led our business in Chile and Paraguay. He most recently served as Business Unit President for Argentina and Uruguay. Ricardo Tadeu is AB InBev's Chief Sales Officer since 1 January 2019. Born in 1976, he is a Brazilian citizen, and received a law degree from the Universidade Cândido Mendes in Brazil and a Master of Laws from Harvard Law School in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He is also Six Sigma Black Belt certified. He joined Ambev in 1995 and has held various roles across the Commercial area. He was appointed Business Unit President for the operations in Hispanic Latin America in 2005, and served as Business Unit President, Brazil from 2008 to 2012. He served as Zone President, Mexico from 2013 until his appointment as Zone President Africa upon completion of the Combination in 2016. Mr. Tadeu held the role as Zone President Africa until 31 December 2018. Jason Warner is AB InBev’s Zone President Europe since 1 January 2019. Born in 1973, he is a dual British and U.S. citizen and received a BSc Eng Hons Industrial Business Studies degree from DeMontfort University in the United Kingdom. Prior to his current role, he was Business Unit President for North Europe between 2015 and 2018. He joined AB InBev in July 2009 as Global VP Budweiser, based in New York, before moving into a dual role of Global VP Budweiser and Marketing VP. He has also held Global VP roles for Corona as well as Innovation and Renovation. Prior to joining AB InBev, he held various positions at The Coca-Cola Company and Nestlé. 5. Internal Control and Risk Management Systems The Board of Directors and the ExCom, assisted by the SLT, were responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls and risk management systems during the reporting period. Internal control is the process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding achievement of objectives related to effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Risk management is the process designed to identify potential events that may affect the company and to manage risks to be within its risk appetite. Without prejudice to the responsibilities of the Board as a whole, the Audit Committee oversees financial and business risk management and discusses the process by which management assesses and manages the company’s exposure to those risks and the steps taken to monitor and control such exposure. The company’s major risk factors and uncertainties are described in the Risks and Uncertainties section of the Management report in AB InBev’s annual report. The company has established and operates its internal control and risk management systems based on guidelines issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). The internal control system is based upon COSO’s Internal Control– Integrated Framework of 2013 and its risk management system is based on COSO’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework of 2017. Financial reporting The ExCom, assisted by the SLT, was responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting during the reporting period. The company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Internal controls over financial reporting include those written policies and procedures that: • pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of company assets; • provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS; • provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorization of management and directors of the company; and • provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Internal control over financial reporting includes the assessment of the relevant risks, the identification and monitoring of key controls and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Senior management assessed the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2019. As indicated above, management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by COSO in May 2013. The assessment included an evaluation of the design of the company’s internal control over financial reporting and testing of its operational effectiveness. Based on this assessment, it was determined that, as of 31 December 2019, the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee reviewed management’s assessment. The review related among other things to ensuring that there are no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the company’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information, and to the existence of any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the company’s internal control over financial reporting. 12 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT In addition, as a result of the listing of Anheuser-Busch InBev on the New York Stock Exchange, the company must adhere to Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a consequence, the company is required to provide on a yearly basis a management report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting, as described in the Section and the rules implementing such act. Management’s report and the Statutory Auditor’s related opinion regarding the relevant financial year, will be included in the company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for such year, which is required to be filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Internal Audit The company has a professional and independent internal audit (risk management) department. The appointment of the Head of internal audit is reviewed by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reviews internal audit’s risk assessment and annual audit plan and regularly receives internal audit reports for review and discussion. Internal control deficiencies identified by internal audit are communicated in a timely manner to management and periodic follow-up is performed to ensure corrective action has been taken. Compliance AB InBev has an Ethics & Compliance Program which fosters a culture of ethics, integrity and lawful behavior. This program includes a Code of Business Conduct and the Anti-Corruption Policy, which are available on the company’s website and intranet. The Ethics & Compliance Program further ensures compliance with applicable laws and regulations and the completion of a periodic certification by management of compliance with the Code of Business Conduct. A set of internal controls and a data analytics tool have been implemented and are periodically assessed at the Global and Local Compliance Committees and the Audit Committee. The Global Ethics & Compliance Committee, chaired by the company’s Global Vice President, Ethics & Compliance, assesses regulatory and ethical compliance risks for the company from a global perspective and provides strategic direction for the activities of the compliance function. On a quarterly basis, the Global Ethics & Compliance Committee reviews the operation of the Compliance Program and follows-up on reports submitted through the company’s Compliance Helpline (whistle-blowing platform). In addition to the Global Ethics & Compliance Committee, each Zone has its own Local Ethics & Compliance Committee, which addresses local compliance matters. The Audit Committee reviews the operation of the Ethics & Compliance Program and the results of any compliance reviews or reports submitted through the company’s global Compliance Helpline. On a regular basis, the Audit Committee also reviews the significant legal, compliance and regulatory matters that may have a material effect on the financial statements or the company’s business, including material notices to or inquiries received from governmental agencies. 13 71 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 6. Shareholders’ structure 6.1. Shareholders’ structure The following table shows the shareholders' structure of Anheuser-Busch InBev as at 31 December 2019 based on (i) transparency declarations made by shareholders who are compelled to disclose their shareholdings pursuant to the Belgian law of 2 May 2007 on the notification of significant shareholdings and the Articles of Association of the company, (ii) notifications made by such shareholders to the company on a voluntary basis prior to 15 December 2019 for the purpose of updating the above information, and (iii) information included in public filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Major shareholders Number % of voting of Shares rights (1) Holders of Ordinary Shares Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev, a stichting incorporated under Dutch law 663,074,832 33.84% (the “Reference Shareholder”) EPS Participations Sàrl, a company incorporated under Luxembourg law, affiliated to EPS, 131,898,152 6.73% its parent company EPS SA, a company incorporated under Luxembourg law, affiliated to the Reference 99,999 0.01% Shareholder that it jointly controls with BRC BRC Sàrl, a company incorporated under Luxembourg law, affiliated to the Reference 37,598,146 1.92% Shareholder that it jointly controls with EPS Rayvax Société d’Investissements SA, a company incorporated under Belgian law 24,158 0.00% Sébastien Holding SA, a company incorporated under Belgian law, affiliated to Rayvax, 10 0.00% its parent company Fonds Verhelst SPRL, a company with a social purpose incorporated under Belgian law 0 0.00% Fonds Voorzitter Verhelst SPRL, a company with a social purpose incorporated under 6,997,665 0.36% Belgian law, affiliated to Fonds Verhelst SPRL with social purpose, that controls it Stichting Fonds InBev-Baillet Latour, a stichting incorporated under Dutch law 0 0.00% Fonds Baillet Latour SC, a company incorporated under Belgian law, affiliated to Stichting 5,485,415 0.28% Fonds InBev-Baillet Latour under Dutch law, that controls it MHT Benefit Holding Company Ltd, a company incorporated under the law of the 4,005,303 0.20% Bahamas, acting in concert with Marcel Herrmann Telles within the meaning of Article 3, §2 of the Takeover Law LTS Trading Company LLC, a company incorporated under Delaware law, acting in concert 4,468 0.00% with Marcel Herrmann Telles, Jorge Paulo Lemann and Carlos Alberto Sicupira within the meaning of Article 3, §2 of the Takeover Law Olia 2 AG, a company incorporated under Liechtenstein law, acting in concert with Jorge 259,000 0.01% Paulo Lemann within the meaning of Article 3, §2 of the Takeover Law Holders of Restricted Shares Altria Group Inc. (2) 185,115,417 9.45% Bevco Lux Sàrl (3) 96,862,718 4.94% (1) Holding percentages are calculated on the basis of the total number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares (1,959,379,126). As at 31 December 2019, there were 2,019,241,973 shares in issue including 59,862,847 ordinary shares held in treasury by AB InBev and certain of its subsidiaries. (2) In addition to the Restricted Shares listed above, Altria Group Inc. announced in its Schedule 13D beneficial ownership report on 11 October 2016 that, following completion of the business combination with SAB, it purchased 11,941,937 Ordinary Shares in the company. Finally, Altria further increased its position of Ordinary Shares in the company to 12,341,937, as disclosed in the Schedule 13D beneficial ownership report filed by Stichting dated 1 November 2016, implying an aggregate ownership of 10.08% based on the number of shares with voting rights as at 31 December 2019. (3) In addition to the Restricted Shares listed above, Bevco Lux Sàrl announced in a notification made on 17 January 2017 in accordance with the Belgian law of 2 May 2007 on the notification of significant shareholdings, that it purchased 4,215,794 Ordinary Shares in the company. BEVCO Lux Sàrl disclosed to us that it increased its position of Ordinary Shares in the company to an aggregate of 6,000,000 Ordinary Shares, resulting in an aggregate ownership of 5.25% based on the number of shares with voting rights as at 31 December 2019. The first thirteen entities mentioned in the table act in concert (it being understood that (i) the first ten entities act in concert within the meaning of article 3, §1, 13º of the Belgian law of 2 May 2007 on the disclosure of significant shareholdings in issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market and containing various provisions, implementing into Belgian law Directive 2004/109/CE, and (ii) the eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth entities act in concert with the first ten entities within the meaning of article 3, §2 of the Belgian law of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids) and hold, as per (i) the most recent notifications received by AB InBev and the FSMA in accordance with article 6 of the Belgian law of 2 May 2007 on the notification of significant shareholdings and (ii) notifications to the company made on a voluntary basis prior to 15 December 2019, in aggregate, 849,447,148 Ordinary Shares, representing 43.35% of the voting rights attached to the shares outstanding as of 31 December 2019 excluding treasury shares. 14 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 6.2. Shareholders’ arrangements Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev (the “Reference Shareholder”) has entered into shareholders’ agreements with (a) BRC, EPS, EPS Participations, Rayvax Société d’Investissements SA (Rayvax), (b) Fonds Baillet Latour SC and Fonds Voorzitter Verhelst SPRL with a social purpose, and (c) the largest holders of restricted shares in the company (the Restricted Shareholders). a. Reference Shareholder’s agreement In connection with the combination of Interbrew with Ambev in 2004, BRC, EPS, Rayvax and the Reference Shareholder entered into a shareholders’ agreement on 2 March 2004 which provided for BRC and EPS to hold their interests in the old Anheuser-Busch InBev through the Reference Shareholder (except for approximately 132 million shares held directly or indirectly by EPS and approximately 38 million shares held directly by BRC based on the most recent shareholding disclosure received by the company). The shareholders’ agreement was amended and restated on 9 September 2009. On 18 December 2013, EPS contributed to EPS Participations its certificates in the Reference Shareholder and the shares it held in the old Anheuser-Busch InBev except for 100,000 shares. Immediately thereafter, EPS Participations joined the concert constituted by BRC, EPS, Rayvax and the Reference Shareholder and adhered to the shareholders’ agreement. On 18 December 2014, the Reference Shareholder, EPS, EPS Participations, BRC and Rayvax entered into a new shareholders’ agreement that replaced the previous shareholders’ agreement of 2009. On 11 April 2016, the parties thereto entered into an amended and restated new shareholders’ agreement (the “2016 Shareholders’ Agreement”). The 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement addresses, among other things, certain matters relating to the governance and management of both AB InBev and the Reference Shareholder, as well as (i) the transfer of the Reference Shareholder certificates, and (ii) the de-certification and recertification process for the company’s shares (the “Shares”) and the circumstances in which the Shares held by the Reference Shareholder may be de-certified and/or pledged at the request of BRC, EPS and EPS Participations. The 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement provides for restrictions on the ability of BRC and EPS/EPS Participations to transfer their Reference Shareholder certificates. Pursuant to the terms of the 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement, BRC and EPS/EPS Participations jointly and equally exercise control over the Reference Shareholder and the Shares held by the Reference Shareholder. The Reference Shareholder is managed by an eight-member board of directors and each of BRC and EPS/EPS Participations have the right to appoint four directors to the Reference Shareholder board of directors. Subject to certain exceptions, at least seven of the eight Reference Shareholder directors must be present or represented in order to constitute a quorum of the Reference Shareholder board, and any action to be taken by the Reference Shareholder board of directors will, subject to certain qualified majority conditions, require the approval of a majority of the directors present or represented, including at least two directors appointed by BRC and two directors appointed by EPS/EPS Participations. Subject to certain exceptions, all decisions of the Reference Shareholder with respect to the Shares it holds, including how such Shares will be voted at shareholders’ meetings of AB InBev (Shareholders’ Meetings), will be made by the Reference Shareholder board of directors. The 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement requires the Reference Shareholder board of directors to meet prior to each shareholders’ meeting to determine how the Shares held by the Reference Shareholder are to be voted. The 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement requires EPS, EPS Participations, BRC and Rayvax, as well as any other holder of certificates issued by the Reference Shareholder, to vote their Shares in the same manner as the Shares held by the Reference Shareholder. The parties agree to effect any free transfers of their Shares in an orderly manner of disposal that does not disrupt the market for the Shares and in accordance with any conditions established by the company to ensure such orderly disposal. In addition, under the 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement, EPS, EPS Participations and BRC agree not to acquire any shares of Ambev’s capital stock, subject to limited exceptions. Pursuant to the 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement, the Reference Shareholder board of directors will propose to the shareholders’ meeting nine candidates for appointment to the Board, among which each of BRC and EPS/EPS Participations will have the right to nominate four candidates, and one candidate will be nominated by the Reference Shareholder board of directors. The 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement will remain in effect for an initial term until 27 August 2034. It will be automatically renewed for successive terms of ten years each unless, not later than two years prior to the expiration of the initial or any successive ten-year term, either party to the 2016 Shareholders' Agreement notifies the other of its intention to terminate the 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement. b. Voting agreement between the Reference Shareholder and the foundations In addition, the Reference Shareholder has entered into a voting agreement with Fonds Baillet Latour SPRL with a social purpose (now Fonds Baillet Latour SC) and Fonds Voorzitter Verhelst SPRL with a social purpose. This agreement provides for consultations between the three bodies before any shareholders’ meetings to decide how they will exercise the voting rights attached to their Shares. Consensus is required for all items that are submitted to the approval of any shareholders’ meetings. If the parties fail to reach a consensus, Fonds Baillet Latour SC and Fonds Voorzitter Verhelst SPRL with a social purpose will vote their Shares in the same manner as the Reference Shareholder. The voting agreement is valid until 1 November 2034. c. Voting agreement between the Reference Shareholder and Restricted Shareholders On 8 October 2016, the Reference Shareholder and each holder of restricted shares (such holders being the Restricted Shareholders) holding more than 1% of the company’s total share capital, being Altria Group Inc. and Bevco LTD, have entered into a voting agreement, to which the company is also a party, under which notably: • the Reference Shareholder is required to exercise the voting rights attached to its Ordinary Shares to give effect to the directors’ appointment principles set out in articles 19 and 20 of the Articles of Association of the company; • each Restricted Shareholder is required to exercise the voting rights attached to its Ordinary Shares and Restricted Shares, as applicable, to give effect to the directors’ appointment principles set out in articles 19 and 20 of the Articles of Association; and • each Restricted Shareholder is required not to exercise the voting rights attached to their Ordinary Shares and Restricted Shares, as applicable, in favor of any resolutions which would be proposed to modify the rights attached to Restricted Shares, unless such resolution has been approved by a qualified majority of the holders of at least 75% of the Restricted Shareholder Voting Shares (as defined in the Articles of Association). 15 73 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 7. Items to be disclosed pursuant to Article 34 of the Belgian Royal Decree of 14 November 2007 According to article 34 of the Belgian Royal Decree of 14 November 2007, Anheuser-Busch InBev hereby discloses the following items: 7.1. Capital structure and authorizations granted to the Board The company’s share capital is divided in two categories of shares: all shares are ordinary shares (the “Ordinary Shares”), except for 325,999,817 restricted shares (the “Restricted Shares”). Ordinary shares and Restricted Shares have the same rights except as set out in the Articles of Association. Restricted Shares shall always be in registered form and shall not be listed or admitted to trading on any stock market. Anheuser-Busch InBev may increase or decrease its share capital with the specific approval of a shareholders’ meeting. The shareholders may also authorize the Board of Directors to increase the share capital. Such authorization must be limited in time and amount. In either case, the shareholders’ approval or authorization must satisfy the quorum and majority requirements applicable to amendments to the Articles of Association. At the annual shareholders’ meeting of 26 April 2017, the shareholders authorized the Board of Directors to increase the share capital of AB InBev to an amount not to exceed 3% of the total number of shares issued and outstanding on 26 April 2017 (i.e. 2,019,241,973). This authorization has been granted for five years. It can be used for several purposes, including when the sound management of the company’s business or the need to react to appropriate business opportunities calls for a restructuring, an acquisition (whether private or public) of securities or assets in one or more companies or, generally, any other appropriate increase of the company’s capital. AB InBev’s Board of Directors has been authorized by the shareholders’ meeting to acquire, on or outside the stock exchange, AB InBev shares up to maximum 20% of the issued shares for a unitary price which will not be lower than 1 Euro and not higher than 20% above the highest closing price in the last 20 trading days preceding the transaction. This authorization is valid for 5 years from 28 September 2016. 7.2. Voting rights and transferability of shares and shareholders’ arrangements Voting rights, quorum and majority requirements Each share entitles the holder to one vote. Generally, there is no quorum requirement for a shareholders’ meeting and decisions will be taken by a simple majority vote of shares present or represented. However, certain matters will require a larger majority and/or a quorum. These include the following: i. any amendment to the Articles of Association (except the amendments to the corporate purpose or the transformation of the legal form of the company), including inter alia, reductions or increases of the share capital of the company (except for capital increases decided by the Board pursuant to the authorised capital) or any resolution relating to a merger or demerger of the company require the presence in person or by proxy of shareholders holding an aggregate of at least 50% of the issued share capital, and the approval of a qualified majority of at least 75% of the votes cast at the meeting (without taking abstentions into account); ii. any authorisation to repurchase or dispose of Shares requires a quorum of shareholders holding an aggregate of at least 50% of the share capital and approval by a qualified majority of at least 75% of the votes cast at the meeting (without taking abstentions into account); iii. any modification of the purpose of the company requires a quorum of shareholders holding an aggregate of at least 50% of the share capital and approval by a qualified majority of at least 80% of the votes cast at the meeting (without taking abstentions into account) ; iv. resolutions relating to the modification of the rights attached to a particular class of shares will require the presence in person or by proxy of shareholders holding an aggregate of at least 50% of the issued share capital in each class of shares and the approval of a qualified majority of at least 75% of the votes cast at the meeting (without taking abstentions into account) in each class of shares, (in each of the cases (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), if a quorum is not present, a second meeting must be convened. At the second meeting, the quorum requirement does not apply. However, the qualified majority requirement of 75% or 80%, as the case may be, continues to apply); and v. any acquisition or disposal of tangible assets by the company for an amount higher than the value of one third of the company’s consolidated total assets as reported in its most recent audited consolidated financial statements requires the approval of a qualified majority of at least 75% of the votes cast at the meeting (without taking abstentions into account), but there is no minimum quorum requirement. As an additional rule, in the event of (i) a contribution in kind to the company with assets owned by any person or entity which is required to file a transparency declaration pursuant to applicable Belgian law or a subsidiary (within the meaning of article 1:15 of the Belgian Companies Code) of such person or entity, or (ii) a merger of the company with such a person or entity or a subsidiary of such person or entity, then such person or entity and its subsidiaries shall not be entitled to vote on the resolution submitted to the shareholders’ meeting to approve such contribution in kind or merger. 16 74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Transferability of shares Ordinary Shares are freely transferable. As far as Restricted Shares are concerned, no Restricted Shareholder is able, in each case directly or indirectly, to transfer, sell, contribute, offer, grant any option on, otherwise dispose of, pledge, charge, assign, mortgage, grant any lien or any security interest on, enter into any certification or depository arrangement or enter into any form of hedging arrangement with respect to, any of its Restricted Shares or any interests therein or any rights relating thereto, or enter into any contract or other agreement to do any of the foregoing, for a period of five years from 10 October 2016, except in the specific instances set out in the Articles of Association in connection with transactions with Affiliates and Successors or in relation with Pledges. Each of the terms Affiliates, Successors and Pledge is defined in the Articles of Association. Conversion Voluntary conversion Each Restricted Shareholder will have the right to convert all or part of its holding of Restricted Shares into Ordinary Shares at its election (i) at any time after 10 October 2021, and (ii) in some limited other instances, including immediately prior to, but then solely for the purpose of facilitating, or at any time after entering into an agreement or arrangement to effect any permitted transfer, as set out in article 7.3.b (ii) of the Articles of Association of the company. Automatic conversion The Restricted Shares shall automatically convert into Ordinary Shares in the situations set out in article 7.6. of the Articles of Association, i.e.: i. upon any transfer, sale, contribution or other disposal, except as set out in article 7.6 (a) of the Articles of Association in connection with transactions with Affiliates and Successors or in relation with Pledges; ii. immediately prior to the closing of a successful public takeover bid for all shares of the company or the completion of a merger of AnheuserBusch InBev as acquiring or disappearing company, in circumstances where the shareholders directly or indirectly, controlling or exercising directly or indirectly joint control over AB InBev immediately prior to such takeover bid or merger will not directly or indirectly control, or exercise joint control over, AB InBev or the surviving entity following such takeover bid or merger; or iii. upon the announcement of a squeeze-out bid for the outstanding shares of the company, in accordance with article 7:82 of the Belgian Companies Code. Shareholders arrangements Please refer to section 6 above. 7.3. Significant agreements or securities of Anheuser-Busch InBev that may be impacted by a change of control on the company 1. USD 9,000,000,000 (originally USD 13,000,000,000) Senior Facilities Agreement In accordance with Article 556 of the 2009 Belgian Companies Code, the shareholders meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (the “Company”) approved on 27 April 2010, (i) Clause 17 (Mandatory Prepayment) of the USD 13,000,000,000 Senior Facilities Agreement dated 26 February 2010 entered into by, amongst others, the Company and Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. as original borrowers, the original guarantors and original lenders listed therein, Bank of America Securities Limited, Banco Santander, S.A., Barclays Capital, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, Fortis Bank SA/NV, ING Bank NV, Intesa Sanpaolo S.P.A., J.P. Morgan PLC, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Société Générale Corporate and Investment Banking, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, LTD. as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners and Fortis Bank SA/NV as agent and issuing bank (as amended and/or amended and restated from time to time) (the “2010 Senior Facilities Agreement”) and (ii) any other provision of the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement granting rights to third parties which could affect the Company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the Company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the launch of a public take-over bid over the shares of the Company or on a “Change of Control” (as defined in the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement). Pursuant to the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement (a) “Change of Control” means “any person or group of persons acting in concert (in each case other than Stichting InBev or any existing direct or indirect certificate holder or certificate holders of Stichting InBev or any person or group of persons acting in concert with any such persons) gaining Control of the Company, (b) “acting in concert” means “a group of persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether formal or informal), actively co-operate, through the acquisition directly or indirectly of shares in the Company by any of them, either directly or indirectly, to obtain Control of the Company” and (c) “Control” means, in respect of the Company, the “direct or indirect ownership of more than 50 per cent of the share capital or similar rights of ownership of the Company or the power to direct the management and the policies of the Company whether through the ownership of share capital, contract or otherwise” . Clause 17 of the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement grants, in essence, to any lender under the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement, upon a Change of Control over the Company, the right (i) not to fund any loan or letter of credit (other than a rollover loan meeting certain conditions) and (ii) (by not less than 30 days written notice) to cancel its undrawn commitments and require repayment of its participations in the loans or letters of credit, together with accrued interest thereon, and all other amounts owed to such lender under the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement (and certain related documents). The 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement was amended on 25 July 2011 and extended on 20 August 2013. It has been amended and restated on 28 August 2015 (the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement as amended and restated being the “Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement”) so as to increase the total commitments from USD 8,000,000,000 to USD 9,000,000,000 and to extend its term with 5 years from the date of its restatement with the possibility to extend the term by a further two years at the option of the Company. As a result of the amendment and restatement of the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement, the shareholders’ meeting of the old AnheuserBusch InBev of 27 April 2016 has approved, in accordance with Article 556 of the Belgian Companies Code, (i) Clause 17 (Mandatory 17 75 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Prepayment) of the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement and (ii) any other provision of the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement granting rights to third parties which could affect the company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the Company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the launch of a public take-over bid over the shares of the company or on a “Change of Control”. The definition of the terms “Change of Control”, “acting in concert” and “Control” remained unchanged in the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement. The Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement has been transferred to the company as a result of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, that took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB. On 3 October 2017, the maturity date of the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement was extended to August 2022. As of 31 December 2019, no drawdowns were outstanding under the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement. 2. EMTN Program In accordance with article 556 of the 2009 Belgian Companies Code, the shareholders’ meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev approved on 24 April 2013 (i) Condition 7.5. of the Terms & Conditions (Redemption at the Option of the Noteholders (Change of Control Put)) of the 15,000,000,000 Euro updated Euro Medium Term Note Program dated 16 May 2012 of Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV and Brandbrew SA (the “Issuers”) and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, acting as Arranger, which may be applicable in the case of Notes issued under the Program (the “EMTN Program”), (ii) any other provision in the EMTN Program granting rights to third parties which could affect the company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the occurrence of a “Change of Control” (as defined in the Terms & Conditions of the EMTN Program). Pursuant to the EMTN Program, (a) “Change of Control” means “any person or group of persons acting in concert (in each case other than Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev or any existing direct or indirect certificate holder or certificate holders of Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev) gaining Control of the company provided that a change of control shall not be deemed to have occurred if all or substantially all of the shareholders of the relevant person or group of persons are, or immediately prior to the event which would otherwise have constituted a change of control were, the shareholders of the company with the same (or substantially the same) pro rata interests in the share capital of the relevant person or group of persons as such shareholders have, or as the case may be, had, in the share capital of the company”, (b) “acting in concert” means “a group of persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether formal or informal), actively cooperate, through the acquisition directly or indirectly of shares in the company by any of them, either directly or indirectly, to obtain Control of the company”, and (c) “Control” means the “direct or indirect ownership of more than 50 per cent of the share capital or similar rights of ownership of the company or the power to direct the management and the policies of the company whether through the ownership of share capital, contract or otherwise”. If a Change of Control Put is specified in the applicable Final Terms of the concerned notes, Condition 7.5. of the Terms & Conditions of the EMTN Programme grants, to any holder of such notes, in essence, the right to request the redemption of his notes at the redemption amount specified in the Final Terms of the notes, together, if appropriate, with interest accrued, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control and a related downgrade of the notes to sub-investment grade. The change of control provision above is included in the Final Terms of: • the 750,000,000 Euro 7.375% Notes due 2013 (Redeemed on 30 January 2013), the 600,000,000 Euro 8.625% Notes due 2017 (Redeemed on 9 December 2016) and the 550,000,000 GBP 9.75% Notes due 2024, each issued by the company in January 2009; • the 750,000,000 Euro 6.57% Notes due 2014, issued by the company in February 2009 (Redeemed on 27 February 2014); • the 50,000,000 Euro FRN Notes that bear an interest at a floating rate of 3 month EURIBOR plus 3.90 %, issued by the company in April 2009 (Redeemed on 9 April 2014); • the 600,000,000 CHF 4.50% Notes due 2014 (Redeemed on 11 June 2014), issued by Brandbrew SA in June 2009 (with a guarantee by the company); • the 250,000,000 Euro 5.75% Notes due 2015 (Redeemed on 22 June 2015) and the 750,000,000 GBP 6.50% Notes due 2017 (Redeemed in June 2017), each issued by the company in June 2009; and • the 750,000,000 Euro 4% Notes due 2018 (Redeemed in April 2018), issued by the company in April 2010. The series of Notes referred to in the above paragraph were issued pursuant to the 10,000,000,000 Euro initial Euro Medium Term Note Programme dated 16 January 2009 or the 15,000,000,000 Euro updated Euro Medium Term Note Programme dated 24 February 2010 (as applicable). The relevant change of control provisions contained in the Final Terms of such series of Notes were submitted to, and approved by, the shareholders meetings of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev held on 28 April 2009 and 27 April 2010, respectively. There is no change of control clause included in the Final Terms of any series of Notes issued pursuant to the EMTN Programme by the company and/or Brandbrew SA after April 2010. As a result of the update of the EMTN Programme on 22 August 2013 the Terms & Conditions of the updated EMTN Programme no longer provide for a Redemption at the option of the Noteholders (Change of Control Put). In May 2016, the old Anheuser-Busch InBev invited Noteholders of certain outstanding series of Notes issued under the EMTN Programme prior to 2016 (the Notes ) to consider certain amendments to the terms and conditions applicable to those Notes (the Participation Solicitation ). The Participation Solicitation was undertaken to avoid any suggestion that the combination with SAB could be interpreted as a cessation of business (or a threat to do so), winding up or dissolution of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev. Meetings of the Noteholders of each series of the Notes were held on 1 June 2016 at which Noteholders voted in favour of the Participation Solicitation for each of the relevant series of Notes. Amended and restated final terms for each series of the Notes reflecting the amended terms and conditions, were signed by the old Anheuser-Busch InBev and the subsidiary guarantors named therein on 1 June 2016. The EMTN Program has been transferred to the company as a result of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, that took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB. 18 76 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 3. US Dollar Notes In accordance with article 556 of the 2009 Belgian Companies Code, the shareholders meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev approved on 26 April 2011 (i) the Change of Control Clause of the USD 3,250,000,000 Notes issued on 29 and 26 March 2010, consisting of USD 1,000,000,000 2.50 % Notes due 2013 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 2 September 2010 and redeemed on 26 March 2013), USD 750,000,000 3.625 % Notes due 2015 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 2 September 2010 and redeemed on 15 April 2015), USD 1,000,000,000 5.00 % Notes due 2020 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 2 September 2010) and USD 500,000,000 Floating Rate Notes due 2013 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 2 September 2010 and redeemed on 26 March 2013) (the “Unregistered Notes issued in March 2010”), (ii) the Change of Control Clause of the USD 3,250,000,000 Registered Notes issued in September 2010, consisting of USD 1,000,000,000 2.50 % Notes due 2013 (Redeemed on 26 March 2013), USD 750,000,000 3.625 % Notes due 2015 (Redeemed on 15 April 2015), USD 1,000,000,000 5.00 % Notes due 2020 (Redeemed on 6 June 2018) and USD 500,000,000 Floating Rate Notes due 2013 (Redeemed on 26 March 2013) and offered in exchange for corresponding amounts of the corresponding Unregistered Notes issued in March 2010, in accordance with a US Form F-4 Registration Statement pursuant to an exchange offer launched by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. in the U.S. on 5 August 2010 and expired on 2 September 2010 (the “Registered Notes issued in September 2010”), (iii) the Change of Control Clause of the USD 8,000,000,000 Registered Notes issued in March 2011, consisting of USD 1,250,000,000 7.20% Notes due 2014 (Redeemed on 20 June 2011), USD 2,500,000,000 7.75% Notes due 2019 (Redeemed on 19 March 2018) and USD 1,250,000,000 8.20% Notes due 2039, USD 1,550,000,000 5.375 % Notes due 2014 (Redeemed on 15 November 2014), USD 1,000,000,000 6.875 % Notes due 2019 (Redeemed on 15 November 2019) and USD 450,000,000 8.00 % Notes due 2039 and offered in exchange for corresponding amounts of the corresponding Unregistered Notes issued in January 2009 and of the corresponding Unregistered Notes issued in May 2009, in accordance with a US Form F-4 Registration Statement pursuant to an exchange offer launched by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. in the U.S. on 11 February 2011 and expired on 14 March 2011 (the “Registered Notes issued in March 2011”), whereby each of the Unregistered Notes issued in March 2010, the Registered Notes issued in September 2010 and the Registered Notes issued in March 2011 were issued by AnheuserBusch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from the old Anheuser-Busch InBev, and (iv) any other provision applicable to the Unregistered Notes issued in March 2010, the Registered Notes issued in September 2010 and the Registered Notes issued in March 2011 granting rights to third parties which could affect the company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the launch of a public take-over bid over the shares of the company or on a “Change of Control” (as defined in the Offering Memorandum with respect to the Unregistered Notes, as the case may be, and in the Registration Statement with respect to the Registered Notes). Pursuant to the Offering Memorandum and Registration Statement (a) “Change of Control” means “any person or group of persons acting in concert (in each case other than Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev or any existing direct or indirect certificate holder or certificate holders of Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev) gaining Control of the company provided that a change of control shall not be deemed to have occurred if all or substantially all of the shareholders of the relevant person or group of persons are, or immediately prior to the event which would otherwise have constituted a change of control were, the shareholders of the company with the same (or substantially the same) pro rata interests in the share capital of the relevant person or group of persons as such shareholders have, or as the case may be, had, in the share capital of the company”, (b) “Acting in concert” means “a group of persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether formal or informal), actively cooperate, through the acquisition directly or indirectly of shares in the company by any of them, either directly or indirectly, to obtain Control of the company”, and (c) “Control” means the “direct or indirect ownership of more than 50 per cent of the share capital or similar rights of ownership of the company or the power to direct the management and the policies of the company whether through the ownership of share capital, contract or otherwise”. The Change of Control clause grants to any Noteholder, in essence, the right to request the redemption of his Notes at a repurchase price in cash of 101% of their principal amount (plus interest accrued) upon the occurrence of a Change of Control and a related downgrade in the Notes to sub-investment grade. A similar change of control provision was approved by the shareholders’ meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev on 28 April 2009 with respect to: • the USD 5,000,000,000 Notes, consisting of USD 1,250,000,000 7.20% Notes due 2014 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 14 March 2011 and redeemed on 20 June 2011), USD 2,500,000,000 7.75% Notes due 2019 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 14 March 2011) and USD 1,250,000,000 8.20% Notes due 2039 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 14 March 2011), each issued in January 2009 by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (the “Unregistered Notes issued in January 2009”). A similar change of control provision was approved by the shareholders’ meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev on 27 April 2010 with respect to: • the USD 3,000,000,000 Notes issued in May 2009, consisting of USD 1,550,000,000 5.375 % Notes due 2014 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 14 March 2011 and redeemed on 15 November 2014), USD 1,000,000,000 6.875 % Notes due 2019 (Redeemed on 15 November 2019) and USD 450,000,000 8.00 % Notes due 2039 (the “Unregistered Notes issued in May 2009”) each issued by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from the old Anheuser-Busch InBev. • the USD 5,500,000,000 Notes issued in October 2009, consisting of USD 1,500,000,000 3.00 % Notes due 2012 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 05 February 2010 and redeemed on 15 October 2012), USD 1,250,000,000 4.125 % Notes due 2015 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 5 February 2010 and redeemed on 15 January 2015), USD 2,250,000,000 5.375 % Notes due 2020 (redeemed on 23 April 2018) and USD 500,000,000 6.375 % Notes due 2040 (the “Unregistered Notes issued in October 2009”) each issued by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from the old Anheuser-Busch InBev. • the USD 5,500,000,000 Registered Notes issued in February 2010, consisting of USD 1,500,000,000 3 % Notes due 2012 (Redeemed on 15 October 2012), USD 1,250,000,000 4.125 % Notes due 2015 (Redeemed on 15 January 2015), USD 2,250,000,000 5.375 % Notes due 2020 and USD 500,000,000 6.375 % Notes due 2040 and offered in exchange for corresponding amounts of the corresponding Unregistered Notes issued in October 2009, in accordance with a US Form F-4 Registration Statement pursuant to an exchange offer launched by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. in the US on 8 January 2010 and expired on 5 February 2010 (the “Registered Notes issued in February 2010”) each issued by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from the old AnheuserBusch InBev. 19 77 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The US Dollar Notes have been transferred to the company as a result of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, which took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB. 4. Notes issued under Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Shelf Registration Statement filed on Form F-3. For the sake of completeness, there is no Change of Control Clause applicable to outstanding Notes issued under Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Shelf Registration Statement filed on Form F-3 (with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV). 8. Remuneration 8.1. Remuneration policy The remuneration policy applies to the directors, the CEO and the other members of the ExCom. References to the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) are purely for information purposes. In relation to the financial years starting as from 1 January 2020, it applies subject to its approval by the annual shareholders’ meeting to be held on 29 April 2020. 8.1.1. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of three members appointed by the Board, all of whom are non-executive directors. Currently, the Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee is a representative of the Reference Shareholder and the two other members meet the requirements of independence as established by the Belgian Companies and Associations Code and the 2020 Belgian Corporate Governance Code. The CEO and the Chief People Officer are invited to the meetings of the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee meets four times a year, and more often if required, and is convened by its chairperson or at the request of at least two of its members. The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to guide the Board with respect to all its decisions relating to the remuneration policies for the Board, the CEO, the ExCom and the SLT, and on their individual remuneration packages. It ensures that the CEO and members of the ExCom and SLT are incentivized to achieve, and are compensated for, exceptional performance. It also ensures the maintenance and continuous improvement of the company’s compensation framework, which applies to all employees. The compensation framework is based on meritocracy and a sense of ownership with a view to aligning the interests of employees with the interests of shareholders. The Remuneration Committee takes into account the compensation of the employees when preparing the remuneration policy applicable to the directors, the CEO and the other members of the ExCom and SLT. The Board approves the company and individual annual targets of the CEO and the members of the ExCom and SLT, and the Remuneration Committee assesses the target achievement and corresponding annual and long-term incentives of the CEO and the other members of the ExCom and SLT. The Remuneration Committee prepares the remuneration policy and the remuneration report. In exceptional circumstances, the company may temporarily derogate from the remuneration policy. These exceptional circumstances cover situations in which the derogation is necessary to serve the long-term interests and sustainability of the company as a whole or to assure its viability. Such derogation requires the approval of both the Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors. The remuneration report relating to the relevant financial year will include information on any derogation, including its justification. The detailed composition, functioning and specific responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set forth in its terms of reference, which are part of the company’s Corporate Governance Charter. As noted above, the Remuneration Committee is composed exclusively of non-executive directors and a majority of its members qualify as independent directors. This helps to prevent conflicts of interest regarding the establishment, amendments and implementation of the remuneration policy in relation to the CEO and ExCom members. The CEO and the Chief People Officer do not take part in any discussions or deliberations of the Remuneration Committee related to their remuneration. The Remuneration Committee can hold in camera sessions without management being present whenever it deems appropriate to do so. In addition, the power to approve the remuneration policy, prior to its submission to the shareholders’ meeting, and the determination of the remuneration of the CEO and the ExCom and SLT members is vested with the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. No member of the ExCom is at the same time a member of the Board of Directors. As regards the remuneration of the directors, all decisions are adopted by the shareholders’ meeting. 8.1.2. Remuneration policy of the directors a. Remuneration governance The Remuneration Committee recommends the remuneration for directors, including the Chairperson and the directors sitting on one or more of the Board committees. In so doing, it benchmarks from time to time directors’ remuneration against peer companies, as the case may be, with the assistance of an independent consulting firm. These recommendations are subject to approval by the Board and, subsequently, by the shareholders at the annual general meeting. In addition, the Board sets and revises, from time to time, the rules and level of compensation for directors carrying out a special mandate and the rules for reimbursement of directors’ business-related out-of-pocket expenses. The shareholders’ meeting may from time to time revise the directors’ remuneration upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. 20 78 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT b. Structure of the remuneration The remuneration of the directors consists of a fixed cash fee component and a share-based component consisting of an award of Restricted Stock Units (described below), which makes Board remuneration simple, transparent and easy for shareholders to understand. Remuneration is commensurate to the time committed by the directors to the Board and its various committees, and is set by the shareholders’ meeting upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. In addition, the remuneration is designed to attract and retain talented directors. The award of Restricted Stock Units further aligns the interests of the directors with the sustainable value-creation objectives of the company. Former LTI stock option plan Until 31 December 2018, the company had a long-term incentive (LTI) stock option plan for directors. All LTI grants to directors were in the form of stock options on existing shares with the following features: • an exercise price equal to the market price of the share at the time of granting; • a maximum lifetime of 10 years and an exercise period that starts after five years; and • the LTI stock options cliff vest after five years. Unvested LTI stock options are subject to forfeiture provisions in the event that the directorship is not renewed upon the expiry of its term or is terminated in the course of its term, both due to a breach of duty by the director. This LTI stock option plan was replaced in 2019 with the RSU Plan described below. RSU Plan As from 2019, the share-based component of the directors’ remuneration is paid under the form of Restricted Stock Units. Under this plan, which was approved by the company’s annual shareholders’ meeting on 24 April 2019, the company may grant Restricted Stock Units corresponding to a fixed value in euro to the members of its Board, as part of the fixed remuneration for the exercise of their duties. The granting and vesting of the Restricted Stock Units are not subject to performance criteria. The RSU Plan therefore qualifies as fixed remuneration, as recommended by the 2020 Belgian Corporate Governance Code. Such Restricted Stock Units vest after five years and, upon vesting, entitle their holders to one AB InBev share per Restricted Stock Unit (subject to any applicable withholdings). Contrary to the soft law recommendation of the 2020 Belgian Corporate Governance Code, the shares delivered to directors upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Units are not subject to a lock-up of three years after the date of the delivery and one year after the date of departure of the relevant director. However, the five-year vesting period of the Restricted Stock Units fosters a sustainable and long-term commitment of the directors to shareholder value creation that addresses the goal of the 2020 Belgian Corporate Governance Code. c. Other The company is prohibited from making loans to directors, whether for the purpose of exercising options or for any other purpose (except for routine advances for business-related expenses in accordance with the company’s rules for reimbursement of expenses). The company does not provide pensions, medical benefits or other benefit programs to directors. 8.1.3. Remuneration policy of the ExCom The company’s remuneration policy for executives is designed to support its high-performance culture and the creation of long-term sustainable value for its shareholders. The goal of the policy is to reward executives with market-leading compensation, which is conditional upon both the overall success of the company and individual performance. It promotes alignment with shareholders’ interests by strongly encouraging executive ownership of shares in the company and enables the company to attract and retain the best talent at global levels. Base salaries are aligned with mid-market levels. Additional shortand long-term incentives are linked to challenging shortand long-term performance targets, and the investment of part or all of any variable compensation earned in company shares is encouraged. The Board determines the maximum amount for the funding of the variable remuneration pool prior to the start of a performance year and the allocation is made in accordance with criteria determined by the Board upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. All criteria and the duration of the vesting periods are aligned with the relevant time horizon of the company and set to foster a sustainable and long-term commitment to shareholder value creation. Criteria and objectives are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board to ensure they are aligned with the company’s business objective and strategic ambition. The targets for each of the performance KPIs and business and personal objectives are set and assessed by the Board based on a predetermined performance matrix, upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. A weighted performance score is translated into a payout curve which has a threshold and a cap. The threshold is set at the minimum acceptable level of performance to trigger the performance part of the bonus. The Board may revise the level of remuneration and approve a revised remuneration policy upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, subject to the approval of the shareholders’ meeting where required (see sections 8.1.1 and 8.1.2 above). A. Components of executive remuneration Executive remuneration generally consists of (a) a fixed base salary, (b) variable performance-related compensation (bonus), (c) long-term incentive stock options, (d) long-term Restricted Stock Units, (e) pension schemes and (f) other components. a. Base salary To ensure alignment with market practice, executives’ base salaries are reviewed overall against benchmarks. These benchmarks are collected by internationally recognized compensation consultants, in relevant industries and geographies. For benchmarking, a custom sample of global peer companies (Peer Group) is used when available. The Peer Group currently includes, for example, Apple, Coca-Cola Company, Procter & Gamble, IBM, Oracle, Diageo and PepsiCo. The Peer Group may be revised from time to time by the Remuneration Committee, it being understood that the Peer Group will remain consistent with the company’s activities. 21 79 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 If Peer Group data are not available for a given role, Fortune 100 companies’ data are used. Executives’ base salaries are intended to be aligned with mid-market levels for the appropriate market. Mid-market means that, for a similar job in the market, 50% of companies in that market pay more and 50% of companies pay less. Executives’ total compensation is intended to be 10% above the third quartile. b. Variable performance-related compensation – Share-based compensation plan Variable performance-related compensation is key to the company’s compensation system and is aimed at rewarding executives’ shortand long-term performance. The target variable compensation is expressed as a percentage of the market reference salary applicable to the executive. The on-target bonus percentage theoretically amounts to maximum 200% of the market reference salary for members of the ExCom and 340% for the CEO. An additional incentive of 20% on a bonus amount may be awarded by the Remuneration Committee in the case of overachievement or other exceptional circumstances. The effective payout of variable compensation is directly correlated with performance; i.e., linked to the achievement of total company, business unit and individual targets, all of which are based on performance metrics. Company and business unit targets focus on achieving a balance of top line growth and cash flow generation. Below a hurdle of achievement for total company and business unit targets, no variable compensation is earned irrespective of personal target achievement. In addition, the final individual bonus payout percentage also depends on each executive’s personal achievement of their individual performance targets. Individual performance targets of the CEO and the ExCom members may consist of financial and non-financial targets such as sustainability and other elements of corporate social responsibility, corporate reputation and compliance/ethics-related targets. Typical performance measures in this area can relate to employee engagement, talent pipeline, better world goals, opinion leader favorability towards the company, compliance, etc., and are linked directly to the achievement of strategic objectives to drive the sustainability of the financial performance. Target achievement is assessed by the Remuneration Committee on the basis of accounting and financial data. The variable compensation is usually paid annually in arrears after the publication of the company’s full year results, in or around March of the relevant year. Exceptionally, the variable compensation may be paid out semi-annually at the discretion of the Board. In such case, the first half of the variable compensation is paid shortly after publication of the half year results and the second half of the variable compensation is paid after publication of the full year results. Executives receive their variable compensation in cash but are encouraged to invest some (60%) or all of its value in company shares (Voluntary Shares). Voluntary Shares are: • existing ordinary shares; • entitled to dividends paid as from the date of grant; • with respect to bonuses for the financial year 2020 onwards, subject to a lock-up period of three years for half of them and five years for the other half 1; and • granted at market price, to which a discount is applied. With respect to bonuses for the financial year 2020 onwards, the discount amounts to maximum 20% 2. The discount is delivered in the form of Restricted Stock Units, subject to specific restrictions or forfeiture provisions in the event of termination of service (Discounted Shares). As an additional reward, Executives who invest in Voluntary Shares also receive a company shares match of three matching shares for each voluntary share invested up to a limited total percentage of each executive’s variable compensation. These matching shares are also delivered in the form of Restricted Stock Units (Matching Shares). With respect to bonuses for the financial year 2020 onwards, half of the Restricted Stock Units relating to the Matching Shares and the Discounted Shares vest over a three-year period, while the other half vest over a five-year period 3. No performance conditions apply to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units. However, Restricted Stock Units will only be granted under the double condition that the executive: • has earned a variable compensation, which is subject to the successful achievement of total company, business unit and individual performance targets (performance condition); and • has agreed to reinvest all or part of his/her variable compensation in company shares, which are subject to a lock-up as indicated above (ownership condition). In the event of termination of service before the vesting date of the Restricted Stock Units, forfeiture rules apply. 1 With respect to bonuses for the financial years 2019 and before, all voluntary shares must be held for a five-year period. 2 With respect to bonuses for the financial years 2019 and before, the discount was 10%. 3 With respect to bonuses for the financial years 2019 and before, the Restricted Stock Units relating to the Matching Shares and the Discounted Shares vest over a five-year period. 22 80 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT In accordance with the authorization granted in the company’s bylaws, this variable compensation system partly deviates from article 520ter of the Belgian Companies Code, which has become article 7:91 of the Belgian Companies and Associations Code, as it allows: 1. for the variable remuneration to be paid out based on the achievement of annual targets without staggering its grant or payment over a three-year period. However, as indicated above, executives are encouraged to invest some or all of their variable compensation in company Voluntary Shares. Such voluntary investment also leads to a grant of Matching Shares in the form of Restricted Stock Units, of which half of them vest over a three-year period and half of them vest over a five-year period, ensuring sustainable long-term performance14; and 2. for the Voluntary Shares granted under the share-based compensation plan to vest at their grant, instead of applying a vesting period of minimum three years. Nonetheless, half of the Voluntary Shares are subject to a three-year lock-up period and half of them are subject to a five-year lock-up period2. 5 c. Long-term incentives Annual long-term incentives Members of our senior management may be eligible for an annual long-term incentive paid out in stock options or other share-related instruments such as Restricted Stock Units, depending on management’s assessment of the beneficiary’s performance and future potential. Long-term incentive stock options have the following features: • an exercise price equal to the market price of the share at the time of grant; • a maximum lifetime of 10 years and an exercise period that starts after five years; • upon exercise, each option entitles the option holder to purchase one share; and • the options cliff vest after five years. In the event of termination of service before the vesting date, forfeiture rules will apply. Long-term Restricted Stock Units have the following features: • a grant value determined on the basis of the market price of the share at the time of grant; • upon vesting, each Restricted Stock Unit entitles its holder to acquire one share; and • half of the Restricted Stock Units cliff vest over a three-year period and the other half cliff vest over a five-year period. In the event of termination of service before the vesting date, specific forfeiture rules will apply. Grants made as from financial year 2020 will primarily take the form of Restricted Stock Units. Exceptional long-term incentives Options or Restricted Stock Units may be granted from time to time to members of senior management of the company: • who have made a significant contribution to the success of the company; or • who have made a significant contribution in relation to acquisitions and/or the achievement of integration benefits; or • to incentivize and retain senior leaders who are considered to be instrumental in achieving the company’s ambitious short or long-term growth agenda. Vesting of such options or Restricted Stock Units may be subject to achievement of performance conditions which will be related to the objectives of such exceptional grants. Grants made as from financial year 2020 will primarily take the form of Restricted Stock Units. By way of example, the following exceptional long-term incentive plans are currently in place: 1. 2020 Incentive Plan: options can be granted to selected members of the senior management of the company, who are considered to be instrumental in helping the company to achieve its ambitious growth target. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing share. An exercise price is set at an amount equal to the market price of the share at the time of grant. The options have a duration of 10 years as from granting and vest after five years. The options only become exercisable provided a performance test is met by the company. This performance test is based on a net revenue amount which must be achieved by 2022 at the latest. 2. Integration Incentive Plan: options can be granted to selected members of the senior management of the company considering the significant contribution that these employees can make to the success of the company and the achievement of integration benefits. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing AB InBev share. The exercise price of the options is set at an amount equal to the market price of the share at the time of grant. The options have a duration of 10 years from grant and vest on 1 January 2022 and only become exercisable provided a performance test is met by the company by 31 December 2021 at the latest. This performance test is based on an EBITDA compounded annual growth rate target and may be complemented by additional country or zone specific or function specific targets. Specific forfeiture rules apply if the employee leaves the company before the performance test achievement or vesting date. 1 With respect to bonuses for the financial years 2019 and before, a five-year vesting period applies to the Restricted Stock Units relating to the Matching Shares and the Discounted Shares. 2 With respect to bonuses for the financial years 2019 and before, a five-year vesting period applies to Voluntary Shares. 23 81 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 3. Incentive Plan for SAB employees: options can be granted to employees of former SAB. The grant results from the commitment that the company has made under the terms of the combination with SAB that it would, for at least one year, preserve the terms and conditions for employment of all employees that remain with the group. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing AB InBev share. The exercise price of the options is set at an amount equal to the market price of the share at the time of grant. The options have a duration of 10 years as from granting and vest after three years. Specific forfeiture rules apply if the employee leaves the company before the vesting date. 4. Long Run Stock Options Incentive Plan: options can be granted to selected members of the company’s senior management to incentivize and retain senior leaders who are considered to be instrumental in achieving the company’s ambitious long-term growth agenda over the next 10 years. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing share. The exercise price of the options is set at the closing share price on the day preceding the grant date. The options have a duration of 15 years as from granting and, in principle, vest after 5 or 10 years. The options only become exercisable provided a performance test is met by Anheuser-Busch InBev. This performance test is based on an organic EBITDA compounded annual growth rate target. Specific forfeiture rules apply if the employee leaves the company before the performance test achievement or vesting date. d. Recurring specific long-term Restricted Stock Unit programs Anheuser-Busch InBev has in place four recurring specific long-term Restricted Stock Unit programs: 1. A program allowing for the offer of Restricted Stock Units to certain members of the company’s senior management in certain specific circumstances. Such grants are made at the discretion of the CEO, e.g. as a special retention incentive or to compensate for assignments of expatriates in certain limited countries. The Restricted Stock Units vest after five years and in the event of termination of service before the vesting date, forfeiture rules apply. 2. A program allowing for the exceptional offer of Restricted Stock Units to certain members of senior management at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as a long-term retention incentive for key managers of the company. Members of senior management eligible to receive a grant under the program receive two series of Restricted Stock Units. The first half of the Restricted Stock Units vest after five years. The second half of the Restricted Stock Units vest after 10 years. As a variant under this program, the Restricted Stock Units may be granted with a shorter vesting period of 2.5 to three years for the first half and five years for the second half of the Restricted Stock Units. In the event of termination of service before the vesting date, forfeiture rules apply. As of 2017, instead of Restricted Stock Units, stock options may also be granted under the program with similar vesting and forfeiture rules. 3. A program allowing certain employees to purchase company shares at a discount aimed as a long-term retention incentive for (i) highpotential employees of the company, who are at a mid-manager level (People bet share purchase program) or (ii) newly hired employees. The voluntary investment in company shares leads to the grant of three matching shares for each share invested or, as the case may be, a number of matching shares corresponding to a fixed monetary value that depends on seniority level. The matching shares are granted in the form of Restricted Stock Units which vest after five years. In the event of termination before the vesting date, forfeiture rules apply. Since 2016, instead of Restricted Stock Units, stock options may also be granted under this program with similar vesting and forfeiture rules. 4. A program allowing for the offer of performance-based Restricted Stock Units (Performance RSUs) to certain members of the company’s senior management. Upon vesting, each Performance RSU gives the executive the right to receive one existing AB InBev share. The Performance RSUs can have a vesting period of five or ten years. The shares resulting from the vesting of the Performance RSUs will only be delivered provided a performance test is met by the company. Forfeiture rules apply if the employee leaves the company before the vesting date or if the performance test is not achieved by a certain date. These Performance RSUs are subject to an organic EBITDA compounded annual growth rate target set by the Board. Other performance test criteria may be used for future grants, but they will remain in line with the company’s high-performance culture and the creation of long-term sustainable value for its shareholders. e. Exchange of share ownership program From time to time, certain members of Ambev’s senior management are transferred to AB InBev and vice versa. In order to encourage management mobility and ensure that the interests of these managers are fully aligned with AB InBev’s interests, the Board has approved a program that aims at facilitating the exchange by these managers of their Ambev shares into AB InBev shares. Under the program, the Ambev shares can be exchanged for AB InBev shares based on the average share price of both the Ambev and the AB InBev shares on the date the exchange is requested. A discount of 16.66% is granted in exchange for a five-year lock-up period for the shares and provided that the manager remains in service during this period. The discounted shares are forfeited in the event of termination of service before the end of the five-year lock-up period. 24 82 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT f. Programs for maintaining consistency of benefits granted and for encouraging global mobility of executives Two programs which are aimed at maintaining consistency of benefits granted to executives and at encouraging the international mobility of executives while complying with all legal and tax obligations are in place: 1. The Exchange program: under this program the vesting and transferability restrictions of the Series A options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant and of the options granted under the April 2009 Exceptional Option Grant could be released, e.g. for executives who moved to the United States. These executives were then offered the possibility to exchange their options for ordinary AB InBev shares that remain locked up until 31 December 2018 (five years longer than the original lock-up period). Since the Series A options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant and the options granted under the April 2009 Exceptional Option Grant vested on 1 January 2014, the Exchange program is no longer relevant for these options. Instead, the Exchange program has now become applicable to the Series B options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant. Under the extended program, executives who are relocated, e.g. to the United States, can be offered the possibility to exchange their Series B options for ordinary Anheuser-Busch shares that, in principle, remain locked up until 31 December 2023 (five years longer than the original lock-up period). As a variant to this program, the Board also approved the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to allow the early release of the vesting conditions of the Series B options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant for executives who are relocated, e.g. to the United States. The shares that result from the exercise of the options must, in principle, remain blocked until 31 December 2023. 2. The Dividend waiver program: where applicable, the dividend protection feature of the outstanding options owned by executives who move to the United States is being cancelled. In order to compensate for the economic loss which results from this cancellation, a number of new options is granted to these executives with a value equal to this economic loss. The new options have a strike price equal to the share price on the day preceding the grant date of the options. All other terms and conditions, in particular with respect to vesting, exercise limitations and forfeiture rules of the new options are identical to the outstanding options for which the dividend protection feature is cancelled. As a consequence, the grant of these new options does not result in the grant of any additional economic benefit to the executives concerned. There is also a possible early release of vesting conditions of unvested stock options or Restricted Stock Units which are vesting within six months of the executives’ relocation. The shares that result from the early exercise of the options or the early vesting of the Restricted Stock Units must remain blocked until the end of the initial vesting period. g. Pension schemes Our executives participate in Anheuser-Busch InBev’s pension schemes in either the United States, Belgium or their home country. These schemes are in line with predominant market practices in the respective countries. They may be defined benefit plans or defined contribution plans. The CEO participates in a defined contribution plan. h. Other benefits The company is prohibited from making loans to members of the ExCom or SLT, whether for the purpose of exercising options or for any other purpose (except for routine advances for business-related expenses in accordance with the company’s rules for reimbursement of expenses). Executives and their family are eligible to participate in the Employer’s Executive benefit plans (including medical and hospitalization, death and disability plans) in effect from time to time, in line with the predominant market practices. B. Minimum threshold of shares to be held The Board has set a minimum threshold of shares of the company to be held at any time by the CEO to two years of base salary (gross) and by the other members of the ExCom to one year of base salary (gross). Newly appointed ExCom members have three years to reach such threshold following the date of their appointment. C. Main contractual terms and conditions of employment of members of the ExCom The terms and conditions of employment of the members of the ExCom are included in individual employment agreements which are concluded for an indefinite period of time. Executives are also required to comply with the company’s policies and codes such as the Code of Business Conduct and Code of Dealing and are subject to exclusivity, confidentiality and non-compete obligations under their employment agreements. The agreement typically provides that the executive’s eligibility for payment of variable compensation is determined exclusively on the basis of the achievement of company and individual targets set by the company. The specific conditions and modalities of the variable compensation are fixed separately by the company and approved by the Remuneration Committee. The termination arrangements for the ExCom members provide for a termination indemnity of 12 months of remuneration, including variable compensation, in the event of termination without cause. The variable compensation for purposes of the termination indemnity shall be calculated as the average of the variable compensation paid to the executive for the last two years of employment prior to the year of termination. In addition, if the company decides to impose upon the executive a non-compete restriction of 12 months, the executive shall be entitled to receive an additional indemnity of six months. D. Reclaim of variable remuneration The company’s share-based compensation and long-term incentive plans contain a malus provision for all grants made since March 2019. Such provision provides that the stock options and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to an executive will automatically expire and become null and void in the scenario where the executive is found by the Global Ethics and Compliance Committee to be (i) responsible for a material breach of the company’s Code of Business Conduct; or (ii) subject to a material adverse court or administrative decision, in each case in the period before the exercise of the stock options or vesting of the Restricted Stock Units. 25 83 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 8.2. Remuneration report This remuneration report must be read together with the remuneration policy which, to the extent necessary, should be regarded as forming part of this remuneration report. 8.2.1. Remuneration report relating to directors A. General overview a. Cash remuneration The shareholders’ meeting held on 24 April 2019 resolved that, as from 2019 onwards, the fixed annual fee of the directors amounts to EUR 75,000, except for the chairperson of the Board and the chairperson of the Audit Committee whose annual fixed fees amount respectively to EUR 255,000 and EUR 127,500. In addition, a fixed annual retainer applied as follows: (a) EUR 28,000 for the chairperson of the Audit Committee, (b) EUR 14,000 for the other members of the Audit Committee, (c) EUR 14,000 for each of the chairpersons of the Finance Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee, and (d) EUR 7,000 to each of the other members of the Finance Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee, it being understood that the amounts of the retainers set out above are cumulative in the case of participation of a director in several committees. b. Share-based remuneration Former LTI stock option plan Until 31 December 2018, the company had an LTI stock option plan for directors (see section 8.1.2, b Former LTI Stock Option Plan), which was replaced in 2019 with the RSU Plan described below. RSU Plan At the company’s annual shareholders’ meeting held on 24 April 2019, it was resolved that the share-based portion of the remuneration of the directors of the company for the exercise of their mandate during the financial year 2018 (paid in 2019) and any subsequent years be granted under the form of Restricted Stock Units corresponding to a fixed gross value per year of (i) EUR 550,000 for the chairperson of the Board, (ii) EUR 350,000 for the chairperson of the Audit Committee and (iii) EUR 200,000 for the other directors (see above section 8.1.2. b) RSU Plan). Such Restricted Stock Units vest after five years. Each director is entitled to receive a number of Restricted Stock Units corresponding to the amount to which such director is entitled divided by the closing price of the shares of the company on Euronext Brussels on the day preceding the annual shareholders’ meeting approving the accounts of the financial year to which the remuneration in Restricted Stock Units relates. Upon vesting, each vested Restricted Stock Unit entitles its holder to one AB InBev share (subject to any applicable withholdings). These Restricted Stock Units replaced the stock options to which the directors were previously entitled. The granting and vesting of the Restricted Stock Units are not subject to performance criteria. Therefore, the RSU Plan for the directors qualifies as fixed remuneration. 26 84 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT B. Individual director remuneration Individual director remuneration for 2019 is presented in the table below. All amounts presented are gross amounts expressed in Euro before deduction of withholding tax. Number of Number of Board Annual fee Fees for Restricted meetings for Board Committee Stock Units attended meetings meetings Total fee granted (5) Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 10 75,000 0 75,000 2,505 Martin J. Barrington (3) (4) 10 195,000 18,667 213,667 1,558 Alexandre Behring (1) 2 25,000 2,333 27,333 2,505 Michele Burns 8 127,500 39,667 167,167 4,384 Sabine Chalmers (2) 7 50,000 0 50,000 0 Paul Cornet de Ways Ruart 10 75,000 4,667 79,667 2,505 Stéfan Descheemaeker (1) 3 25,000 2,333 27,333 2,505 Grégoire de Spoelberch 10 75,000 7,000 82,000 2,505 Claudio Garcia (2) 7 50,000 4,667 54,667 0 William F. Gifford (3) 9 0 0 0 0 Olivier Goudet (1) 3 85,000 9,333 94,333 6,890 Paulo Lemann 10 75,000 7,000 82,000 2,505 Xiaozhi Liu (2) 7 50,000 9,333 59,333 0 Alejandro Santo Domingo 9 75,000 0 75,000 2,505 Elio Leoni Sceti 10 75,000 21,000 96,000 2,505 Carlos Alberto da Veiga Sicupira (1) 3 25,000 2,333 27,333 2,505 Cecilia Sicupira (2) 7 50,000 4,667 54,667 0 Marcel Herrmann Telles 10 75,000 28,000 103,000 2,505 Alexandre Van Damme 10 75,000 21,000 96,000 2,505 All directors as a group 1,282,500 182,000 1,464,500 40,387 (1) Member of the Board of Directors until 24 April 2019. (2) Member of the Board of Directors since 24 April 2019. (3) Mr Barrington waived his entitlement to any type of remuneration, including share-based remuneration, relating to the exercise of his mandate up to the date of his retirement as CEO of Altria on 18 May 2018. Mr Barrington’s annual remuneration was prorated for the exercise of his mandate during the remainder of 2018, which impacted the share based remuneration he received in 2019 based on the 2018 calendar year. Mr Gifford has waived his entitlement to any type of remuneration, including share-based remuneration, relating to the exercise of his mandate in 2019 and before. (4) Chairman of the Board of Directors since 24 April 2019. (5) No Restricted Stock Units granted to directors vested in 2019. 27 85 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 C. Options owned by directors The table below sets forth, for each of the company’s current directors, the number of LTI stock options they owned as of 31 December 2019 (1) : LTI 26 LTI 25 LTI 24 LTI 23 LTI 22 25 April 26 April 27 April 29 April 30 April Grant date 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 24 April 25 April 26 April 28 April 29 April Expiry date 2028 2027 2026 2025 2024 Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 60,000 Martin J. Barrington (2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sabine Chalmers (3) (4) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Michele Burns 25,500 25,500 25,500 0 0 76,500 Paul Cornet de Ways Ruart 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 75,000 Grégoire de Spoelberch 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 75,000 Claudio Garcia (3) (4) 0 0 0 0 0 0 William F. Gifford (2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Paulo Lemann 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 60,000 Xiaozhi Liu (3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Alejandro Santo Domingo 15,000 15,000 0 0 0 30,000 Elio Leoni Sceti 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 60,000 Cecilia Sicupira (3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Marcel Telles 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 75,000 Alexandre Van Damme 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 75,000 Strike price (Euro) 84.47 104.50 113.25 113.10 80.83 (1) At the annual shareholders’ meeting of 30 April 2014, all outstanding LTI warrants were converted into LTI stock options, i.e. the right to purchase existing ordinary shares instead of the right to subscribe to newly issued shares. All other terms and conditions of the outstanding LTI warrants remained unchanged. In 2019, no LTI stock options listed in the above table were exercised by directors. No LTI stock options were granted to Directors in 2019. (2) Mr Barrington waived his entitlement to any type of remuneration, including long-term incentive stock options, relating to the exercise of his mandate up to the date of his retirement as CEO of Altria on 18 May 2018. Mr Barrington’s annual remuneration was prorated for the exercise of his mandate during the remainder of 2018. Mr Gifford has waived his entitlement to any type of remuneration, including long-term incentive stock options, relating to the exercise of his mandate in 2019 and before. (3) Member of the Board of Directors since 24 April 2019. (4) Claudio Garcia and Sabine Chalmers do not hold stock options under the company’s LTI Stock Options Plan for directors. However, they do still hold certain stock options that were awarded to them in the past in their capacity as executives of the company. D. Restricted Stock Units owned by directors The table below sets forth, for each of the company’s current directors, the number of Restricted Stock Units they owned as of 31 December 2019: Number of Restricted Stock Units owned Grant Date 24 April 2019 Vesting Date 24 April 2024 Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 2,505 Martin J. Barrington 1,558 Michele Burns 4,384 Sabine Chalmers (1) (3) 0 Paul Cornet de Ways Ruart 2,505 Grégoire de Spoelberch 2,505 Claudio Garcia (1) (3) 0 William F. Gifford (2) 0 Paulo Lemann 2,505 Xiaozhi Liu (1) 0 Alejandro Santo Domingo 2,505 Elio Leoni Sceti 2,505 Cecilia Sicupira (1) 0 Marcel Herrmann Telles 2,505 Alexandre Van Damme 2,505 All directors as a group 25,982 (1) Member of the Board of Directors since 24 April 2019. (2) Mr Gifford has waived his entitlement to any type of remuneration, including share-based remuneration, relating to the exercise of his mandate in 2019 and before. (3) Claudio Garcia and Sabine Chalmers do not hold restricted stock units under the company’s RSU Plan for directors. However, they do still hold certain Restricted Stock Units that were awarded to them in the past in their capacity as executives of the company. 28 86 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 8.2.2. Remuneration report relating to the ExCom Except as provided otherwise, the information in this section relates to the ExCom as at 31 December 2019. A. Components of executive remuneration Executive remuneration generally consists of (a) a fixed base salary, (b) variable performance-related compensation (bonus), (c) long-term incentive stock options, (d) long-term Restricted Stock Units, (e) pension schemes (f) other components. All amounts shown below are gross amounts before deduction of withholding taxes and social security. In addition, the Board has set up a minimum threshold of shares to be held by the CEO and by the other members of the ExCom, as indicated in the Remuneration Policy. a. Base salary In 2019, based on his employment contract, the CEO earned a fixed annual salary of EUR 1.46 million (USD 1.64 million), while the other members of the ExCom earned an aggregate annual base salary of EUR 2.27 million (USD 2.55 million). b. Variable performance-related compensation – Share-based compensation plan For 2019, based on the company’s target achievement during the year 2019 and the executives’ individual target achievement, the total bonus for the ExCom, including the CEO, effectively amounted to approximately 137% of their 2019 base salary. For the CEO, the total bonus effectively amounted to approximately 179% of his 2019 base salary. As indicated in the remuneration policy (see above section 8.1), executives receive their bonus in cash but are encouraged to invest some or all of its value in Voluntary Shares. For bonuses related to financial year 2019, such voluntary investment led to a 10% discount and a company shares match of three Matching Shares for each share voluntarily invested up to a limited total percentage of each executive’s variable compensation. The effective payout of variable compensation was directly correlated with performance, i.e. linked to the achievement of total company, business unit and individual targets, all of which are based on performance metrics. Company and business unit targets focus on achieving a balance of top line growth and cash flow generation. Below a hurdle of achievement for total company and business unit targets, no variable compensation is earned irrespective of personal target achievement. The targets for each of the performance KPIs and business and personal objectives are set and assessed by the Board, upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. A weighted performance score is translated into a payout curve which has a threshold and a cap. The threshold is set at the minimum acceptable level of performance to trigger the performance part of the bonus. Variable compensation for performance in 2018 – paid in March 2019 For the year 2018, the CEO earned a bonus of EUR 0.73 million (USD 0.84 million). The other members of the former Executive Board of Management earned aggregate variable compensation of EUR 4.20 million (USD 4.81 million). The amount of variable compensation is based on the company’s performance during the year 2018 and the executives’ individual target achievement. Any variable compensation was paid in March 2019. The following table sets forth information regarding the number of the company’s shares voluntarily acquired and Matching Shares granted in March 2019 (variable compensation awarded for performance in 2018) to the CEO and the other members of the ExCom as at 31 December 2019 under the Share-based compensation plan. The Matching Shares were granted in the form of Restricted Stock Units and vest after five years, on 4 March 2024. Name Voluntary Shares acquired Matching Shares granted Carlos Brito – CEO 5,230 21,320 David Almeida 1,467 5,016 John Blood 738 3,057 Felipe Dutra 1,823 7,433 In addition, David Kamenetzky, who left the ExCom on 30 July 2019, acquired 1,527 Voluntary Shares and received 6,319 Matching Shares in March 2019. 29 87 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Variable compensation for performance in 2019 For the year 2019, the CEO earned a bonus of EUR 2.61 million (USD 2.93 million). The other members of the ExCom earned aggregate variable compensation of EUR 2.49 million Euro (USD 2.80 million). The amount of bonus is based on the company’s performance during the year 2019 and the executives’ individual target achievement. A first instalment of the bonus was paid in July 2019 (variable compensation awarded related to the first half of 2019) and any remainder of the variable compensation for the year 2019 will be paid in March 2020. The following table sets forth information regarding the number of the company’s shares voluntarily acquired and Matching Shares granted in July 2019 to the CEO and the other members of the ExCom as at 31 December 2019 related to the first half of 2019 under the Share-based compensation plan. The Matching Shares were granted in the form of Restricted Stock Units and vest after five years, on 29 July 2024. Name Voluntary Shares acquired Matching Shares granted Carlos Brito – CEO 15,244 61,422 David Almeida 2,452 11,069 John Blood 1,348 6,469 Felipe Dutra 5,407 22,030 c. Long-term incentive stock options Annual long-term incentive stock options On 25 January 2019, 88,864, 33,853, 126,979, and 84,633 long-term stock options (having an exercise price of EUR 65.70) were granted to respectively each of David Almeida, John Blood, Felipe Dutra and David Kamenetzky (who was a member of the ExCom until 30 June 2019). Additionally, 100,961 and 67,307 long-term stock options (having an exercise price of EUR 71.87) were granted on 2 December 2019 to respectively each of David Almeida and John Blood. Exceptional long-term incentives In 2019, no grants were made under the company’s exceptional long-term incentive plans (as described section 8.1.3.A.c). d. Recurring Specific long-term Restricted Stock Unit programs In 2019, no grants were made to members of the ExCom under the company’s recurring specific long-term Restricted Stock Unit programs (as described in section 8.1.3.A.d.). e. Exchange of share ownership program In 2019, no member of the ExCom participated in the company’s exchange of share ownership program (as described in section 8.1.3.A.e). f. Programs for maintaining consistency of benefits granted and for encouraging global mobility of executives In 2019, no member of the ExCom participated in any of the company’s programs for maintaining consistency of benefits granted and for encouraging global mobility of executives (as described in section 8.1.3.A.f). g. Pension schemes Our executives participate in Anheuser-Busch InBev’s pension schemes in either the US, Belgium or their home country. These schemes are in line with predominant market practices in the respective countries. They may be defined benefit plans or defined contribution plans. The CEO participates in a defined contribution plan. No annual contributions were due by the company under his plan in 2019. The contributions for the other members of the ExCom amounted to approximately USD 0.20 million in aggregate in 2019. h. Other benefits Executives are also entitled to disability, life, medical (including vision and dental) and Group Variable Universal Life (GVUL) insurance and perquisites that are competitive with market practices, the costs of which together amounted in 2019 to approximately USD 0.04 million for the CEO and approximately USD 0.09 million in aggregate for the other members of the ExCom. B. Main contractual terms and conditions of employment of members of the Executive Committee (ExCom) in 2019 See section 8.1.3.C for a description of the main contractual terms and conditions of employment of members of the ExCom. David Kamenetzky (former Chief Strategy & External Affairs Officer) resigned effective on 30 June 2019. Carlos Brito was appointed to serve as the CEO starting as of 1 March 2006. In the event of termination of his employment other than on the grounds of serious cause, the CEO is entitled to a termination indemnity of 12 months of remuneration, including variable compensation as described above. C. Reclaim of variable remuneration Malus provisions have been included in the share-based compensation and long-term incentive plans relating to grants made in 2019 (see section 8.1.3. D.). No variable remuneration was reclaimed in 2019. 30 88 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT D. Options owned by members of the ExCom The table below sets forth the number of LTI stock options owned by the members of our ExCom as of 31 December 2019 under the 2009 LTI stock option plan (see section 8.2.2. A., c). LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options Grant date 18 Dec 2009 30 Nov 2010 30 Nov 2011 30 Nov 2012 02 Dec 2013 01 Dec 2014 01 Dec 2015 Expiry date 17 Dec 2019 29 Nov 2020 29 Nov 2021 29 Nov 2022 01 Dec 2023 30 Nov 2024 30 Nov 2025 ExCom(1) 0 57,829 336,713 672,835 440,931 276,102 24,564 Strike price 35.90 42.41 44.00 66.56 75.15 94.46 121.95 (EUR) LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options Grant date 22 Dec 2015 01 Dec 2016 20 Jan 2017 22 Jan 2018 25 Jan 2019 02 Dec 2019 Expiry date 21 Dec 2025 30 Nov 2025 19 Jan 2027 21 Jan 2028 24 Jan 2029 01 Dec 2029 ExCom(1) 611,565 18,635 551,276 594,936 249,696 168,268 Strike price 113.00 98.04 98.85 94.36 65.70 71.87 (EUR) (1) The following options were exercised in 2019: a. Carlos Brito exercised 190,984 LTI options of 18 December 2009 with a strike price of EUR 35.90 and 273,365 LTI options of 30 November 2010 with a strike price of EUR 42.41. b. Felipe Dutra exercised 53,297 LTI options of 18 December 2009 with a strike price of EUR 35.90, 76,288 LTI options of 30 November 2010 with a strike price of EUR 42.41 and 100,836 LTI options of 30 November 2011 with a strike price of EUR 44.00. c. John Blood exercised 5,005 LTI options of 18 December 2009 with a strike price of EUR 35.90. The table below sets forth the number of options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant owned by the members of the ExCom as of 31 December 2019(1). November 2008 November 2008 November 2008 November 2008 Exceptional Exceptional Exceptional Exceptional November 2008 November 2008 Grant options Grant options Grant options Grant options Exceptional Exceptional Series A – Series B – Series B – Series B – Grant options Grant options Dividend Waiver Dividend Waiver Dividend Waiver Dividend Waiver Series A Series B 09 09 11 13 Grant date 25 Nov 2008 25 Nov 2008 1 Dec 2009 1 Dec 2009 11 July 2011 31 May 2013 Expiry date 24 Nov 2018 24 Nov 2023 24 Nov 2018 24 Nov 2023 24 Nov 2023 24 Nov 2023 ExCom(2) 0 1,626,679 0 1,260,596 0 0 Strike price 10.32 10.32 33.24 40.35 75.82 (EUR) (1) The Series A stock options have a duration of 10 years as from granting and vested on 1 January 2014. The Series B stock options have a duration of 15 years as from granting and vested on 1 January 2019. The exercise of the stock options is subject, among other things, to the condition that the company meets a performance test. This performance test, which was met, required the net debt/EBITDA, as defined (adjusted for exceptional items) ratio to fall below 2.5 before 31 December 2013. Forfeiture rules apply in the event of termination of employment. (2) The following options were exercised in 2019: a. In January 2019, Felipe Dutra exercised 542,226 options of 25 November 2008 with a strike price of EUR 10.32 and 343,884 options of 1 December 2009 with a strike price of EUR 33.24; b. In August 2019, David Almeida exercised 361,484 options of 25 November 2008 with a strike price of EUR 10.32. 31 89 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The table below sets forth the number of options granted under the 2020 Incentive Plan owned by the members of the ExCom as of 31 December 2019 (see section 8.2.2. A., c). 2020 Incentive Stock Options Grant date 22 December 2015 Expiry date 22 December 2025 ExCom 47,823 Strike price (EUR) 113.00 The table below sets forth the number of options granted under the Integration Incentive Plan owned by the members of the ExCom as of 31 December 2019 (see section 8.2.2. A., c). Integration Incentive Stock Options Grant date 5 May 2017 Expiry date 31 December 2026 ExCom 261,706 Strike price (EUR) 109.10 The table below sets forth the number of options granted under the Long Run Stock Options Incentive Plan owned by the members of the ExCom as of 31 December 2019 (see section 8.2.2. A., c). Long Run Stock Options Long Run Stock Options Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Grant date 1 December 2017 18 May 2018 Expiry date 31 December 2032 31 December 2032 ExCom 2,002,504 1,708,044 Strike price (EUR) 96.70 80.34 32 90 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Contacts Registered office Asia Pacific North Latin America North ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV CHINA AMBEV Grand-Place 1 26 F Raffles City Corporate Park 1000 Brussels Shanghai Office Tower Rua Dr. Renato Paes de Barros 1017 Belgium 268 Middle Xizang Road 4th Floor Shanghai, 200001 04530-001, Sao Paulo Global Headquarters PRC Brazil Belgium ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV Asia Pacific South Latin America South Brouwerijplein 1 CARLTON & UNITED BREWERIES CERVECERIA Y MALTERIA 77 Southbank Boulevard QUILMES S.A.I.C.A Y G. 3000 Leuven Belgium Southbank Av. Rafael Obligado 1221 1er piso Victoria 3006 Capital Federal Functional Australia Argentina Management Office ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV Europe Middle Americas 250 Park Avenue INBEV BELGIUM GRUPO MODELO Floor 2 Brouwerijplein 1 Cerrada de Palomas No. 22, Piso 6 New York, NY 10177 3000 Leuven Colonia Reforma Social CP 11650 United States Belgium Delegación Miguel Hidalgo Ciudad de Mexico Africa Latin America COPEC THE SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES North America BAVARIA 56 Grosvenor Road Cra. 53A No. 127-35 ANHEUSER-BUSCH CO. INC. Bryanston, Sandton Bogotá One Busch Place South Africa Colombia St. Louis, MO 63118 United States 91 AB INBEV ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Registered trademarks The following brands are registered trademarks of AnheusResponsible Editor er-Busch InBev SA/NV or one of its affiliated companies: Pablo Jimenez Global brands: Project Lead Budweiser, Stella Artois and Corona Fallon Buckelew International brands: Translation Supervision Castle, Beck’s, Leffe, Hoegaarden and Michelob Ultra Ingvild Van Lysebetten Local brands: Special thanks to all our proofreaders and colleagues from 10 Barrel, 100% renewable electricity, Aguila, Alexander Keith’s, Anheuser-Busch InBev who made this Annual Report a reality. Alta Palla, Ama, Andes, Antarctica, Archibald, Atlas Golden Light, Atom Brands, Babe, Bagbier, Balboa, Bathtub Gin, Barrilito, Colleagues on Cover Bass, BBC La Cotidiana, Be a King, Beck’s Ice, Becker, Belle-Vue, Adeline Bruyere, Global Tax Analyst (based in Leuven, Belgium) Belgian Beer Café, Best Damn, Birra del Borgo, Blasfemia, Blue Justin Webb, Global Internal Control (based in Leuven, Belgium) Girl, Blue Point, Boddingtons, Bohemia, Bon & Viv, Boxing Cat, Brahma, Breckenridge, Brutal Fruit, Bud 0.0, Bud 66, Bud Light, Bud Light Seltzer, Budweiser Copper Lager, Budweiser Harvest Original English version written by Reserve, Busch, Busch Light, Cafri, Camden Town, Camden Hells, Marci Limpert Carlton, Carling Black Label, Cass, Castle Lite, Castle Lite Cold Lock, Chernigivske, Club, Club Colombia, Colorado, Colorado Design and Production Ribeirão Lager, Corona Cero, Corona Extra, Corona This Is Living, Chris Communications Coronita, Crew Republic, Cristal, Cubanisto, Cucapá, Cusqueña, Cutwater, Devils Backbone, Diebels, Diekirch, Drinkworks Home Bar, Eagle Lager, Elysian, Estrella, Estrella Jalisco, Flying Fish Chill, Four Peaks, Franziskaner, Ginette, Ginsber, Golden Road, Goose Island, Great Northern, Guaraná Antarctica, Haake-Beck, Harbin, Harbin Cristal, Hasseröder, Hertog Jan, Hertog Jan 0.0, HiBall, Hoegaarden Rosée, Impala, Jinling, Jinlongquan, Julius, Jupiler, Jupiler 0.0, Kaiba, Karbach, Kilimanjaro, King of Beers, Klinskoye, Kokanee, Kombrewcha, Kwak, Labatt, Lakeport, La Legítima, Land Shark Lager, La Virgen, Leffe Royale, Leffe 0.0, Leon, Liberty, Löwenbräu, Lucky, Mackeson, Magnífica, Malta, Maverick Drinks, Master of Malt, Mexicali, Michelob Ultra Pure The coated pages of the Annual Report are printed on 10% Gold, Michelob Ultra Lime Cactus, Mike’s Hard, Mike’s Hard postconsumer recycled paper. The uncoated pages of the Sparkling Water, Mill Street, Modelo, Modelo Especial, Montejo, Annual Report are printed on 100% postconsumer recycled Mountain Series, Natty Daddy, Natural Light, Natural Light paper. All paper is both FSC and SFI certified. Seltzer, Negra Modelo, Norte, Nossa, O’Doul’s, OB, Oland, Old Blue Last, Paceña, Pacifico, Patagonia, Patagonia Hoppy The coated pages of the annual report are printed on FSC Lager, Patricia, Pilsen, Pilsen Callao, Pilsener, Pirate Life, Poker, paper. The uncoated pages are printed on 100% postconsumer Pony Malta Plus, Presidente, Pure Blonde, Pure Draught, recycled FSC paper. Quilmes, RateBeer, Redd’s Apple, Ritas, Rogan, Safari, Salva U kan dit rapport in het Nederlands raadplegen op onze webVida, Saturday Session, Sedrin, Shiliang, Shock Top, Sibirskaya site: www.ab-inbev.com Korona, Skol, Skol Beats GT, Skol Puro Malte, SmartBarley, Spaten, Stanley Park, Stella Artois Buy A Lady A Drink, Stella Vous pouvez consulter ce rapport en français sur notre site Artois Midnight Lager, Stella Artois Seltzer, Sunbru, T, Temple web: www.ab-inbev.com Brewery, Tijuana, Tolstiak, Tripel Karemeliet, Tropical, Vieux Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA Temps, Victoria, Victoria Bitter, Wäls, Whitbread, Wicked Weed, Brouwerijplein 1B-3000 Leuven Yantar, Zalva, ZX Ventures. Belgium Tel: +32 16 276 111 The following brand is a Fax: +32 16 506 111 registered trademark: PerfectDraft: co-owned with Koninklijke Philips N.V. Register of Companies Clean Waves: co-owned with Parley LLC 0417.497.106 92
