ANNUAL REPORT 2019 XXXXXXX INNEHÅLLSFÖRTECKNING 2 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Contents Highlights of 2019............................. 4 Auditor’s report............................ 45 Acquisitions 2006–2019................... 90 Lifco in brief...................................... 5 Consolidated financial statements Quality and environmental Chief executive’s review.................... 6 Income statement........................ 48 certifications...................................... 92 Statement of comprehensive Addresses........................................ 93 Directors’ Report income......................................... 49 Business concept and goals........ 8 Definitions and objective................... 99 Balance sheet.............................. 50 Financial results............................ 10 AGM and Nomination Committee..... 100 Statement of changes in equity.... 52 Sustainability................................ 12 Financial information......................... 101 Cash flow statement.................... 53 Dental.......................................... 18 Notes........................................... 54 Financial calendar............................. 102 Demolition & Tools....................... 20 Reconciliation to alternative Systems Solutions....................... 22 performance measures..................... 76 Share information......................... 26 Acquisitions................................. 28 Parent Company financial statements Risks and risk management......... 32 Income statement........................ 78 Corporate Governance Report..... 33 Balance sheet.............................. 79 The Board of Directors................. 40 Statement of changes in equity.... 80 Group management..................... 43 Cash flow statement.................... 80 Appropriation of Notes........................................... 80 retained earnings......................... 44 Ten-year summary............................ 89 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 3 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2019 Highlights of 2019 Net sales +15.8% SEK 13,845 (11,956) million Organic growth 4.2% EBITA* +16.4% SEK 2,523 (2,168) million Profit before tax +7.4% SEK 1,996 (1,858) million Net profit for the year +7.6% SEK 1,528 (1,420) million Earnings per share +8.4% SEK 16.57 (15.29) Proposed dividend per share SEK 5.25 Represents a total distribution of SEK 477 million Key performance indicators 2019 2018 Net sales, SEK million 13,845 11,956 Net sales, adjusted for foreign exchange effects and acquisitions, SEK million 12,458 10,677 EBITA*, SEK million 2,523 2,168 EBITA margin*, % 18.2 18.1 Earnings per share after tax, SEK 16.57 15.29 Cash flow from operating activities, SEK million 1,990 1,533 Capital employed, SEK million 12,925 10,314 Capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, SEK million 2,345 1,312 Return on capital employed, % 19.5 21.0 Return on capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, % 108 165 Net debt, SEK million 5,552 3,685 Net debt/equity ratio 0.7 0.5 Net debt/EBITDA* 1.9 1.6 Interest-bearing net debt, SEK million 4,040 3,170 Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA* 1.4 1.4 Equity/assets ratio, % 45.4 48.8 Equity per share, SEK 87.1 73.6 Number of shares, thousand 90,843 90,843 EBITA* = operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, acquisition costs and non-recurring items. EBITDA* = operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, acquisition costs and non-recurring items. 4 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 LIFCO IN BRIEF Lifco in brief We offer a safe haven for small and medium-sized businesses. We acquire and develop market-leading niche businesses with the potential to deliver sustainable earnings growth and robust cash flows. Three business areas: Dental Demolition & Tools Systems Solutions EMPLOYEES COUNTRIES COMPANIES 5,443 30 164 Six acquisitions in 2019 Strong earnings and cash flow 2,523 Solid financial position EBITA*, SEK million and EBITA margin*, % 2,168 .4% e 18 1,732 h rat wt gro u al nn da 1,377 o un mp Co 1,186 18.2% 18.1% 17.3% 966 15.0% 15.3% 715 14.2% 692 631 11.3% 511 11.6% 11.5% 453 10.6% 412 11.1% 11.1% 280 9.2% 305 7.3% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Chief executive’s review A clear value-creating strategy The basis for Lifco’s historical performance is a clear business strategy that is centred on earnings, simplicity and decentralisation. For Lifco, 2019 was another year of solid organic and acquired growth as well as improved earnings. Lifco’s primary goal is to increase its earnings every year through organic growth as well as acquisitions. Net sales increased by 15.8 per cent in 2019 to SEK 13,845 million, driven by acquisitions, organic growth and foreign exchange gains. A generally favourable economic climate was a strong contributing factor behind our organic growth of 4.2 per cent. Acquisitions added 8.2 per cent while foreign exchange gains had a positive impact of 3.4 per cent. EBITA* increased by 16.4 per cent to SEK 2,523 million in 2019, with acquisitions adding around 10 per cent and organic growth and foreign exchange gains contributing about 3 per cent each. The EBITA margin* was 18.2 (18.1) per cent. Lifco’s average annual EBITA* growth including acquisitions over the period 2006–2019 is 18.4 per cent. Lifco acquired six businesses in 2019 and nine in the previous year. To ensure sustainable earnings growth, the Group takes a long-term approach to the companies it acquires. We look for companies that are profitable and have achieved stable growth over an extended period of time. Ideally, we like to buy companies that are market leaders in their niche and not overly dependent on individual suppliers and customers. We are happy for the existing management to remain active in the company, as they are the ones who know the market and the business. We are strongly decentralised, and the companies enjoy a high degree of independence. Our goal is for decisions to be made by the local management teams in the companies where the business is conducted. A key means of implementing a decentralised business model in practice is to minimise central functions and resources. Secure ownership Lifco has a unique advantage in that the Group offers secure, long-term ownership for small and medium-sized companies. When we acquire a company it is not our goal to sell the business in the future. Nor do we strive to realise synergies and we have never relocated operations. The idea is that the companies should continue to operate as they did before becoming a part of the Lifco Group and thereby deliver steady earnings growth. Our approach to ownership is perpetual, which enables the subsidiaries to combine in a natural way a focus on earnings and cash flow with continuous efforts to develop new products and increase their selling power. Lifco’s decentralised business model, which allows for a high degree of autonomy in the subsidiaries, is a key factor when we negotiate with potential acquisition candidates. In many of the acquisitions made by Lifco in recent years, our clear and simple corporate culture – a culture that has proved its worth over time – has been crucial in persuading the entrepreneur to sell their life’s work to Lifco. Sustainable business Lifco is convinced that it is only with a sustainability perspective that it is possible to build sustainably profitable companies with motivated employees and satisfied customers. That’s why sustainability is an integral part of Lifco’s business model. We have also implemented the sustainability perspective in our acquisition process and only acquire companies that operate in a sustainable manner. We do not acquire companies which are considered to violate the UN Global Compact’s principles on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. It is essential to the success of our decentralised business model that the Group has a clear and shared view of how to run a sustainable business. We therefore have group 6 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW policies that govern our sustainability management activities. Our Code of Conduct sets forth our ethical principles, which cover our relations with employees, customers, suppliers, society, the environment and shareholders. This means, for example, that the employees need to be offered good terms and that the company’s suppliers need to meet the criteria for sustainable business. Group management regularly monitors compliance with the Code of Conduct and takes immediate action in case of any deviations. In December 2016, Lifco signed up to the UN’s sustainability initiative, Global Compact, to show our support for internationally accepted business ethical standards and our longterm commitment to sustainability issues. As a member, we have undertaken actively to implement the Global Compact’s ten principles for sustainable development in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Per Waldemarson President and CEO Strong cash flow A constant focus area for us is the Group’s cash flow and changes in capital employed in our businesses. Cash flow from operating activities increased by 29.8 per cent in 2019 to SEK 1,990 million. The long-term objective is to ensure stable dividend growth while maintaining a payout ratio of 30-50 per cent of earnings after tax. For 2019, the Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 5.25 per share, which is an increase of 14.1 per cent on 2018 and equates to 31.7 per cent of earnings after tax. Market-leading niche companies The Lifco Group encompasses many successful businesses and strong brands. Our Dental business area, which sells consumables, equipment and technical service to dentists, has long had a strong position in distribution to dentists in northern Europe. In recent years, Lifco has strengthened its positions in the dental market through acquisitions of niche companies that manufacture dental materials, software and dental prosthetics. Our Demolition & Tools business area includes Brokk, a world-leading manufacturer of demolition robots, and Kinshofer, a leading supplier of crane and excavator attachments. Our Systems Solutions business area, for example, includes ErgoPack, the leading manufacturer of ergonomic and mobile pallet strapping systems, which are used globally in different industries, and Brian James Trailers, a niche UK manufacturer of open and enclosed transport trailers. Lifco has built a strong European market presence and established significant positions in North America and Asia through organic growth as well as acquisitions. Over the period 2006–2019, Lifco made 69 acquisitions on three continents. Impact of the spread of COVID-19 Lifco is closely following the outbreak and spread of COVID-19 (coronavirus) across the world. The Group has taken proactive measures to reduce risks for employees and to ensure business continuity. Lifco operates in a large number of industries that are impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak to varying extents. It is not currently possible for us to predict how and to what extent these different businesses will be impacted. A financially strong group Financially, Lifco still has significant scope for further acquisitions. Our target is to maintain interest-bearing net debt below three times EBITDA*. At year-end, interest-bearing net debt stood at 1.4 times EBITDA*, which gives us ample space to continue to grow through acquisitions when the right opportunities arise. The most important factor for Lifco is our employees. We now have 5,443 employees in 30 countries. Many of our employees have worked in our companies for many years, and their collective experience is Lifco’s most important success factor. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees for their valuable contributions in 2019. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 7 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Directors’ Report Business concept and goals Lifco’s business concept is to acquire and develop market-leading niche businesses with the potential to deliver sustainable earnings growth and robust cash flows. The company’s strength lies in its ability to offer a safe haven for small and medium-sized businesses. Lifco is guided by a clear philosophy centred on long-term growth, a focus on profitability and a strongly decentralised organisation. FINANCIAL GOALS AND DIVIDEND POLICY Lifco’s primary goal is to generate sustainable earnings growth. The Group and subsidiaries’ goal is to ensure that organic EBITA* growth exceeds GDP growth in the relevant geographic markets over the course of a business cycle. Additional growth should be achieved through acquisitions. Efficient use of capacity is another important goal for Lifco. Return on capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets should exceed 50 per cent for the last twelve-month period. Our target is to maintain interest-bearing net debt in a range of 2–3 times EBITDA. The long-term objective is to ensure stable dividend growth while maintaining a payout ratio of 30–50 per cent of earnings after tax. A decentralised organisation Lifco consists of 164 subsidiary companies, which are organised in about 60 operating units. The operating units operate in eight divisions, which in turn form part of the three business areas: Dental, Demolition & Tools and Systems Solutions. This decentralised organisation is one of the cornerstones of Lifco’s governance philosophy. The individual subsidiaries are given a large degree of freedom, which encourages a strong entrepreneurial spirit. As the subsidiaries are managed independently, each company is able to retain its specific culture. They can also continue to employ the methods that are used in the industries and markets in which they operate. A strong entrepreneurial spirit is one explanation for the Lifco Group’s ability to retain key individuals in the companies which it acquires. In many cases, the key individuals are attracted by Lifco’s decentralised structure, which allows them to maintain a high degree of independence also after the acquisition. Minimal bureaucracy Lifco has developed a model for developing its subsidiaries. The model is based on Lifco’s philosophy, which is centred on earnings, decentralisation and a long-term approach. It is the fruit of many years’ experience of building businesses. In simplified terms, the model can be described as follows: • Motivated and dedicated heads of subsidiaries • Minimal bureaucracy and simple processes • A focus on customers with the potential to generate sustainable earnings growth • An efficient cost structure with a focus on value-creating functions • Monthly monitoring of the subsidiaries’ income statements and balance sheets with a focus on EBITA, changes in capital employed and cash flow A clear acquisition strategy Expansion through acquisitions is a key element of Lifco’s business concept. The Group acquires companies that can form new divisions as well as companies that add to and expand its existing divisions. An acquisition must either generate profitable growth and good cash flows or meet a strategic objective. The risk taken by Lifco must also be limited. 8 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT EMPLOYEES 5,443 COUNTRIES 30 COMPANIES The map shows the countries where Lifco has employees. 164 Lifco’s acquisition process Identify takeover candidates Analysis Post-acquisition action plan Takeover candidates are identified through various Lifco looks at the company’s position of strength in While acquired companies have a high degree of networks, mainly through the subsidiaries. In many the value chain by engaging in discussions independence, Lifco conducts a review aimed at cases, Lifco is contacted directly by the seller. with suppliers, customers, industry experts and improving operational efficiency. Lifco is also regularly contacted by professional other parties. Normally, the following actions are taken: corporate dealmakers. Lifco also assesses whether the Group is a • New remuneration and reporting system suitable owner and what Lifco could contribute • New Board of Directors to the target company. • Increased financial awareness with a focus Lifco analyses the company’s financial statements on working capital and controlled financing and contracts. of growth opportunities Lifco also studies the company’s culture and • A shortand long-term strategic agenda work methods. Takeover candidates must meet the following criteria: • Stable business • Leading in its niche • An attractive position in the value chain without being dependent on specific suppliers or customers • Limited or no exposure to technological risk • Documented profitability • Running a sustainable business Lifco may decide to make an acquisition even where the five first criteria have not been met if the company offers attractive strategic or financial opportunities. In connection with acquisitions Lifco carries out a sustainability due diligence in which the management of the acquisition candidate answers questions about human rights, working conditions, environment and anti-corruption. Lifco does not acquire companies which are considered to violate the UN Global Compact’s principles on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Nor does Lifco acquire companies which manufacture or sell weapons, tobacco, fossil fuels or uranium. A high ethical standard and sustainability Lifco’s focus is on creating the conditions for sustainable value creation in the subsidiaries. A fundamental requirement for this decentralised structure is that the subsidiaries operate in accordance with Lifco’s ethical principles. The ethical principles are set forth in the Code of Conduct, which all subsidiaries are required to follow. Compliance with the Code is monitored regularly by Group management. The Code of Conduct also includes Lifco’s core values: respect for others, openness and pragmatism. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 9 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Financial results 2019 was another year of solid growth for Lifco. Net sales and earnings improved, mainly through acquisitions and organic growth. Six acquired businesses were consolidated during the year. Net sales increased 15.8 per cent to SEK 13,845 (11,956) million, driven by acquisitions, organic growth and foreign exchange gains. Acquisitions contributed 8.2 per cent and organic growth 4.2 per cent while changes in exchange rates had a positive impact of 3.4 per cent. EBITA* increased 16.4 per cent to SEK 2,523 (2,168) million and the EBITA margin* expanded by 0.1 percentage point to 18.2 (18.1) per cent. EBITA* improved on the back of acquisitions, foreign exchange gains and organic growth. Foreign exchange gains added 3.1 per cent to EBITA*. In 2019, 35 (37) per cent of EBITA* was generated in EUR, 28 (28) per cent in SEK, 15 (15) per cent in NOK, 6 (6) per cent in USD, 8 (6) per cent in DKK, 3 (2) per cent in GBP and 5 (6) per cent in other currencies. Investments in intangible and tangible assets totalled SEK 301 (181) million. Net financial items were SEK -63 (-44) million. Earnings before tax grew 7.4 per cent to SEK 1,996 (1,858) million. Items related to the acquired businesses that were consolidated during the year had a negative impact of SEK 29 (14) million on earnings for 2019. Non-recurring items totalled SEK 56 (0) million and refer to costs incurred in connection with management changes. Net profit for the year grew 7.6 per cent to SEK 1,528 (1,420) million. Earnings per share increased by 8.4 per cent to SEK 16.57 (15.29). The Group’s tax expense was SEK 468 (438) million, which represents 23.4 (23.6) per cent of earnings before tax. Tax paid was SEK 571 (472) million, which equates to 28.6 (25.4) per cent of earnings before tax. Inventories were SEK 1,997 (1,710) million and accounts receivable SEK 1,584 (1,550) million. Average capital employed excluding goodwill increased over the year to SEK 2,345 (1,312) million while EBITA* in relation to average capital employed excluding goodwill was 108 (165) per cent at year-end. The return on capital employed was hit by smaller customer advances than in the previous year. The implementation of IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 had a negative impact on the return, as right-of-use assets are included in capital employed. Goodwill and other intangible assets totalled SEK 11,209 (9,133) million at year-end. The Group’s net debt increased by SEK 1,867 million in 2019 to SEK 5,552 (3,685) million, of which SEK 916 (515) million refers to liabilities related to put/call options as well as additional considerations relating to acquisitions. As of 1 January 2019, net debt is affected by the lease liability resulting from the implementation of the IFRS 16 standard. At year-end, the lease liability was SEK 596 (-) million. Interest-bearing net debt at 31 December 2019 was SEK 4,040 (3,170) million, which represents a year-on-year increase of SEK 870 million. In November 2019, Lifco introduced a SEK 3 billion MTN programme, which allows the company to issue bonds in the Swedish market. In the same month, Lifco issued SEK 1 billion in unsecured bonds with a maturity of two years under the MTN programme. The proceeds of the bond issue were used to refinance existing bank loans and bonds. 10 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Net sales by business area The net debt/equity ratio at 31 December 2019 was 0.7 (0.5) and net debt/EBITDA* was 1.9 (1.6) times. Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA* was 1.4 (1.4) times. At year-end, 32% 35 (29) per cent of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities were denominated in EUR. 42% Equity was SEK 7,972 (6,748) million and the equity/assets ratio 45.4 (48.8) per cent. Cash flow from operating activities increased by 29.8 per cent during the year, to SEK 26% 1,990 (1,533) million, mainly on the back of improved earnings. Cash flow was reduced by an increase in cash tied up in inventory and reduced customer advances in the Forest division. Cash flow from investing activities was SEK -2,056 (-669) million, which was mainly attributable to acquisitions. Cash flow was also affected by a total dividend payment of Dental SEK 490 (383) million. Demolition & Tools Dividend Systems Solutions The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer propose that the Annual General Meeting authorise the payment of a dividend of SEK 5.25 (4.60) per share for the financial EBITA* by business area year 2019, representing a total distribution of SEK 476.9 (417.9) million. This is equal to 31.7 (30.1) per cent of the net profit for the year attributable to shareholders of Lifco AB, which is consistent with Lifco’s dividend policy. Under the dividend policy, the long-term objective is to ensure stable dividend growth 35% 33% while maintaining a payout ratio of 30–50 per cent of after-tax earnings. Dividends should be based on the company’s earnings performance, taking account of future development opportunities and the company’s financial position. 32% Product development Innovation and product development are key success factors, especially in Demolition & Tools and Systems Solutions. Innovation and product development enable Lifco to Dental strengthen its customer offering and establish sustainable organic growth. Acquisitions Demolition & Tools of businesses complement the Group’s internal product development. Developments in Systems Solutions the market are monitored continuously by all subsidiaries and a large number of potential projects are evaluated each year. In 2019, product development costs totalled SEK 171 (144) million. Net sales by Financial results geographic market 1% SEK million 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net sales 7,901 8,987 10,030 11,956 13,845 11% 15% EBITA* 1,186 1,377 1,732 2,168 2,523 10% EBITA margin* 15.0% 15.3% 17.3% 18.1% 18.2% 12% Earnings per share, SEK 8.91 9.99 11.94 15.29 16.57 16% Net sales, SEK million 35% 13,845 % 11,956 13.6 rate Sweden wth nu a l gro 10,030 n d an pou 8,987 Norway Com 7,901 6,802 Germany 6,184 6,030 5,707 4,901 Rest of Europe 4,591 4,146 3,660 North America 2,629 Asia & Australia Rest of world 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 11 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Sustainability Report Lifco’s business idea is to acquire and develop ries out a sustainability due diligence in which the management of the acquisition candidate answers questions about human market-leading niche companies that run rights, working conditions, environment and anti-corruption. Lifco sustainable businesses. Sustainability is an does not acquire companies which are considered to violate the integral part of Lifco’s business model, whose UN Global Compact’s principles on human rights, labour stanoverall goal is to increase shareholder value. dards, environment and anti-corruption. Nor does Lifco acquire companies which manufacture or sell weapons, tobacco, fossil Lifco’s subsidiaries operate across a range of different industries fuels or uranium. and markets. In all areas, the Group is seeing an increased interest in and demands for sustainable business. The UN’s global sustainable development goals set forth the challenges for busiSustainability governance Group management has adopted four sustainability policies which nesses and decision makers. At the same time, decision-making regulate how the company and its subsidiaries and employees at all levels is affected by mounting concerns about the climate should behave and act in order to further the goal of building a and environmental impacts. Other global trends affecting the sustainable society. Lifco’s governance is based on the Universal Group include an increased need among customers to attract Declaration on Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamenqualified personnel. tal Principles and Rights at Work and the OECD’s principles and For Lifco, this creates business opportunities as well as a need standards on responsible business for multinational enterprises. to drive our internal sustainability management activities and inIn December 2016, the Board of Directors decided that Lifco fluence suppliers, resellers and other partners to adopt a sustainshould join the UN’s sustainability initiative, Global Compact. ability perspective. Lifco is convinced that it is only with a sustainAs a member, Lifco undertakes to actively implement the Global ability perspective that it is possible to build sustainably profitable Compact’s ten principles for sustainable development in the companies with motivated employees and satisfied customers. four areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and Lifco’s biggest sustainability impact is exerted in the subsidiaries. anti-corruption. The company’s annual report constitutes Lifco’s Many of the subsidiaries play an important role in building a susCommunication on Progress report under the UNGC framework. tainable future, as they offer products that enable the customers The policies are revised when necessary and compliance with the to implement sustainability strategies. The customers often have policies is monitored in internal controls and by the company’s explicit sustainability strategies in the areas of health and safety external auditors. Lack of compliance or the risk of non-compliand energy. In health and safety, the objective is to the improve ance results in immediate action from management and more the work environment in order to attract and retain employees. serious cases are reported to the Board. In energy, customers are increasingly demanding products and solutions that will enable them to cut back on their use of fossil All new employees in the Lifco Group must be informed about fuels and products and thus reduce their carbon footprint. the Code of Conduct within one month of taking up their employment. The Code of Conduct also covers suppliers. On Lifco has a Code of Conduct that provides a common framework a quarterly basis, Group management monitors: whether there both internally in the Group and in Lifco’s relations with suppliers, have been deviations from the Code of Conduct, that all new resellers and other partners. The Code of Conduct defines a minemployees and employees of newly acquired companies have imum level for how Lifco’s employees and partners should work been informed about the Code and the whistleblower function, to build a sustainable society. and that key suppliers have been informed about the Code and Lifco has also implemented the sustainability perspective in its the whistleblower function. In 2019, the focus was on ensuring acquisition process and only acquires companies that operate in that important regular suppliers had been informed about the a sustainable manner. In connection with acquisitions Lifco carCode of Conduct and the whistleblower function. 100% 100% of the employees have access to an of the employees have anonymous whistleblower function been informed about that is managed by an external party the Code of Conduct 12 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our sustainability policies Sustainability Environment Climate impact Social, labour Anti-corruption area and human rights Policies Environmental policy Environmental policy Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Investment and purchasing policy Investment and purchasing policy HR policy Key themes Lifco should always strive -E  nergy consumption All suppliers and subcontractors are Gifts, personal benefits and to reduce its negative associated with Lifco’s covered by the Code of Conduct. similar advantages may only environmental impact. products should be be offered to outside parties reduced. Lifco’s workplaces must be safe if they are of small value and Water and energy consumption and sound. consistent with current practice. associated with Lifco’s -L  ifco should proactively products should be reduced. look for environmentally The risk of accidents and incidents No employee may receive friendly options when should be minimised. gifts or benefits that can The use of harmful substances purchasing products be assumed to affect their should be reduced. No form of discrimination is and services. accepted. business decisions. Waste should be handled Lifco makes no contributions safely and effectively. Harassment is not accepted. to political parties. Lifco should proactively look Salaries and remuneration must meet or exceed the minimum Anonymous whistleblower for environmentally friendly function managed by an options when purchasing standards for the industry. independent external party. products and services. Freedom of association. Lifco should deliver products Child labour is prohibited. and services of consistently high value, quality and Anonymous whistleblower function reliability. Product safety is managed by an independent a paramount concern. external party. Environmental management system Contribute to reduced environmental A key element of the Group’s continuous improvement work is the use of management systems. In 2019, 48 of Lifco’s subsidand climate impacts Lifco strives to contribute to reduced environmental and climate iaries were certified under various management systems. See impacts. Many of Lifco’s products have a positive effect on both page 92 for a full list of certifications. Subsidiaries that handle the environment and the climate by contributing to reduced CO2 chemicals perform regular risk assessments and train employees emissions and reduced use of fossil fuels and products by cusin chemicals management. tomers. Internally, many of the subsidiaries are working continThe subsidiary companies Indexator Rotator Systems AB, uously to identify areas where energy and water consumption Lövånger Elektronik AB, Modul-System HH AB, Rapid Granucan be reduced and more environmentally friendly alternatives lator AB, Texor AB and Zetterströms Rostfria AB are engaged can replace existing inputs. in environmentally hazardous activities pursuant to the Swedish Environmental Code, which means that they are regulated by the environment committee at the relevant local authority. Sustainability governance at Lifco Lifco’s main sustainability impact, and thus also opportunities and risks, is in the operations of the subsidiaries. UN Global Compact Group policies, monitoring Business-specific guidelines, The Universal Declaration on Human Rights, implementation and monitoring of the the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles Persons responsible: Code of Conduct at supplier level and Rights at Work and the OECD’s principles The Board of Directors Persons responsible: and standards on responsible business for multinational enterprises and Group management Managing Directors of the subsidiaries LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 13 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Motivated employees and All employees have the right to freedom of association and union members have the right to negotiate collectively. Forced labour good social conditions and/or child labour is prohibited. Employee motivation is essential to building a sustainable and Lifco has subsidiaries whose suppliers operate in markets where profitable business. Lifco’s business model is based on decenthere is an increased risk of human rights violations. Some tralisation and independent local decisions. These factors have subsidiaries therefore carry out special audits and reviews to contributed to the Group’s success in developing companies, minimise the risks. as it strengthens the motivation of the employees. Lifco also believes in value-based leadership, and the Group’s Anti-corruption activities values inspire everything we do. The values are: respect for Lifco has zero tolerance for bribery, both in its own organisation others, openness and pragmatism. and among suppliers. All employees have been informed of this and work is underway in the Group to raise awareness among To create motivation among employees, it is essential that the suppliers about Lifco’s policy. Lifco has established that the company is able to offer workplaces that are safe and attracrisk of bribery or attempted bribery is higher in some countries, tive both physically and from a psychosocial perspective. Lifco where special efforts are being made to minimise the risks. Any therefore places a strong emphasis on creating workplaces that violations or offers of bribery must be reported immediately to offer a good psychosocial and physical environment. The Group management, which will take action. also invests in skills development in order to develop and retain employees. In 2019, an anonymous whistleblower function was implemented that also covers suppliers. Several of Lifco’s products make a significant contribution to improving the work environments of its customers and to creating healthier working conditions. Anti-corruption training Lifco has subsidiaries that operate in markets where there is an Brokk is a world-leading supplier of demolition robots that increased risk of breaches of the Code of Conduct. To minimise is headquartered in Skellefteå. The Brokk Group has over the risk of deviations from the Code of Conduct among these 300 employees and subsidiaries in 13 countries. Already suppliers and their subcontractors, each subsidiary carries out at the time of its founding in 1976, the company’s busispecial audits and checks. ness idea was to replace dangerous manual work with remote-controlled and safe robots. Today, Brokk has sold over 8,000 demolition robots that are used in hazardous Delegation increases motivation work environments such as tunnels, mines, steel and Founded in 1903, DAB Dental AB is a market-leading nuclear power industries. Swedish distributor of medical devices to the dental industry. DAB Dental’s 70-strong workforce operates Brokk’s robots are used globally, which means that the from offices in Stockholm, Malmö, Linköping, Falun and company also sells to countries which from a corruption Gothenburg. Staff turnover is very low and the employperspective are defined as high-risk. In order to minimise ees’ motivation is high. The reason for this is that the the risk of corruption, Brokk introduced an anti-corruption company has a flat organisation with a clear delegation programme in 2018 that covers dealers, distributors, of responsibilities, which enables quick decisions. “By agents, subsidiaries and the company’s own purchasing delegating responsibilities and defining clear goals we organisation. As part of the programme, all key personnel inspire a high level of motivation among our employees, at dealers, distributors and agents are trained in antiwho are solution-oriented and come up with suggestions corruption issues during a half-day session. The training for improvements,” CEO Jonas Redin says. DAB’s goal is is provided on-site at the participants’ workplaces and to increase its earnings every year. not via a web application. As the training is provided in the form of personal meetings with Brokk’s representatives, an active dialogue is created and Brokk is also able to answer questions and respond to concerns and ideas. Respect for human rights The programme includes a review of the company’s Lifco does not accept any form of discrimination or harassment. agreements, which contain clear anti-corruption clauses. No one may be discriminated against or harassed on the grounds of ethnicity, religion, age, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, political beliefs, union membership, marital status or disability. 14 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Contribute to the UN’s global goals strapping machines improve the work environment for many operators by removing many aspects of the work processes The UN Global Sustainable Development Goals were adopted that can lead to back problems. in September 2015 by the General Assembly of the United Nations. Here, we present those goals where Lifco makes the The dental company Dansk Nordenta was founded in 1963 and biggest contribution. was acquired by Lifco in 1998. Initially a mail order company that sold consumables and technical equipment to dentists in DenGoal 3 Good health and well-being mark, Dansk Nordenta now sells most of its consumables over Investments in health through preventive measures the Internet. The company has around 100 employees and offers and modern and effective care for all benefit the genover 15,000 products from a large range of suppliers. Disposable eral development of society and create conditions for gloves for medical use are an important consumable product ensuring people’s fundamental right to well-being. at dental clinics and therefore a significant product for Dansk Lifco’s dental business contributes to modern and effective Nordenta. Every year, 150 billion pairs of disposable gloves are dental care and thereby also to human well-being in the form of manufactured in the world and about 90 per cent are used for good dental health. The companies in Lifco’s Dental business medical purposes. Two thirds of all disposable gloves are manuarea are leading suppliers of consumables, equipment and techfactured in Malaysia. In early 2019, Dansk Nordenta conducted nical service to dentists across Europe, and Dental also has opa review of its two glove suppliers in Malaysia following a report erations in the US. Lifco sells dental technology to dentists in the about irregularities among glove manufacturers. Dansk NordenNordic countries and Germany, and develops and sells medical ta conducted its own on-site investigation and also engaged record systems in Denmark, Sweden and Germany. Dental also two independent auditors. The auditors’ examination covered includes manufacturing companies that produce denture attachthe working environment, working conditions and child labour as ments, disinfectants, saliva ejectors, bite registration and dental well as other issues. The audits showed that Dansk Nordenta’s impression materials, bonding agents and other consumables suppliers lived up to and in some cases exceeded the requirethat are sold to dentists through distributors around the world. ments. The issues that were identified have been addressed. Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth Goal 12 Responsible consumption Decent working conditions promote sustainable and production economic growth and are a positive force for the Achieving sustainable development requires that we planet as a whole. reduce our ecological footprint by changing the way we produce and consume goods and resources. Silvent was acquired by Lifco in 2017 and is headquartered in Borås. The company has approximately 85 employees. Silvent In 2015, Lifco acquired the dental company Orsing. The company has unique expertise in compressed air dynamics and is a leading is based in Råå outside Helsingborg and has eleven employees. manufacturer of air nozzles and air guns for industrial applicaOrsing manufactures saliva ejectors, saliva adaptors and rinsing tions. The company’s products are currently used in over 90 cups, among other products. In 2018, CEO Henric Karsk took countries. Silvent’s products for blowing with compressed air rethe initiative to develop bio-based products. “If we are to remain duce noise levels by 50 per cent, which reduces the risk of hearcompetitive in the future, we cannot be a plastic industry,” Henric ing damage. Silvent’s compressed air products also use 35 per Karsk says. The goal was to produce CO2-neutral products, and cent less energy, which means that work environments in which in March 2019, after one year of development, Orsing was able their products are used are both quieter and more climate-smart. to launch its unique bio-based products. The products – saliva With Silvent’s unique products, Lifco helps to create safer work ejectors, saliva adaptors and dental cups – are made from sugar environments as well as reducing energy use. cane. They are CO2-neutral because the sugarcane plantations absorb the CO2 that is emitted during production. If all customers In October 2019, Lifco acquired ErgoPack of Germany. The chose the bio-based products, 2,200 tonnes of CO2 would be company was founded by the inventor Andreas Kimmerle, who saved in the value chain, which is equivalent to 100 million plastic is passionate about ergonomics. Back injuries are a common bags or driving 2,200 cars annually. work injury and often occur as a result of repeated bending of the back or because the worker is required to bend his back Brokk, the world-leading supplier of remote-controlled, electrically when working. Andreas Kimmerle himself has experience of powered demolition robots, enables other companies to run a strapping pallets and became irritated at having to bend his sustainable business. Some of Brokk’s most important sales back repeatedly to reach round with the straps. In 1999, he arguments are that the company’s robots replace hand-held patented his invention – a strapping machine that does not tools that cause vibration injuries or that they replace large, require the operator to bend his back or walk around the pallet. noisy diesel-powered machines. Brokk thus creates better Three years later, he was awarded a gold medal at the Internaworking environments and helps customers to reduce their use tional Inventors Exhibition in Geneva and founded ErgoPack. of fossil fuels. Read more about Brokk on page 14 under the Today, ErgoPack has around 85 employees and the strapping heading “Anti-corruption training.” machines have been sold in 55 countries. ErgoPack’s unique LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 15 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Dental The companies in Lifco’s Dental business area are leading suppliers of consumables, equipment and technical service to dentists across Europe, and the business area also has operations in the US. Lifco sells dental technology to dentists in the Nordic countries and Germany, and develops and sells medical record systems in Denmark, Sweden and Germany. The business area also includes a number of manufacturers which produce fitting products for dentures, disinfectants, saliva ejectors, bite registration and dental impression materials, bonding agents and other consumables that are sold to dentists through distributors around the world. A stable, non-cyclical market Dental care is a significant market, accounting for around 0.5 per cent of GDP in Lifco’s main markets. The European market for dental care is stable and relatively non-cyclical, while growth has historically been weak. A dental clinic needs a large number of products, ranging from consumables such as tissues and gloves to advanced technical equipment such as X-ray machines and dental chairs. Lifco fills an important role in the dental market by bringing together a large number of suppliers in what is otherwise a fragmented market. The market for dental care products can be divided into consumables, equipment and technical service, and dental technology. Consumables account for around 70 per cent of total sales. Demand for consumables is non-cyclical and is characterised by small but frequent orders, which requires a high level of delivery reliability and a broad product range. Demand for equipment is relatively stable and depends mainly on the age of the installed equipment, the length of the replacement cycle and the number of dental clinics. Shared warehouses Although Lifco’s subsidiaries mostly operate independently of each other, they collaborate to some extent on goods purchases. Lifco has three central warehouses for consumable goods, located in Enköping in Sweden, outside Aarhus in Denmark and in Büdingen, Germany. The Enköping warehouse offers around 44,000 products, the Danish warehouse 18,000 and the German warehouse 58,000. Lifco as a whole offers products from about 500 suppliers. A part of the range consists of own brands, which mainly comprise less complex products. Own brands account for around ten per cent of net sales in the subsidiaries. Lifco is working actively to increase the share of own brands. In dental technology, Lifco operates mainly in Germany but also in the Nordic countries. Lifco provides most of the products, including crowns and bridges, which are made in China, the Philippines and Turkey. This enables Lifco to achieve cost advantages over local dental laboratories. Lifco handles the central parts of the process, such as dental prosthesis design and contacts with dentists. This ensures a high level of quality and proximity to the customers. Online sales Distribution sales of consumables are made through three main channels: the subsidiaries’ sales forces, catalogue sales and online. Between 50–90 per cent of sales are made online depending on the market and subsidiary. The remaining orders are mainly made by telephone. 18 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT NO SE FI DK ee UK DE US LT FR LV CZ CH AT CN HK IT HU SI PH The map shows countries with employees in the Dental business area. Earnings in 2019 Net sales by Dental’s net sales increased by 5.0 per cent to SEK 4,393 (4,185) million and EBITA* geographic market increased by 9.0 per cent to SEK 874 (802) million. The EBITA margin* improved by 0.7 percentage points to 19.9 (19.2) per cent. 1% In recent years, Dental has through acquisitions and organic growth increased its earnings 6% 13% in manufacturing, dental technology and software faster than in distribution, which has had a positive impact on margin growth in the business area. 12% The dental market remains generally stable. The results of individual companies in Lifco’s Dental business may in any individual quarter be influenced by significant fluctuations in 35% exchange rates, calendar effects such as Easter, gained or lost contracts in procurements of consumables by public-sector or major private-sector customers and fluctuations in the delivery of equipment. In 2019 there were no individual events with a substantial impact 33% on the earnings of the dental group as a whole. Financial results Sweden SEK million 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017 Norway Net sales 4,393 5.0% 4,185 9.6% 3,817 Germany EBITA* 874 9.0% 802 14.4% 701 EBITA margin* 19.9% 0.7 19.2% 0.8 18.4% Rest of Europe North America Asia and Australia LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 19 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Demolition & Tools Demolition & Tools develops, manufactures and sells equipment for the construction and demolition industries. Lifco is the world’s leading supplier of demolition robots and crane attachments. The company is also one of the leading global suppliers of excavator attachments. The operations are divided into two divisions: Demolition Robots and Crane & Excavator Attachments. Demolition Robots accounts for 35 per cent of the business area’s net sales and Crane & Excavator Attachments for 65 per cent. Demolition Robots Lifco’s remote-controlled demolition robots are sold under the Brokk brand. The machines are easy to manoeuvre and can be deployed without time-consuming preparations. They can also handle hot and stressful environments. The arms have a long reach, and a wide range of attachments increase the machines’ flexibility and applications. Brokk’s machines are sold to a large number of countries globally and are used in many areas of application. In addition to demolition, Brokk’s machines are also used for renovation of cement kilns, removal of linings as well as other purposes. As the machines can be remote-controlled, they are suitable for use in elevated-risk environments such as nuclear power plants and for handling contaminated materials. The company’s main market is the global construction and demolition industries. Its sales follow the trend in the global market for construction machinery. The demolition robots are sold directly to the end customers or to selected distributors and agents. The components are produced by contract manufacturers and the products are assembled in Sweden. Crane & Excavator Attachments Lifco’s crane and excavator attachments are sold under the Auger Torque, Demarec, Doherty, Hammer, Hultdins, Indexator, Kinshofer, RF-System and Solesbee’s brands. The attachments make it possible to use the same crane or excavator for different purposes. Typical applications include construction and earthworks, snow clearing, demolition, pipe and cable laying, forestry work, scrap handling and railway works. Sales of crane and excavator attachments largely follow global machinery sales. As purchasing an attachment from Lifco is a smaller investment for the customer than buying a new machine, the market is less cyclical than the market for construction machinery. Crane attachments are sold directly to the crane manufacturers while excavator attachments are sold mainly through resellers. The products are sold under Lifco’s brand or under the crane and excavator manufacturers’ own brands. 20 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT NO SE CA UK NL DE US CH FR AE AT IT CN CZ SG au NZ The map shows countries with employees in the Demolition & Tools business area. In 2019, Lifco acquired Indexator Rotator Systems of Sweden, which develops and Net sales by manufactures rotators, primarily for the forest industry, and Hammer, an Italian supplier of hydraulic breakers and other demolition tools for excavators. Both companies are geographic market part of the Crane & Excavator Attachments division. 2% 1% Earnings in 2019 8% Net sales increased by 28.0 per cent to SEK 3,610 (2,820) million in 2019, driven by acquisitions, foreign exchange gains and organic growth. The market environment was 19% 15% generally good. Among the larger markets, France and the US saw the fastest growth during the year. EBITA* increased 15.2 per cent to SEK 834 (724) million, resulting in an EBITA margin* of 23.1 (25.7) per cent. 19% Financial results 36% SEK million 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017 Net sales 3,610 28.0% 2,820 24.7% 2,261 EBITA* 834 15.2% 724 21.1% 598 Sweden EBITA margin* 23.1% -2.6 25.7% -0.8 26.5% Norway Germany Rest of Europe North America Asia and Australia Rest of world LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 21 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Systems Solutions The Systems Solutions business area comprises companies which offer systems solutions. Systems Solutions has five divisions: Construction Materials, Contract Manufacturing, Environmental Technology, Service and Distribution, and Forest. The divisions are leading players in their geographic markets. Four acquisitions were consolidated during the year, two each in the Environmental Technology and Service and Distribution divisions. Construction Materials Environmental Technology The Construction Materials division includes the Proline Group, Under the Eldan Recycling, Rapid Granulator, Redoma Recycling which operates in several European markets and restores pipes and TMC/Nessco brands, Lifco manufactures and sells machinery through relining. The division also includes Pro Optix of Sweden which helps to improve the environment, such as recycling and Fiberworks of Norway, which offer fibre optic transceivers and machinery for tyres, cables, refrigerators, aluminium products cables and communication equipment for the European fibre and plastics as well as energy-efficient compressors. The division optic market. The Norwegian companies Cenika, a supplier of also includes Silvent, a leading manufacturer of air nozzles and low-voltage electrical equipment, and Nordesign, a supplier of air guns for industrial applications. LED lighting, are also part of the division. In Norway, the division In 2019, Lifco acquired two companies that were consolidated includes Elit, a wholesale provider of machinery and equipment in the Environmental Technology division: Rustibus Worldwide of for electrical installations, and Hydal, which produces aluminium Norway, a leading supplier of surface preparation tools and safecabinets. Another member of the division is Blinken, which sells ty equipment for marine vessels, and ErgoPack of Germany, the measurement instruments for land surveyors and the construcleading maker of ergonomic and mobile pallet strapping systems, tion industry in Norway and Sweden. which are used globally in different industries. Construction Materials reported good sales and earnings growth Environmental Technology reported good sales and earnings in 2019 driven by organic growth and improved profitability. growth in 2019 driven by acquisitions and organic growth. Contract manufacturing Service and Distribution Under the Leab, Texor, Wintech and Zetterströms Rostfria Under the name Modul-System, Lifco makes interior modules brands, Lifco offers contract manufacturing of products that for vans and light commercial vehicles, including tool storage are used in a wide range of industries, including manufacturing and other modules. The interior modules are made from a and medical technology. The companies focus on products with special type of steel which combines durability with low weight. high standards of quality and delivery service and where the The solutions can be used in practically all European-made light manufacture of the product is a key part of the value chain. The commercial vehicles. The largest customers are in the energy customers include world-leading manufacturers of equipment for and construction sectors. the pharmaceutical industry and makers of railway equipment. The division also includes the Norwegian company Auto-Maskin, In 2019, Lifco acquired two companies that were consolidated in which manufactures diesel control units for environmentally the Service and Distribution division: UK POS, a leading UK supfriendly marine applications and emergency power systems for plier of exhibition and display materials that are sold directly to challenging environments in the telecom, airport, hospital and end customers in various industries in the UK, and Brian James defence sectors. Trailers, a niche manufacturer of car trailers, including open and enclosed car transport trailers. Contract Manufacturing reported good sales and earnings growth In 2019, the name of the division was changed from Interiors in 2019 driven by organic growth and improved profitability. for Service Vehicles to Service and Distribution. Service and Distribution improved its sales and earnings in 2019 mainly as a result of acquisitions. 22 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT NO SE NL FI ru US BE dk ee UK FR AT de PL CN ES IT SG The map shows countries with employees in the Systems Solutions business area. Forest Lifco offers sawmill equipment under the Heinola and Hekotek brands. The companies have operations in the Baltic states, Finland, Russia, Norway and Sweden. Together, they offer a large part of the equipment required at a sawmill, such as timber and wood handling equipment, drying equipment and sawing lines. The product range also includes equipment for pellet plants. Sales are often made in project form and normally take several years from initial discussion to first delivery. The business also provides service and spare parts but new equipment accounts Net sales by for a majority of sales. The division also includes Haglöf Sweden, geographic market a world-leading supplier of instruments for professional forestry surveyors, and the Swedish company Wexman, which makes 1% professional workwear. Forest increased its sales in 2019 but earnings were down due 14% 21% to sharply reduced profitability in the sawmill project companies. 8% Earnings in 2019 Systems Solutions increased net sales by 18.0 per cent to SEK 19% 5,842 (4,951) million, mainly as a result of organic growth in all divisions except Forest. EBITA* increased by 20.2 percent to 34% SEK 909 (756) million on the back of improved earnings in all divisions except Forest. The EBITA margin* expanded by 0.3 3% percentage points to 15.6 (15.3) per cent. Sweden Financial results Norway Germany SEK million 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017 Rest of Europe Net sales 5,842 18.0% 4,951 25.3% 3,952 EBITA* 909 20.2% 756 40.8% 537 North America EBITA margin* 15.6% 0.3 15.3% 1.7 13.6% Asia and Australia Rest of world LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 23 XXXXXXX 24 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 XXXXXXX LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 25 DIRECTORS’ REPORT SHARE INFORMATION Lifco’s B shares have been listed on the main Shareholder value list of Nasdaq Stockholm since 21 November The management of the Lifco Group works continuously to 2014. The stock is included in the Nasdaq OMX develop and improve the financial information provided to give current and future owners a good basis on which to obtain a Nordic Large Cap index. At 31 December 2019, true and fair view of the company. This includes participating the number of shareholders was 10,995, which in meetings with analysts, investors and the media. is an increase of 3,201 over the year. The share of foreign-owned shares at year-end was 15.4 Analysts following Lifco Oskar Vikström, ABG Sundal Collier per cent. The company trades under the stock Robert Redin, Carnegie symbol LIFCO B. Johan Dahl, Danske Bank Erik Elander/Daniel Lindkvist, Handelsbanken Share performance and liquidity Markus Gustafsson, Kepler Cheuvreux Lifco’s share price at year-end was SEK 572.00, which translates Christian Hellman, Nordea to a market capitalisation of SEK 48.49 billion. This is an increase Julius Rapeli, SEB of 74.60 per cent since year-end 2018. Nasdaq Stockholm, as measured by the OMXS PI index, gained 29.64 per cent in 2019. Stock market history The highest price paid in 2019 was SEK 594.50 on 20 November In 1998, Lifco was distributed to the shareholders of Getinge and the lowest price paid was SEK 321.00 on 2 January. Industrier and listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. In 2000, Carl Bennet AB acquired Lifco through a public offer and Lifco Lifco’s IPO price was SEK 93. From the initial public offering to was delisted. In the following year, the operations of the company the end of 2019, the share price has increased by 523.66 per were refocused on its core business areas. Lifco gained its current cent. Nasdaq Stockholm, as measured by the OMXS PI index, form in 2006 after acquiring its sister company Sorb Industri, gained 48.53 per cent over the same period. which had been taken private by Carl Bennet AB in 1999. In 2019, 51,973,037 (25,558,440) shares were traded. The daily average was 207,892 (102,234) shares. 52.0 (62.3) per cent of Distribution of share capital the shares were traded on Nasdaq Stockholm. Series A Series B Total Shares, no. 6,075,970 84,767,290 90,843,260 Share capital Votes, no. 60,759,700 84,767,290 145,526,990 At the end of 2019, Lifco had a share capital of SEK 18,168,652, Capital, % 7 93 100 represented by 90,843,260 shares. All shares have equal rights Votes, % 42 58 100 to dividends. Each A share carries ten votes and each B share one vote. The number of A shares is 6,075,970 and the number of B shares 84,767,290. Ten largest countries, 31 December 2019 No. of Capital, % Votes, % No. of Share of Dividend policy shares owners owners, % Lifco’s Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy under Sweden 76,835,732 84.6 90.4 10,585 93.7 which dividends are paid based on the company’s earnings perUSA 5,296,555 5.8 3.6 42 0.4 formance, taking account of future development opportunities Norway 3,154,004 3.5 2.2 42 0.4 and the company’s financial position. The long-term objective Germany 786,678 0.9 0.5 20 0.2 is to ensure stable dividend growth while maintaining a payout Denmark 761,673 0.8 0.5 113 1.0 ratio of 30-50 per cent of earnings after tax. Luxembourg 270,357 0.3 0.2 7 0.1 Shareholder information France 266,918 0.3 0.2 14 0.1 Financial information about Lifco is available on the company’s Canada 196,653 0.2 0.1 5 0.0 website. Questions can also be sent directly to Lifco. Annual Finland 191,586 0.2 0.1 48 0.4 reports, interim reports and other information can be ordered from Switzerland 121,039 0.1 0.1 20 0.2 Lifco’s head office, on the website, by e-mail or by telephone. Other 248,865 0.3 0.1 99 0.9 Website: www.lifco.se E-mail: ir@lifco.se Anonymous 2,713,200 3.0 1.9 Telephone: +46 72 717 59 05 ownership Total 90,843,260 100.0 100.0 10,995 97.4 Source: Modular Finance. 26 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Share performance of Lifco B from the IPO to 31 December 2019 610 1,600 560 1,400 510 1,200 460 1,000 410 Share price (SEK) Volume ('000) 360 800 310 600 260 400 210 200 160 110 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Volume ('000) Lifco B OMXS PI Lifco’s 15 largest shareholders, 31 December 2019 Ownership structure, 31 December 2019 A shares B shares Capital, % Votes, % Number Shares No. of shares No. of owners Carl Bennet AB 6,075,970 39,437,290 50.1 68.9 1 500 770,511 10,180 Fourth Swedish 6,260,580 6.9 4.3 501 1,000 292,318 367 National Pension 1,001 10,000 1,001,813 319 Fund (AP4) 10,001 20,000 552,510 38 Didner & Gerge 3,434,908 3.8 2.4 Fonder 20,001 50,000 1,083,054 30 Carnegie Fonder 3,180,000 3.5 2.2 50,001 100,000 1,117,451 15 Swedbank Robur 3,105,651 3.4 2.1 100,001 500,000 4,541,839 24 Fonder 500,001 1,000,000 5,254,104 8 SHB Fonder & Liv 2,979,447 3.3 2.0 1,000,001 2,000,000 6,920,173 5 SEB Fonder 2,838,746 3.1 2.0 2,000,001 5,000,000 14,776,500 5 Odin Fonder 1,845,050 2.0 1.3 5,000,001 20,000,000 6,260,580 1 Capital Group 1,397,000 1.5 1.0 20,000,001 45,513,260 1 Vanguard 1,276,398 1.4 0.9 Anonymous 2,759,147 Norges Bank 1,225,678 1.3 0.8 ownership Spiltan Fonder 1,176,047 1.3 0.8 Total 90,843,260 10,993 Livsförsäkrings861,153 0.9 0.6 Source: Modular Finance. aktiebolaget Skandia Data per share 2019 2018 2017 Fidelity Investments 693,416 0.8 0.5 (FMR) Earnings per share after tax 16.57 15.29 11.94 Avanza Pension 684,790 0.8 0.5 Share price on last trading 572.00 327.50 284.40 day in December Other 14,371,136 15.9 9.7 Cash flow 21.9 16.90 14.60 Total 6,075,970 84,767,290 100.0 100.0 Dividend (proposed for 2019) 5.25 4.60 4.00 Source: Modular Finance and information from the shareholders. Dividend growth, % 14.1 15.0 14.3 The table shows the largest identified shareholders in terms of capital in order of number of votes. Some significant shareholders may have their shares registered in the name of Yield, % 0.9 1.4 1.4 a nominee and are therefore included in other shareholders. P/E ratio 34.5 21.4 23.8 Payout ratio, % 31.7 30.1 33.5 Equity 87.8 73.6 60.5 Number of shares, 31 December, million 90.8 90.8 90.8 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 27 DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACQUISITIONS In 2019, Lifco made six acquisitions in its of around DKK 30 million in 2018. The company is based in Daugaard, Denmark and has 17 employees. The business will Demolition & Tools and Systems Solutions be consolidated in the Dental business area. business areas. The acquisitions have brought On 15 January 2020, it was announced that Lifco had acquired complementary or new products to Lifco and the Workplace Safety division of KiiltoClean A/S. The business expanded the Group’s market presence. Total is a leading niche manufacturer of eyewashes, plasters and first net sales in the businesses acquired in 2019 aid stations. The products are sold under the Plum brand and were approximately SEK 1,277 million and the in 2019 the business had a turnover of around DKK 79 million. The company is based in Assens, Denmark and in Cuxhaven, acquisitions brought 570 new employees to Germany and has ten employees. The business will be consolithe Group. The individual acquisitions did not dated in the Dental business area. have a significant impact on Lifco’s results and On 24 January 2020, it was announced that Lifco had acquired financial position in 2019. a majority stake in Dental Grupa of Croatia. The company is a leading distributor of equipment and consumables for dentists Acquisitions in Demolition & Tools in Croatia. Dental Grupa had net sales of around HRK 66 million Two acquisitions were made in Demolition & Tools: in 2019 and has around 40 employees. The business will be Indexator Rotator Systems of Sweden, which develops and consolidated in the Dental business area. manufactures rotators, mainly for the forest industry. On 27 January 2020, it was announced that Lifco had acquired a A majority stake in Hammer of Italy, which delivers hydraulic majority stake in Cramaro Tarpaulin Systems of Italy. The company breakers and other demolition equipment for excavators. is a niche manufacturer of tarpaulin systems for trucks and agricultural vehicles. Cramaro Tarpaulin Systems generated net sales Acquisitions in Systems Solutions of around EUR 27 million in 2019 and has about 90 employees. The business will be consolidated in the Systems Solutions Four acquisitions were made in Systems Solutions: business area, Service and Distribution division. A majority shareholding in ErgoPack of Germany, the leading manufacturer of ergonomic and mobile pallet strapping systems, which are used globally in different industries. A majority stake in Rustibus Worldwide, a leading Norwegian supplier of surface preparation tools and safety equipment for marine vessels. A majority shareholding in Brian James Trailers, a British niche manufacturer of car trailers, including open and enclosed car NO transport trailers. se A majority stake in UK POS, a leading UK supplier of exhibition and display materials that are sold directly to end customers in different industries in the UK. ErgoPack and Rustibus Worldwide have been consolidated in UK DE the Environmental Technology division. Brian James Trailers and UK POS have been consolidated in the Service and Distribution division. In 2019, the Interiors for Service Vehicles division changed its name to Service and Distribution. Previous acquisitions Over the period 2006–2019, Lifco made 69 acquisitions. A list of all acquisitions is provided on pages 90–91. IT Acquisitions after the end of the year On 10 January 2020, it was announced that Lifco had acquired Rönvig Dental Manufacturing A/S of Denmark. The company is a niche manufacturer of dental products. Rönvig had a turnover Countries in which Lifco made acquisitions in 2019. 28 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Acquisitions by country since 2006 ACQUISITIONS BY 23 BUSINESS AREA SINCE 2006 27 13 29 12 13 5 4 3 2 2 2 1 1 1 Dental Demolition & Tools nia ng Ne Fin De Fr Ita US Un ay Ge r Sw to Ho w an ly A lan nm ite rw en Systems Solutions Es No ce m ed Ze d ar d an Ko Ki ng ala k ng y nd do m ACQUISITIONS IN 2019 Company Operations Business area Net sales in No. of employees CONSOLIDATED Country 2018 on acquisition FROM Indexator Rotator Development and manufacture of Demolition & Tools SEK 300m 140 January Sweden Systems rotators Hammer Hydraulic breakers and other Demolition & Tools EUR 20m 100 February Italy demolition equipment for excavators UK POS Exhibition and display materials Systems Solutions GBP 12m 60 April United Kingdom Rustibus Worldwide Surface preparation and safety Systems Solutions NOK 56m 25 July Norway equipment for marine vessels ErgoPack Manufacture of ergonomic and Systems Solutions EUR 22m 85 August Germany mobile pallet strapping tools Brian James Trailers Manufacture of open and enclosed Systems Solutions GBP 26m 160 December United car transport trailers and other Kingdom products LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 29 XXXXXXX 30 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 XXXXXXX LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 31 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Risks and risk management There are a number of factors which affect, or Individual subsidiaries could fail to implement new • Transaction exposure, which arises when could affect, Lifco’s operations, results or financial technology or adapt their product ranges or busincompanies in the Group execute transactions position. Lifco has 164 operating companies in ess models in time to take advantage of the benin other currencies than the local currency. 30 countries and a large number of customers in efits of new or existing technology. The reason for • Translation exposure, which arises when different industries. Lifco also has a large number this could be an inability to finance investments in the Group, through its subsidiaries, has net of suppliers in different areas. This spread limits technology or a failure to keep up with technologiinvestments in foreign currency. the commercial risks. The following is a descripcal developments. Lifco therefore seeks to ensure tion of identified risks and how they are managed. that its subsidiaries have a broad network in their Lifco conducts operations in 30 countries. Due to respective industries, enabling them to stay up this geographic spread, as well as the large numLifco is dependent on macroeconomic factors to date on the latest technological advances. All ber of customers and products, Lifco’s transaction such as consumption, corporate and public financing decisions made by Lifco are based on exposure is relatively limited. Within the Group, investments, the volatility and strength of capital commercial considerations. there is a balance between purchases and sales in markets, and inflation. The dental industry, foreign currency. A moderate change in the value however, has historically proved less sensitive to Lifco’s decentralised organisational model could of the Swedish krona has no material impact on a decline in economic activity than companies in prove less well suited to meet future market Lifco’s financial position. the industrial sector, for example. Sales to private challenges. To manage this risk, Lifco’s Group individuals are also typically less affected by the management and Board of Directors review the Translation exposure is managed partly through general economic situation. However, a significant Group’s strategy each year, analysing Lifco’s borrowing in the foreign currency concerned. portion of Lifco’s sales are aimed at customers in strengths and weaknesses. The analysis also inRead more about Lifco’s currency policy in Note 3. the industrial sector. A stronger economy creates cludes an assessment of whether the organisation greater commercial opportunities for Lifco. is adapted to meet future challenges and ventures. Interest rate risk refers to the risk that changes in the interest rate environment will have a negative While individual subsidiaries are to some extent Lifco’s customers or competitors could join together impact on Lifco’s net profit, see Note 3.1. Lifco dependent on one or a small number of customers to form larger entities. The joining together of cuscurrently has no hedging arrangements in place to maintain their sales, the Group as a whole is not tomers could lead to price pressures, which could in respect of interest rate risk. dependent on any single customer. Lifco’s largest enable competitors to strengthen their market pocustomer accounts for less than three per cent of sition at Lifco’s expense. This risk can be reduced Credit, or counterparty, risk is the risk that a consolidated net sales. by maintaining close relationships with customcounterparty to a financial transaction will fail ers. Close customer relationships are important to meet its obligations. Lifco’s credit risk arises In connection with acquisitions, Lifco may incur mainly from accounts receivable (commercial for all Lifco businesses, many of which also offer costs which are not reimbursed by the seller. credit risk) but there is also a certain credit risk service, thus further strengthening the relationship When a subsidiary is sold, Lifco may risk incurring in respect of the investment of cash and cash with the customer. Strong customer relationships costs and losses that are attributable to the sold equivalents (financial credit risk). Lifco considers are also important in price negotiations. company. To manage this risk, Lifco makes a the financial credit risk to be low, as the Group’s thorough analysis of the target business when Most of the products that are sold in Lifco’s Dental cash and cash equivalents are invested with making acquisitions. This analysis includes business area are covered by the reimbursement banks with high creditworthiness. discussions with suppliers, customers, other systems applied by private insurance companies, parties in the market and industry experts as well public authorities and payers of health care prodLifco is dependent on being able to obtain finanas a detailed examination of the target company’s ucts and services. These entities could change cing through lenders. Lifco considers that the accounts and contracts. the systems in a way that results in reduced Group, in view of its existing working capital and reimbursements. Dental accounts for 32 per cent credit agreements, has a good financial position. The Group’s various customer agreements vary in of consolidated net sales, and no individual market terms of duration, warranties, limitations of liability accounts for more than 33 per cent of Dental’s and scope. Some warranties in the customer net sales. The Group’s exposure to any individual agreements are of an on-demand nature, which market in the Dental area is thus limited. means that Lifco may be required to pay a certain amount to the counterparty in case of actual or Lifco is dependent on certain key individuals, both perceived defects in the delivered product. Such in the Group management team and in the subsidwarranties can have a significant adverse impact iaries. Lifco’s acquisition strategy includes ensuring on the company’s financial position and results. that the key individuals in the acquired company Furthermore, some of Lifco’s customer and remain motivated to drive the company forward supplier relationships have not been formalised also after the acquisition. Lifco believes in incentive in written agreements. The parties thus rely to schemes that are linked to profitability as a means a large extent on generally accepted practice of attracting and retaining key individuals. among the parties, which often goes far back Currency risk refers to the risk of unfavourable in time. The content of such agreements can be changes in exchange rates. Currency risk is hard to specify in case of a difference of opinion divided into: between the parties, which could lead to a deterioration in relations and costly disputes. 32 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Lifco is a Swedish public company that was listed Shareholders guidelines on remuneration of senior executives. on Nasdaq Stockholm on 21 November 2014. At 31 December 2019, Lifco had 10,995 shareMore detailed information is found on page 35. Lifco acquires and develops market-leading niche holders, according to Modular Finance. At 31 businesses with the potential to deliver sustainDecember 2019, Lifco’s share capital consisted The shareholders’ meeting able earnings growth and robust cash flows. The The shareholders’ meeting is the company’s of 90,843,260 shares, comprising 6,075,970 A Group is guided by a clear philosophy based highest decision-making body. At a shareholders’ shares with ten votes each and 84,767,290 B on long-term growth, profitability and a strongly meeting, the shareholders exercise their voting shares with one vote each. At the end of 2019, decentralised organisation. Lifco comprises 164 rights in accordance with Swedish corporate law Lifco had a stock market capitalisation of SEK operating companies in 30 countries. One of the and Lifco’s Articles of Association. The share48.49 billion. The company’s largest shareholder company’s greatest competitive advantages is holders’ meeting elects the company’s Board of is Carl Bennet AB, which holds 68.9 per cent that it is able to offer a safe haven for small and Directors and auditor. Other duties of the shareof the number of votes. Further information on medium-sized businesses. holders’ meeting are to adopt income statements Lifco’s shareholder structure, share performance, and balance sheets, decide on the appropriation Corporate governance at Lifco is aimed at etc. is provided on pages 26–27. of the company’s profit or loss and on release ensuring a continued strong performance for the 2019 Annual General Meeting from liability for the members of the Board and company and at ensuring that the Group fulfils its Lifco’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) in StockCEO. The shareholders’ meeting also adopts obligations to its shareholders, customers, emholm on 26 April 2019 was attended by 162 resolutions on Directors’ fees, auditor’s fees and ployees, suppliers, creditors and society. Lifco’s shareholders representing 83.1 per cent of the guidelines on remuneration of senior executives. corporate governance and all internal regulations are aimed at furthering the Group’s commercial number of shares and 89.5 per cent of the total The AGM must be held within six months of the objectives and strategies. The Group’s risks have number of votes. The members of the Board, end of the financial year. In addition to the AGM, been thoroughly analysed and risk management CEO, CFO and the company’s auditors attended extraordinary general meetings may be convened. is integrated into the work of the Board as well the AGM. At the AGM, the Directors Carl Bennet, Under Lifco’s Articles of Association, notice of a as the Group’s operating activities. The clear Ulrika Dellby, Erik Gabrielson, Ulf Grunander, shareholders’ meeting is given by advertisement connection between corporate governance and Anna Hallberg, Annika Espander Jansson, Johan in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar and through pubthe Group’s commercial goals ensures fast and Stern and Axel Wachtmeister were re-elected to lication of the notice on the company’s website. flexible decision-making, which is often a crucial the Board. Per Waldemarson was elected as a The notice must also be advertised in Dagens success factor. Lifco’s organisation is structured new Board Director. Carl Bennet was re-elected Industri. Shareholders’ meetings can be held in to be able to respond rapidly to changes in the Chairman of the Board. It was noted that the Enköping or Stockholm. market. A strongly decentralised organisation employee organisations had appointed Anders and high degree of autonomy in the subsidiaries Lorentzson and Peter Wiberg as members of The Nomination Committee enable fast operational decision-making. General the Board with Kennet Bergqvist and Anders The duty of the Nomination Committee is to decisions on acquisitions, sales, strategies and Lindström as deputies. submit, prior to the AGM, proposals concerning focus areas are made by Lifco’s Board of Directhe election of a chairman for the AGM, the elecThe minutes of the AGM are available tors and Group management. tion of the Chairman of the Board and of other at www.lifco.se. members of the Board of Directors, the election External and internal regulations Resolutions of the AGM: • Adoption of the preof auditors, and Directors’ and auditors’ fees. Corporate governance at Lifco is based on sented income statements and balance sheets The composition of the Nomination Committee Swedish laws, primarily the Swedish Companies for the Parent Company and Group. • Dividend. prior to the 2020 AGM was published in the interim Act, as well as the company’s Articles of AssoThe AGM approved the Board’s proposed report for the third quarter and on the company’s ciation, Nasdaq Stockholm’s rules for issuers, dividend of SEK 4.60 per share. • Release from website on 23 October 2019. The Nomination and those rules and recommendations which are liability. The AGM resolved to release the memCommittee for the 2020 AGM consists of represenissued by the relevant organisations. Since its bers of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer tatives of the five registered shareholders holding listing on Nasdaq Stockholm, Lifco has applied from liability in respect of the financial year 2018. the largest number of voting rights. The Chairthe Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“the • Directors’ fees. It was resolved that fees in a man of the Board, Carl Bennet, was appointed Code”). The Code is based on the principle of total amount of SEK 5,535,000 be paid to the DiChairman of the Nomination Committee prior to ‘comply or explain’. This means that companies rectors, and that fees for committee work be paid the 2020 AGM, which is a deviation from the rules which apply the Code can deviate from individual in the amount of SEK 240,000 to the Chairman of of the Code. The reason for the deviation is that it rules but are required to explain the reasons for the Audit Committee and SEK 120,000 to each seems natural that a representative of the largest each such deviation. of the other committee members. The Chairman shareholder in terms of votes should chair the of the Remuneration Committee will receive Lifco deviates from the Code in one respect, which Nomination Committee, as this shareholder also SEK 130,000 and each of the other members is that the Chairman of the Board is also Chairman has a decisive influence on the composition of the SEK 80,000. More detailed information is found of the Nomination Committee. This deviation is exNomination Committee through its voting majority in Note 10. • Auditor. The audit firm Pricewaplained below under “The Nomination Committee”. at shareholders’ meetings. terhouseCoopers AB was re-appointed as the Internal regulations which affect Lifco’s corporate company’s auditors. • Nomination Committee. Prior to the 2020 AGM, the Nomination Committee governance include the Articles of Association, The AGM resolved to instruct the Chairman of the consists of the following representatives: the rules of procedure for the Board of Directors, Board to convene a Nomination Committee for • Carl Bennet, Carl Bennet AB the terms of reference for the CEO, policy docuthe 2020 AGM consisting of the Chairman of the ments and the Group’s Code of Conduct. Board, a representative for each of the company’s • Per Colleen, AP4 five largest shareholders as at 31 August 2019 • Adam Nyström, Didner & Gerge Fonder Read more: and one representative for smaller shareholders. • Hans Hedström, Carnegie Fonder About the Code: www.bolagsstyrning.se • Guidelines on remuneration of senior execuLifco’s Code of Conduct and corporate • Marianne Nilsson, Robur Swedbank Fonder tives. The AGM approved the Board’s proposed governance: www.lifco.se LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 33 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT All shareholders have had an opportunity to The Board of Directors services to Lifco AB and Carl Bennet AB. However, submit nominations to the Nomination CommitThe Board of Directors is the company’s second the Nomination Committee has made the assesstee. No remuneration is paid to the members of highest decision-making body after the shareholdment that Erik Gabrielson is nonetheless to be the Nomination Committee and the members ers’ meeting and its highest executive body. The regarded as independent of the company and of have determined that there are no conflicts of Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s management. The other Directors – Ulrika Dellby, interest affecting their duties. The Nomination organisation and the management of its affairs. Annika Espander Jansson, Ulf Grunander, Anna Committee held two minuted meetings prior to The Board is also tasked with ensuring that the Hallberg and Axel Wachtmeister – are considered the 2020 AGM. In addition, the members of the organisation of the company’s accounting and to be independent of the company, management Nomination Committee have had ongoing contact management of funds incorporates satisfactory and major shareholders. and engaged in further dialogue by telephone in control procedures. Therése Hoffman, CFO, has acted as secretary at between meetings. The Nomination Committee Lifco’s Articles of Association state that the Board the meetings of the Board. At its regular meetings has addressed all matters that it is required to of Directors shall consist of at least three and not the Board addresses those standing agenda address under the Code. Furthermore, to ensure more than ten Directors. The members of the items which are specified in the rules of procethat the company is be able to fulfil its informaBoard are elected annually at the AGM for the dure for the Board, such as the business sitution disclosure obligations to the shareholders, period until the end of the next AGM. The AGM ation, financial planning, and preparation of the the Nomination Committee has informed the also appoints the Chairman of the Board. The annual accounts and interim reports. The Board company of how it has conducted its work and Chairman’s role is to lead the work of the Board has also addressed general issues concerning of the proposals that the committee has decided and ensure that the Board’s activities are well the general level of economic activity and related to submit. As a basis for its work, the Nomination organised and conducted efficiently. cost issues, acquisitions and other investments, Committee has studied the financial statements long-term strategies, financial matters, and strucfor Lifco’s operations in 2019. The Committee has The Articles of Association do not contain tural and organisational matters. also studied the nomination proposals received provisions regarding the dismissal of Directors and the evaluation of the Board and its work that or amendments to the Articles of Association. As part of the effort to improve the efficiency of has been carried out. The results of the evaluation and deepen the work of the Board on certain have been presented in their entirety to the NomThe Board of Directors operates in accordance matters, two committees have been established: ination Committee and showed that the current with written rules of procedure which are reviewed the Audit Committee and the Remuneration ComDirectors have a broad range of expertise and and adopted annually at the constituent Board mittee. The committees were appointed at the extensive industry and financial knowledge as meeting. The rules of procedure regulate Board constituent meeting of the Board. The delegation well as knowledge about international conditions practices, functions and the division of responsibilof responsibilities and decision-making power and markets. The evaluation also showed that ities between the Board and CEO. Under the rules to these committees is described in the rules of attendance at Board meetings had been high of procedure, the Board is required to review its procedure for the Board. Matters addressed and and that all Directors had displayed a high degree own procedures each year. In connection with the resolutions adopted at meetings of the committees of commitment. The Nomination Committee constituent Board meeting, the Board also adopts are minuted and a report is submitted at a subsehas also conducted interviews with some of the instructions for the company’s financial reporting. quent meeting of the Board. current Directors elected by the shareholders’ The Board convenes in accordance with a schedThe Chairman ensures that an annual evaluation meeting. Further information on the work of the ule that is defined annually. In addition to such is made of the work of the Board of Directors and Nomination Committee is presented in the NomiBoard meetings, further meetings may be conChief Executive Officer, and that the Nomination nation Committee’s report for the 2020 AGM. vened to address issues which cannot be deferred Committee is given an opportunity to study the In preparing its proposal to the Board, the to a regular meeting. In addition to the Board results of the evaluation. Nomination Committee applies Rule 4.1, divermeetings, the Chairman of the Board and CEO engage in an ongoing dialogue concerning the The evaluation consisted of a questionnaire given sity policy, of the Code. The aim of the policy to the members of the Board. The Chairman of is that the Board of Directors should have a management of the company. The Board meets the auditor without the presence of management the Board has presented the results to the Board composition that is appropriate in view of the of Directors and Nomination Committee. company’s operations, development stage and once a year. The Board of Directors constituted itself on 26 April 2019. other circumstances as well as diverse and The Audit Committee broad with regard to the Directors’ expertise, In 2019, twelve Board meetings were held with The Audit Committee is appointed annually by the experience and background, and that an equal an average attendance of the Directors of 95 per Board of Directors. The Audit Committee shall, gender distribution should be strived for. The cent. With the exception of the CEO, no member without prejudice to other responsibilities and duNomination Committee’s proposals for election of of Lifco’s Board of Directors has an operational role ties of the Board, monitor the company’s financial Directors, remuneration of the Board and election in the company. A more detailed presentation of reporting, monitor the effectiveness of Lifco’s interof auditors, and other relevant proposals will be the Board and CEO is provided on pages 40–42. nal control, internal reviews and risk management, submitted in conjunction with the notice of the keep itself informed on the audit of the annual 2020 AGM. Independence: Lifco meets the requirements of the Code in respect of the independence of Directors. accounts and consolidated accounts, assess The 2019 AGM resolved to appoint Directors in The company is of the view that Per Waldemarson, and monitor the impartiality and independence of accordance with the Nomination Committee’s in his capacity as CEO, was not to be considered the auditor, paying particular attention to whether proposal, which meant that nine Directors were independent of the company and management, the auditor provides other services than auditing elected, including three women and six men and that Carl Bennet, Erik Gabrielson and Johan to the company. The Committee is also tasked (accounting 33 and 67 per cent of the memberStern, as representatives and Directors of Lifco’s with evaluating the audit work and submitting this ship, respectively). main shareholder, Carl Bennet AB, are not to be information to the Nomination Committee, and considered independent of major shareholders. assisting the Nomination Committee in producing The Director Erik Gabrielson is a partner of Adproposals for auditors and the fees to be paid for vokatfirman Vinge, a law firm which provides legal auditing services. 34 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT After the 2019 AGM, the Audit Committee had the on financial reporting. The Board studies and SEK 1,230,000 was payable to the Chairman following composition: Ulf Grunander, Chairman, ensures that financial reports such as year-end of the Board and SEK 615,000 to each of the Ulrika Dellby, member, Annika Espander Jansson, reports and annual reports are produced, and Non-Executive Directors. The AGM also approved member, and Anna Hallberg, member. Anna has delegated to management responsibility the payment of remuneration for work on the Hallberg left the Board and the Audit Committee for ensuring that press releases with financial Audit Committee in the amount of SEK 240,000 on 13 September 2019 after being appointed to content and presentation material in connection to the Chairman and SEK 120,000 to each of the the Swedish government as Minister for Foreign with meetings with the media, shareholders and other members, and the payment of remuneraTrade. In 2019, the committee held four minuted financial institutions are produced. tion for work on the Remuneration Committee in meetings and had informal contacts in between the amount of SEK 130,000 to the Chairman and meetings, as required. Average attendance was External auditors SEK 80,000 to each of the other members. 100 per cent. The company’s auditor participatThe auditor-in-charge at Pricewaterhouseed at all meetings of the Audit Committee. The Coopers AB is the authorised public accountant Share/share price-based committee discussed and determined the extent Eric Salander, with the authorised public accounof the audit together with the auditor. tant Tomas Hilmarsson as co-auditor. Neither Eric incentive schemes There are no outstanding shareor share priceSalander nor Tomas Hilmarsson hold shares in based incentive schemes for the members of The Remuneration Committee the company. When PricewaterhouseCoopers is the Board of Directors, the CEO or other senior The Remuneration Committee is appointed annuengaged to provide other services than auditing executives. ally by the Board of Directors, and is tasked with this is done in accordance with the rules adopted preparing proposals for remuneration principles, by the Audit Committee concerning approval of and for remuneration and other terms of employthe nature and scope of the services and payRemuneration of senior executives The 2019 AGM adopted guidelines on remument for the CEO and senior executives. After the ment for these. Lifco does not consider that the neration of senior executives with the following 2019 AGM, the Remuneration Committee had the performance of these services has jeopardised main features. The guidelines are in line with the following composition: Carl Bennet, Chairman, Erik PricewaterhouseCoopers’ independence. principles that have been applied so far. Gabrielson, member, Johan Stern, member, and All fees paid to the auditors over the past two years Axel Wachtmeister, member. In 2019, the commitThe basic principle is that remuneration and other are presented in Note 8. Lifco’s auditor participated tee held three minuted meetings and had informal terms of employment of senior executives should at all meetings of the Audit Committee in 2019 contacts in between meetings, as required. All be consistent with market terms and competitive and at one Board meeting. In connection with the members attended all meetings of the committee in each market where Lifco operates, enabling the Board meeting, the auditor held a meeting with the during the year. company to attract, motivate and retain competent Board of Directors at which no representatives of and skilled staff. Individual remuneration levels are Group management took part. President and CEO based on experience, expertise, responsibility and The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board Under the Articles of Association, Lifco is required performance. of Directors and is responsible for the company’s to have one or two auditors with up to two depuThe total remuneration paid to senior executives day-to-day management and the operations of ties. The appointed auditor must be an authorised consists of a basic salary, variable remuneration, Lifco. The division of responsibilities between the public accountant or registered audit firm. pension and other benefits. The fixed remunerBoard of Directors and CEO is set out in the rules ation, the basic salary, is based on the individual of procedure for the Board and the terms of refOperating activities executive’s area of responsibility, authority, skills erence for the CEO. The CEO is also responsible The CEO and other members of Group manageand experience. for drafting reports and compiling information from ment hold ongoing meetings to review monthly management in preparation for Board meetings results, update forecasts and plans, and discuss The balance between basic salary and variable and for presenting the material at the meetings. strategic matters. Lifco’s Group management team remuneration should be proportionate to the consists of four individuals, who are presented on executive’s responsibilities and authority. Variable Under the instructions for financial reporting, the remuneration is linked to predefined and measurpage 43. In addition to operational matters conCEO is responsible for financial reporting in the able criteria which have been defined with the aim cerning each business area, Group management company and is required to ensure that the Board of promoting the creation of long-term value by the addresses matters of concern to the Group as a receives sufficient information to enable it continucompany. For the CEO variable remuneration is whole. Group management consists of the Chief ously to evaluate the company’s financial position. capped at 70 per cent of the basic salary. Variable Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the The CEO is required to keep the Board continHead of Business Area Systems Solutions and the remuneration is based on individual targets, which uously informed about the development of the Head of Acquisitions. are defined by the Remuneration Committee and company’s operations, its sales performance, adopted by the Board. Examples of such targets The Board is responsible for ensuring that an efearnings and financial situation, its liquidity and include earnings, volume growth, working capital fective system for internal control and risk managecredit situation, significant business events and and cash flow. For other senior executives variable ment is in place. Responsibility for establishing a any other event, circumstance or relationship that remuneration is based partly on the outcome in the good framework for working on these matters has may be of material importance to the company’s executive’s own area of responsibility and partly on been delegated to the CEO. Group management shareholders. individually defined targets. and managers at different levels of the company have this responsibility in their respective areas. In addition to the above variable remuneration, Financial reporting Authority and responsibilities are defined in polithe shareholders’ meeting may decide from time The Board of Directors monitors the quality of cies, guidelines and descriptions of responsibilities. to time to introduce shareor share price-based financial reporting by issuing instructions to incentive schemes. the CEO and Audit Committee and by defining requirements for the content of the reports on Directors’ fees Pension rights for the CEO and other senior The 2019 AGM approved the payment of Directors’ financial conditions that are submitted to the executives may apply only from the age of 60. fees in a total amount of SEK 5,535,000, of which Board on an ongoing basis through an instruction Pension agreements shall be entered into based LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 35 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT on applicable local rules in the senior executive’s Concerning terms of employment subject to of variable cash salary has ended, an assessment country of residence. The amount of the pension regulations other than those applying in Sweden, is to be made of the extent to which the criteria is defined as a certain proportion of the basic appropriate adjustments may be made to comply have been met. salary. Pension benefits must be vested. with such mandatory regulations or fixed local The variable remuneration payable to the CEO practices, whereby the overall objectives of these The employment contract of the CEO is terminable shall be capped at 80 per cent of the annual guidelines must be met to the extent possible. on six months’ notice in case of termination by basic salary. The variable remuneration shall be the CEO. In case of termination by the company, 2. THE GUIDELINES PROMOTION OF THE based on individual targets proposed by the a notice period of no more than 18 months shall COMPANY’S BUSINESS STRATEGY, LONGRemuneration Committee and adopted by the apply, during which the CEO will be entitled to a TERM INTERESTS AND SUSTAINABILITY Board. Examples of such targets are results, volsalary. Other income shall not be deducted from Lifco’s business concept is to acquire and develop ume growth, working capital and cash flow. For termination pay. market-leading niche businesses that conduct other senior executives, the variable remuneration sustainable operations and have the potential to shall be based, partly, on the outcome of his/her In case of termination of other senior executives deliver sustainable earnings growth and robust own area of responsibility and, partly, on individby the company, the senior executive shall be cash flows. The Group pursues a distinct busiually set targets. Examples of such targets are entitled to a salary during a notice period of no ness strategy focusing on results, simplicity and results, volume growth, working capital and cash more than twelve months. decentralisation. Lifco’s overall aim is to increase flow. The CEO is responsible for the assessment Other benefits, such as a company car, extra earnings every year, which has been achieved of variable cash salary paid to other executives. health insurance or occupational health care, may through both organic growth and acquisitions. For No variable remuneration shall be paid if a pre-tax be offered to the extent that this is considered to further information on Lifco’s business strategy, loss is reported. be in line with market practice for senior execurefer to the 2019 Annual Report. tives in equivalent positions in the labour market Pension benefits and other benefits A prerequisite for successful implementation of in which the executive is active. The total value of Pension rights for the CEO and other senior the company’s business strategy and safeguardsuch benefits must, however, represent a minor executives shall apply no earlier than from age ing of Lifco’s long-term interests, including its susportion of the total compensation. 65. For the CEO, an amount corresponding to tainability, is that the company is able to recruit 60 per cent (excluding payroll expenses) of the The guidelines shall apply to agreements entered and retain qualified employees. To achieve this, annual basic salary will be reserved in capital, into after the adoption of the resolution of the AGM the company must be able to offer competitive pension, life and health insurances. Other senior and to amendments to existing agreements made remuneration. These guidelines make it possible executives are entitled to pension benefits of after this date. The Board has the right to depart to offer competitive total remuneration to senior a maximum of 35 per cent (excluding payroll from the guidelines if there are special reasons executives. Variable cash remuneration covered expenses) of the annual basic salary. Pension warranting an exception in an individual case. by these guidelines shall aim at promoting the agreements are to be concluded according to The total remuneration paid to senior executives company’s business strategy and long-term local rules applicable in the country where the sein 2019, including salaries and benefits of the interests, including its sustainability. nior executive is resident. All pension benefits are Board of Directors, Group management and the 3. FORMS OF REMUNERATION, ETC. defined contribution and vested, meaning they are chief executives of the Group’s subsidiaries, was Remuneration shall be market-aligned and may not conditional upon future employment in Lifco. SEK 256 (254) million. See Note 10 for further comprise the following components: fixed cash Other benefits, such as a company car, extra information. salary, variable cash salary, pension benefits health insurance or occupational health services, and other benefits. The general meeting may The Board of Directors’ proposal are to be payable insofar as they are regarded as also – regardless of these guidelines – resolve market-aligned for senior executives in correon guidelines for remuneration on, for example, shareand share price-related remuneration. sponding positions in the labour market where to senior executives the executive is active. The combined amount The Board of Directors proposes that the 2020 Fixed remuneration of such benefits may constitute only a limited Annual General Meeting (AGM) resolves to apThe fixed remuneration, basic salary, shall be based proportion of the total remuneration. prove guidelines for remuneration to senior execon the individual executive’s area of responsibility, Cessation of employment utives according to the following. The guidelines authorities, field of competence and experience. If the CEO resigns, he/she shall be subject to a essentially match the principles applied to date. Variable remuneration and criteria for period of notice of six months. If the employment 1. SCOPE OF THE GUIDELINES allocating variable cash salary, etc. of the CEO is terminated by the company, a period These guidelines pertain to remuneration and Variable cash remuneration covered by these of notice of not more than 18 months will apply. If other terms and conditions of employment for the guidelines shall aim at promoting the compathe employment of another senior executive is terpersons who during the time the guidelines apply ny’s business strategy and long-term interests, minated by the company, a period of notice of not are members of Lifco AB’s Group management, including its sustainability. The amount of variable more than 12 months will apply. The right to salary referred to jointly below as “senior executives”. remuneration in relation to basic salary must be in and other benefits is retained during the period At present, there are four members of the Group proportion to the senior executive’s responsibility of notice. Basic salary during the period of notice management. The guidelines are to be applied to and authority. The variable remuneration shall be and severance pay shall, combined, not exceed remuneration that is agreed, and changes made linked to predetermined and measurable criteria an amount corresponding to basic salary for two to already agreed remuneration, after the time designed to promote the company’s long-term years. Termination salary is not to be deductible that the guidelines have been adopted by the value creation. Fulfilment of criteria for the payfrom other income. 2020 AGM. The guidelines do not encompass ment of variable cash salary shall be measured remuneration resolved by the general meeting. over a period of one year. When the measurement period for fulfilment of criteria for payment 36 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 4. SALARY AND TERMS OF company’s auditor as well as advice and other which could jeopardise the Group’s ability to EMPLOYMENT FOR EMPLOYEES assistance occasioned by observations made in achieve its commercial and financial targets. In When preparing the Board’s proposal on these the course of such examination or the carrying-out each operating unit, analyses are also made of remuneration guidelines, salary and terms of of such other tasks. Other services refer essentially several subsidiaries to obtain a more detailed employment for the company’s employees have to advisory services in the area of accounting and view of the actual application of existing regulabeen considered by having information on the tax as well as assistance in connection with acquitions. Measures aimed at minimising the identified employees’ total remuneration, components of sitions. Auditors’ fees for the audit engagement in risks are then defined centrally in the Group. the remuneration and the increase and rate of 2019 totalled SEK 9 (8) million while fees for other increase in remuneration over time constitute a services totalled SEK 3 (2) million, see Note 8. Control procedures part of the Remuneration Committee’s and the Identified risks related to financial reporting are Board’s decision documentation when assessing Internal control and risk management managed through the company’s control procethe fairness of the guidelines and the limitations dures. There are, for example, automated controls that follow from them. related to financial reporting in IT-based systems which manage authorisaInternal control over financial reporting is an intetions and authorisation rights as well as manual 5. THE DECISION-MAKING PROCESS gral part of corporate governance in the Lifco controls. Detailed financial analyses of results supFOR DETERMINING, REVIEWING AND Group. It includes processes and methods for plement business-specific controls and provide a IMPLEMENTING THE GUIDELINES safeguarding the assets of the Group and the general confirmation of the quality of the reporting. The Board has established a Remuneration Comaccuracy of its financial reporting, and thus also mittee. This Committee’s tasks include preparing the shareholders’ investment in the company. the Board’s resolution on proposal concerning Information and communication Lifco has information and communication paths guidelines for remuneration to senior executives. Control environment which are aimed at promoting completeness and The Board shall formulate proposals for new Lifco’s organisation is structured to be able to accuracy in financial reporting. Policies and inguidelines when needs arise for significant changrespond rapidly to changes in the market. A structions are available on the company’s intranet. es in the guidelines, although at least every fourth strongly decentralised organisation and high Information about the effectiveness of internal year, and submit the proposal for resolution by the degree of autonomy in the subsidiaries enable fast control in the Group is prepared and reported on a AGM. The guidelines are to apply until new guideoperational decision-making. General decisions regular basis to relevant parties in the organisation. lines have been adopted by the general meeting. on acquisitions, sales, strategies and focus areas The Remuneration Committee shall also monitor are made by Lifco’s Board of Directors and Group and evaluate variable remuneration programs for management. The internal control procedures for Review and monitoring Each month, management and the central finance the company management, the application of financial reporting have been designed to handle function analyse the Group’s financial reporting at a guidelines for remuneration to senior executives these circumstances. The basis for internal control detailed level. At its meetings, the Audit Committee and applicable remuneration structures and related to financial reporting consists of the control reviews the financial reporting and receives reports remuneration levels in the company. Members of environment, including organisation, decision from the company’s auditors containing their the Remuneration Committee are independent in paths, authority and responsibilities, as documentobservations and recommendations. The Board relation to the company and executive manageed and communicated in governing documents. receives financial reports on a monthly basis and ment. Neither the CEO nor other members of Each year, the Board adopts rules of procedure, discusses the Group’s financial situation at each company management participate in the Board which regulate the duties of the Chairman of the meeting. The effectiveness of the Group’s internal of Directors’ processing of and decisions on Board and Chief Executive Officer among other control procedures is reviewed regularly at differremuneration-related matters, insofar as they matters. The Board has established an Audit ent levels of the Group, covering an assessment are impacted by these matters. Committee to improve transparency and control of design and operational functionality. 6. DEVIATION FROM THE GUIDELINES of the company’s accounting, financial reporting In 2019, the review of the Group’s internal control The Board shall be entitled to partly or fully deviate and risk management as well as a Remuneration was completed by Group management and Lifco’s from the guidelines if there is special reason to Committee to handle matters relating to remuneracentral finance function with the assistance of the do so in an individual case and such deviation is tion of management. external auditors. The Audit Committee also plays necessary to satisfy the company’s long-term inEach operating unit has one or more administrative an important role in internal control, having the task terests, including its sustainability, or to safeguard centres that are responsible for ongoing transacof evaluating the audit services and the internal the company’s financial viability. As stated above, tion management and accounting. Each operating control. The review showed that in all essential the Remuneration Committee’s tasks include unit has a financial officer who is responsible for respects documentation and control procedures preparing the Board of Directors’ resolutions in the financial governance of the unit and for ensurhave been established in the Group. Based on the remuneration-related matters. This includes any ing that financial reports are correct and complete completed internal control procedures, the Board resolution to deviate from the guidelines. and delivered in time for the preparation of the has made the assessment that there is currently Information on remuneration, etc. to senior execuconsolidated financial statements. no need to introduce a separate audit function tives in the 2019 financial year is provided on page (internal audit function). 35 and in Note 10 of the 2019 Annual Report. Risk assessment Risk assessment is based on the Lifco Group’s Ongoing activities Auditors’ fees financial targets. The general financial risks have Over the coming year, the ongoing internal control PricewaterhouseCoopers AB has been engaged been defined and are largely industry-specific. activities in the Lifco Group will focus mainly on as the company’s auditor. Audit engagement refers Through quantitative and qualitative risk analyses risk assessment, control procedures, and review to the examination of the annual accounts and based on the consolidated balance sheet and and monitoring activities. accounting records and of the Board of Directors’ income statement, Lifco identifies those key risks and Chief Executive Officer’s management of the company, other tasks incumbent on the LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 37 XXXXXXX 38 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 XXXXXXX LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 39 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board of Directors Carl Bennet Ulrika Dellby Annika Espander Erik Gabrielson Jansson Ulf Grunander Johan Stern Axel Wachtmeister Per Waldemarson Kennet Bergqvist Anders Lindström Anders Lorentzson Peter Wiberg 40 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Carl Bennet Erik Gabrielson Chairman of the Board Director Born in 1951. Elected in 1998. Born in 1962. Elected in 2001. B.Sc. (Econ.), Ph.D. h.c. (Med.), Ph.D. h.c. (Tech.) LL.M. Current posts: Chairman and CEO of Carl Bennet AB. Chairman of the board Current posts: Lawyer and partner, Advokatfirman Vinge. Chairman of of Elanders AB. Deputy Chairman of the board of Arjo AB and Getinge AB. Allegresse AB, Eldan Recycling A/S and Redoma Recycling AB. Director Director of Holmen AB and L E Lundbergföretagen AB. of Carl Bennet AB, Elanders AB, ECG Vignoble AB and ECG Vinivest AB. Previous posts: President and CEO of Getinge AB. Previous posts: Director of Advokatfirman Vinge AB, Advokatfirman Vinge Shareholding through companies, 31 December 2019: 6,075,970 Skåne AB, Generic Sweden AB, Rosengård Invest AB and Storegate AB. A shares, 39,437,290 B shares Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: – Independent of the company and of management: Yes Independent of the company and of management: Yes Independent of main owner: No Independent of main owner: No Ulrika Dellby Ulf grunander Director Director Born in 1966. Elected in 2015. Born in 1954. Elected in 2015. M.Sc. in Economics and Business M.Sc. in Economics and Business Current posts: Director of Kavli Holding AS, Cybercom Group AB, SJ AB, Current posts: Director of AMF Pensionsförsäkring, Arjo AB, Djurgården Hockey Fasadgruppen Norden AB and Chairman of Hello World! Non Profit OrganiAB and Nyströms Gastronomi & Catering AB. sation. Partner Fagerberg & Dellby Fond I AB. Previous posts: CFO of the Getinge Group. Previous posts: Partner of The Boston Consulting Group, CEO of Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 2,000 B shares Brindfors Enterprise IG (now Brand Union), Vice Chairman of Norrporten, Independent of the company and of management: Yes Director of Via Travel Group and OSM Group. Independent of main owner: Yes Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 13,000 B shares Independent of the company and of management: Yes Independent of main owner: Yes Johan Stern Vice Chairman Annika Espander Jansson Born in 1951. Elected in 2001. M.Sc. in Economics and Business Director Current posts: Chairman of Fädriften Invest AB, Healthinvest Partners AB, Born in 1964. Elected in 2016. Rolling Optics AB, Skanör Falsterbo Kallbadhus AB and Stiftelsen Harry B.Sc. in Chemistry and MBA Cullbergs Fond. Director of Carl Bennet AB, Elanders AB, Estea AB, Getinge Current posts: CEO of Asperion AB. AB, RP Ventures AB and the Swedish-American Chamber of Commerce, Inc. Previous posts: Head of Private Banking at Handelsbanken, Chairman Previous posts: Roles at SEB in Sweden and the US of SHB Luxemburg. Senior positions at Catella Healthcare/Esperio AB, Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 46,000 B shares Enskilda Securities and other companies. Independent of the company and of management: Yes Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 6,000 Independent of main owner: No Independent of the company and of management: Yes Independent of main owner: Yes LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 41 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Axel Wachtmeister Auditor Director PricewaterhouseCoopers AB has been Lifco’s auditor since 2010. Born in 1951. Elected in 2006. At the 2019 AGM, PricewaterhouseCoopers was re-appointed for the period until the end of the 2020 AGM. M.Sc. in Engineering The auditor-in-charge is Eric Salander, born in 1967, who is an authorised Current posts: Director and CEO of Wästerslöv AB. Director of Kilmartin public accountant and member of FAR, Sweden’s professional institute for Estate AB and Symbrio AB. Deputy Director of HAWAJ Holding AB and accountants. Sydsvensk Form Reklam i Höör AB. Tomas Hilmarsson, born in 1981, is co-auditor. Tomas Hilmarsson is an Previous posts: Director of Sorb Industri AB and Troponor AB. authorised public accountant and member of FAR. Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 16,200 B shares The address of PricewaterhouseCoopers is Torsgatan 21, Independent of the company and of management: Yes SE-113 97 Stockholm. Independent of main owner: Yes Directors’ attendance Per Waldemarson Director Board meeting Audit Remuneration Director Committee Committee Born in 1977. Elected in 2019. Carl Bennet 12/12 3/3 M.Sc. in Business Administration Kennet Bergqvist1 7/7 Current posts outside Lifco: Gabriel Danielsson2 5/5 2/2 Previous posts: Deputy CEO Lifco, CEO Brokk AB, Management Consultant Ulrika Dellby 12/12 4/4 Bain & Co. Annika Espander Jansson 12/12 4/4 Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 113,700 B shares and 11,000 B shares through a pension plan Erik Gabrielson 10/12 3/3 Independent of the company and of management: No Ulf Grunander 11/12 4/4 Independent of main owner: Yes Anna Hallberg3 8/8 2/2 Fredrik Karlsson4 1/1 Anders Lorentzson Anders Lindström 1 7/7 Director, employee representative for Unionen Anders Lorentzson 11/12 Born in 1957. Elected in 2017. Employed at Rapid Granulator AB. Annika Norlund 6 5/5 Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: Johan Stern 12/12 3/3 Axel Wachtmeister 11/12 3/3 Kennet Bergqvist Per Waldemarson 5 9/9 Employee representative, deputy, Unionen Hans-Eric Wallin6 4/5 Born in 1978. Elected in 2019. Employed at Indexator Rotator Systems AB. Peter Wiberg 11/12 Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: Total number of 12 4 3 meetings Anders Lindström Employee representative, deputy, Handels 1 Appointed prior to the AGM on 26 April 2019. Born in 1958. Elected in 2019. Employed at Lifco Dental AB. 2 Resigned from the Board at the AGM on 26 April 2019. Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 3 R  esigned from the Board on 13 September 2019 after being appointed to the Swedish government as Minister for Foreign Trade. Peter Wiberg 4 Resigned from the Board and as President and CEO on 7 February 2019. Director, employee representative for IF Metall 5 Appointed at the AGM on 26 April 2019. Born in 1960. Elected in 2013. Employed at Modul-System HH AB. 6 Left the Board prior to the AGM on 26 April 2019. Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 300 B shares 42 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Group management Per Waldemarson Therése Hoffman Martin Linder Ingvar Ljungqvist Per Waldemarson Ingvar ljungqvist President and CEO Head of Acquisitions Born in 1977. Appointed in 2019. Hired in 2006. Born in 1960. Appointed in 2015. Hired in 2015. M.Sc. in Economics and Business M.Sc. in Engineering Previous posts: Deputy CEO Lifco, CEO Brokk AB, Management Previous posts: Pareto, SEB-Enskilda New York, IBM, Boeing. Consultant Bain & Co. Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 52,300 Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 113,700 B shares and 4,000 Class B shares through Pension Scheme. B shares and 11,000 B shares through a pension plan. Management changes in 2019: Therése Hoffman On 7 February 2019, Fredrik Karlsson stepped down as President and CEO Chief Financial Officer and from his seat on the Board of Directors. On 8 February, Per Waldemarson was appointed President and CEO. At the time of his appointment, Per Born in 1971. Appointed in 2011. Hired in 2007. Waldemarson was Deputy CEO of the Lifco Group. High School Economist, International Marketing Martin Linder was appointed Head of the Systems Solutions business area Previous posts: CFO at Nordenta AB. and a member of Group management on 23 October 2019. Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 300 B shares. Martin Linder Head of Business Area Systems Solutions Born in 1972. Appointed in 2019. Hired in 2008. M.Sc. in Engineering, Ph.D. Previous posts: CEO Proline Group, CEO Leab Group, senior positions at Note. Own and related parties’ shareholdings, 31 December 2019: 10,600 B shares and 4,150 B shares through a pension plan. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 43 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Appropriation of retained earnings Lifco AB (publ), corp. ID no. 556465-3185 The AGM is asked to decide on the appropriation of the following earnings of Lifco AB: SEK million Retained earnings 2,463 Net profit for the year 778 Total 3,241 The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer propose that a dividend of SEK 5.25 per share be paid to the shareholders 477 Carried forward 2,764 Total 3,241 The Board of Directors believes the proposed dividend is justifiable with regard to the equity requirements arising from the nature, scope and risks associated with the operations of the Group as well as the Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and financial position. For more information about the results and financial position of the Group and Parent Company, see the annual report. The income statements and balance sheets will be presented for approval by the AGM on 24 April 2020. The Board of Directors and CEO certify that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results. The annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards and provide a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results. The auditor’s report for the Group and Parent Company provides a true and fair overview of the development of the Group’s and Parent Company’s business, financial position and results and describes significant risks and uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Enköping, 20 March 2020 Carl Bennet Ulrika Dellby Annika Espander Jansson Chairman Director Director Erik Gabrielson Ulf Grunander Anders Lorentzson Director Director Director, employee representative for Unionen Johan Stern Axel Wachtmeister Per Waldemarson Vice Chairman Director President and CEO Peter Wiberg Director, employee representative for IF Metall Our auditor’s report was submitted on 20 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Eric Salander Tomas Hilmarsson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor-in-charge 44 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Lifco AB (publ), corporate identity number 556465-3185 Report on the annual accounts We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. and consolidated accounts OPINIONS OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Lifco AB (publ) for the year 2019 except for the corporate Audit scope governance statement and the statutory sustainability report on We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing pages 33-37 and 12-15 respectively. The annual accounts and the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages statements. In particular, we considered where the management 8-84 in this document. made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of signifiIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in cant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of all material respects, the financial position of parent company as our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of 31 December 2019 and its financial performance and cash of internal controls, including among other matters consideration flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared material misstatement due to fraud. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated 31 December 2019 and their financial performance and cash financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure flow for the year then ended in accordance with International of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, industry in which the group operates. and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement and the statutory sustainability Materiality report on pages 33-37 and 12-15 respectively. The statutory The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of administration report is consistent with the other parts of the materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance annual accounts and consolidated accounts. whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of company and the group. users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group additional report that has been submitted to the parent compamateriality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole. ny's audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to (537/2014) Article 11. determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misBASIS FOR OPINIONS statements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements as a whole. Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards KEY AUDIT MATTERS are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our are independent of the parent company and the group in accorprofessional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of dance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance period. These matters were addressed in the context of our auwith these requirements. This includes that, based on the best dit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts of my (our) knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been proa separate opinion on these matters. vided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 45 AUDITOR’S REPORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Valuation of intangible assets In our audit, we have evaluated the calculation model applied by With reference to Note 2, Note 4 and Note 14. management. Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life represents We have reconciled and critically tested essential variables against budget a significant part of the Balance Sheet of Lifco. The Company performs and strategic plan for the Company. We have analyzed the accuracy on how an impairment assessment of the assets based on a calculation of the previous years assumptions have been met and assessed any adjustments discounted cash flow for the cash generating units in which goodwill and to assumptions compared to previous year, as a result from changes in the other intangible assets are reported. business and external factors. This impairment test is based on a high level of judgments and assumptions We have tested the sensitivity analysis for key variables in order to assess regarding future cash flows. Information is provided in Notes 2, 4 and 14 as the risk of need for impairment. to how the Company’s management has undertaken its assessments, and We have not noted any need for impairment based on procedures also provides information on important assumptions and sensitivity analyses. performed. Key variables in the test are growth rate, profit margins, overheads, working We have also assessed the correctness of the disclosures included capital requirements, investment requirements and discount factor (cost of in the financial statements. capital). It is presented that no impairment requirement has been identified based on the assumptions undertaken. Recognition of acquisitions Our audit of the acquisitions were partially based on assessing of the With reference to Note 2, Note 4 and Note 31. acquisition agreements as well as supporting documents for opening balances in the acquired companies. We have also evaluated the implemented In the financial year 2019, Lifco made a number of acquisitions across all adjustments for adaptation to the group’s accounting principles. business areas. Information on these acquisitions is presented in Note 31. Our audit has also included an assessment of significant estimates and The total purchase price for the acquisitions, net of acquired cash and cash judgements made in connection with the allocation of fair value in the equivalents, was SEK 2 161 million, of which SEK 1 241 million refers to acquisition analyses. We have also assessed the basis for the judgements identified fair value adjustments in the acquisition analyses for trademarks, and comparing those judgements with similar acquisitions in the group in customer relationships and licences and SEK 957 million refers to goodwill. previous years. The recognition of acquisitions involves a high degree of judgement by We have also assessed the correctness of the disclosures of acquisitions management. Significant estimates and judgements refer to the allocation of included in the financial statements and assessed supporting documentation fair value in acquisition analyses for assets and liabilities, as well as referring for the accounting of the acquisitions. to adjustments for adaptation to the group’s accounting principles. No deviations were noted in our audit. OTHER INFORMATION THAN THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS This document also contains other information than the annual In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-7 Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for and 85-98. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to conare responsible for this other information. tinue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however does not cover this other information and we do not express any not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and conrealistic alternative but to do so. solidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of identified above and consider whether the information is materially Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated acthings oversee the company’s financial reporting process. counts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whethIf we, based on the work performed concerning this informaer the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole tion, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. to report in this regard. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can AND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsiually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to ble for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responannual accounts and consolidated accounts is available on sible for such internal control as they determine is necessary Revisorsinspektionen’s website www.revisorsinspektionen.se/ to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor´s report. 46 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 AUDITOR’S REPORT Report on other legal and Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally regulatory requirements accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, OPINIONS or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Lifco AB (publ) for the A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s administration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: profit or loss. www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor´s report. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in THE AUDITOR’S EXAMINATION OF THE CORPORATE the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged GOVERNANCE STATEMENT from liability for the financial year. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 33-37 has been prepared in BASIS FOR OPINIONS accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conauditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those ducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. section. We are independent of the parent company and the This means that our examination of the corporate governance group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in statement is different and substantially less in scope than an Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on in accordance with these requirements. Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. basis for our opinions. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. DisRESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS closures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second AND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for ap7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent propriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the THE AUDITOR’S OPINION REGARDING size of the parent company's and the group’s equity, consolidaTHE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT tion requirements, liquidity and position in general. The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizaability report on pages 12–15, and that it is prepared in accortion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes dance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination has been among other things continuous assessment of the company’s conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the compa12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability ny's organization is designed so that the accounting, managereport. This means that my (our) examination of the statutory ment of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall than an audit conducted in accordance with International Stanmanage the ongoing administration according to the Board of dards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matSweden. We believe that the examination has provided me (us) ters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s with sufficient basis for my (our) opinion. A statutory sustainabiliaccounting in accordance with law and handle the management ty report has been prepared. of assets in a reassuring manner. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB was appointed auditor of Lifco AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 26 April AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY 2020 and has been the company’s auditor since the general Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and meeting of the shareholders in 2010. thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: Enköping 20 March 2020 • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission PricewaterhouseCoopers AB which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriEric Salander Tomas Hilmarsson ations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance Auditor-in-charge whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 47 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement SEK million Note 2019 2018 Net sales 5 13,845 11,956 Cost of goods sold -8,033 -6,838 Gross profit 5,812 5,118 Selling expenses -1,600 -1,315 Administrative expenses -1,928 -1,735 Research and development costs -171 -144 Other operating income 6 47 29 Other operating expenses 6 -101 -51 Operating profit 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 2,059 1,902 Financial income 6, 12 4 2 Financial expenses 6, 12 -67 -46 Profit before tax 1,996 1,858 Tax on profit for the year 13 -468 -438 Net profit for the year 1,528 1,420 Net profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,505 1,389 Non-controlling interests 23 31 Net profit for the year 1,528 1,420 Earnings per share before and after dilution attributable to Parent Company shareholders during the year, SEK 32 16.57 15.29 The notes on pages 54–88 are an integral part of the annual report and consolidated financial statements. 48 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK million Note 2019 2018 Net profit for the year 1,528 1,420 Other comprehensive income Items which can later be reclassified to profit or loss: Hedge of net investment 2.7.5 6 13 Translation differences 140 155 Tax related to other comprehensive income -1 -3 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,673 1,585 Comprehensive income attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,648 1,552 Non-controlling interests 25 33 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,673 1,585 The notes on pages 54–88 are an integral part of the annual report and consolidated financial statements. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 49 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK million Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible assets 14 11,209 9,133 Tangible assets 15 1,503 611 Other non-current financial receivables 16 9 17 Deferred tax assets 17 173 136 Total fixed assets 12,894 9,897 Current assets Inventories 18 1,997 1,710 Accounts receivable trade 16, 19 1,584 1,550 Current tax assets 125 59 Other current receivables 110 109 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 20 139 93 Cash and cash equivalents 16, 22 729 405 Total current assets 4,684 3,926 TOTAL ASSETS 17,578 13,823 The notes on pages 54–88 are an integral part of the annual report and consolidated financial statements. 50 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consolidated balance sheet, continued SEK million Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 23 18 18 Reserves 495 352 Retained earnings including net profit for the year 7,402 6,315 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 7,915 6,685 Non-controlling interests 57 63 Total equity 7,972 6,748 Non-current liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities incl. lease liability 16, 24 1,634 1,776 Other non-current liabilities 860 447 Interest-bearing pension provisions 25 40 37 Deferred tax liability 17 1,090 824 Other long-term provisions 26 36 36 Total non-current liabilities 3,660 3,120 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities incl. lease liability 16, 21, 24 3,691 1,762 Accounts payable trade 16 680 632 Advance payments from customers 262 435 Current tax liabilities 210 189 Other short-term provisions 26 61 42 Other current liabilities 356 344 Accrued expenses and deferred income 28 686 551 Total current liabilities 5,946 3,955 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 17,578 13,823 The notes on pages 54–88 are an integral part of the annual report and consolidated financial statements. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 51 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Retained Non-controlling Total SEK million Share capital Reserves earnings Total interests equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 18 189 5,289 5,496 50 5,546 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 1,389 1,389 31 1,420 Other comprehensive income 163 163 2 165 Total comprehensive income 0 163 1,389 1,552 33 1,585 Transactions with shareholders Dividend -363 -363 -20 -383 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 18 352 6,315 6,685 63 6,748 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 1,505 1,505 23 1,528 Other comprehensive income 143 143 2 145 Total comprehensive income 0 143 1,505 1,648 25 1,673 Transactions with owners Outgoing non-controlling interests -5 -5 Dividend -418 -418 -26 -444 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 18 495 7,402 7,915 57 7,972 52 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated cash flow statement SEK million Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating profit 2,059 1,902 Non-cash items 35 705 391 Other financial items -10 -4 Interest received 4 2 Interest paid -57 -42 Income taxes paid -571 -472 Cash flow before changes in working capital 2,130 1,777 Changes in working capital Increase/decrease in inventories -94 -260 Increase/decrease in operating receivables 137 -214 Increase/decrease in operating liabilities -183 230 Total changes in working capital -140 -244 Cash flow from operating activities 1,990 1,533 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets -32 -19 Investments in tangible assets -269 -162 Sale of tangible assets 26 12 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents 31 -1,781 -500 Cash flow from investing activities -2,056 -669 Financing activities Increase/decrease in non-current receivables/liabilities 18 -13 Borrowings 3,159 2,145 Repayments of borrowings -2,314 -2,548 Dividends paid -490 -383 Cash flow from financing activities 373 -799 Cash flow for the year 307 65 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 405 305 Translation differences 17 35 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 729 405 The notes on pages 54–88 are an integral part of the annual report and consolidated financial statements. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 53 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 General information Note 2 Summary of significant Lifco acquires and develops market-leading niche businesses in three business areas: Dental, Demolition & Tools and Systems Solutions. The accounting policies The key accounting policies applied in preparing these consolidated financial operations are conducted through subsidiaries in 30 countries. The Parent statements are described in the following. Unless otherwise stated, these Company, Lifco AB (publ), is a limited company with registered office in principles have been applied consistently for all the years presented. Enköping, Sweden (Verkmästaregatan 1, SE-745 85 Enköping). This annual report was approved for publication by the Board of Directors on 2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 March 2020. The consolidated and Parent Company income statements The consolidated financial statements for the Lifco Group have been prepared and balance sheets will be submitted for adoption at the Annual General in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Meeting on 24 April 2020. issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as well as interpretations from the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are expressed in millions of Swedish (IFRIC), as adopted by the EU. Recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Finankronor (SEK million). Figures in parentheses refer to the previous year. cial Reporting Rules for Corporate Groups of the Swedish Financial Reporting Under German rules, it is permitted not to publish the annual reports of Board and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act have also been applied. The individual subsidiaries in Germany provided that the entities are consolidated consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the cost method. at a higher level in another EU country. To meet the requirements under New and amended standards applied by the Group these regulations, Lifco AB (publ) has decided to absorb any losses for its The Group has applied IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 and the implementation German-registered subsidiaries, see below, in respect of the financial year of the standard requires that nearly all leases be recognised in the lessee’s bal1 January – 31 December 2019, in accordance with § 32 of the German ance sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance leases has been Companies Act (Aktiengesetz). This resolution will be published in official removed. Under IFRS 16, a fixed asset (the right to use a leased asset) and a German registers in accordance with § 325 HGB. financial liability (non-current and current) representing the obligation to make It has also been decided that the exemption rules provided for in § 264 Abs lease payments must be recognised in the balance sheet. In the consolidated 3 HGB are applicable in respect of the Directors’ Report and the publication income statement, depreciation and interest expense are recognised instead of the financial statements in the official German register for the subsidiaries, of operating lease expenses, the full amount of which has been recognised in as listed below: operating profit. IFRS 16 affects cash flow insofar that lease payments affect EDP European Dental Partners Holding GmbH, Lübeck cash flow from operating activities (such as interest and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value and short-term leases) and cash flow from fiM+W Dental Müller & Weygandt GmbH, Büdingen nancing activities (repayment of lease liability). The Group applies the simplified Interadent Zahntechnik GmbH, Lübeck transition approach, which means that right-of-use assets are measured at the amount of the lease liability at 1 January 2019 (adjusted for prepaid and acMDH AG Mamisch Dental Health AG, Mülheim an der Ruhr crued lease payments). The adoption of IFRS 16 has thus not had any impact DentalTiger GmbH, Linden on the Group’s equity. As the simplified transition approach has been applied, Praezimed Service GmbH, Hamburg comparative figures for 2018 have not been restated. The Group has chosen to apply the exemption under which it is not required to recognise short-term Smilodentax GmbH, Essen leases and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value as part of the PP Greiftechnik GmbH, Waakirchen right-of-use asset and lease liability in the balance sheet. Payments under these leases are instead expensed on a straight-line basis over the term of the Kinshofer GmbH, Holzkirchen lease. The remaining lease commitments refer essentially to premises such as Demolition and Recycling Tool Rentals GmbH, Holzkirchen office, warehouse and factory premises. Darda GmbH, Blumberg Reconciliation of operating lease commitment and recognised ErgoPack Deutschland GmbH, Lauingen/Donau lease liability (SEK million) Brokk DA GmbH, Friedenweiler Operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018 600 Lifco AB has issued a Parent Company guarantee pursuant to Section 479(C) Discount effect -69 of the UK Companies Act 2006 for the financial year 2019 on behalf of the Less: short-term leases and low-value leases -67 subsidiary companies registered in England and Wales, see below. The Parent Company guarantee applies to all outstanding liabilities for the subsidiaries at Less: reclassifications -19 the balance sheet date until the obligations have been fulfilled. The subsidiaries Translation difference -5 have applied the exemption from statutory audit provided for in Section 479(A) Lease liability recognised at 1 January 2019 440 of the UK Companies Act 2006. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate used to calculate Subsidiaries: the discount effect is 2.09 per cent. Auger Torque Europe Limited (CRN 03537549) New and amended standards and interpretations which have Auto-Maskin UK Limited (CRN 06706114) not yet become effective Brian James Trailers Holdings Limited (CRN 10920740) No standards, amendments and interpretations which become effective for Brian James Trailers Limited (CRN 03844151) the financial year beginning after 1 January 2020 will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Brokk UK Ltd, (CRN 04063287) Kinshofer UK Limited (CRN 01705372) 2.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subsidiaries Modul-System Limited (CRN 01540940) All companies (including structured entities) over which the Group Silvent UK Limited (CRN 03767990) exercises a controlling influence are classified as subsidiaries. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or has the right to a variable return Top Dental (Products) Limited (CRN 04261332) on its interest in the company and is able to influence the return through its UK Point of Sale Group Limited (CRN 03833656) interest in the company. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated finanFor a full list of consolidated companies, see note 47. cial statements as of the date at which the controlling interest is transferred to the Group. They are excluded from the consolidated financial statements as of the date on which the controlling interest ceases to exist. 54 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The purchase method is applied in accounting for the Group’s business 2.4 Intangible assets combinations. The consideration paid for the acquisition of a subsidiary comGoodwill prises the fair value of the transferred assets, liabilities and any shares issued Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and refers to the amount by by the Group. The consideration is also included the fair value of all assets which the consideration exceeds Lifco’s share of the fair value of identifiable or liabilities that are a consequence of a contingent consideration arrangeassets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the acquired entity and the fair ment. Each contingent consideration payable by the Group is measured at value of non-controlling interests in the acquired entity. All acquisitions refer to fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of a a strategic and long-term investment. For the purpose of impairment testing, contingent consideration that has been classified as a liability is accounted goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash-generating for in accordance with IAS 39 in the income statement. Acquisition-related units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the costs are charged to expense as incurred. Identified assets acquired and liasynergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill bilities assumed in a business combination are initially measured at fair value has been allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which the at the acquisition date. For each acquisition, i.e. on an acquisition by acquigoodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is tested for sition basis, the Group determines whether to recognise a non-controlling impairment at least annually if there are events or changes in circumstances interest in the acquired entity at fair value or at the interest’s proportional which indicate potential impairment. The carrying amount of goodwill is comshare of the acquired entity’s net assets. pared with the recoverable amount, which is defined as the higher of value The amount by which the consideration, any non-controlling interest and the fair in use and fair value less selling expenses. Any impairment loss is expensed value of the previous equity interest in the acquired entity at the acquisition date immediately and cannot be reversed. exceeds the fair value of the identified net assets is recognised as goodwill. Patents Commitments for the acquisition of non-controlling interests are considered Patents which have been acquired separately are recognised at cost less as financial liabilities and the subsequent changes in value are recognised accumulated amortisation. Patents are sought for unique constructions and in equity. technical solutions which form part of products developed by the company. The assets are amortised on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost for Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses, and unrealised patents over the estimated useful life, which is the shorter of the patent’s gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. legal life and the period until the product related to the patent is expected to Where applicable, the accounting policies for subsidiaries have been be produced. As a rule, the estimated useful life for patents is not expected amended to guarantee a consistent application of the Group’s principles. to exceed five years. Change in ownership interest in a subsidiary without loss of control Licences, trademarks and customer relationships Transactions with non-controlling interests which do not lead to loss of control Licences, trademarks and customer relationships which have been acquired are accounted for as equity transactions, i.e. transactions with owners in their separately are recognised at cost while those which have been acquired role as owners. In case of acquisitions from non-controlling interests the differthrough a business combination are measured at fair value at the acquisition ence between the fair value of the consideration paid and the actual acquired date. Licences, trademarks and customer relationships which have a definite portion of the carrying amount of the subsidiary’s net assets is recognised useful life are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation. The assets in equity. Gains and losses on sales to non-controlling interests are also are amortised on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost over the estimated recognised in equity. useful life, which is estimated at 2-20 years for licences and ten years for 2.3 Translation of foreign currency customer relationships. Trademarks, which are considered to have indefinite Functional currency and reporting currency useful lives, are tested annually for impairment. The various entities in the Group have the local currency as their functional Acquired software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred currency, as the local currency has been defined as the currency of the primary to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These capitalised costs are economic environment in which each entity operates. Swedish kronor (SEK), amortised over the estimated useful life, which ranges from 3–5 years. the functional and reporting currency of the Parent Company and Group, is used in the consolidated financial statements. 2.5 Tangible assets Tangible assets are recognised at cost less depreciation. Cost does not Transactions and balances include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the transaction date exchange rates. Exchange rate gains and losses arising Any additional expenditure is added to the carrying amount of the asset or from such transactions and upon translation of monetary assets and liabilities recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that in foreign currency at closing rates are recognised in profit or loss, except the future economic benefits associated with the asset will accrue to Lifco and when the transactions constitute net investments, in which gains and losses the cost can be reliably measured. The carrying amount of a replaced portion are recognised in other comprehensive income. Receivables and liabilities is removed from the balance sheet. All other forms of repairs and maintenance in foreign currency are stated at closing rates. Unrealised exchange rate are recognised as expenses in the income statement in the periods in which gains and losses are included in profit or loss. Exchange rate differences they are incurred. attributable to operating receivables and payables are accounted for as other Land is not depreciated. Each part of a tangible asset with a cost that is operating income (operating expenses). Exchange rate differences related to significant in relation to the total cost of the item is depreciated separately. financial assets and liabilities are accounted for in other financial items. Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis as follows: Translation of foreign Group companies Results and financial position for those entities which have a different functional Buildings 25–40 years currency than the reporting currency are translated to the Group’s reporting Plant and machinery 5-10 years currency. All assets and liabilities in the subsidiaries are translated at the closEquipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 3-6 years ing rate while all items in the income statements are translated at the average exchange rate. The resulting translation differences are due partly to the Residual values and useful lives of assets are tested at the end of each reportdifference between the income statements’ average rates and the closing rate, ing period and adjusted where required. An asset’s carrying amount is written and partly to the fact that the net assets are translated at a different rate at the down to the recoverable amount immediately if the carrying amount exceeds end of the year than at the beginning of the year. The translation differences the estimated recoverable amount. are recognised in other comprehensive income. Hedge accounting is used for Gains and losses on the sale of a tangible asset is determined by comparing external loans which have been raised for the purpose of reducing the translathe sale proceeds and the carrying amount, whereby the difference is rection effects in the exposed currency to meet the net assets which exist in the ognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the foreign subsidiaries. Exchange rate differences on these loans are recognised income statement. directly in other comprehensive income for the Group. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities in this operation and translated at the closing rate. Translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 55 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.6  Impairment of non-financial fixed assets The Group estimates expected future credit losses on assets at amortised Assets that are depreciated or amortised are tested for impairment when an cost. The Group’s financial assets for which expected credit losses are event or change of circumstance indicates that the carrying amount may not estimated essentially comprise accounts receivable. The Group recognises a be recoverable. The difference between the carrying amount and recoverable provision for such expected credit losses (“loss allowance”) at each reporting amount is recognised as an impairment loss. The recoverable amount is the date. For accounts receivable, the Group applies the simplified approach for higher of the fair value of the asset less costs to sell and value in use. In testing expected credit losses, which means that it recognises a provision equal to the for impairment, assets are grouped to the lowest levels at which there are expected loss over the expected life of the receivable. To measure expected separate identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). credit losses, accounts receivable are grouped based on allocated credit risk characteristics and days past due. The Group uses forward-looking variables 2.7 Financial instruments Initial recognition for expected credit losses. Expected credit losses are recognised in the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group consolidated income statement in the item Administrative expenses. becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised at the trade date, which is the date 2.7.5 Hedge of net investment when the Group undertakes to buy or sell the asset. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar manner to cash flow hedges. The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs instrument that is deemed to constitute an effective hedge is recognised in directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of a financial asset or financial other comprehensive income. The gain or loss attributable to the ineffective liability, such as fees and commissions. portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Cumulative gains and losses in equity are recognised in profit or loss when the foreign operation 2.7.1 Classification is wholly or partially divested. The Group classifies its financial assets and liabilities in the categories amortised cost and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. 2.8 Inventories The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial asset Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is or liability was acquired. calculated using the first in, first out method (FIFO). The value of inventories Financial assets at amortised cost includes a related portion of indirect costs. The value of finished products Assets held for the purpose of collecting contractual cash flows that are includes raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and production-related solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. overheads including depreciation. The carrying amount of these assets is adjusted by any expected credit lossThe cost consists of the purchase price from subcontractors and costs for es that have been recognised (see the section on impairment below). Interest customs and freight. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the income from these financial assets is recognised using the effective interest ordinary course of business less estimated costs to complete and sell. Invenmethod and is included in financial income. The Group’s financial assets at tory obsolescence is estimated continuously over the course of the year. amortised cost consist of other long-term receivables, accounts receivable, and cash and cash equivalents. 2.9 Accounts receivable trade Accounts receivable are amounts due from customers for goods sold or Financial liabilities at amortised cost services provided in the ordinary course of business. If payment is expected The Group’s other financial liabilities are classified at amortised cost using the within one year or earlier accounts receivable are classified as current assets. effective interest method. Other financial liabilities comprise liabilities to credit If not, they are recognised as fixed assets. Accounts receivable are initially institutions, bonds, accounts payable and overdraft facilities. stated at cost and subsequently at amortised cost by applying the effective Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss interest method, less any provisions for impairment. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are financial liabilities that are held for trading or additional considerations in business combinations. 2.10 Cash and cash equivalents Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value In the balance sheet as well as the cash flow statement, cash and cash also in subsequent periods and changes in value are recognised in profit or equivalents comprise cash and bank balances. loss. Liabilities in this category are classified as current liabilities if they fall due within twelve months of the balance sheet date and as non-current liabilities 2.11 Accounts payable trade if they fall due after more than twelve months from the balance sheet date. Accounts payable are obligations to pay for goods and services purchased from suppliers in operating activities. Accounts payable are classified as Other liabilities at fair value current liabilities if they fall due within one year. If not, they are recognised Other liabilities at fair value comprise liabilities attributable to put options or as non-current liabilities. combined put/call options related to acquisitions of non-controlling interests. Changes in these liabilities are recognised in the income statement. Accounts payable are recognised at the nominal amount. The carrying amount of accounts payable is assumed to be equal to their fair value, 2.7.2 Recognition and measurement as this item is of a short-term nature. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised at the trade date, Accounts payable are initially stated at fair value and subsequently which is the date when the Group undertakes to buy or sell the asset. Finanat amortised cost by applying the effective interest method cial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs. (see 2.7 Financial instruments). Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the instrument has expired or been transferred and the Group has transferred 2.12 Current and deferred tax essentially all risks and benefits associated with ownership. Financial liabilities The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is are derecognised when the obligation arising from the agreement has been recognised in profit or loss, except when the tax refers to items which are fulfilled or otherwise been extinguished. After the acquisition date loans and rerecognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case ceivables and other financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost by applying the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or equity. The curthe effective interest method. rent tax expense is calculated based on tax rules which have been adopted or adopted in practice at the balance sheet date in those countries where the 2.7.3 Offset of financial instruments Parent Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable revenue. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recDeferred tax is accounted for, by applying the balance sheet liability method, ognised amounts and an intention to settle them on a net basis or to realise for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax is not recognised if it is incurred as a result of a transaction that 2.7.4 Impairment of financial assets constitutes the initial recognition of an asset or liability which is not a business Assets at amortised cost combination and which at the time of the transaction affects neither the At the end of each reporting period the Group assesses whether there accounting profit nor the tax profit. Deferred income tax is calculated by apis objective evidence of impairment of a financial asset or group of plying tax rates that have been enacted or announced at the balance sheet financial assets. date and that are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. 56 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax assets arising from loss carry forwards are recognised to the For fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised based on a calculation of extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against costs incurred at the balance sheet date divided by total expected costs which the loss carry forwards can be used. for satisfying the performance obligation. Estimates of revenue, costs or the degree of completion of a project are revised if circumstances change. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right of set off current tax assets and tax liabilities, and when the deferred tax Under a fixed-price contract, the customer pays the agreed price on agreed assets and tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation payment dates. If the performance obligations satisfied by the Group exceed authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities, where the payment, a contract asset is recognised. If the payments exceed the there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. satisfied performance obligations, a contract liability is recognised. 2.13 Borrowings The Group is engaged in the development and manufacture of products but Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. also sources products from subcontractors primarily for sale to end customBorrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Any difference ers. The contract with the customer is normally considered to consist of one between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is or multiple performance obligations (if several products are delivered). In some recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective cases, contracts provide for performance obligations other than products, interest method. Overdraft facilities are classified as borrowings under current when service installation, assembly and/or support are included in the conliabilities in the balance sheet. tract. Sales of goods are recognised as revenue when control of the goods is transferred, which normally occurs when the goods are delivered to the cus2.14 Employee benefits tomer. All revenues from the sale of goods are recognised at a point in time. Retirement benefit obligations Some contracts provide for a customer rebate, which is based on accumuThe Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. lated sales to the customer over a certain period, normally one year or longer. The Group’s main defined benefit plan is the ITP Supplementary Pension Plan Revenue from the sale of goods is based on the price in the contract less the for Salaried Employees in Industry and Commerce, which is secured through estimated customer rebate. Historical data is used to estimate the expected contributions paid to Alecta (for information on Alecta, see Note 25). value of the customer rebate and revenue is recognised only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur. A liability included Defined contribution pension plans are post-employment benefit plans under in the item “Accrued expenses and deferred income” is recognised for the which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity. The expected customer rebate in relation to sales up to and including the balance Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if sheet date. The Group does not consider that there is a financing component, this legal entity does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits as the average credit period is short. The Group has obligations to repair or relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. In a defined replace defective products in accordance with normal warranty rules, which benefit pension plan the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately are recognised as provisions. Extended warranties are sold in a few cases. A managed pension schemes on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered, as it is at this point that Once the contributions have been paid the Group has no further payment the right to receive consideration becomes unconditional (i.e. only the passage obligations. The contributions are recognised as personnel costs when they of time is required for payment of the consideration to be made). fall due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that cash repayments or reductions of future payments may accrue to the benefit Sale of services of the Group. The Group’s material revenue streams arising from the sale of services comprise sales of services in the Contract Manufacturing area, which arise The small amount of retirement benefit obligations that has not been taken partly from the Systems Solutions operating segment and partly from services over by an insurance company or been secured through funding with an linked to one of the revenue streams from the sale of goods described above external party is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet. in the form of service, assembly, support and/or installation in respect of sold 2.15 Provisions products. The majority of the Group’s contracts for services are time and maProvisions are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligaterials contracts. Revenue from provided variable-price services is recognised tion as a result of a past event and it is more probable than not that an outflow over time in the period in which the services are provided. Revenue is normally of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can recognised based on a price per hour. be made of the amount of the obligation. Certain contracts include multiple services, such as sale of a good, assembly, Provisions for warranty costs are estimates of submitted warranty claims service, support and/or installation of the sold products. For these contracts, and are estimated based on combined experience in the form of statistics an assessment is made of whether the contract includes one or multiple on historical claims, expected costs for measures and the average time performance obligations based on whether the service is simple, includes from the occurrence of the fault to the filing of a claim against the Group. an integration service or can be performed by another service provider. If the contract includes multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is 2.16 Recognition of revenue allocated to each separate performance obligation based on their standSale of goods alone selling prices. The Group’s material revenue streams arising from the sale of goods comCertain services, such as maintenance, service and support of products, prise sales of dental products, machinery and tools, construction materials, are recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract unless interiors for service vehicles, environmental technology and forest industry another method measures the satisfaction of the performance obligation equipment. The “dental products” revenue stream arising from the Dental more accurately. operating segment is generated from sales of products in the form of consumables and equipment for dentists. The “machinery and tools” revenue Interest income is recognised over the term of the loan by applying the stream arising from the Demolition & Tools operating segment is generated effective interest method. from sales of equipment for the construction and demolition industries, where the most significant products are demolition robots and crane and 2.17 Leases As explained in Note 2.1 above, the Group has changed its accounting poliexcavator attachments. The “construction materials,” “interiors for service cies for leases in cases where the Group is a lessee, in accordance with the vehicles,” “environmental technology,” and “forest” revenue streams, which provisions of IFRS 16. The new policy is described in Note 11 and the effect arise from the Systems Solutions operating segment, are generated from of the transition in Note 2.1. sales of a wide range of products, including machinery and equipment for electrical installations and electricity production, electrical equipment, LED Until 2018, leases in which a significant share of the risks and benefits of lighting, interior modules for vans and light commercial vehicles, machines ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Paydesigned to improve the environment, workwear, instruments for forestry ments made during the lease term are charged to the income statement on surveyors, sawmill and pellet plant equipment. a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. The Forest area uses fixed-price contracts linked to customised equipment for Leases in which the economic risks and benefits associated with ownership sawmills, such as timber and wood handling equipment, drying equipment, have essentially been transferred to the Group are classified as finance leassawing lines and pellet mills. Revenue from fixed-price contracts accounts for es. At the beginning of its term a finance lease is recognised in the balance a minor portion, around 5 per cent, of the Group’s total revenue. sheet at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 57 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group’s leases mainly refer to the lease of premises. None of these leases manage its currency flows with regard to exposure to sudden changes in are currently classified as finance leases for the period until 2018. exchange rates. Currency risks are managed chiefly through a system of Group accounts in different currencies where surpluses in the system are used 2.18 Cash flow statement to pay for transactions in a certain currency. No derivatives have been entered The cash flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method. into to manage the currency risk. Forward contracts may only be entered into This means that the net profit or loss is adjusted for transactions which with approval from Group management. There were no significant forward have not resulted in incoming or outgoing payments during the period, contracts for the Group in 2018 and 2019. and for any income or expenses attributable to cash flows from investing or financing activities. Lifco deems that the transaction exposure is limited, as there is a balance between purchases and sales in foreign currency in the Group. A moderate 2.19 Dividends change in the value of the Swedish krona against other currencies thus has Dividend payments to Parent Company shareholders are recognised as a no material impact on consolidated earnings after tax. In 2019, net foreign liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which the exchange differences recognised in the income statement were SEK 7 (1) payment is approved by the shareholders of the parent. Dividend income is million, see Note 6. Lifco also has transaction exposure in the form of borrecognised when the right to receive payment has been established. rowings in foreign currency. This risk is limited, as these loans are part of the Group’s net investment hedge. 2.20 Shareholder contributions Translation risk arises on the translation of foreign subsidiaries to the reporting Shareholder contributions are recognised directly in equity in the receiving currency, SEK. The Group has a number of investments in foreign operations entity and converted into shares in the contributing entity, insofar as no whose net assets are exposed to currency risks. Currency exposure arising impairment loss is required. from the net assets in the Group’s foreign operations is partly managed 2.21 Segment information through borrowings in the foreign currencies concerned. These loans are Segment information is reported in a way that is consistent with the internal recognised as hedge of net investment, see 2.7.5 Hedge of net investment. reports submitted to the most senior executive. The most senior executive The Parent Company has outstanding bonds, loans in the form of overdraft is the function that is responsible for allocating resources and assessing the facilities and bank loans related to acquisitions in the equivalent amount of SEK results of operating segments. In the Group this function has been identified 1,818 (1,304) million denominated in EUR, SEK 279 (480) million in USD, SEK as the Chief Executive Officer, who makes strategic decisions. Group man635 (358) million in NOK, SEK 447 (-) million in GBP and SEK 31 (72) million agement has defined the operating segments based on the information that in NZD. The acquisition-related loans have been identified as a net investment is handled by the CEO and used as a basis for decisions on the allocation of hedge. During the period, no ineffectiveness in hedges of net investments in resources and evaluation of results. foreign operations that needs to be recognised occurred. The net exposure is SEK 179 (700) million and hedged net assets total SEK 8,156 (5,794) million. The CEO evaluates the activities on the basis of three operating segments: Dental, Demolition & Tools and Systems Solutions. Systems Solutions consists SEK million 2019 2018 of a merger of those business areas which have similar economic characterisEUR 26 21 tics and which do not individually meet the defined quantitative limits. NOK 16 15 2.22 Alternative performance measures GBP 9 3 In the annual report, alternative performance measures are used for monitoring the operations of the Group. The primary alternative performance measures USD 6 5 presented in this report are EBITA, EBITDA, interest-bearing net debt, net DKK 4 2 debt and capital employed. Reconciliations of the alternative performance Other currencies 5 4 measures are presented on pages 76-77, and the purpose and definitions of these indicators are presented on page 99. Total 66 50 Note 3 Financial risk management (ii) Interest rate risk 3.1 Financial risk factors Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in the interest rate environment will Through its activities, the Group is exposed to a wide range of financial risks: have a negative impact on net financial items and earnings in the Group. The market risk (comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit Group’s borrowings have both fixed and variable interest rates. The interest risk and liquidity risk. These risks are managed in accordance with Lifco’s rate risk to which the Group is exposed through variable interest rates is partly financial policy, which has been adopted by the company’s Board of Direcneutralised by cash assets bearing variable interest rates. The Group’s average tors. The Group’s policy is to apply hedge accounting only for net investinterest rate in the financial year 2019 was 2.1 per cent (2.1 per cent in 2018). ments in foreign operations and it endeavours to minimise potential negative At the balance sheet date, the Group had total borrowings of SEK 5,325 effects on the Group’s financial results through an extensive Group account (3,538) million (see Note 24), of which 13 per cent was subject to fixed intersystem in which surpluses in a certain currency are matched with payments est rates and 87 per cent was subject to variable interest rates. A change in in the same currency. interest rates of +/0.50 percentage points would have an impact on SEK a) Market risk +/18 (11) million on net profit for the year. (i) Currency risk b) Credit risk Currency risk is the risk that unfavourable changes in exchange rates will Credit risk, or counterparty risk, is the risk that a counterparty in a financial affect the Group’s results and equity in SEK terms: transaction will fail to meet its obligations at maturity. Lifco’s credit risk arises • Transaction exposure arises from the fact that the Group has incoming mainly from accounts receivable but there is also a certain credit risk in respect and outgoing payments in foreign currencies of cash and cash equivalents. Each company in the Group is responsible for monitoring and assessing credit risk and for assessing the creditworthiness • Translation exposure arises from the Group’s currency exposure from of each new customer. Provisions for doubtful debts are made based on a net assets in the Group’s foreign operations. schedule defined by the Group. Lifco deems that the risk of bad debts is low, The Lifco Group conducts operations in 30 countries. Due to this geographic as sales are to a large extent made to customers with which the Group has spread, as well as the large number of customers and products, Lifco’s transhad long partnerships and/or good experience of the customer’s willingness action exposure is relatively limited. The Lifco Group’s transaction exposure to pay. The Group continuously monitors its customers’ creditworthiness arises when the subsidiaries import products for sale in their domestic markets and reviews credit terms based on specified guidelines where necessary. and/or sell products in foreign currency. As far as possible, the effects of For cash and cash equivalents, the credit risk is deemed to be low, as the changes in exchange rates are managed through the use of currency clauses in counterparties are large well-known banks with high creditworthiness. For customer contracts and through sales in the same currency as the purchase. the Group’s credit losses, see Note 19. There are no material credit risks. Under the policy that is applied in the Group, each company is required to The Group’s financial assets that are subject to impairment testing essentially comprise accounts receivable. The expected credit losses are based on past 58 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS payment history and past losses. Past losses are adjusted to take account of current and prospective information about macroeconomic factors that Note 4 Critical estimates and judgements Estimates of the values of balance sheet items and judgements made when can affect the customers’ ability to pay a receivable. For disclosures on the applying accounting policies are continually evaluated and are based on hismaturity structure of accounts receivable and the loss allowance, see Note torical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events 19 Accounts receivable. that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. c) Liquidity risk Critical accounting estimates and judgements Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient liquid assets to The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the future. The resulting meet its obligations in respect of financial liabilities. The goal of the company’s accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. liquidity management is to minimise the risk that the Group will not have suffiEstimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material cient liquid assets to meet its commercial obligations. To manage day-to-day adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next payments, the Group has a cash pool system which ensures that liquid assets financial year are addressed below. are available in the currencies in which payments are made. Management monitors rolling forecasts for the Group’s cash and cash equivalents (including Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with unused credit facilities) based on expected cash flows. Lifco’s policy is to have indefinite useful lives a strong liquidity position with regard to available liquid assets and unused Each year, the Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful confirmed credit facilities. lives for impairment in accordance with the accounting principle described in Note 2. Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units have been determined At 31 December 2019, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of SEK by calculating value in use. For these calculations certain estimates need to be 729 (405) million. Other future liquidity requirements refer to the settlement of made (see Note 14). accounts payable and other current liabilities as well as repayment of borrowings. For a maturity analysis of future cash flows from the Group’s financial Recognition of acquisitions liabilities, see Note 24. In connection with acquisitions, the Group prepares a purchase price allocation for accounting purposes in accordance with the accounting principle described 3.2 Management of capital risk in Note 2. Accounting for an acquisition involves a high degree of judgement The Group’s goal in respect of capital structure is to secure its ability to and estimation, mainly with regard to the allocation of premiums and discounts continue as a going concern in order to continue to generate a return for the to assets and liabilities (net assets) in the purchase price allocation as well as shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal adjusting entries for adaptation to the Group’s accounting policies. Fair value capital structure in order to keep the cost of capital down. Lifco currently sees no refinancing risk. adjustments and resultant goodwill are presented in Note 31. 3.3 CALCULATION OF FAIR VALUE NOTE 5 SEGMENT REPORTING Due to the short-term nature of trade and other receivables as well as trade The Chief Executive Officer is the Group’s chief operating decision maker. and other liabilities, their carrying amounts, less any impairment losses, are Management has defined the operating segments based on the information assumed to approximate their fair values. Information on the fair values and that is handled by the CEO and used as a basis for decisions on the allocacarrying amounts of non-current interest-bearing liabilities is presented in tion of resources and the evaluation of results. The results for the presented Note 24. segments are assessed based on EBITA (earnings before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition, acquisition costs, interest and tax). Financial instruments at fair value in the Group comprise financial liabilities in the form of put/call options for future acquisitions of non-controlling interests Revenue as well as additional considerations. The fair values of these are based on the The Group’s material revenue streams arising from the sale of goods comprise company’s future earnings. Both these items are classified to Level 3 of the sales of dental products, machinery and tools, construction materials, interiors fair value hierarchy. The following table shows the change for the year: for service vehicles, environmental technology and forest industry equipment. The “dental products” revenue stream arising from the Dental operating SEK million Put/call options and segment is generated from sales of products in the form of consumables and additional considerations equipment for dentists. The “machinery and tools” revenue stream arising from Opening balance, 1 January 2018 258 the Demolition & Tools operating segment is generated from sales of equipment for the construction and demolition industries, where the most significant prodAdditional 267 ucts are demolition robots and crane and excavator attachments. The “conRevaluation -1 struction materials,” “interiors for service vehicles,” “environmental technology,” Considerations paid -10 and “forest” revenue streams, which arise from the Systems Solutions operating segment, are generated from sales of a wide range of products, including Foreign exchange differences 1 machinery and equipment for electrical installations and electricity production, Closing balance, 31 December 2018 515 electrical equipment, LED lighting, interior modules for vans and light comAdditional 465 mercial vehicles, machines designed to improve the environment, workwear, instruments for forestry surveyors, sawmill and pellet plant equipment. Revaluation 50 No sales are made between the segments. The revenue from external Considerations paid -72 parties that is reported to the CEO is measured in the same way as in the Dividends paid -46 income statement. Foreign exchange differences 4 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 916 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 59 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SEK million 2019 2018 Revenue from external customers Dental 4,393 4,185 Demolition & Tools 3,610 2,820 Systems Solutions 5,842 4,951 Total 13,845 11,956 A breakdown of results by segment is made up to and including EBITA. No breakdown of assets and liabilities by segment is made, as no such amount is regularly reported to the chief operating decision maker. EBITA is reconciled to profit before tax as follows: Dental 874 802 Demolition & Tools 834 724 Systems Solutions 909 756 Central Group functions -94 -114 Total 2,523 2,168 SEK million 2019 2018 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions -329 -253 Non-recurring items -56 Acquisition costs -79 -13 Net financial items -63 -44 Profit before tax 1,996 1,858 Net sales by type of income: Dental products 4,393 4,185 Machinery and tools 3,610 2,820 Environmental technology 1,855 1,463 Construction materials 1,192 1,102 Contract manufacturing 1,055 951 Service and Distribution 882 660 Forest 858 775 Total 13,845 11,956 No single customer accounts for more than ten per cent of net sales. Net sales by geographic market: Sweden 2,046 1,877 Norway 1,727 1,485 Germany 2,174 2,127 Rest of Europe 4,809 3,919 Asia and Australia 1,577 1,258 North America 1,411 1,180 Other countries 101 110 Total 13,845 11,956 Total fixed assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets, located in Sweden totalled SEK 3,560 (2,543) million, SEK 4,466 (3,861) million in Germany, SEK 1,557 (1,493) million in Norway and SEK 957 (152) million in the UK, and the sum of such fixed assets located in other countries is SEK 2,172 (1,695) million. Contract assets and contract liabilities The Group only has contract assets in the form of contract work in progress, which will continue to be presented separately in the item Inventories and be termed contract work in progress. In addition to accounts receivable, the Group also has receivables from contracts with customers where payment of the consideration for the good or service is only dependent on the passage of time. Receivables from contracts with customers are accounted for as part of Prepaid expenses and accrued income in the line Receivables from contracts with customers. 60 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SEK million 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 The Group recognises the following revenue-related contract liabilities: Advance payments from customers 262 435 Other customer contract liabilities 31 6 Total contract liabilities 293 441 Of the total contract liabilities of SEK 441 million recognised at the beginning of the financial year, revenue related to contract liabilities of SEK 371 million was recognised during the financial year. The closing balance of contract liabilities at the end of the financial year of SEK 223 million is expected to be recognised as revenue in the following financial year. Outstanding unsatisfied performance obligations All contracts for the sale of services have an original term of no more than one year or are billed on a time basis. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 15, no disclosures are made on the transaction prices for these unsatisfied obligations. Note 6 Net foreign exchange gains and losses SEK million 2019 2018 Foreign exchange differences have been recognised in the income statement as follows: Other operating income and operating expenses 13 2 Financial income and expenses (Note 12) -6 -1 Total 7 1 Note 7 Scheduled depreciation and amortisation SEK million 2019 2018 Distribution of depreciation/amortisation by tangible and intangible assets Right-of-use assets -144 Buildings and land improvements -22 -17 Plant and machinery -64 -47 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings -81 -63 Total depreciation of tangible assets -311 -127 Trademarks -2 Customer relationships -321 -246 Patents -6 -7 Other intangible assets -15 -12 Total amortisation of intangible assets -344 -265 Total depreciation/amortisation of fixed assets -655 -392 Depreciation/amortisation by function Cost of goods sold -103 -71 Selling expenses -336 -259 Administrative expenses -211 -58 Research and development costs -5 -4 Total depreciation/amortisation -655 -392 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 61 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 8 Auditors’ fees SEK million 2019 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit engagement 9 8 Audit services in addition to audit engagement 1 1 Tax advisory services Other services 2 1 Total 12 10 Other audit firms Audit engagement 1 1 Audit services in addition to audit engagement Tax advisory services Other services Total 1 1 Audit engagement refers to fees for the statutory audit, i.e. such work as has been necessary to submit the auditor’s report. Tax advisory services refer mainly to general corporate tax matters. Other services refer to advice on financial reporting as well as services in connection with acquisitions. The total fee paid to PwC and its international network for the 2019 financial year is SEK 12 (10) million. The fee paid to the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB is SEK 6 (5) million, of which SEK 4 (4) million refers to the audit engagement, SEK 1 (0) million to other statutory engagements and SEK 1 (1) to other services. Note 9 Classification of expenses by nature SEK million 2019 2018 Goods for resale, raw materials and consumables 6,228 5,422 Personnel costs (Note 10) 3,075 2,661 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (Notes 7, 14 and 15) 655 392 Expenses for operating leases (Note 11) 67 176 Production expenses and other expenses 1,707 1,381 Total costs of goods sold, selling expenses, administrative 11,732 10,032 expenses, and research and development expenses NOTE 10 PERSONNEL COSTS AND AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES SEK million 2019 2018 Salaries and benefits Board of Directors and senior executives* 256 254 Termination salary to CEO 27 Other employees 2,147 1,868 2,430 2,122 Social security contributions 467 410 Social security contributions on termination salary to CEO 13 Pension costs for senior executives 32 33 Pension costs during termination period of CEO 16 Pension costs for other employees 117 96 Total 3,075 2,661 * Includes salaries and benefits of the Board of Directors, Group management and the chief executives of the Group’s subsidiaries. 62 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration and benefits in 2019 Basic salary/ Variable SEK ‘000 Director’s fee1 remuneration Other benefits Pension cost Total Carl Bennet 1,360 1,360 Ulrika Dellby 735 735 Annika Espander-Jansson 735 735 Erik Gabrielson 695 695 Ulf Grunander 855 855 Anna Hallberg 735 735 Johan Stern 695 695 Axel Wachtmeister 695 695 Per Waldemarson (in capacity of Director, from 26 April 2019) Total 6,505 6,505 Per Waldemarson 19,342 10,156 57 11,393 40,948 (in capacity of CEO, from 8 February 2019) Other Group management (3 persons) 7,014 6,777 53 1,131 14,975 Total 26,356 16,933 110 12,524 55,923 *Martin Linder is part of the Group Management Team from 23 October 2019. Remuneration for the financial year 2019 is included. Fredrik Karlsson was the Group's CEO thorugh 7 February 2019. He was Director of Lifco AB (publ) through 27 February 2019. Remuneration to Fredrik Karlsson, in his capacity as CEO, amounted to basic salary of SEK 4,520 thousand, other benefits of SEK 6 thousand and pension cost of SEK 2,707 thousand. Remuneration and benefits in 2018 Basic salary/ Variable SEK ‘000 Director’s fee1 remuneration Other benefits Pension cost Total Carl Bennet 1,310 1,310 Gabriel Danielsson 669 669 Ulrika Dellby 702 702 Annika Espander-Jansson 702 702 Erik Gabrielson 669 669 Ulf Grunander 812 812 Anna Hallberg 702 702 Fredrik Karlsson (in capacity of Director) Johan Stern 669 669 Axel Wachtmeister 669 669 Total 6,904 6,904 Fredrik Karlsson (in capacity of CEO) 25,718 17,573 38 14,979 58,308 Other Group management (3 persons) 14,212 11,568 55 4,384 30,219 Total 39,930 29,141 93 19,363 88,527 1 Includes fees for work on Board committees. Remuneration of Directors Committee and adopted by the Board. Examples of such targets are results, The Chairman and other members of the Board of Directors receive Directors’ volume growth, working capital and cash flow. For other senior executives, fees and remuneration for committee work in accordance with the resolutions the variable remuneration shall be based, partly, on the outcome of his/her of the Annual General Meeting. Employee representatives do not receive own area of responsibility and, partly, on individually set targets. In addition to Directors’ fees. Directors who are employed by the Group have not received the above variable remuneration, the Annual General Meeting may resolve on remuneration or benefits in addition to those associated with the employment. shareand share price-related remuneration. The Chairman of the Board has not received any remuneration in addition to Other benefits Directors’ fees and remuneration for committee work. Other benefits, such as a company car, extra health insurance or occuRemuneration of senior executives pational health services, are to be payable insofar as they are regarded as Remuneration of the CEO and other senior executives consists of a basic market-aligned for senior executives in corresponding positions in the labour salary, variable remuneration, other benefits and pension contributions. Other market where the executive is active. The combined amount of such benefits senior executives refer to the three individuals who, together with the CEO, may constitute only a limited proportion of the total remuneration. make up the Group Management Team. For the composition of the group management team, see page 43. Pension benefits Pension rights for the CEO and other senior executives shall apply no earlier Basic salary and variable remuneration than from age 60. For the CEO. Pension agreements are to be concluded The amount of variable remuneration in relation to basic salary must be in according to local rules applicable in the country where the senior executive proportion to the senior executive’s responsibility and authority. The variable reis resident. The pension benefit is based on a portion of the basic salary. All muneration shall be linked to predetermined and measurable criteria designed pension benefits are defined contribution and vested. to promote the company’s long-term value creation. For the CEO, variable remuneration is capped at 70 per cent of the fixed salary. The variable remuneration shall be based on individual targets proposed by the Remuneration LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 63 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cessation of employment of any salary increases. The committee also proposes criteria for assessing If the CEO resigns, he/she shall be subject to a period of notice of six months. bonus outcomes. The Board discusses the Remuneration Committee’s proIf the employment of the CEO is terminated by the company, a period of notice posal and made decisions based on the committee’s recommendations. The of not more than 18 months will apply and the CEO has right to salary during Board shall be entitled to deviate from the guidelines if there is special reason the period of notice. Termination salary is not to be deductible from other to do so in an individual case. income. If the employment of another senior executive is terminated by the The remuneration payable to the CEO for the financial year 2019 was company, a period of notice of not more than twelve months will apply. approved by the Board based on the recommendation of the Remuneration The implementation and decision-making process Committee. The remuneration paid to other senior executives was approved The Remuneration Committee submitts recommendations to the Board of by the CEO in consultation with the Chairman of the Board. In 2019, the Directors concerning principles for remuneration of senior executives. The recRemuneration Committee convened on three occasions. ommendations covers the ratio of fixed to variable remuneration, and the size Average number of employees, Group 2019 2018 Women Men Total Women Men Total Sweden 329 981 1,310 289 878 1,167 Australia 4 29 33 4 31 35 Belgium 2 7 9 1 4 5 Denmark 70 196 266 64 173 237 Estonia 80 130 210 87 131 218 Philippines 83 120 203 89 159 248 Finland 40 132 172 40 133 173 France 19 91 110 16 77 93 United Arab Emirates 1 4 5 1 4 5 Hong Kong 1 4 5 1 3 4 Italy 17 95 112 6 9 15 Canada 4 10 14 2 11 13 China 224 542 766 204 562 766 Latvia 7 4 11 8 4 12 Lithuania 11 2 13 10 1 11 Netherlands 4 49 53 4 43 47 Norway 94 307 401 82 287 369 New Zealand 1 16 17 1 18 19 Poland 3 8 11 1 8 9 Russia 2 6 8 2 5 7 Switzerland 4 6 10 4 6 10 Singapore 5 15 20 4 8 12 Slovenia 4 24 28 5 20 25 Spain 1 1 2 United Kingdom 50 170 220 29 123 152 South Korea 2 2 4 1 2 3 Czech Republic 47 122 169 37 124 161 Germany 309 460 769 319 421 740 Hungary 5 3 8 6 3 9 USA 63 185 248 66 183 249 Austria 6 42 48 5 41 46 Total number of employees 1,492 3,763 5,255 1,388 3,472 4,860 Parent Company Sweden 2 4 6 2 3 5 GENDER DISTRIBUTION FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES AT BALANCE SHEET DATE, % 2019 2018 Women: Board members in the Parent Company 25% 30% Other individuals in management, including CEO 25% 25% Men: Board members in the Parent Company 75% 70% Other individuals in management, including CEO 75% 75% 64 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 11 Leases SEK million 2019 1 Jan 2019* Amounts recognised in the balance sheet The following lease-related amounts have been recognised in the balance sheet: Right-of-use assets Properties & premises 596 440 Total 596 440 Lease liabilities Non-current 581 420 Current 15 20 Total 596 440 * Adoption of IFRS 16, see note 2.17 New right-of-use assets in 2019 totalled SEK 290 million. SEK million 2019 2018 Amounts recognised in the income statement The following lease-related amounts have been recognised in the income statement: Depreciation of right-of-use assets Properties & premises -144 Total -144 Interest expense -12 Expenses related to short-term leases -19 Expenses related to leases for which the underlying asset is of low value that are not -47 short-term leases The total lease-related cash flow in 2019 was SEK 222 million. The Group’s lease activities and their accounting treatment. Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, which is equal to the initial measureThe Group mainly leases premises, such as office, warehouse and factory ment of the lease liability. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line premises. Leases are normally signed for fixed periods ranging from 3 months basis over the estimated useful life, which is the same as the lease term. to 3 years, in some cases with an option to extend, as described below. The Payments for short-term leases for premises and all low-value leases are contracts may include both lease and non-lease components. For lease payexpensed on a straight-line basis in the income statement. ments for properties for which the Group is the tenant, the Group has chosen Options to extend and terminate leases not to separate lease and non-lease components and instead recognises Options to extend and terminate leases are included in a number of the these as a single lease component. The terms are negotiated separately for Group’s leases. The terms are used to ensure the greatest possible flexibility each contract and contain a large number of different contract terms. The in managing the assets used in the activities of the Group. The majority of leases do not contain any special terms or restrictions other than that the the options to extend and terminate leases can only be exercised by the lessor retains the rights to pledged leased assets. The leased assets may Group, and not by the lessor. not be used as collateral for loans. When the length of the lease term is determined management considers all Leased property, plant and equipment were classified as either finance or available information that creates an economic incentive to exercise an option operating leases until the end of the 2018 financial year. From 1 January 2019, to extend, or not to terminate, a lease. An option to extend a lease is included leases are recognised as right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities at the in the lease term only if it is certain to be exercised. Potential future cash flows day at which the leased asset is available for use by the Group. of SEK 504 million (undiscounted) have not been included in the lease liability, Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured at the present as it is not reasonably certain that the leases will be extended. value of fixed payments. The majority of options to extend related to properties The majority of the options to extend have not been taken into account and premises have not been taken into account in calculating the lease liability. in calculating the lease liability, as the Group is able to replace the assets Lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. without significant costs or disruptions to its operations. The assessment of As this rate cannot normally be readily determined for the Group’s leases, whether it is reasonably certain is reviewed only in case of a significant event the lessee’s weighted average incremental borrowing rate has been used, or change of circumstances that affects this assessment and if the change is which is the interest rate the Group would have to pay to borrow the funds within the control of the lessee. During the current financial year, this review necessary to purchase an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset. The of lease terms led to an increase in lease liabilities and right-of-use assets of Group has determined the incremental borrowing rate based on an average SEK 86 million. of the terms of the financing recently obtained from an external party. Operating leases The Group is exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments The Group’s operating leases refer mainly to the lease of commercial premises. that depend on an index or rate, which are not included in the lease liability Operating lease payments in the Group for the financial year were SEK (176) until they take effect. When adjustments to lease payments that depend on an million. Lease payments for assets held under operating leases are recognised index or rate take effect the lease liability and right-of-use asset are remeain operating expenses. From 1 January 2019, the Group has recognised rightsured. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and of-use assets for these leases, except for short-term leases and leases for the reduction of the outstanding liability. In the income statement, the finance which the underlying asset is of low value. charge is allocated over the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 65 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases at the balance sheet date were as follows; SEK million 2019 2018 Maturity within 1 year 163 Maturity in 2 to 5 years 329 Maturity after more than 5 years 108 Total 600 Note 12 Financial income and expenses SEK million 2019 2018 Financial income Interest income 4 2 Other financial income Total financial income 4 2 Financial expenses Interest expense -56 -42 Foreign exchange losses -6 -1 Other financial expenses -5 -3 Total financial expenses -67 -46 Net financial items -63 -44 Note 13 Tax on profit for the year Msek 2019 2018 Tax expense Current tax for the year -522 -482 Adjustments regarding previous years’ current tax -13 -9 Total current tax expense -535 -491 Deferred tax (Note 17) Origination and reversal of temporary differences 55 30 Effect of changed tax rate 12 23 Total deferred tax 67 53 Total income tax -468 -438 The relationship between tax expense for the year and reported profit is shown in the table below. The tax on the profit for the year has been calculated at 21.4 (22) per cent. Tax for other countries has been calculated at the applicable local tax rates. The income tax on the consolidated profit differs from the theoretical amount that would have resulted from the use of a weighted average tax rate for the results of the consolidated companies as follows: Reported profit before tax 1,996 1,858 Tax at applicable tax rate in Sweden, 21.4% (22%) -427 -409 Tax effects of non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses 29 42 Tax effects of non-deductible expenses -29 -60 Adjustment for other tax rates in foreign subsidiaries -41 -29 Utilisation of loss carry forwards for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 1 4 Effect of changed tax rate 12 23 Adjustment relating to previous years -13 -9 Reported tax expense -468 -438 The effective tax rate for the Group is 23.4 (23.6) per cent. 66 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer Other intangible SEK million *Indefinite useful life *Goodwill *Trademarks relationships TRADEMARKS Patents assets Total COST 1 January 2018 6,190 784 2,148 66 134 9,322 Investments 1 6 12 19 Acquisition of companies 376 106 359 10 2 853 Sales/disposals -2 -2 -4 Reclassifications 13 -10 -3 1 1 Translation differences 172 25 63 1 3 264 1 January 2019 6,751 915 2,561 78 150 10,455 Investments 1 14 17 32 Acquisition of companies 971 290 966 6 7 6 2,246 Sales/disposals -4 -1 -5 Reclassifications 6 11 -17 Translation differences 115 15 45 2 177 31 December 2019 7,840 1,220 3,572 17 82 174 12,905 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION 1 January 2018 -455 -399 -21 -109 -984 Depreciation for the year -246 -7 -12 -265 Acquisition of companies -2 -1 -3 Sales/disposals 2 2 4 Reclassifications -1 1 Translation differences -8 -11 -1 -4 -24 1 January 2019 -464 -655 -29 -124 -1,272 Depreciation for the year -321 -2 -6 -15 -344 Acquisition of companies -3 -4 -1 -4 -12 Sales/disposals 4 1 5 Reclassifications -5 4 1 Translation differences -9 -12 1 -2 -1 -23 31 December 2019 -472 -988 -10 -34 -142 -1,646 ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENT 1 January 2018 -50 -50 Impairment for the year 1 January 2019 -50 -50 Impairment for the year 31 December 2019 -50 -50 Carrying amount, 1 January 2018 5,685 784 1,749 45 25 8,288 Carrying amount, 31 December 2018 6,237 915 1,906 49 26 9,133 Carrying amount, 31 December 2019 7,318 1,220 2,584 7 48 32 11,209 Impairment testing of goodwill and trademarks Goodwill and intangible assets (trademarks) with indefinite useful lives are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units, which are identified by operating segment. The assumptions used in estimating value in use are the same for goodwill and trademarks. The recoverable amount for a cash-generating unit is determined based on calculations of value in use. These calculations are made using estimated future cash flows before tax based on five-year financial budgets that have been approved by Group management. Cash flows beyond the five-year period have been extrapolated using an estimated growth rate. The estimated growth rate is assumed to represent the growth rate in the fifth year, which is expected to be around 2 per cent for all operating segments in both 2019 and 2018. Assumptions have also been made for gross margin, overheads, working capital requirements and investment requirements. The parameters have been set to represent an annual growth rate of 2 (2) per cent for all operating segments. The pre-tax discount rate used is 9.2 (9.4) per cent for all operating segments. The calculation as at 31 December 2019 shows that value in use exceeds the carrying amount for all cash-generating units. There is thus no impairment. Nor was any impairment identified as at 31 December 2018. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 67 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis shows that the remaining goodwill value for all cash-generating units would remain warranted if the discount rate were raised by 1 percentage point or the growth rate, terminal growth or gross margin were reduced by 1 percentage point. Lifco’s reportable operating segments are Dental, Demolition & Tools and Systems Solutions. For the purpose of performing impairment tests, goodwill is allocated, with the exception of the reportable segments Dental and Demolition & Tools, to the five cash-generating units: Construction Materials, Contract Manufacturing, Environmental Technology, Service and Distribution Technology, and Forest. The following is a summary of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives by cash-generating unit: GROUP GOODWILL TRADEMARKS SEK million 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Dental 3,809 3,717 490 470 Demolition & Tools 1,368 997 198 98 Construction materials 514 504 115 112 Contract manufacturing 107 105 19 19 Environmental technology 924 625 256 171 Service and Distribution 383 77 97 Forest 213 212 45 45 Total 7,318 6,237 1,220 915 NOTE15 TANGIBLE ASSETS SEK million Equipment, tools, ASSETS BUILDINGS Plant and fixtures and UNDER CONRIGHT-OF-USE AND LAND machinery fittings STRUCTION SUB-TOTAL ASSETS Total COST 1 January 2018 539 669 582 4 1,794 1,794 Investments 15 48 91 8 162 162 Acquisition/sale of companies 8 4 30 42 42 Sales/disposals -14 -74 -88 -88 Reclassifications 4 1 -6 -1 -1 Translation differences 13 16 17 46 46 1 January 2019 575 727 647 6 1,955 440 2,395 Investments 18 105 124 22 269 181 450 Acquisition/sale of companies 72 410 84 5 571 109 680 Sales/disposals -6 -34 -58 -98 -98 Reclassifications 2 10 -3 -9 Translation differences 8 7 9 24 10 34 31 December 2019 669 1,225 803 24 2,721 740 3,461 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION 1 January 2018 -322 -504 -418 -1,244 -1,244 Depreciation for the year -17 -47 -63 -127 -127 Acquisition/sale of companies -2 -2 -16 -20 -20 Sales/disposals 13 63 76 76 Reclassifications Translation differences -8 -11 -10 -29 -29 1 January 2019 -349 -551 -444 -1,344 -1,344 Depreciation for the year -22 -64 -81 -167 -144 -311 Acquisition/sale of companies -36 -277 -46 -359 -359 Sales/disposals 2 18 52 72 72 Reclassifications -3 3 Translation differences -4 -5 -7 -16 -16 31 December 2019 -409 -882 -523 -1,814 -144 -1,958 Carrying amount, 1 January 2018 217 165 164 4 550 550 Carrying amount, 31 December 2018 226 176 203 6 611 611 Carrying amount, 31 December 2019 260 343 280 24 907 596 1,503 68 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 16 Financial instruments by category Assets in the balance sheet Financial assets at SEK million amortised cost 31 December 2019 Accounts receivable trade 1,584 Other non-current financial receivables 9 Cash and cash equivalents 729 Total 2,322 31 December 2018 Accounts receivable trade 1,550 Other non-current financial receivables 17 Cash and cash equivalents 405 Total 1,972 LIABILITIES IN THE BALANCE SHEET Liabilities at fair value SEK million through profit or loss Financial liabilities at amortised cost Total 31 December 2019 Interest-bearing borrowings 5,325 5,325 Accounts payable trade 680 680 Other liabilities* 916 916 Total 916 6,005 6,921 31 December 2018 Interest-bearing borrowings 3,538 3,538 Accounts payable trade 632 632 Other liabilities* 515 515 Total 515 4,170 4,685 * Other liabilities classified as financial instruments refer to mandatory put/call options related to non-controlling interests as well as additional considerations. Note 17 Deferred tax SEK million 2019 2018 Deferred tax asset is attributable to the following temporary differences and loss carry forwards. Deferred tax asset attributable to: Temporary differences on current assets 116 97 Temporary differences on fixed assets 3 6 Deductible temporary differences on provisions 1 1 Other deductible temporary differences 53 32 Total deferred tax assets 173 136 Deferred tax liability is attributable to the following temporary differences. Deferred tax liability attributable to: Temporary differences on current assets -2 Temporary differences on fixed assets -856 -648 Other taxable temporary differences -232 -176 Total deferred tax liabilities -1,090 -824 Net deferred tax asset/liability -917 -688 Deferred tax assets are recognised for loss carry forwards to the extent that it is probable that these can be used to offset future taxable profits. The Group recognised deferred tax assets of SEK 8 (7) million relating to losses of SEK 38 (28) million, with regard to which it is uncertain whether these can be used to offset future taxable profits. Of these loss carry forwards, SEK 0 million expires after more than five years. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 69 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 18 Inventories SEK million 2019 2018 Valued at cost Finished goods and goods for resale 993 828 Raw materials and consumables 743 559 Work in progress 146 173 Contract work in progress 8 3 Advance payments to suppliers 107 147 Total 1,997 1,710 Net effect of impairment and reversal of impairment of inventories -44 -14 recognised as income/expense in the income statement Note 19 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE TRADE SEK million 2019 2018 Accounts receivable trade 1,699 1,627 Loss allowance -115 -77 Net accounts receivable 1,584 1,550 SEK million 2019 2018 Carrying amount, gross accounts receivable Receivables not past due 1,015 989 1–30 days past due 361 351 More than 30 days past due 186 181 More than 60 days past due 27 30 More than 90 days past due 110 76 Total 1,699 1,627 The average loss allowance is 5.5 per cent, but is lower for accounts receivable 0–90 days past due and higher for accounts receivable more than 90 days past due. Changes in the loss allowance for accounts receivable are as follows: 1 January 2018 calculated in accordance with IFRS 9 -62 Increase in loss allowance, change recognised in profit or loss -15 Acquisition of businesses -9 Accounts receivable written off during the year 9 31 December 2018 -77 Increase in loss allowance, change recognised in profit or loss -27 Acquisition of businesses -13 Accounts receivable written off during the year 2 31 December 2019 -115 Note 20 Prepaid expenses and accrued income SEK million 2019 2018 Prepaid rental expenses 8 15 Prepaid insurance expenses 8 6 Prepaid IT expenses 16 10 Other prepaid expenses 44 28 Receivables from contracts with customers 49 25 Accrued income 14 9 Total 139 93 70 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 21 Overdraft facilities SEK million 2019 2018 Overdraft facilities, drawn amount 554 258 Overdraft facilities, agreed limit 1,200 1,200 Note 22 Cash and cash equivalents SEK million 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet and cash flow statement include the following items: Cash and bank balances 729 405 Note 23 Share capital SEK million Number of shares (thousands) Share capital 1 January 2018 90,843 18 31 December 2018 90,843 18 31 December 2019 90,843 18 The share capital consists of 6,075,970 class A shares and 84,767,290 class B shares, or 90,843,260 shares in total. Class A shares carry ten votes per share and class B shares carry one vote per share. All shares issued by the Parent Company are fully paid up. Note 24 Borrowings SEK million 2019 2018 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Lease liability 581 Liabilities to credit institutions 49 11 Bonds 1,004 1,765 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 1,634 1,776 Current interest-bearing liabilities Lease liability 15 Liabilities to credit institutions 1,346 468 Bonds 1,776 1,036 Overdraft facilities, drawn amount 554 258 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 3,691 1,762 Total interest-bearing liabilities 5,325 3,538 In the fourth quarter of 2019, Lifco issued unsecured bonds, LIFCO 7, with maturities of two years. The interest rate is FRN Stibor 3M + 53 bps. The fair value of the bonds is equal to the carrying amount. Of total interest-bearing liabilities, 13 per cent have fixed interest rates and 87 per cent variable interest rates. The carrying amounts do not differ from the fair values. The following table shows an analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities by remaining maturity from the balance sheet date. The indicated amounts are the contractual, undiscounted cash flows. The interest rates provided for under the terms applying at the balance sheet date have been used in the calculation. SEK million LESS THAN 1 YEAR > 1 YEAR < 2 YEARS > 2 YEAR < 5 YEARS > 5 YEARS 31 December 2019 Bank loans and bonds* 3,149 1,075 Lease liability 30 23 312 330 Accounts payable trade 680 Total 3,859 1,098 312 330 * including interest LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 71 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RECONCILIATION OF NET DEBT 2019 2018 SEK MILLION Cash and cash equivalents 729 405 Loans – due within one year (incl. overdraft facilities) -3,676 -1,762 Loans – due after more than one year -1,053 -1,776 Interest-bearing pension provision -40 -37 Interest-bearing net debt -4,040 -3,170 Lease liability due within one year -15 Lease liability – due after more than one year -581 Put/call options, additional considerations due within one year -62 -73 Put/call options, additional considerations due after more than one year -854 -442 Net debt -5,552 -3,685 Cash and cash equivalents 729 405 Gross debt fixed interest rate -700 -700 Gross debt variable interest rate -4,069 -2,875 Lease liability -596 Put/call options, additional considerations -916 -515 Net debt -5,552 -3,685 SEK Million Cash and cash Lease liability Loans Interest bearing Put/call options, Total equivalents pension PROVISION additional considerations Net debt, 1 January 2018 305 -3,805 -36 -258 -3 794 Cash flow 65 402 10 477 Acquisitions -4 -267 -271 Revaluation 1 1 Foreign exchange differences 35 -131 -1 -1 -98 Net debt, 31 December 405 -3,538 -37 -515 -3,685 2018 Additional under IFRS 16 -440 -440 Cash flow 307 144 -989 118 -420 Acquisitions -109 -168 -465 -742 Revaluation/Additional -182 -50 -232 Foreign exchange differences 17 -9 -34 -3 -4 -33 Net debt, 729 -596 -4,729 -40 -916 -5,552 31 December 2019 Note 25 Post-employment benefits The amounts recognised in the balance sheet refer to defined benefit pensions in Sweden, Germany and the United States attributable to employees who no longer work for the company. The carrying amount of defined benefit obligations is SEK 40 (37) million. For salaried employees in Sweden defined benefit pension obligations for retirement and family pensions under the ITP 2 plan are secured through an insurance policy with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 3 Classification of ITP Plans Funded through Insurance with Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined benefit plan. For the financial year 2019, the company has not had access to information that would enable it to account for its proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, assets and expenses. It has therefore not been possible to report the plan as a defined benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan secured through an insurance policy with Alecta is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution plan. The premium for defined benefit retirement and family pensions is calculated individually and depends on factors such as salary, previously earned pension benefits and expected remaining period of service. Expected fees in the next reporting period for ITP 2 insurance policies with Alecta are SEK 14 (12) million. The collective funding ratio is defined as the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of its commitments to policyholders calculated using Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. The collective funding ratio is normally permitted to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio were to fall below 125 per cent or exceed 155 per cent, it would be necessary to take measures that will enable the ratio return to the normal range. In case of a low collective funding ratio, one measure that can be taken is to raise the agreed price for new subscriptions and expansion of existing benefits. A high collective funding ratio can be addressed by introducing premium reductions. At the end of 2019, Alecta’s surplus, defined as the collective funding ratio, was 148 per cent (preliminary calculation) (2018: 142 per cent). Lifco has made pension promises to two persons and in connection therewith purchased endowment policies which have been posted as collateral for the pensions of these employees. Under the arrangement, the individuals concerned will receive the value of the endowment policies less payroll tax. As there are no guaranteed remuneration levels, the Group’s net obligation will always be zero. These endowment policies are considered to be plan assets and are recognised on a net basis after deducting the obligation. 72 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 26 Provisions Restructuring SEK million Guarantee reserve reserve Premises costs Other provisions Total 1 January 2018 47 1 4 14 66 Additional provisions 29 1 7 10 47 Acquisition of companies 10 10 Utilised during the year -5 -1 -6 -15 -27 Reversal of unused provisions -20 -1 -21 Reclassifications -2 2 0 Translation differences 2 1 3 31 December 2018 51 1 7 19 78 of which, short-term provisions 30 1 6 5 42 of which, long-term provisions 21 1 14 36 Anticipated outflow date Within 1 year 30 1 6 5 42 Within 3 year 8 1 4 13 Within 5 year 12 10 22 After more than 5 years 1 1 31 December 2018 51 1 7 19 78 1 January 2019 51 1 7 19 78 Additional provisions 46 6 11 63 Acquisition of companies 4 4 Utilised during the year -10 -4 -13 -27 Reversal of unused provisions -20 -2 -1 -23 Reclassifications 0 Translation differences 1 1 2 31 December 2019 72 1 7 17 97 of which, short-term provisions 48 1 7 5 61 of which, long-term provisions 24 12 36 Anticipated outflow date Within 1 year 48 1 7 5 61 Within 3 year 12 6 18 Within 5 year 11 5 16 After more than 5 years 1 1 2 31 December 2019 72 1 7 17 97 The warranty provision is based on outstanding commitments at the balance sheet date and the calculation is based on previous experience. Other provisions refer mainly to commissions to agents in the Dental business area. In addition, the Group has other contingent liabilities of SEK 76 (198) million. As it has been deemed that no outflow of funds will take place for these commitments, no provisions have been made See also the information in Note 30. Note 27 Transactions with related parties Transactions between Lifco AB and its subsidiaries, which are associates of Lifco AB, have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Sales of products and services between Group companies are subject to commercial terms and conditions and made at market prices. Intercompany sales were SEK 3,473 (3,234) million during the year. Carl Bennet AB owns 50.1 per cent of the shares of Lifco and is deemed to control the Group. Other related parties include all subsidiaries in the Group as well as senior executives in the Group, i.e. the Board of Directors and Group management. Lifco AB, the Parent Company of the Lifco Group, did not purchase any administrative services from Carl Bennet AB in 2019 (2018: SEK million). One of the Directors, Erik Gabrielson, is a partner of Advokatfirman Vinge, a law firm which received SEK 6 (5) million for legal advice. Disclosures on remuneration of senior executives are provided in Note 10. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 73 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 28 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEK million 2019 2018 Accrued personnel costs 456 408 Commissions and bonuses to customers 46 37 Allocation of expenses 55 44 Accrued interest expenses 5 4 Other customer contract liabilities 31 6 Other deferred income 50 Other accrued expenses 43 52 Total 686 551 Note 29 Pledged assets SEK million 2019 2018 Property mortgages 19 15 Floating charges 8 8 Total 27 23 Note 30 Contingent liabilities SEK million 2019 2018 Warranties 76 198 Total 76 198 Guarantee commitments refer to advance payment and performance guarantees. Note 31 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Six new businesses were consolidated during the year. The acquisitions refers to all shares of Indexator Rotator Systems and majority shareholdings in Brian James Trailers, ErgoPack, Hammer, Rustibus Worldwide and UK POS. Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 29 million are included in administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year. Since the respective consolidation dates, the acquired companies have added SEK 815 million to consolidated net sales and SEK 178 million to EBITA. If the businesses had been consolidated as of 1 January 2019, net sales for the year would have increased by a further SEK 535 million and EBITA would have increased by a further SEK 109 million. The table below includes all acquisitions made in 2019. None of the acquisitions are individually material to Lifco's consolidated financial statements. Net assets, Assets and liabilities Adjustment to MSEK at acquisition date fair value Fair value Trademarks, customer relationships, licences 11 1,241 1,252 Tangible assets 208 208 Inventories, trade and other receivables 535 -45 490 Trade and other payables -465 -281 -746 Cash and cash equivalents 166 166 Net assets 455 915 1,370 Goodwill 957 957 Total net assets 455 1,872 2,327 Effect on cash flow, SEK million Consideration 2,327 of which, considerations not paid -452 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -166 Consideration paid relating to acquisitions from previous years 72 Total cash flow effect 1,781 74 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 32 Earnings per share Before dilution: Earnings per share before dilution are calculated by dividing earnings attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company by a weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares during the period. There were no repurchased shares held as treasury shares by the Parent Company during the period. SEK million 2019 2018 Profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders 1 505 1 389 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares 90,843,260 90,843,260 Earnings per share (SEK) 16.57 15.29 After dilution: Earnings per share after dilution are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares for the dilutive effect of all potential ordinary shares. There were no potential dilutive ordinary shares in 2019 or 2018. Earnings per share were thus the same before and after dilution. Note 33 Dividend per share Dividend payments made in 2019 and 2018 totalled SEK 418 million (SEK 4.60 per share) and SEK 363 million (SEK 4.00 per share), respectively. At the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2020, the Board will propose a dividend for the financial year 2019 of SEK 5.25 per share, resulting in a total distribution of SEK 477 million. The proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements. NOTE 34 EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD Lifco is closely following the outbreak and spread of COVID-19 (coronavirus) across the world. The Group has taken proactive measures to reduce risks for employees and to ensure business continuity. Lifco operates in a large number of industries that are impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak to varying extents. It is not currently possible for Lifco to predict how and to what extent these different businesses will be impacted. On 10 January, it was announced that Lifco had acquired Rönvig Dental Manufacturing A/S of Denmark. The company is a niche manufacturer of dental products and generated sales of around DKK 30 million in 2018. The company is based in Daugaard, Denmark and 17 employees. The business will be consolidated in the Dental business area. On 15 January, it was announced that Lifco had acquired the Workplace Safety division of KiiltoClean A/S. The company is a leading niche manufacturer of eyewashes, plasters and first aid stations. The products are sold under the Plum brand and generated net sales of around DKK 79 million in 2019. The company is based in Assens, Denmark and Cuxhaven, Germany and has ten employees. The business will be consolidated in the Dental business area. On 24 January, it was announced that Lifco had acquired a majority stake in Dental Grupa of Croatia. The company is a leading distributor of equipment and consumables for dentists in Croatia. Dental Grupa had net sales of around HRK 66 million in 2019 and has around 40 employees. The business will be consolidated in the Dental business area. On 27 January, it was announced that Lifco had acquired a majority stake in Cramaro Tarpaulin Systems of Italy. The company is a niche manufacturer of tarpaulin systems for trucks and agricultural vehicles. The company had net sales of around EUR 27 million in 2019 and has 90 employees. The business will be consolidated in the Systems Solutions business area, Service and Distribution division. The individual acquisitions will not have a significant impact on Lifco’s results and financial position in the current year. A preliminary purchase price allocation will be presented in the interim report for the first quarter of 2020. Note 35 Additional cash flow statement disclosures SEK million 2019 2018 Non-cash items Depreciation/amortisation 655 392 Revaluation of put/call options 50 -1 Total 705 391 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 75 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES RECONCILIATION TO ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES EBITA compared with financial statements in accordance with IFRS SEK million 2019 2018 Operating profit 2,059 1,902 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 329 253 EBITA 2,388 2,155 Acquisition costs and non-recurring items 135 13 EBITA before acquisition costs 2,523 2,168 and non-recurring items EBITDA compared with financial statements in SEK million 2019 2018 Operating profit 2,059 1,902 Depreciation of tangible assets 311 127 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 12 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 329 253 EBITDA 2,714 2,294 Acquisition costs and non-recurring items 135 13 EBITDA before acquisition costs 2,849 2,307 and non-recurring items Net debt compared with financial statements SEK million 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities including pension 1,093 1,813 provisions Current interest-bearing liabilities 3,676 1,762 Cash and cash equivalents -729 -405 Interest-bearing net debt 4,040 3,170 Put/call options, additional considerations 916 515 Lease liability 596 Net debt 5,552 3,685 76 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES in accordance with IFRS Capital employed and capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets compared with financial statements in accordance with IFRS SEK million 31 Dec 2019 30 Sep 2019 30 Jun 2019 31 Mar 2019 Total assets 17,578 17,400 16,452 15,793 Cash and cash equivalents -729 -456 -340 -348 Interest-bearing pension provisions -40 -39 -37 -34 Non-interest-bearing liabilities -3,325 -3,545 -3,364 -3,266 Capital employed 13,484 13,360 12,711 12,145 Goodwill and other intangible assets -11,209 -10,969 -10,257 -9,886 Capital employed excluding goodwill 2,275 2,391 2,454 2,259 and other intangible assets Capital employed and capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets calculated as the average of the last four quarters compared with financial statements in accordance with IFRS SEK million Average Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2019 2019 2019 2019 Capital employed 12,925 13,484 13,360 12,711 12,145 Capital employed excluding goodwill 2,345 2,275 2,391 2,454 2,259 and other intangible assets Total EBITA* 2,523 651 596 689 587 Return on capital employed 19.5% Return on capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets 108% LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 77 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company financial statements Parent Company income statement SEK million Note 2019 2018 Administrative expenses -162 -136 Other operating income 37, 38 139 48 Operating profit 39, 40, 41, 42 -23 -88 Profit/loss from investments in Group companies 43 758 560 Financial income 44 127 106 Financial expenses 44 -48 -64 Profit after financial items 814 514 Appropriations 45 -30 56 Tax on profit for the year 46 -6 -5 Net profit for the year 778 565 The Parent Company has no items which are accounted for as other comprehensive income. Total comprehensive income is therefore the same as net profit for the year. 78 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company balance sheet SEK million Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Fixed assets Equipment 0 0 Investments in Group companies 47 1,960 1,960 Non-current receivables from Group companies 2,868 1,925 Deferred tax assets 48 44 42 Total fixed assets 4,872 3,927 Current assets Receivables from Group companies 5,207 4,501 Current tax assets 15 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 4 4 Cash and bank balances 379 143 Total current assets 5,605 4,666 TOTAL ASSETS 10,477 8,593 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Restricted equity Share capital 18 18 Statutory reserve 12 12 Total restricted equity 30 30 Non-restricted equity Retained earnings 49 2,463 2,316 Net profit for the year 778 565 Total non-restricted equity 3,241 2,881 Total equity 3,271 2,911 Untaxed reserves 50 72 69 Non-current liabilities Bonds 51 1,004 1,765 Total non-current liabilities 1,004 1,765 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 51 1,866 719 Bonds 51 1,776 1,036 Accounts payable trade 1 0 Liabilities to Group companies 2,399 2,025 Other current liabilities 40 14 Accrued expenses and deferred income 52 48 54 Total current liabilities 6,130 3,848 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,477 8,593 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 79 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company statement of changes in equity SEK million Share capital Statutory reserve Non-restricted equity Total equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 18 12 2,679 2,709 Dividend approved by AGM -363 -363 Net profit for the year 565 565 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 18 12 2,881 2,911 Dividend approved by AGM -418 -418 Net profit for the year 778 778 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 18 12 3,241 3,271 The Parent Company has no items which are accounted for as other comprehensive income. Total comprehensive income is therefore the same as net profit for the year. The share capital consists of 6,075,970 class A shares and 84,767,290 class B shares, or 90,843,260 shares in total. Class A shares carry ten votes per share and class B shares carry one vote per share. The Parent Company has no treasury shares. For share capital information, see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. Parent Company cash flow statement SEK million 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating profit -23 -88 Other financial items -2 -2 Interest received 124 106 Interest paid -45 -44 Income taxes paid -6 -20 Cash flow before changes in working capital 48 -48 Changes in working capital Increase/decrease in operating receivables -1,200 39 Increase/decrease in operating liabilities 370 315 Total changes in working capital -830 354 Cash flow from operating activities -782 306 Financing activities Change in non-current receivables -461 -46 Borrowings 3,150 2,139 Repayments of borrowings -2,058 -2,534 Group contribution received 58 Group contribution paid -3 -11 Dividends received 758 560 Dividends paid -418 -363 Cash flow from financing activities 1,026 -255 Cash flow for the year 244 51 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 143 86 Foreign exchange differences in cash and cash equivalents -8 6 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 379 143 Note 36 Parent Company accounting policies The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2 Financial Reporting for Legal Entities of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Under RFR 2, the Parent Company is required to apply all EU-adopted IFRS/IAS rules and interpretations in the annual report for the legal entity insofar as this is possible under the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and with regard to the relationship between accounting and taxation. The recommendation specifies which exemptions should be made in relation to IFRS/IAS. The IFRS/IAS provisions are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, Accounting policies. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as those described for the Group with the exception of the following: Format The format prescribed in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act is used for the income statements and balance sheets. The income statement is divided into two statements: one for profit or loss and one for comprehensive income. The Parent Company has no items which are accounted for as other comprehensive income. Total comprehensive income is therefore the same as net profit for the year. The statement of changes in equity follows the format used in the Group but contains the columns specified in the Annual Accounts Act. The formats for the Parent Company have different names compared with the consolidated financial statements, primarily with regard to financial income and expense, provisions, and items in equity. 80 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment. Cost includes acquisition-related costs and any additional considerations. When there is an indication that an investment in a subsidiary is impaired, an estimate is made of the recoverable amount. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses are recognised in the items “Profit/loss from investments in Group companies”. Financial instruments IFRS 9 is not applied in the Parent Company Instead, the Parent Company applies the paragraphs specified in RFR 2 (IFRS 9 Financial instruments, paras. 3–10). Financial instruments are measured at cost. In subsequent periods, financial assets that have been acquired with the intention of being held for the short term are measured at the lower of cost or market value using the lower of cost or market method. At each balance sheet date, the Parent Company assesses whether there is any indication of impairment of financial assets. An impairment loss is recognised if the decline in value is considered to be permanent. Impairment losses on interest-bearing financial assets at amortised cost are defined as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of management’s best estimate of future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. The impairment loss for other non-current financial assets is defined as the difference between the carrying amount and the higher of fair value less selling expenses and the present value of future cash flows (based on management’s best estimate). Leases All leases, both finance leases and operating leases, are classified as operating leases. Revenue Other operating income in the Parent Company includes costs billed to subsidiaries. Group contributions Group contributions paid and received are both accounted for as appropriations in the income statement. Note 37 The Parent Company’s sales to and purchases from Group companies During the year, the Parent Company invoiced the subsidiaries SEK 139 (48) million for Group-wide services. The Parent Company has not purchased services from subsidiaries. Note 38 Other operating income SEK million 2019 2018 Group-wide services 139 48 Total other operating income 139 48 Note 39 Classification of expenses by nature SEK million 2019 2018 Personnel costs (Note 41) 146 123 Expenses for operating leases (Note 42) 2 1 Other expenses 14 12 Total 162 136 Note 40 Auditors’ fees SEK million 2019 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit engagement 1 1 Audit services in addition to audit engagement Other services 1 0 Total 2 1 Audit engagement refers to fees for the statutory audit, i.e. such work as has been necessary to submit the auditor’s report. Audit services in addition to audit engagement refer to the examination of interim reports and similar work. Other services refer to advice on financial reporting as well as services in connection with acquisitions. Note 41 Average number of employees and personnel costs Average number of employees 2019 2018 Women 2 2 Men 4 3 Total 6 5 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 81 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Personnel costs, SEK million 2019 2018 Salaries and benefits Board of Directors and CEO 71 50 Other employees 10 26 81 76 Social security contributions, Board of Directors and CEO 29 19 Social security contributions, other employees 4 9 Pension costs for the CEO 31 15 Pension costs for other employees 1 4 Total 146 123 For information on remuneration of senior executives, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Note 42 Leases SEK million 2019 2018 Operating leases Mature within 1 year 1 1 Mature in 1–5 years 1 1 Total 2 2 The Parent Company’s operating leases mainly comprise leases for office premises. No assets are subleased. Operating lease payments in the Parent Company for the financial year were SEK 1 (1) million. Lease payments for assets held under operating leases are recognised in operating expenses. Note 43 Profit/loss from investments in Group companies SEK million 2019 2018 Dividends 758 560 Total 758 560 Note 44 Financial income and expenses msek 2019 2018 Financial income Interest income from Group companies 124 106 Interest income 1 0 Foreign exchange gains 2 Total financial income 127 106 Financial expenses Interest expenses to Group companies -6 -6 Interest expense -39 -38 Foreign exchange losses -18 Other financial expenses -3 -2 Total financial expenses -48 -64 Net financial items 79 42 The foreign exchange gains item includes income of SEK 45 million and expenses of SEK 43 million, resulting in a net gain of SEK 2 million. 82 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 45 Appropriations SEK million 2019 2018 Group contributions paid -28 -3 Group contributions received 58 Change in tax allocation reserve -2 1 Total -30 56 Note 46 Tax on profit for the year SEK million 2019 2018 Current tax for the year -8 -6 Adjustments relating to previous years 0 Deferred tax 2 1 Total tax on profit for the year -6 -5 The relationship between tax expense for the year and reported profit is shown in the table below. The tax on the profit for the year has been calculated at 21.4 (22) per cent. Profit before tax 784 570 Tax at applicable tax rate in Sweden, 21.4% (22%) -168 -125 Tax effects of non-taxable income 162 123 Effect of changed tax rate 0 -3 Adjustment relating to previous years 0 Tax effects of non-deductible expenses 0 0 Tax on profit for the year -6 -5 Note 47 Investments in Group companies Specification of the Parent Company’s direct shareholdings and investments in Group companies Company name Corp. ID no. Registered office Lifco Dental International AB 556730-9710 Enköping Proline Group AB 556543-0971 Sollentuna PP Greiftechnik GmbH HR B No 157420 Waakirchen, Germany Rapid Granulator AB 556082-8674 Bredaryd Sorb Industri AB 556272-5282 Skellefteå Equity interest, % Voting interest, % No. of shares Carrying amount 2019 Carrying amount 2018 Lifco Dental International AB 100.00 100.00 252,525 716 716 Proline Group AB 100.00 100.00 12,400 182 182 PP Greiftechnik GmbH 100.00 100.00 25,000 490 490 Rapid Granulator AB 100.00 100.00 100,000 205 205 Sorb Industri AB 100.00 100.00 6,800,000 367 367 Total 1,960 1,960 2019 2018 Cost at the beginning of the year 1,960 1,960 Acquisition of subsidiaries Cost at year-end 1,960 1,960 Carrying amount at year-end 1 960 1 960 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 83 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Specification of the parent company's direct and indirect holdings: Company Country Corporate ID Residence Ownership % Lifco Dental International AB Sweden 556730-9710 Enköping 100.0 Dental-Direct AS Norway 981 315 847 Skoppum 80.0 Lifco Dental AB Sweden 556061-7747 Enköping 100.0 Ellman Produkter AB Sweden 556217-2394 Stockholm 100.0 Almaso För Tandvården AB Sweden 556484-4115 Veberöd 100.0 Preventum Partner AB Sweden 556613-2790 Stockholm 100.0 DentalEye AB Sweden 556611-7338 Sundbyberg 100.0 Hammasväline OY Finland 0881266-0 Helsingfors 100.0 Nordenta AB Sweden 556049-4899 Enköping 100.0 EndoMark Dental AB Sweden 556589-8888 Göteborg 100.0 DAB Dental AB Sweden 556005-0048 Upplands-Väsby 100.0 Directa AB Sweden 556013-8827 Upplands-Väsby 100.0 Directa Inc. USA 63762637000 Newtown, CT 100.0 Parkell Inc. USA 112522127 Edgewood, NY 100.0 Topdental (Products) Ltd UK 04261332 Silsden 100.0 J.H. Orsing AB Sweden 556099-9632 Helsingborg 100.0 DAB Eesti OÜ Estonia 11149461 Tallin 100.0 DAB Dental Latvia SIA Latvia LV40003744465 Riga 100.0 DAB Dental UAB Lithuania 300115774 Vilnius 100.0 LIC Scadenta AS Norway 956 226 635 Sandvika 100.0 Technomedics Norge AS Norway 986 392 742 Askim 100.0 Jacobsen Dental AS Norway 918 882 014 Alnabru 100.0 Dansk Nordenta A/S Denmark 10416698 Hörning 100.0 Al dente Software A/S Denmark 27961363 Hörning 100.0 3D Dental ApS Denmark 28159439 Hedensted 100.0 Rhein 83 S.r.l. Italy 02418300378 Bologna 85.0 EDP European Dental Partners Holding GmbH Germany HR B No. 7331 Lübeck 100.0 M+W Dental Müller & Weygandt GmbH Germany HR B No. 3753 Büdingen 100.0 M+W Dental Handels GmbH Austria FN 256862 p Wien 100.0 M+W Dental Swiss AG Switzerland CH-020.3.029.916-4 Weisslingen 100.0 M+W Dental Magyarország Kft Hungary 01-09-889071 Budapest 100.0 DentalTiger GmbH Germany HR B No. 7363 Linden 100.0 Praezimed Service GmbH Germany HR B No. 78293 Hamburg 100.0 Computer konkret AG Germany HR B No. 16107 Falkenstein 74.0 Dentamed (ČR) spol. s r.o. Czech CZ25083163 Prag 100.0 Dent Unit, s.r.o. Czech CZ45538263 Hradec Králové 80.0 Prodent International d.o.o. Slovenia 12577900 Ljubljana 100.0 MDH AG Mamisch Dental Health Germany HR B No. 17934 Mulheim an der Ruhr 100.0 Smilodentax GmbH Germany HR B No. 18237 Essen 100.0 Perfect Ceramic Dental Company Ltd Hong Kong 31560809 Kowloon 100.0 Si Zhou Dental (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd China 91440300726172979L Guangdong 100.0 Interadent Zahntechnik GmbH Germany HR B No. 8553 Lübeck 100.0 Interadent Zahntechnik, Inc. Philippines 128448 Manila 94.34 Westroad Properties, Inc. Philippines AS092-07569 Manila 94.34 DenterBridge SAS France RCS 399 682 863 Paris 100.0 Schwan Aligner GmbH Germany HR B No. 207024 Berlin 100.0 Proline Group AB Sweden 556543-0971 Sollentuna 100.0 Proline Väst AB Sweden 556914-6771 Sollentuna 100.0 Proline Öst AB Sweden 556914-6789 Sollentuna 100.0 Proline Nord AB Sweden 556914-6706 Sollentuna 100.0 Proline Syd AB Sweden 556914-6763 Sollentuna 100.0 84 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Country Corporate ID Residence Ownership % ERC Systems AB Sweden 556971-8462 Norrköping 100.0 Proline Norge AS Norway 991 147 047 Oslo 100.0 Prolinesystems Relining OY Finland 22421607 Helsingfors 100.0 Proline Danmark Aps Denmark 32259987 Faaborg 100.0 Wachtel AG Germany HR B No. 701678 Hockenheim 75.0 P-Line Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 24870307 Venlo 100.0 PP Greiftechnik GmbH Germany HR B No. 157420 Waakirchen 100.0 Demolition & Recycling Tools Rental GmbH Germany HR B No. 144439 Waakirchen 100.0 Kinshofer GmbH Germany HR B No. 163689 Waakirchen 100.0 RF-System AB Sweden 556392-5097 Vinslöv 100.0 BeGrips AB Sweden 556509-3795 Hässleholm 100.0 Demolition and Recycling Equipment B.V. Netherlands 11047940 St Anthonis 100.0 Mars Greiftechnik GmbH Austria FN 148579 z Gmünd 100.0 Kinshofer CZ s.r.o. Czech CZ25164325 Ceske Velenice 100.0 Kinshofer France S.A.R.L. France RCS 343 661 229 Lingolsheim 100.0 Hammer S.R.L. Italy 623290722 Molfetta 60.0 Kinshofer Finland OY Finland 2230818-8 Hämeenlinna 100.0 Kinshofer UK Ltd UK 01705372 Stockpor, Chesire 100.0 Kinshofer Liftall Inc. Canada 13989400 Burington, Ontario 100.0 Kinshofer USA, Inc. USA 4345684 Sanborn, NY 100.0 Kinshofer Holding, Inc. USA 6375409 Sanborn, NY 96.65 Solesbee's Equipment & Attachments, LLC USA 521751 Winston, GA 100.0 Doherty Engineered Attachments Ltd New Zeeland 4418462 Tauranga 100.0 Doherty Couplers & Attachments Ltd Australia 1928058 Taurika 100.0 Auger Torque Europe Ltd UK 03537549 Cheltenham 100.0 Auger Torque Australia Pty Ltd Australia 39113281664 Brisbane 100.0 Auger Torque China CO., Ltd China 91330212688026355H Ningbo 51.0 ErgoPack Deutschland GmbH Germany HR B Nr. 13877 Lauingen/Donau 85.0 Rapid Granulator AB Sweden 556082-8674 Bredaryd 100.0 Rapid Granulier-Systeme GmbH & Co. KG Germany HR B Nr. 5059 Frankfurt 100.0 Rapid Granulier-System Geschäftsfürungs GmbH Germany HR A Nr. 3137 Frankfurt 100.0 Rapid Italy S.R.L. Italy 03407930274 Venedig 100.0 Rapid Granulate Machinery (Shanghai) China 310000400523549 Shanghai 100.0 Rapid Granulator Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 200901691Z Singapore 100.0 Albro Tecnologies Sarl France RCS 311 220 11 Lyon 100.0 Rapid Graulator, Inc. USA 5685183 Cranberry Township, PA 100.0 Sorb Industri AB Sweden 556272-5282 Skellefteå 100.0 Brokk AB Sweden 556115-6224 Skellefteå 100.0 Brokk UK Ltd UK 04063287 Milnthorpe, Cumbria 100.0 BINC Delaware, Inc. USA 602-280-434 Monroe, WA 100.0 Brokk Bricking Solutions, Inc. USA 600-072-362 Monroe, WA 100.0 Brokk Sales Canada, Inc. Canada 70366492 Vancouver 100.0 Brokk Asia-Pacific Plc. Ltd Singapore 200719909W Singapore 100.0 Brokk DA GmbH Germany HR B Nr. 720979 Friedenweiler 100.0 Darda GmbH Germany HR B Nr. 611546 Blumberg 100.0 Darda Kinshofer Construction Machinery Co Ltd China 91110105678752089B Beijing 100.0 Brokk Australia Pty. Australia 140012504 Adelaide 100.0 Brokk France SARL France RCS 352 562 144 Epinal 100.0 Brokk BeNeLux SARL Belgium 0738931548 Saint Gilles 100.0 Brokk Italia S.R.L. Italy 07049910966 Milano 100.0 Brokk Beijing Machines Co Ltd China 91110108563601504E Beijing 100.0 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 85 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Country Corporate ID Residence Ownership % Brokk Norge AS Norway 997 403 452 Ski 100.0 Brokk Switzerland GmbH Switzerland CHE-109.603.487 Regensdorf 100.0 Brokk Middle East UAE 184254 Dubai 100.0 Ahlberg Cameras AB Sweden 556259-9786 Norrtälje 85.0 Ahlberg Cameras, Inc USA C200914700195 Wilmington, NC 100.0 Aquajet Systems Holding AB Sweden 556499-1288 Jönköping 80.0 Aquajet Systems AB Sweden 556314-6173 Jönköping 100.0 Heinolan Sahakoneet Oy Finland 0845086-6 Heinola 82.5 AS Hekotek Estonia 10112941 Tallinn 82.5 Sorb OOO Russia 1077847616692 St Petersburg 100.0 Hekotek Norge AS Norway 922 343 608 Oslo 100.0 Lövånger Elektronik AB Sweden 556287-7943 Lövånger 100.0 Leab Eesti OÜ Estonia 11051087 Tallinn 100.0 Lövånger Elektronik Fagersta AB Sweden 556252-3158 Fagersta 100.0 Lövånger Elektronik Uppsala AB Sweden 556382-5198 Järlåsa 100.0 Lövånger Elektronik Göteborg AB Sweden 559056-2293 Göteborg 100.0 Texor AB Sweden 556316-0703 Lycksele 100.0 Zetterströms Rostfria AB Sweden 556323-7949 Molkom 100.0 Hultdin System AB Sweden 556213-4592 Malå 100.0 Hultdins, Inc. Canada 1026714 Ontario 100.0 Indexator Rotator Systems AB Sweden 556857-7927 Vindeln 100.0 Auto-Maskin AS Norway 921 853 181 Skjetten 100.0 Auto-Maskin UK Ltd UK 06706114 Kettering 100.0 Auto-Maskin Sverige AB Sweden 556802-5307 Göteborg 100.0 Auto-Maskin Holding, Inc. USA 46-4550987 Dickinson, TX 100.0 Auto-Maskin LLC USA 36-4777460 Dickinson, TX 100.0 Modul-System HH Van Equipment AB Sweden 556552-7040 Mölndal 100.0 Håells AB Sweden 556305-0946 Mölndal 100.0 Modul-System HH AB Sweden 556138-6409 Mölndal 100.0 Modul-System Fahrzeugeinrichtungen GmbH Germany HR B Nr. 3073 Mengenkirchen 100.0 Modul-System S.A. France RCS 382 918 209 Marne la Vallé 100.0 Modul-System N.V./S.A. Belgium 457 057 466 Mechelen 100.0 Modul-System HH A/S Denmark 21421189 Hvidovre 100.0 Modul-System Polska Sp. Z o.o. Poland KRS 0000131735 Warzawa 100.0 Modul-System Nederland B.V. Netherlands 24256256 Maassluis 100.0 Modul-System Finland OY Finland 2347058-2 Vantaa 100.0 Modul-System AS Norway 911 743 787 Hagan 100.0 Modul-System Ltd UK 01540940 Buckinhamshire 100.0 Brian James Trailers Holding Limited UK 10920740 Northamtonshire 90.0 Brian James Trailers Limited UK 03844151 Northamtonshire 100.0 Brian James Trailers GmbH Germany HR B Nr. 22197 Störmthal 100.0 Cenika AS Norway 987 778 474 Lierstranda 90.0 Cenika AB Sweden 556723-5170 Malmö 100.0 Nordesign AS Norway 937 923 422 Trondheim 85.0 Hydal AS Norway 988 009 911 Håvik 80.0 Elit AS Norway 978 593 593 Gjerdrum 100.0 Elit Scandinavian AB Sweden 556782-3751 Bollebygd 100.0 Elit Scandinavian ApS Denmark 32771432 Viborg 100.0 Eldan Recycling A/S Denmark 14125388 Faaborg 100.0 Eldan Inc. USA 3535849 Seattle, WA 100.0 Redoma Recycling AB Sweden 559039-2329 Malmö 100.0 Eleiko AB Sweden 556071-1409 Halmstad 100.0 86 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Country Corporate ID Residence Ownership % Eleiko AS Norway NO996593673 Rud 100.0 Nessco Holding AS Norway 963 629 362 Oslo 100.0 Tamrotor Marine Compressors AS Norway 976 516 648 Oslo 91.0 TMC Compressors Asia Pte. Ltd Singapore 201413221K Singapore 100.0 TMC Compressors China Ltd China 91310000MA1JN5X724 Shanghai 100.0 Nessco AS Norway 954 354 563 Oslo 100.0 Rustibus Worldwide AS Norway 961 976 968 Bekkjarvik 85.0 Rustibus NV Belgium 453 271 496 Antwerpen 100.0 Rustibus, Inc. USA 800232756 Houston, TX 100.0 Rustibus PTE LTD Singapore 200207727D Singapore 100.0 Haglöf Sweden AB Sweden 556148-8197 Långsele 100.0 Haglöf Sweden Produktion AB Sweden 556403-3305 Långsele 100.0 Haglof, Inc. USA 1110151 Madison, MS 100.0 Silvent AB Sweden 556087-6137 Borås 60.0 Silvent North America, Inc. USA 36-4040735 Wisconsin 100.0 Silvent South Europé France RCS 494 050 156 Cagnes Sur Mer 100.0 Silvent Central Europe GmbH Austria FN 416042 b Salzburg 100.0 Silvent (Shanghai) Trading Co. LTD China 3100186272 Shanghai 100.0 Silvent UK Ltd UK 03767990 Birmingham 100.0 Silvent Benelux B.V. Netherlands 000039470482 Heerlen 100.0 Silvent Ibercia S.L Spain B7383406 Barcelona 100.0 Pro 10 Optix AB Sweden 556729-2023 Stockholm 75.0 Fiberworks AS Norway 959 977 046 Oslo 75.0 Blinken AS Norway 932 645 017 Gressvik 90.0 Blinken Tools AB Sweden 556862-7540 Karlstad 90.0 Wexman AB Sweden 556481-2633 Tidaholm 70.0 UK Point of Sale Group Limited UK 03833656 Stockport 75.0 NA Interlog AB Sweden 556503-7446 Kramfors 100.0 Alicit AB Sweden 556228-7465 Ljusdal 100.0 Note 48 Deferred tax SEK million 2019 2018 The difference between the income tax recognised in the income statement and income tax payable in respect of the operations is: Deferred tax asset on reversal of expense upon taxation and in future non-taxable income 44 42 Deferred tax liability attributable to other taxable temporary differences Total net deferred tax asset/liability 44 42 Note 49 Appropriation of retained earnings SEK million The AGM is asked to decide on the appropriation of the following funds: Retained earnings 2,463 Net profit for the year 778 Total 3,241 The Board of Directors proposes the following appropriation of retained earnings: a dividend payment to the shareholders of SEK 5.25 per share, totalling 477 carried forward 2,764 Total 3,241 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 87 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 50 Untaxed reserves SEK million 2019 2018 Tax allocation reserve 2013 11 Tax allocation reserve 2014 0 0 Tax allocation reserve 2015 12 12 Tax allocation reserve 2016 9 9 Tax allocation reserve 2017 29 29 Tax allocation reserve 2018 8 8 Tax allocation reserve 2019 14 Total 72 69 Note 51 Borrowings SEK million 2019 2018 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bonds 1,004 1,765 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 1,004 1,765 Current interest-bearing liabilities Bonds 1,776 1,036 Overdraft facilities 554 258 Liabilities to credit institutions 1,312 461 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 3,642 1,755 Total interest-bearing liabilities 4,646 3,520 No portion of non-current liabilities matures later than two years from the balance sheet date. All interest-bearing liabilities are classified as Financial liabilities at amortised cost. Note 52 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEK million 2019 2018 Accrued interest expenses 6 8 Accrued salary-related expenses 29 28 Accrued holiday pay 4 6 Accrued social security contributions 8 11 Other accrued expenses 1 1 Total 48 54 Note 53 Contingent liabilities SEK million 2019 2018 Contingent liabilities for Group companies’ PRI liabilities 0 0 Guarantee commitments for Group companies 46 97 Other guarantee commitments Total 46 97 88 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY Ten-year summary According to IFRS According to BFN 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2012 2011 2010 Net sales, SEK million 13,845 11,956 10,030 8,987 7,901 6,802 6,030 6,184 6,184 5,707 4,591 Total net sales growth 15.8% 19.2% 11.6% 13.7% 16.2% 12.8% -2.5% 8.4% 8.4% 24.3% 10.7% of which organic growth 4.2% 6.4% 2.1% 2.5% 5.7% 4.4% -1.4% -1.8% -1.8% 7.9% 15.7% of which acquired growth 8.2% 8.6% 8.6% 11.3% 7.3% 5.1% 0.1% 11.7% 11.7% 20.5% 0.6% of which foreign exchange effects 3.4% 4.2% 0.9% -0.1% 3.2% 3.3% -1.2% -1.5% -1.5% -4.2% -5.5% and other EBITA* SEK million 2,523 2,168 1,732 1,377 1,186 966 692 715 716 631 511 EBITA margin* 18.2% 18.1% 17.3% 15.3% 15.0% 14.2% 11.5% 11.6% 11.6% 11.1% 11.1% Scheduled depreciation/amortisation, -326 -139 -123 -104 -91 -75 -68 -71 -71 -67 -63 SEK million Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition, SEK million -329 -253 -196 -121 -66 -38 -7 -3 -175 -141 -81 Extraordinary items, SEK million -135 -13 -17 -4 -13 -122 -58 1 0 0 -6 Acquisition of tangible assets, SEK million 269 162 144 114 102 105 95 75 76 56 55 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents, SEK million 1,781 500 1,378 1,608 573 1,264 90 95 1,771 663 Capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, SEK million 2,345 1,312 1,155 989 983 877 874 970 Capital employed, SEK million 12,925 10,314 8,962 7,395 5,981 5,098 3,910 3,921 Return on capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets 108% 165% 150% 139% 121% 110% 84.0% 73.8% Return on capital employed 19.5% 21.0% 19.3% 18.6% 19.8% 18.9% 18.8% 18.3% Interest-bearing net debt, SEK million 4,040 3,170 3,536 3,018 1,950 2,013 1,420 1,618 1,618 1,912 1,180 Interest-bearing net debt/equity ratio 0.5x 0.5x 0.6x 0.6x 0.5x 0.6x 0.6x 0.8x 0.8x 1.0x 1.2x Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA* 1.4x 1.4x 1.9x 2.0x 1.5x 1.9x 1.9x 2.1x 2.1x 2.7x 2.1x Net debt, SEK million 5,552 3,685 3,794 3,076 1,980 2,091 1,498 1,695 1,618 1,912 1,180 Net debt/equity ratio 0.7x 0.5x 0.7x 0.6x 0.5x 0.6x 0.6x 0.8x 0.8x 1.0x 1.2x Net debt/EBITDA* 1.9x 1.6x 2.0x 2.1x 1.6x 2.0x 1.9x 2.2x 2.1x 2.7x 2.1x Equity/assets ratio 45.4% 48.8% 45.5% 47.0% 49.2% 46.7% 43.6% 39.9% 38.2% 34.6% 28.5% Earnings per share, SEK 16.57 15.29 11.94 9.99 8.91 6.17 4.16 5.56 3.57 3.20 2.59 Equity per share, SEK 87.10 73.60 60.50 51.9 43.4 38.0 26.0 23.6 21.5 20.1 10.6 Number of employees at year-end 5,443 4,926 4,758 3,627 3,386 3,009 2,865 3,005 3,005 3,106 2,234 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 89 ACQUISITION HISTORY Acquisitions 2006–2019 Year Company Operations Business area Net sales at Country acquisition date 2006 Dental Prime Dental products Dental EUR 3m Finland Elektronikprodukter Contract manufacturing Systems Solutions SEK 30m Sweden i Järlåsa Darda Demolition tools Demolition & Tools EUR 8m Germany 2007 Kinshofer Crane and excavator attachments Demolition & Tools EUR 66m Germany Safe Dental Dental products Dental SEK 2m Sweden Proline Relining (renovation of sewage pipes) Systems Solutions SEK 120m Sweden Oriola Dental Dental products Dental EUR 45m Finland Hekotek Sawmill equipment Systems Solutions EUR 13m Estonia Zetterström Rostfria Contract manufacturing Systems Solutions SEK 50m Sweden Plass Data Dental Dental products Dental DKK 7m Denmark 2008 Endomark Diagnostic, endodontic and Dental SEK 9m Sweden other products XO Care Denmark Dental products Dental DKK 77m Denmark Tevo Interiors for service vehicles Systems Solutions GBP 8m United Kingdom 2009 Ellman Produkter Dental products Dental SEK 43m Sweden Aponox Tilt buckets Demolition & Tools Finland Interdental Dental products Dental SEK 10m Norway 2010 ATC Retailer Demolition & Tools EUR 5m France 2011 RF-System Products for railway, land and construction contracts Demolition & Tools SEK 80m Sweden Wintech Contract manufacturing Systems Solutions SEK 125m Sweden EDP Dental products Dental EUR 119m Germany Net Dental Distributor Dental EUR 20m Germany 2012 Ahlberg Cameras Camera systems for nuclear power plants Demolition & Tools SEK 73m Sweden 2014 MDH Dental technology, distributor Dental EUR 44m Germany 2015 Sanistål’s Danish Interiors for service vehicles Systems Solutions DKK 25m Denmark business Auger Torque Earth drills Demolition & Tools GBP 10m United Kingdom Rapid Granulator Granulators for the plastics industry Systems Solutions SEK 300m Sweden Top Dental Dental products Dental GBP 3.4m United Kingdom J.H. Orsing Dental products Dental SEK 20m Sweden Smilodent Dental technology Dental EUR 5m Germany Preventum Partner Accounting services for dentists Dental SEK 10m Sweden 2016 Aquajet Systems Manufactures hydrodemolition robots Demolition & Tools SEK 60m Sweden Auto-Maskin Control systems for marine diesel engines Systems Solutions NOK 130m Norway Cenika Supplier of low-voltage Systems Solutions NOK 160m Norway electrical equipment Dens Esthetix Dental laboratory Dental EUR 1.4m Germany Design Dental Imports and produces dental technology in Denmark Dental DKK 13m Denmark using digital technology Endodontic products Root canal and other products Dental SEK 10m Sweden (Nordiska Dental) Nordesign Supplier of LED lighting to the Scandinavian market Systems Solutions NOK 64m Norway Parkell Manufactures and sells dental consumables and Dental USD 29m USA small equipment to dentists Praezimed Services and repairs dental instruments Dental EUR 2.5m Germany Redoma Recycling Manufactures recycling machinery for small and Systems Solutions SEK 25m Sweden medium cables TMC/Nessco Supplier of marine compressors and spare parts Systems Solutions NOK 525m Norway 90 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ACQUISITION HISTORY Year Company Operations Business area Net sales at Country acquisition date 2017 Blinken Reseller of measurement instruments for land Systems Solutions NOK 124m Norway surveyors and the construction industry City Dentallabor Dental laboratories Dental EUR 1.3m Germany and HohenstückenZahntechnik Doherty Supplier of quick couplers, buckets and other Demolition & Tools NZD 14m New Zealand excavator attachments. Elit Wholesale supplier of machinery and equipment for Systems Solutions NOK 38m Norway electrical installations and electricity production Fiberworks Supplier of communication equipment for the Systems Solutions NOK 93m Norway European fibre-optic market Haglöf Sweden Supplier of instruments for professional forestry Systems Solutions SEK 60m Sweden surveyors Hultdin System Manufacturer of tools and attachments for forestry Demolition & Tools SEK 152m Sweden and construction machinery Hydal Manufacturer of aluminium cabinets for outdoor and Systems Solutions NOK 50m Norway indoor use Perfect Ceramic Dental laboratory Dental HKD 24m Hong Kong Dental Pro Optix Supplier of communication equipment for the Systems Solutions SEK 62m Sweden European fibre-optic market Silvent Specialises in energy optimisation and work Systems Solutions SEK 120m Sweden environments in the area of compressed air dynamics Solesbee’s Develops and sells attachments for excavators and Demolition & Tools USD 11m USA wheel loaders Wachtel Integrated supplier of piping systems Systems Solutions EUR 2m Germany 2018 Computer konkret Develops, sells and supports software for dentists Dental EUR 3.8m Germany and orthodontists Spocs Provides final assembly and testing services for Systems Solutions SEK 61m Sweden electronic products Dental Direct Distributor to dentists Dental NOK 95m Norway DKK 25m Toolpack’s NorweInteriors for service vehicles Systems Solutions NOK 40m Norway gian car interiors business Flörchinger Dental laboratory Dental EUR 1.7m Germany Zahntechnik Wexman Makes professional workwear Systems Solutions SEK 46m Sweden Denterbridge Imports dental works Dental EUR 9m France Rhein83 Develops and produces accessories and Dental EUR 8m Italy attachments ERC Systems Provides sewer inspection and relining services Systems Solutions SEK 20m Sweden 2019 Indexator Rotator Development and manufacture of rotators Demolition & Tools SEK 300m Sweden Systems Hammer Hydraulic breakers and other demolition equipment Demolition & Tools EUR 20m Italy for excavators UK POS Exhibition and display materials Systems Solutions GBP 12m United Kingdom Rustibus Worldwide Surface preparation and safety equipment for marine Systems Solutions NOK 56m Norway vessels ErgoPack Manufacture of ergonomic and Systems Solutions EUR 22m Germany mobile pallet strapping tools Brian James Trailers Manufacture of open and enclosed car transport Systems Solutions GBP 26m United Kingdom trailers and other products LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 91 QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS Company Country Certification ISO 3834 ISO 9001 ISO 13485 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001/ ISO 50001 ISO 45001 Ahlberg Cameras AB Sweden • Auger Torque Europe Ltd United Kingdom • Auto-Maskin AS Norway • • Aquajet System AB Sweden • Brokk AB Sweden • Brokk UK Ltd United Kingdom • Cenika AS Norway • Computer Konkret GmbH Germany • • Darda GmbH Germany • DAB Dental AB Sweden • • • DentalEye AB Sweden • Dentamed spol. s.r.o. Czech Republic • • Directa AB Sweden • Fiberworks AS Norway • Hammasväline Oy Finland • AS Hekotek Estonia • Hultdin System AB Sweden • Indexator Rotator Systems AB Sweden • • • InteraDent Zahntechnik, Inc. Philippines • InteraDent Zahntechnik GmbH Germany • Kinshofer CZ s.r.o. Czech Republic • Kinshofer GmbH Germany • • • Leab Eesti OÜ Estonia • • • Lövånger Elektronik AB Sweden • • • Lövånger Elektronik Fagersta AB Sweden • • Lövånger Elektronik Uppsala AB Sweden • • M+W Müller und Weygand GmbH Germany • MDH AG Mamisch Dental Health Germany • Modul-System HH AB Sweden • • Modul-System S.A. France • • Modul-System Fahrzeugeinrichtungen GmbH Germany • Modul-System N.V./S.A. Belgium • Modul-System Polska Sp. z.o.o. Poland • Modul-System Ltd United Kingdom • • • Nessco AS Norway • • • Nordenta AB Sweden • J.H. Orsing AB Sweden • Jacobsen Dental AS Norway • Parkell, Inc. USA • Rapid Granulator AB Sweden • • Rhein 83 srl Italy • • Si Zhou Dental (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd China • • Texor AB Sweden • Tamrotor Marine Compressors AS Norway • • • TMC Compressors Asia Pte Ltd Singapore • • • Top Dental Products Ltd United Kingdom • UK Point of Sale Group Limited United Kingdom • Zetterströms Rostfria AB Sweden • 92 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ADDRESSES Addresses Dental Dansk Nordenta A/S CEO: Claus Holmgaard Endomark Dental AB CEO: Torbjörn Hansson 3D Dental ApS Nydamsvej 8 Verkmästaregatan 1 CEO: Charlotte Kammersgaard 8362 Hørning, Denmark 745 85 Enköping, Sweden Kildeparken 12, 26A Website: nordenta.dk Website: endomark.se 8722 Hedensted, Denmark E-mail: nordenta.dk@nordenta.dk E-mail: info@endomark.se Website: 3d-dental.dk Telephone: +45 87 68 16 11 Telephone: +46 171 230 30 E-mail: post@3d-dental.dk Telephone: +45 76 40 93 00 DentalEye AB Hammasväline Oy CEO: Marcus Johansson CEO: Kalle Salmela Al dente Software A/S Kavallerivägen 30 PL 15 CEO: Vibeke Mikkelsen 174 58 Sundbyberg, Sweden 021 01 Espoo, Finland Nydamsvej 8 Website: dentaleye.com Website: hammasvaline.fi 8362 Hørning, Denmark E-mail: info@dentaleye.com E-mail: info@hammasvaline.fi Website: aldente.dk Telephone: +46 8,621 07 00 Telephone: +358 10 588 6000 E-mail: info@aldente.dk Telephone: +45 87 68 16 01 DentalTiger GmbH InteraDent Zahntechnik GmbH CEO: Jonas Redin CEO: Thomas Albrecht Almaso För Tandvården AB Robert-Bosch-Strasse 15 Roggenhorster Strasse 7 CEO: Marcus Johansson 354 40 Linden, Germany 235 56 Lübeck, Germany Kyrkostigen 5 Website: dentaltiger.de Website: interadent.com 247 62 Veberöd, Sweden E-mail: info@dentaltiger.de E-mail: info@interadent.de Website: almasoft.se Telephone: +49 64 03,774 20 60 Telephone: +49 4 51 8 79 85 0 E-mail: info@almasoft.se Fax: +49 4 51 8 79 85 20 Telephone: +46 46 23 81 80 Dentamed (ČR) spol. s.r.o. CEO: Pavel Smazik InteraDent Zahntechnik, Inc. Computer konkret AG Pod Lipami 2620/41 CEO: Dieter Schneider CEO: Michael Brand, Jens-Peter Eibisch 130 00 Praha 3, Czech Republic Pascor Drive Theoder-Körner-Strasse 6 Website: dentamed.cz RP-1704 Paranaque, Metro Manila, Philippines 082 23 Falkenstein, Germany E-mail: info@dentamed.cz E-mail: gguillermo@interadent.com.ph Website: ivoris.de Telephone: +420 266 007 111 Telephone: +63 2 852 4029 E-mail: info@ivoris.de Telephone: +49 3745 7824 33 Denterbridge SAS J.H. Orsing AB CEO: Charles Mamisch CEO: Henric Karsk DAB Dental AB 6 Rue Villaret de Joyeuse Box 16077 CEO: Jonas Redin 750 17 Paris, France 250 16 Råå, Sweden Finvids väg 8 Website: denterbridge.fr Website: orsing.se 194 47 Upplands Väsby, Sweden E-mail: contact@denterbridge.fr E-mail: orsing@orsing.se Website: dabdental.se Telephone: +33 1 40 55 95 55 Telephone: +46 42 29 55 00 E-mail: kontakt@dabdental.se Telephone: +46 8 506 505 00 Dental-Direct AS Jacobsen Dental AS CEO: Michael Kammersgaard Krogh CEO: Björn Myhre DAB Eesti OÜ Tverrmyra 16 Boks 97, Alnabru CEO: Agne Bagdziunaite 3185 Skoppum, Norway 0614 Oslo, Norway Kungla 2-208 Website: dental-direct.no Website: Jacobsen-dental.no 765 05 Saue, Estonia E-mail: post@dental-direct.no E-mail: post@jacobsen-dental.no Website: dabdental.ee Telephone: +47 33 07 15 00 Telephone: +47 22 79 20 20 E-mail: info@dabdental.ee Telephone: +372 6 39 13 20 Directa AB LIC Scadenta AS CEO: Henric Karsk CEO: Arild Haugeland DAB Dental Latvia SIA Box 723, Finvids väg 8 Postboks 443, Hamangskogen 60 CEO: Beate Gaile 194 27 Upplands Väsby, Sweden 1338 Sandvika, Norway Dzelzavas iela 117 Website: directadental.com Website: licscadenta.no 1021 Riga, Latvia E-mail: info@directadental.com E-mail: firmapost@licscadenta.no Website: dabdental.lv Telephone: +46 8 506 505 75 Telephone: +47 67 80 58 80 E-mail: info@dabdental.lv Telephone: +371 677 847 56 Directa, Inc. Lifco Dental AB CEO: Henric Karsk CEO: Jonas Redin DAB Dental UAB 64 Barnabas Road, Unit 3 Verkmästaregatan 1 CEO: Agne Bagdziunaite Newtown, CT 064 70, USA 745 39 Enköping, Sweden Laisves pr. 57 Website: directadental.com Website: lifcodental.se 06144 Vilnius, Lithuania E-mail: infousa@directadental.com E-mail: anders.westlund@lifcodental.se Website: dabdental.lt Telephone: +1 203 491 2273 Telephone: +46 171 478450 E-mail: dental@dabdental.lt Telephone: +370 8 800 200 33 EDP European Dental Partner Holding GmbH Lifco Dental International AB CEO: Charles Mamish, Per Waldemarson, CEO: Jonas Redin Dent Unit s.r.o Reinhold Kuhn Verkmästaregatan 1 CEO: Pavel Hartman, Romas Stárek Roggenhorster Strasse 7 745 85 Enköping, Sweden Obvodní 23/36 235 56 Lübeck, Germany E-mail: jonas.redin@dabdental.se 50332 Hradec Králové, Czech Republic E-mail: info@edp-holding.eu Telephone: +46 171 478450 Website: dentunit.cz Telephone: +49 451 29 26 910 E-mail: info@dentunit.cz MDH AG Mamisch Dental Health Telephone: +420,495,454,394 Ellman Produkter AB CEO: Charles Mamisch, Patrick Koose CEO: Jonas Redin Schenkendorfstrasse 29 Box 423 454 72 Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany 194 04 Upplands Väsby, Sweden Website: mdh-ag.de Website: ahrendental.com E-mail: info@mdh-ag.de E-mail: info@ahrendental.com Telephone: +49 208 469 599 0 Telephone: +46 8,646 11 02 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 93 ADDRESSES M+W Dental Müller und Weygandt GmbH Rhein’83 S.R.L Aquajet Systems AB CEO: Janos Szabó CEO: Gianni Storni CEO: Roger Simonsson Reichardsweide 40 Via Zago 10/ABC Brunnsvägen 15 636 54 Büdingen, Germany 401 28 Bologna, Italy 574 53 Holsbybrunn, Sweden Website: mwdental.de Website: rhein83.com Website: aquajet.se E-mail: kontakt@mwdental.de E-mail: claudia.nardi@rhein83.it E-mail: aquajet@aquajet.se Telephone: +49 60 42 88 00 88 Telephone: +39 051 244510 Telephone: +46 383 508 01 M+W Dental Handels GmbH Schwan Aligner GmbH Auger Torque Europe Ltd CEO: Wolfgang Schuster CEO: Fabian Schwan, Dennis Schmidt CEO: Alistair Brydon Albert-Schweitzer-Gasse 6A Eschenallee 36 Hazleton, Cheltenham 1140 Wien, Austria 140 50 Berlin, Germany GL54 4DX, United Kingdom Website: mwdental.at Website: schwan-aligner.de Website: augertorque.com E-mail: email@mwdental.at E-mail: info@schwan-aligner.de E-mail: sales@augertorque.com Telephone: +43,800,500,809 Telephone: +49 30 52 67 50 50 Telephone: +44 1451 861652 M+W Dental Magyarország Kft. Si Zhou Dental (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd Auger Torque Australia Pty. Ltd CEO: János Szabó CEO: Charles Mamisch CEO: Kelvin Hamilton Csillaghegyi út 19-21 8/F, Block 12, CuiGang Industrial District 6 122 Boundary Road, Rocklea 1037 Budapest, Hungary HuaiDe Zone, Fuyong, Baoan, Shenzhen Queensland 4106, Australia Website: mwdental.hu 518103 Guangdong, China Website: augertorque.com.au E-mail: dental@mwdental.hu E-mail: Aleck.lee@mdh-ag.de E-mail: sales@augertorque.com.au Telephone: +36 1 436 9790 Telephone: +86 755 27864816 Telephone: +61 73274 2077 M+W Dental Swiss AG Smilodentax GmbH Auger Torque China Co. Ltd CEO: Franziska Knobloch CEO: Charles Mamisch CEO: Alistair Brydon Länggstrasse 15 Wiltzlebenstrasse 15 Baozchan Road, Tongy i Industrizone, Dongwu, 8308 Illnau, Switzerland 454 72 Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany Yinzhou, Ningbo 315114, China Website: mwdental.ch Website: smilodentax.de Website: augertorque.com E-mail: kontakt@mwdental.ch E-mail: info@smilodentax.de Telephone: +41,800,002,300 Telephone: +49 208 740 500 BINC Delaware, Inc. CEO: Lars Lindgren Nordenta AB Technomedics Norge AS 1144 Village Way CEO: Torbjörn Hansson CEO: Arild Haugeland Monroe WA 982 72, USA Verkmästaregatan 1 Gramveien 68 Website: brokkinc.com 745 85 Enköping, Sweden 1832 Askim, Norway E-mail: info@brokkinc.com Website: nordenta.se Website: technomedics.no Telephone: +1 360 794 1277 E-mail: info@nordenta.se E-mail: post@technomedics.no Telephone: +46 171 230 00 Telephone: +47 69 88 79 20 Brokk AB CEO: Martin Krupicka Parkell, Inc. Topdental (Products) Ltd Box 730, Risbergsgatan 67 CEO: Henrik Karsk CEO: Daniel Rollén 931 27 Skellefteå, Sweden 300 Executive Drive 12 Ryefield Way, Silsden Website: brokk.com Edgewood, NY 117 17, USA West Yorkshire BD20 OEF, United Kingdom E-mail: info@brokk.com Website: parkell.com Website: topdentaldirect.com Telephone: +46 910 711 800 E-mail: info@parkell.com E-mail: sales@topdental.co.uk Telephone: +1 631 249 1134 Telephone: +44 1535 652,750 Brokk Asia-Pacific Plc. Ltd CEO: Richard Yip Perfect Ceramic Dental Company Ltd Westroad Properties, Inc. 51 Bukit Batok Crescent, Unity 04-26 Centre, CEO: Charles Mamisch Interadent Building, L3275 Pascor Drive 658077 Singapore RM 1809, Office Tower Two, Grand Plaza 625, Sto. Niño, Parañaque City, Philippines Website: brokk.com/sgp Nathan Road Kowloon, Hong Kong E-mail: gguillermo@interadent.com.ph E-mail: info@brokk.com.sg E-mail: perfecthk@netvigator.com Telephone: +63 2 852 4029 Telephone: +65 6316 2500 Telephone: +852 2783 7768 Brokk Australia Pty. Praezimed Service GmbH Demolition & Tools CEO: Wilhelm Visser CEO: Reinhold Kuhn Ahlberg Cameras AB 9 Colorado Court Volksdorfer Grenzweg 143 CEO: Joakim Ahlberg Morphett Vale SA 5162, Australia 223 59 Hamburg, Germany Gösvägen 22 Website: brokkaustralia.com.au Website: praezimed.de 761 41 Norrtälje, Sweden Telephone: +61 8 8387 7742 E-mail: info@praezimed.de Website: ahlbergcameras.com Telephone: +49 40 645 088 0 E-mail: sales@ahlbergcameras.com Brokk Beijing Machines Co. Ltd Telephone: +46,176 20 55 00 CEO: William Liu Preventum Partner AB A1208, No. 18 Beitaipingzhuang Road, CEO: Marcus Johansson Ahlberg Cameras, Inc. Haidian District, Beijing, Kina Kungsgatan 35B CEO: Joakim Ahlberg Website: brokk.com.cn 736 32 Kungsör, Sweden 419B Raleigh Street E-mail: info-2008@brokk.com.cn Website: preventum.nu Wilmington, NC 284 12, USA Telephone: +86 10 8225 5531 E-mail: info@preventum.nu Website: ahlbergcameras.com Telephone: +46 227 120 60 E-mail: us@ahlbergcameras.com Brokk BeNeLux SARL Telephone: +1 (0) 910 399 4240 CEO: Michel Sanz Prodent International d.o.o. Avenue FONSNY 46/59 CEO: Vojco Andjelic Aquajet Systems Holding AB 1060 Saint Gilles, Belgium Zvezna ulica 2A CEO: Roger Simonsson Website: brokk.com 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Brunnsvägen 15 E-mail: benelux@brokk.com Website: prodent.si 574 53 Holsbybrunn, Sweden Telephone: +32 472 67 15 50 E-mail: info@prodent.si Website: aquajet.se Telephone: +368 1 5204 800 E-mail: aquajet@aquajet.se Brokk Bricking Solutions, Inc. Telephone: +46 383 508 01 CEO: Heather Harding 1144 Village Way Monroe WA 982 72, USA Website: brickingsolutions.com E-mail: info@brickingsolutions.com Telephone: +1 360 794 1277 94 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ADDRESSES Brokk DA GmbH Demolition and Recycling Equipment B.V. Kinshofer Holding, Inc. CEO: Andreas Ruf CEO: Ruud de Gier, Marcel Vening CEO: Thomas Friedrich Friedenweilerstrasse 37 C Den Hoek 32 6420 Inducon Drive Suite G 798 77 Friedenweiler, Germany 5431 NS Cuijk, Netherlands Sanborn, NY 14132, USA Website: brokk.de Website: en.demarec.com Website: kinshofer.com E-mail: info@brokk.de Telephone: +31 485 442 300 E-mail: info@kinshofer.com Telephone: +49 7654 21297-0 Telephone: +1 905 335 2856 Demolition & Recycling Tools Rental GmbH Brokk France SARL CEO: Thomas Friedrich Kinshofer Liftall Inc. CEO: Michel Sanz Raiffeisenstrasse 12 CEO: Thomas Friedrich ZI Inova 3000 836 07 Holzkirchen, Germany 5040 Mainway Drive, Unit #11 881 51 Thaon les Vosges cedex, France E-mail: info@kinshofer.com Burlington, ON L7L 7G5, Canada Website: brokk.fr Website: kinshofer.com E-mail: info@brokk.fr Doherty Couplers & Attachments Ltd E-mail: sales-northamerica@kinshofer.com Telephone: +33 3 29 390 390 CEO: Jeremy Doherty Telephone: +1 905 335 2856 2/2642 Ipswich Road Brokk Italia S.R.L. Darra, Queensland 4106, Australia Kinshofer UK Ltd. CEO: Roberto Ruberto Website: dohertydirect.net CEO: Alistair Brydon Via Paolo da Cannobio 9 E-mail: jeremy@dohertydirect.net 4 Milton Industrial Court, 20122 Milano, Italy Telephone: +61 1800 057 021 Horsfield Way, Bredbury Website: brokk.com/it Stockport, Cheshire SK6 2TA, United Kingdom E-mail: roberto.ruberto@brokk.it Doherty Engineered Attachments Ltd Website: kinshofer.co.uk Telephone: +39 33 1854 5276 CEO: Jeremy Doherty E-mail: sales@kinshofer.co.uk 98 Paerangi Place, Tauriko Telephone: +44 161 406 7046 Brokk Middle East 3171 Tauranga, New Zealand CEO: Haitham Gouda Website: dohertydirect.net Kinshofer USA, Inc. PO Box 5005132/Office No.1103 Jafza One E-mail: jeremy@dohertydirect.net CEO: Thomas Friedrich Tower A, Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, Telephone: +64 7 574 3000 6420 Inducon Drive Suite G United Arab Emirates Sanborn, NY 14132, USA Website: brokk.com Hammer S.R.L Website: kinshofer.com E-mail: haitham.gouda@brokk.com CEO: Valerio Modugno E-mail: sales-usa@kinshofer.com Telephone: +971 4 8170278 Via Oleifici dell’Italia Meridionalte Lotto G1 Telephone: +1 716 731 4333 700 56 Mofetta, BA, Italy Brokk Norge AS Website: hammereurope.com Mars Greiftechnik GmbH CEO: Dag-Helge Andresen E-mail: Info@hammereurope.com CEO: Thomas Friedrich Industriveien 22-24 Telephone: +39 080 337 5317 Grenzlandstrasse 5 1400 Ski, Norway 3950 Gmünd, Austria Website: brokk.com/no Hultdin System AB Website: kinshofer.com E-mail: info@brokk.no CEO: Josef Alenius Telephone: +43 2852 5443 8 Telephone: +47 9483 9507 Skolgatan 12 939 31 Malå, Sweden PP Greiftechnik GmbH Brokk Sales Canada, Inc. Website: hultdins.se CEO: Thomas Friedrich CEO: Lars Lindgren E-mail: sales@hultdins.se Raiffeisenstrasse 12 1144 Village Way Telephone: +46 953 418 00 836 07 Holzkirchen, Germany Monroe WA 982 72, USA Telephone: +49 8021 8899 0 Website: brokkinc.com Hultdins, Inc. E-mail: info@brokkinc.com CEO: Gerry Mallory RF System AB Telephone: +1 360 794 1277 22 Morton Avenue CEO: Hans Valdemarson East Brantford, Ontario, Canada Furutorpsgatan 6 Brokk Switzerland GmbH Website: hultdins.com 288 34 Kungsör, Sweden CEO: Dieter Kaupp E-mail: info@hultdins.com Website: rf-system.se Vorderschlundstrasse 5 Telephone: +519 754 00 44 E-mail: info@rf-system.se 6010 Illau, Switzerland Telephone: +46 44 817 07 Website: brokk.com/ch Indexator Rotator Systems AB E-mail: rene.walker@brokk.ch CEO: Josef Alenius Solesbee’s Equipment & Attachment LCC Telephone: +41 41,755 39 77 Box 11 CEO: David Jenkins 922 21 Vindeln, Sweden 2640 Jason Industrial Parkway Brokk UK Ltd Website: indexator.se GA 301 87 Winston, USA CEO: Nathan Sayers E-mail: rotator@indexator.se Website: solesbees.com Unit 2A, Moss End Business Village Telephone: +46 933 148 00 E-mail: jcaldwell@solesbees.com Crooklands, Milnthorpe Telephone: +1 770 949 9231 LA7 7NU Cumbria, United Kingdom Kinshofer CZ s.r.o. Website: brokk.com/uk CEO: Thomas Friedrich Telephone: +44 15395 66055 Cs.Legií 568 Systems Solutions 378 10 České Velenice, Czech Republic Sorb Industri AB Darda GmbH Website: kinshofer.com CEO: Martin Linder CEO: Gerhard Darda E-mail: info@kinshofer.com c/o Lifco AB Im Tal 1 Telephone: +42 384 795 100 745 85 Enköping, Sweden 78176 Blumberg, Germany Website: sorb.se Website: darda.de Kinshofer France SARL Telephone: +46 910 174 00 E-mail: info@darda.de CEO: Thomas Friedrich Telephone: +49 7702 4391 0 8 B Rue Gabriel Voisin, CS 4003 516 88 Reims CEDEX 2 Construction Materials Darda-Kinshofer (Beijing) Construction Website: kinshofer.com Blinken Tools AB Machinery Co. Ltd E-mail: sales-france@kinshofer.com CEO: Christer Åslund CEO: Samuel Zhang Telephone: +33 388 3955 00 Sågverksgatan 32 Unit #306, Landmark Tower 2 652 21 Karlstad, Sweden 8 Dongsanhuan Road, Beijing 100004, China Kinshofer GmbH Website: blinken.eu Website: darda.com.cn CEO: Thomas Friedrich E-mail: info@blinken.eu E-mail: info@darda.com.cn Raiffeisenstrasse 12 Telephone: +46 54 21 60 60 Telephone: +86 10 6590 6422 836 07 Holzkirchen, Germany Website: kinshofer.com E-mail: info@kinshofer.com Telephone: +49 8021 8899 0 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 95 ADDRESSES Blinken AS P-line Netherlands B.V. Wachtel AG CEO: Joar Johannessen CEO: Frans van Veen CEO: Denis Wachtel Postboks 122 Hoge Rijndijk 259 Duttweilerstrasse 11 1620 Gressvik, Norway 2382 AM Zoeterwoude, Netherlands 687 66 Hockenheim, Germany Website: blinken.no Website: proline-group.nl Website: wachtel-ag.de E-mail: blinken@blinken.no E-mail: info@proline-group.nl E-mail: info@wachtel-ag.de Telephone: +47 90 70 11 00 Telephone: +31 85 273 76 50 Telephone: +49 6205 27 900 86 Cenika AB Proline Danmark ApS CEO: Thomas Jensen CEO: Henrik Sörensen SERVICE AND DISTRIBUTION Verkstadsvägen 24 Lunikvej 24 Brian James Trailers Holding Limited 245 34 Staffanstorp, Sweden 2670 Hedensted, Denmark CEO: Lewis James Website: cenika.se Website: prolineas.dk Sopwith Way, Drayton Field Industrial E-mail: post@cenika.se E-mail: info@proline-group.dk Estate, Daventry Telephone: +46 40 631 55 00 Telephone: +45 6361 8545 NN11 8PB Northhamptonshire, United Kingdom Website: brianjamestrailers.co.uk Cenika AS Proline Norge AS E-mail: enquiries@bjtrailers.co.uk CEO: Svein Tore Moe CEO: Tellef Ingvaldstad Telephone: +44 1327 308833 Industrigata 13 Frysjaveien 35 3414 Lierstranda, Norway 0884 Oslo, Norway Brian James Trailers Limited Website: cenika.no Website: proline-group.com CEO: Lewis James E-mail: post@cenika.no E-mail: info@proline-group.no Sopwith Way, Drayton Field Industrial Telephone: +47 32 24 03 00 Telephone: +47 81 50 08 98 Estate, Daventry NN11 8PB Northhamptonshire, United Kingdom Elit Scandinavian AB Prolinesystems Relining Oy Website: brianjamestrailers.co.uk CEO: Magne Barli CEO: Risto Heiniemi E-mail: enquiries@bjtrailers.co.uk Box 132 Sahaajankatu 12 Telephone: +44 1327 308833 517 23 Bollebygd, Sweden 00880 Helsinki, Finland Website: elitsg.se Website: prolineoy.fi Brian James Trailers GmbH E-mail: info@elitsg.se E-mail: info@prolineoy.fi CEO: Lewis James Telephone: +46 19 500 3010 Telephone: +358 40 560 29 68 Göhrener Strasse 6 044 63 Störmthal, Germany Elit Scandinavia ApS Proline Syd AB Website: brianjamestrailers.de CEO: Magne Barli CEO: Mats Hallström E-mail: t.ahrens@brianjamestrailers.de Gl Skivevej 73 B Stenyxegatan 14 Telephone: +49 34297 14548-3 8800 Viborg, Denmark 213 76 Malmö, Sweden Website: elit.dk Website: proline-group.com Modul-System AS E-mail: info@elit.dk E-mail: info@proline-group.com CEO: Henrik Persson Telephone: +45 48 44 60 60 Telephone: +46 40 671 79 90 Kragerudveien 80, Hellerudsletta 2013 Skjetten, Norway Elit AS Proline Väst AB Website: modul-system.no CEO: Magne Barli CEO: Johan Kling E-mail: info@modul-system.no Hellenvegen 9 Datavägen 18 Telephone: +47 67 07 72 73 2022 Gjerdrum, Norway 436 32 Askim, Sweden Website: elit.no Website: proline-group.com Modul-System Fahrzeugeinrichtungen E-mail: firmapost@elit.no E-mail: info@proline-group.com GmbH Telephone: +47 63 93 88 80 Telephone: +46 31 68 62 40 CEO: David Mickelson Bruder-Kremer-Strasse 6 ERC Systems AB Proline Öst AB 655 49 Limburg, Germany CEO: Robin Öhrn CEO: Anna Fernandez Website: modul-system.de Skalles Väg 14 Jägerhorns väg 9 E-mail: info@modul-system.de 605 97 Norrköping, Sweden 141 75 Kungens Kurva, Sweden Telephone: +49 6476 9124-0 Website: ercsystems.se Website: proline-group.com E-mail: info@ercsystems.se E-mail: info@proline-group.com Modul-System Finland Oy Telephone: +46 11 13 00 60 Telephone: +46 8 594 774 50 CEO: Jirka Sottinen PL 118 Fiberworks AS Proline Nord AB 01301 Vantaa, Finland CEO: Roger Wahlgren CEO: Per-Olof Nilsson Website: modul-system.fi Eikenga 11 Utjordsvägen 9M E-mail: myynti@modul-system.fi 0579 Oslo, Norway 802 91 Gävle, Sweden Telephone: +357 20 771 0880 Website: fiberworks.no Website: proline-group.com E-mail: salg@fiberworks.no E-mail: info@proline-group.com Modul-System HH Van Equipment AB Telephone: +47 23 03 53 30 Telephone: +46 26 54 22 00 CEO: David Mickelson Box 148 Hydal AS Proline Group AB 431 22 Mölndal, Sweden CEO: Hagbard Sandhåland CEO: Niklas Persson Hydrovegen 160 Box 114, Hovslagarevägen 31 Modul-System HH AB 4265 Håvik, Norway 192 54 Sollentuna, Sweden CEO: David Mickelson Website: hydal.no Website: proline-group.com Box 148, Kryptongatan 24 E-mail: post@hydal.no E-mail: info@proline-group.com 431 22 Mölndal, Sweden Telephone: +47 52 84 81 00 Telephone: +46 8 594 774 50 Website: modul-system.com E-mail: info@modul-system.com Nordesign AS Pro 10 Optix AB Telephone: +46 31 746 87 00 CEO: Steinar Schrødter CEO: Tom Nordin Granåsveien 7 Vikdalsvägen 50 Modul-System HH A/S 7069 Trondheim, Norway 131 52 Nacka Strand CEO: Lennart Nielsen Website: nordesign.no Website: prooptix.se Midtager 28 E-mail: nordesign.no@nordesign.no E-mail: sales@prooptix.se 2650 Brøndby, Danmark Telephone: +47 73 84 95 50 Telephone: +46 8 120 477 50 Website: modul-system.fi E-mail: info@modul-system.dk Telephone: +45 70 25 21 60 96 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ADDRESSES Håells AB Auto-Maskin LLC Eldan Recycling A/S CEO: David Mickelson CEO: Geary Long CEO: Toni Reftman Box 148 951 FM 646, East Suite A27 Værkmestervej 4 431 22 Mölndal, Sweden TX 775 39 Dickinson Texas, USA 5600 Faaborg, Denmark Telephone: +46 31 7468700 Website: auto-maskin.com Website: eldan-recycling.com E-mail: sales.us@auto-maskin.com E-mail: info@eldan-recycling.com Modul-System Netherland B.V. Telephone: +1 281 724 8630 Telephone: +45 63 61 25 45 CEO: Kathleen Smets Govert van Wijnkade 42 ErgoPack Deutschland GmbH Lövånger Elektronik Göteborg AB 3144 EG Maassluis, Netherlands CEO: Andreas Kimmerle CEO: Ulf Westergren Website: modul-system.nl Hanns-Martin-Schleyer-Strasse 21 Banehagsliden 5 E-mail: nl@modul-system.nl 894 15 Lauingen (Donau), Germany 414 51 Göteborg, Sweden Telephone: +31 10 592 80 38 Website: ergopack.de Website: leab.se E-mail: info@ergopack.de E-mail: ulf.westergren@leab.se Modul-System N.V./S.A. Telephone: +49 9072 70283-8 Telephone: +46 70,718 87 00 CEO: Kathleen Smets Wayenborgstraat 15 Nessco Holding AS Lövånger Elektronik Uppsala AB 2800 Mechelen, Belgium CEO: Per Alf Kjellin CEO: Sauli Tulkki Website: modul-system.be Professor Birkelandsvei 24D Fribergavägen 3 E-mail: info@modul-system.be 1081 Oslo, Norway 744 96 Järlåsa, Sweden Telephone: +32 15 28 52 00 Website: leab.se Nessco AS E-mail: sauli.tulkki@leab.se Modul-System Polska Sp. z.o.o. CEO: Christian Ness Telephone: +46 18 39 11 28 CEO: Marcin Papuzinski Professor Birkelandsvei 24D Jaworowa, ul. 1081 Oslo, Norway Lövånger Elektronik AB Drukarska 1, Warsaw, Poland Website: nessco.no CEO: Ivan Vincent Website: modul-system.pl E-mail: firmapost@nessco.no Kyrkren 2 E-mail: info@modul-system.pl Telephone: +47 22 91 85 00 932 61 Lövånger, Sweden Telephone: +48 22 878 14 91 Website: leab.se Rapid Granulator AB E-mail: ivan.vincent@leab.se Modul-System S.A. CEO: Martin Linder Telephone: +46 913 245 00 CEO: Philippe Tavel Box 9 40 Avenue Graham Bell 333 02 Bredaryd, Sweden Leab Eesti OÜ ZAC Léonard de Vinci Website: rapidgranulator.com CEO: Erki Hirv 776 00 Marne la Vallé, France E-mail: info@rapidgranulator.com Põikmäe 1 Tänassilma Tehnopark Website: modul-system.fr Telephone: +46 370 86 500 764 06 Saku vald, Estonia E-mail: info@modul-system.fr Website: leab.se Telephone: +33 1 60 17 64 75 Rapid Granulier-Systeme GmbH & Co. KG E-mail: erki.hirv@leab.se CEO: Jürgen Prössler Telephone: +372 6503 200 Modul-System Ltd Bruchweg 3 CEO: Paul Railston 638 01 Kleinostheim, Germany Lövånger Elektronik Fagersta AB Maddison House, Thomas Road Website: rapidgranulator.com CEO: Joan Öberg HP10 OPE Buckinghamshire, United Kingdom E-mail: info@rapidgranulator.de Knutsvägen 2 Website: tevo.eu.com Telephone: +49 6027 4665 01 737 33 Fagersta, Sweden E-mail: sales@tevo.eu.com Website: wintech.se Telephone: +44 1628 528 034 Rapid Granulier-Systeme E-mail: joan.oberg@wintech.se Geschäftsfürungs GmbH Telephone: +46 223 420 50 UK Point of Sale Group Limited CEO: Jürgen Prössler CEO: Jason Leslie Bruchweg 3 Texor AB Unit A, Horsfield Way, Bredbury Park 638 01 Kleinostheim, Germany CEO: Josef Alenius Industrial Estate Website: rapidgranulator.com Box 204, Alfavägen 1 SK6 2TD Stockport, United Kingdom E-mail: info@rapidgranulator.de 921 24 Lycksele, Sweden Website: ukpos.com Telephone: +49 6027 4665 01 Website: texor.se E-mail: sales@ukpos.com E-mail: texor@texor.se Telephone: +44 161 431 4400 Rapid Italy S.R.L. Telephone: +46 950 27540 CEO: Anders Mårtensson Via Sopracornio 7B Zetterströms Rostfria AB Contract Manufacturing CEO: Nicklas Berglund 300 10 Campolongo Maggiore Venezia, Italy Auto-Maskin AS Website: rapidgranulator.com Prostgårdsvägen 5 CEO: Svein Arild Hagnaess E-mail: info@rapidgranulator.it 655 60 Molkom, Sweden Hvamsvingen 22 Telephone: +39 49 972 8252 Website: zetterstroms.se 2013 Skjetten, Norway E-mail: info@zetterstroms.se Website: auto-maskin.com Rapid Granulate Machinery (Shanghai) Telephone: +46 553 790 800 E-mail: office@auto-maskin.com CEO: Anders Mårtensson Telephone: +47 64 84 52 00 1st floor, Building 3, 299#KongQue Road, Lujia Town, KunShani, China Environmental technology Website: rapidgranulator.com Auto-Maskin Sverige AB Albro Technologies SARL E-mail: info@rapidgranulator.com CEO: Albin Dennevi CEO: Anders Mårtensson Telephone: +86 21 6760 1875 Drakegatan 5 646 Rue Juliette Récamier 412 50 Göteborg, Sweden 699 70 Chaponny, France Rapid Granulator Singapore Pte Ltd Website: auto-maskin.com Website: rapidgranulator.com CEO: Anders Mårtensson E-mail: office.se@auto-maskin.com E-mail: info@albro.fi 63 Hillview Ave. 10-17A Lam Soon Telephone: +47 64 84 52 00 Telephone: +33,472 15 22 80 Industrial Building 669569 Singapore, Singapore Eldan, Inc. Auto-Maskin Holding, Inc. Website: rapidgranulator.com CEO: Toni Reftman CEO: Svein Arild Hagnaess E-mail: info@rapidgranulator.asia 6311 Inducon Corporate Drive Unit 14 951 FM 646, East Suite A27 Sanborn, NY 141 32, USA TX 775 39 Dickinson Texas, USA Website: eldan.us E-mail: eldan-us@eldan-recycling.com Telephone: +1 716 731 4900 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 97 ADDRESSES Rapid Granulator, Inc. Silvent Central Europe GmbH Forest CEO: Jim Hoffman CEO: Anders Erlandsson Haglof, Inc. 555 West Park Road Stadtwerk Hochhaus, Strubergasse 26 CEO: Fredrik Holm Leetsdale, PA 15056, USA 5020 Salzburg, Austria 100 Solleftea Drive Website: rapidgranulator.com Website: silvent.com MS 39,110 Madison, USA E-mail: info@rapidgranulator.com E-mail: info@silvent.at Website: haglofinc.com Telephone: +1 814 734 7164 Telephone: +41 800 917 631 E-mail: blake@haglofinc.com Telephone: +1 601 856 5119 Redoma Recycling AB Silvent Iberica S.L CEO: Toni Reftman CEO: Anders Erlandsson Haglöf Sweden AB Stenyxegatan 14 Calle Tanger 86 CEO: Fredrik Holm 213 76 Malmö, Sweden 080 18 Barcelona, Spain Klockargatan 8 Website: redoma.com Website: silvent.com 882 30 Långsele, Sweden E-mail: info@redoma.se E-mail: info@silvent.com Website: haglofsweden.com Telephone: +46 40 31 22 30 Telephone: +34 93,170 61 20 E-mail: info@haglofsweden.se Telephone: +46 620 255 80 Rustibus Worldwide AS Silvent North America, Inc. CEO: Kristian Daldeide CEO: Keith Timmons Haglöf Sweden Produktion AB Bekkjarviksundet 19 6370 Ameriplex Drive CEO: Fredrik Holm 5397 Bekkjarvik, Norway Portage, Indiana 46368, USA Klockargatan 8 Website: rustibus.com Website: silvent.com 882 30 Långsele, Sweden E-mail: bergen@rustibus.com E-mail: info@silvent.com E-mail: info@haglofsweden.se Telephone: +47 959 670 02 Telephone: +1 800 263 5638 Telephone: +46 620 255 80 Rustibus NV Silvent (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd AS Hekotek CEO: Terje Braathen CEO: Anders Erlandsson CEO: Heiki Einpaul Noordersingel 7 22nd floor, NO 1375 Middle Huai Hai Road Põrguvälja tee 9 Lehmja, Rae vald 2140 Antwerp, Belgium Shanghai, China 753 06 Harjumaa, Estonia Website: rustibus.com Website: silvent.com Website: hekotek.ee E-mail: antwerpen@rustibus.com E-mail: info@silvent.cn E-mail: hekotek@hekotek.ee Telephone: +32 3227 2096 Telephone: +86 21 335 655 75 Telephone: +372 605 1450 Rustibus, Inc. Silvent South Europe SARL Hekotek Norge AS CEO: Kristian Dalseide CEO: Anders Erlandsson CEO: Rain Nuka 2901 WestSam Houston pkway, Technopolis Bat P, 5 Chemin des Presses, c/o TMC AS North Suite E-315 CS 20014 Postboks 3 Furuset Houston, TX 77043 USA 068 00 Cagnes Sur Mer, France 1001 Oslo, Norway Website: rustibus.com Website: silvent.com Website: hekotek.ee E-mail: houston@rustibus.com E-mail: info@silvent.fr E-mail: rain.nuka@hekotek.ee Telephone: +1 832 203 7170 Telephone: +33 4 93 14 29 90 Heinolan Sahakoneet Oy Rustibus PTE Ltd Silvent UK Ltd CEO: Jan Räsänen CEO: Bala Murugan CEO: Anders Erlandsson PL 24 Tehtaantie Blk 18 Boon Lay Way, #08-145 TradeHub 21 Unit 4330 Waterside Centre, 181 01 Heinola, Finland 609,966 Singapore, Singapore Birmingham Business Park Website: heinolasm.fi Website: rustibus.com Birmingham B37 7YN, United Kingdom E-mail: etunimi.sukunimi@heinolasm.fi E-mail: singapore@rustibus.com Website: silvent.com Telephone: +358 3 848 411 Telephone: +65 6262 5226 E-mail: info@silvent.co.uk Telephone: +44 800 432 0190 Sorb OOO Silvent AB CEO: Olga Sizemova CEO: Anders Erlandsson Tamrotor Marine Compressors AS 10th Krasnoyarmeyskaya lit. B Vevgatan 15 CEO: Per Alf Kjellin 190103 Saint Petersburg, Russia 504 64 Borås, Sweden Professor Birkelands Vei 24D Website: sorb-spb.ru Website: silvent.com 1081 Oslo, Norway E-mail: olga.sizemova@hekotek.ee E-mail: info@silvent.se Website: tmc.no Telephone: +7 812 327 3655 Telephone: +46 33 23 79 00 E-mail: mail@tmc.no Telephone: +47 22 91 85 00 Wexman AB Silvent Benelux B.V. CEO: Peter Ström CEO: Anders Erlandsson TMC Compressors Asia Pte Ltd Köttorp, Sandgärdet Jan Campertstraat 5 General Manager: Phlip Goh 522 91 Tidaholm, Sweden 6416 SG Heerlen, Netherlands 21 Bukit Batok Cresent #15-79 WCEGA Tower Website: wexman.se Website: silvent.com 658,065 Singapore, Singapore E-mail: info@wexman.se E-mail: info@silvent.nl E-mail: pgoh@tmc.sg Telephone: +46 502 188 90 Telephone: +31 2026 236 10 Telephone: +65 6659 0987 TMC Compressors China Ltd. General Manager: Roger Chen Room 1719, Level 17, No. 268 Xizang Rd. (M) Haungpu District, Shanghai 200001, China E-mail: rchen@tmc.no 98 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DEFINITIONS DEFINITIONS AND OBJECTIVE Return on equity Net profit for the period divided by average equity. Return on capital employed EBITA before acquisition costs and non-recurring items, divided by capital employed. Return on capital employed EBITA before acquisition costs and non-recurring items, divided by capital employed excluding excluding goodwill and other goodwill and other intangible assets. intangible assets EBITA EBITA is a measure which Lifco considers relevant for investors who wish to understand the earnings generated after investments in tangible and intangible assets requiring reinvestment but before investments in intangible assets arising from acquisitions. Lifco defines earnings before interest, tax and amortisation (EBITA) as operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising from acquisitions. In its financial reports, Lifco excludes acquisition costs and non-recurring items. This is indicated by an asterisk. EBITA margin EBITA divided by net sales. EBITDA EBITDA is a measure which Lifco considers relevant for investors who wish to understand the earnings generated before investments in fixed assets. Lifco defines earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets. In its financial reports, Lifco excludes acquisition costs and non-recurring items. This is indicated by an asterisk. EBITDA margin EBITDA divided by net sales. Net debt/equity ratio Net debt divided by equity. Net debt1 Lifco uses the alternative performance measure net debt. Lifco considers that this is a useful additional performance measure which allows users of the financial reports to assess the Group’s ability to pay dividends, make strategic investments and meet its financial obligations. Lifco defines the measure as follows: current and non-current liabilities to credit institutions, bonds, interest-bearing pension provisions, liabilities related to put/call options and additional considerations relating to acquisitions, and lease liability less cash and cash equivalents. Earnings per share Profit after tax attributable to Parent Company shareholders divided by average number of outstanding shares. Interest-bearing net debt Lifco uses the alternative performance measure interest-bearing net debt. Lifco considers that this is a useful additional performance measure which allows users of the financial reports to assess the Group’s ability to pay dividends, make strategic investments and meet its financial obligations. Lifco defines the performance measure as follows: current and non-current liabilities to credit institutions, bonds and interest-bearing pension provisions less cash and cash equivalents. Equity/assets ratio Equity divided by total assets (balance sheet total). Capital employed Capital employed is a measure which Lifco uses for calculating the return on capital employed and for measuring how efficient the Group is. Lifco considers that capital employed is useful in helping users of the financial reports to understand how the Group finances itself. Lifco defines capital employed as total assets less cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing pension provisions and non-interest-bearing liabilities with the exception of liabilities related to put/call options and additional considerations relating to acquisitions, calculated as the average of the last four quarters. Capital employed excluding goodwill Capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets is a measure which Lifco uses for and other intangible assets calculating the return on capital employed and for measuring how efficient the Group is. Lifco considers that capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets is useful in helping users of the financial reports to understand the impact of goodwill and other intangible assets on that capital which requires a return. Lifco defines capital employed excluding goodwill and other intangible assets as total assets less cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing pension provisions, non-interest-bearing liabilities with the exception of liabilities related to put/call options and additional considerations relating to acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets, calculated as the average of the last four quarters. 1 New definition from 1 January 2019. LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 99 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2020 AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2020 AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Annual General Meeting of Lifco AB will be held on Friday 24 April 2020, at 11 a.m., at Bonnierhuset, Torsgatan 21, Stockholm. Registration Shareholders wishing to attend the AGM must • be registered in the share register maintained by Euroclear no later than Saturday 18 April 2020 (when the record date falls on a Saturday shareholders need to be registered in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB no later than Friday 17 April 2020), • register their attendance with Lifco no later than Monday 20 April 2020. Shareholders may register their attendance in one of the following three ways: • on Lifco’s website, lifco.se • by post to: Årsstämma, Lifco AB, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm • by telephone on +46 8 402 92 82 When registering, please state your name, address, telephone number, personal or corporate ID number, the number of shares held and, where applicable, the number of assistants (up to two) that you wish to invite to the meeting. Registered participants will receive an admission card by post, which must be brought along and shown at the entrance to the meeting venue. Nominee-registered shares To be able to participate in the AGM, shareholders whose shares are registered with a nominee must ensure that their nominee registers their shares in their own name in good time before Friday 17 April 2020. Shareholders who will be represented by a proxy are required to submit a proxy form to Lifco before the AGM. Persons representing a legal entity are required to present a certified copy of a registration certificate or equivalent proof of authorisation showing who is authorised to sign on behalf of the company. The original power of attorney and any registration certificate should be sent to the company in good time before the AGM. A power of attorney form is available on the company’s website, lifco.se, and will be sent to shareholders upon request. Nomination Committee and matters to be transacted Information on Lifco’s Nomination Committee was presented in Lifco’s nine-month report for 2019, which was published on 23 October 2019. The information was also published on the website. Lifco’s nine-month report for 2019 and year-end report for 2019 contained information about how to submit a matter for discussion at the AGM. The information was also published on the website. Dividend The Board of Directors and CEO propose that a dividend of SEK 5.25 per share be paid for 2019, resulting in a total distribution of SEK 476.9 million. The proposed record date is Tuesday, 28 April 2020. Euroclear expects to be able to send the dividend to the shareholders on Monday 4 May 2020, subject to a resolution of the Annual General Meeting. 100 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Financial information Lifco’s annual report, year-end report and interim reports are published in Swedish and English. They are available for download at www.lifco.se/investors. The printed version of Lifco’s annual report is distributed to those shareholders who have expressly requested to receive a printed copy. The annual report can be ordered from: www.lifco.se/investors/financial-reports Lifco AB Attn: Investor Relations Verkmästaregatan 1 SE-745 85 Enköping Telephone: +46 72 717 59 05 E-mail: ir@lifco.se LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 101 FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial calendar 24 April 2020 Interim report January–March 17 July 2020 Interim report January–June 22 October 2020 Interim report January–October 1 February 2021 Year-end report for 2020 March 2021 Annual report for 2020 102 LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Photos: Fredrik Persson, Orsing, DAB Dental AB, Brokk AB, Rustibus, UK POS, Indexator Rotator Systems AB, Brian James Trailers, ErgoPack. Design and production: Holland & Philipson AB. Printed by: Elanders LIFCO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 103 Lifco AB 556465-3185 Verkmästaregatan 1 SE-745 85 Enköping Telephone: +46 72 717 59 05 E-mail: ir@lifco.se www.lifco.se Lifco offers a safe haven for small and medium-sized businesses.
