2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 COMPANY Golden Star is an established gold mining company that owns and operates the Wassa and Prestea underground mines in PROFILE Ghana, West Africa. Listed on the NYSE American, the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Ghanaian Stock Exchange, Golden Star is focused on delivering strong margins and free cash flow from its operations. Our Vision is to become a sustainable diversified gold mining company that our stakeholders CONTENTS are proud to be associated with. As a company, and as individuals, we value caring, fairness, respect, honesty and collaboration in all relationships. Golden Star is committed to upholding the highest standards of safety, employee well-being and protection of the environment, and strives to be a responsible corporate citizen. 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 21 PROTECTING THE 5 ENVIRONMENT 22 Environmental Stewardship 22 Biodiversity HIGHLIGHTS IN 2019 23 Water Stewardship 24 Responsible Energy and ABOUT THIS REPORT This Corporate Responsibility Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards ‘Core’ option, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) reporting requirements, and 6 OUR COMMITMENT Emissions Management 26 Responsible Resource Use 36 27 Effectively Managing Tailings the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Metals and 7 Message from the EVP, 27 Sustainable Mine Closure Mining Sustainability Accounting Standards. This is the 14th annual Head of Sustainability 27 Artisanal and Small-scale INDEXES sustainability/corporate responsibility report published by Golden Star. 8 UN Global Compact Mining Progress and Goals 37 GRI Index The report scope, boundaries, and performance data cover the company’s operating entities in Ghana and, unless otherwise indicated, this report does not consider the company’s exploration, 28 Golden Star Oil Palm 42 SASB Index Plantation 10 development, and closed properties. 44 Local Procurement Reporting 29 Except where indicated otherwise (including with respect to certain initiatives advanced by the company Mechanism Index in early 2020 described herein), all information and performance data in the report are current as at December 31, 2019, and unless noted otherwise, all currency amounts are stated in U.S. dollars. OUR COMPANY The GRI, Mining LPRM and SASB indexes are included as appendices in this report. Additional performance data tables are available at www.gsr.com/responsibility. Please direct any feedback on the report to info@gsr.com. 11 Message from the Chair, Corporate Responsibility Committee SOCIAL EXCELLENCE 30 Building Strong Community Relationships 45 NOTES 12 Materiality Assessment 46 Photographic Credits 32 Local Value Retention through 14 Sustainability Governance Local Procurement 46 Glossary 16 Our People 35 Respecting Human Rights 46 Cautionary Statement 18 A Safe and Healthy Workforce 19 Innovative Partnerships for Look for the link icon throughout the report to link to case studies NYSE AMERICAN: GSS TSX: GSC Community Health 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • HIGHLIGHTS IN 2019 5 HIGHLIGHTS IN 2019 On behalf of the Golden Star teams in London and in Ghana, I am pleased to welcome you to the Golden Star 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report. The report provides disclosures for key environmental, social, and governance (ESG) topics relevant to our business and our stakeholders and details our ESG performance in 2019. It also highlights many of our teams’ achievements over the past year, which I am incredibly proud of. The report also represents our annual Communication on Progress (CoP) for the United Nations Global Compact. We have been longstanding supporters of the initiative with this report representing our 14th CoP. MESSAGE FROM THE We remain steadfast in our commitment to supporting the Compact, especially with its dedicated focus on supporting the advancement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs provide the main framework for achieving global societal goals, including solving our biggest collective challenges, from poverty alleviation and gender 1.79 8.75 Chief equality to climate change and water scarcity. The year 2020 marks the beginning of a Decade of Action for achieving the SDGs and we recognize the critical role we – and the Executive mining industry and private sector as a whole – can and must play in delivering this action. In 2019, we were recognized for our important contributions to the SDGs by the United Nations Global Compact Network Canada. Several of our award-winning initiatives – Officer including our poverty alleviation, sustainable livelihoods, mine closure, and community health projects – were featured in their SDG Emerging Practice Guide. We were also a finalist for their SDG Leadership Award. Throughout this report, we highlight our ongoing contributions and commitments to the SDGs and their associated targets. In 2019, we enhanced our commitment to sustainability and corporate responsibility through a renewed focus on ESG management, including by creating the position of Executive Vice President, Head of Sustainability on our Executive Committee. This was 54 done not only in recognition of an increasing focus on ESG from investors and shareholders globally but as a reflection of our own mission to realize value as leaders in ESG. We are supportive of these initiatives and will continue to integrate ESG into our annual corporate responsibility reporting as well as our ongoing mainstream disclosures. Doing so will The year 2020 marks further enhance our commitment to transparency and accountability to all of our the beginning of a stakeholders. Decade of Action for Operationally, 2019 was another successful year for Golden Star. Wassa delivered a strong year of production and we signed landmark memoranda of understanding with local achieving the SDGs communities. At Prestea, we continued the advancement of our optimization project to $79+ $152 $15 enable the continued improvement of our underground operations. Company-wide, we and we recognize the continued the implementation of our Health and Safety Strategy in alignment with our critical role we – and core business strategy and values. Notably, we achieved strong improvements in incident reporting and realized the lowest malaria incidence rate in the company’s history. We were the mining industry also selected ‘Best Performer, Occupational Health and Safety’ at the Ghana Mining million million and private sector as Industry Awards. (Ghana plus Ghana local in local procurement In closing, I would like to express my strong gratitude to the Golden Star team for all of their a whole – can and individual and collective efforts over the past year. In what has been a year of real procurement) must play in delivering transformation for Golden Star, our teams, existing and new, have pulled together to face any challenge and continue to improve. Now more than ever before, we can see the fruits this action. of our labour. As we as a human population face one of the greatest challenges of our times, namely the global spread of COVID-19, the leadership position we have taken in local procurement, partnerships, and strengthening of the national health system is now realizing additional value to our own business sustainability. As we advance through 2020, the health and safety of our workforce and host communities will remain paramount, and we will continue to work in close partnership with our local stakeholders to help mitigate associated local impacts. I look forward to the continued dedication from our teams throughout 2020 as we continue to deliver 54% enduring, sustainable value for our stakeholders. Featured in SDG (lowest malaria incidence rate in company Emerging Practice Guide history, ahead of 0.6 target rate) Andrew Wray President and Chief Executive Officer 1 Per million hours worked 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • OUR COMMITMENT 7 Corporate responsibility has long been hard-wired into Golden Star’s DNA. It is an integral part of our purpose (what we do) and our vision (where we are going) – making it a key driver of success. Our Board of Directors, executive management, and operations teams place a strong focus on corporate responsibility and will continue to do so going forward. Golden Star also recognizes the renewed focus our stakeholders – including our current and potential investors – are placing on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) management. Globally, stakeholders are increasingly expecting the private sector to demonstrate how they are managing and disclosing their performance on ESG topics, from health and safety and gender diversity to energy and water management. Golden Star fully supports these initiatives for enhanced ESG disclosures, including MESSAGE FROM THE through recognized, global reporting frameworks, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), as EVP, increased transparency aligns with our values. Consistent with our commitments, our 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report aligns our management and disclosure approach to the GRI, Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism and SASB reporting Head of frameworks and associated disclosures, and such frameworks will provide a roadmap for ongoing continuous improvement. Sustainability At Golden Star, we are very proud of our demonstrated track record of success in delivering on our ESG performance, from winning the 2018 Prospectors and Developers Environmental and Social Responsibility Award, to being recognized by international NGOs for our sustainable development projects, as well as being recognized for the fourth year in succession at the Ghana Mining Industry Awards for leading practice in corporate social responsibility. However, our success is not defined solely by recognition. What matters most is how we deliver. Managing our impacts to people and the environment requires commitment, planning and management right through the organization; never have I been more conscious of this than in the current COVID-19 pandemic. The singleminded way in which our teams have focused on the health and safety of people, throughout our preparedness efforts, is awe inspiring. Through personal difficulty, Corporate Responsibility stress and uncertainty, the team has had a single objective – protecting the health has long been hardand safety of our workers and host communities. Our own team members, when faced with the option to join their own families elsewhere in Ghana, have elected to wired into the DNA of our stay at our operations and assist in our efforts to educate our local teams and communities. company. It is an integral I am truly proud to be a member of the incredibly dedicated and inspired Golden Star part of our purpose and team. The positive impact we continue to have on our stakeholders – and the broader vision – making it a key societal purpose we serve – inspires me daily. I look forward to working with our team to continue to generate long-term, sustainable value for our investors, our host driver of success. governments and communities, and global society as a whole. Ms. Philipa Varris 6 Executive Vice President, Head of Sustainability Responsible Gold Mining Principles Golden Star’s Vision is to become a sustainable • Commissioned a gap analysis against the diversified gold mining company that our Principles to guide our action plan development stakeholders are proud to be associated with. • Secured independent assurance over the Our commitment to upholding the highest process of conformance to the Principles to OUR standards of safety, employee well-being and ensure stakeholder confidence and credibility protection of the environment – and to be a in the process and conclusions responsible corporate citizen – align with the Click here to access Responsible Gold Mining Principles (the Also, in the publishing of this Report, we have: our independent • Demonstrated our commitment to full assurance statement COMMITMENT “Principles”) developed by the World Gold Council. As such, in 2020 we endorsed and have embarked disclosure of information to help external related to our ongoing on a journey to conform with the Principles. In this stakeholders understand how conformance implementation of the process of adopting the Principles we have: with standards adopted by the company is Principles, which will be achieved released in 2020. • Made a public statement of commitment to • Disclosed instances or events which have given the Principles rise to a situation of non-conformance and the steps that will be taken to remedy the situation. 8 OUR COMMITMENT • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • OUR COMMITMENT 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS AND GOALS The United Nations Global Compact Golden Star became a signatory to the Compact in 2006 and has 2020 UN Global Compact Goals integrated the principles into its core corporate responsibility strategy. (Compact) is the world’s largest corporate This has translated into an increased focus on the integration of the Compact Area 2020 Goal responsibility initiative, with over 10,000 private Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our strategy, including the Roll out of the Inclusion and Diversity Policy across the organization. sector signatories worldwide. It consists of ten setting of goals and targets aligned with the SDG indicators. Communicate the Golden Star Way and our values (caring, honesty, respect, principles in the areas of labour, human rights, The tables below summarize the progress achieved in 2019 and our HUMAN fairness and collaboration) to the workforce environment, and anti-corruption. commitments for 2020. RIGHTS Zero legitimate human rights complaints against the company. Continue to advance our programs on local procurement. UN Global Compact 2019 Progress Zero fatalities and sustained reduction in recordable injuries. 2019 Goal Progress Sustain malaria case rates under 6% of clinic attendance and under 0.35 cases EMPLOYEES per capita. Achieved. We released our Inclusion and Diversity Policy to mark (LABOUR) Develop a corporate International Women’s Day in March 2020. See page 15 of this Continued implementation of Golden Star Health and Safety Strategy. Policy on Diversity. report for a detailed summary of this achievement. Advance towards 20% female representation within the workforce. Commence design of Achieved. We announced a variety of initiatives to support the 100% compliance with dust, noise and vibration, and water requirements. programs in support of implementation of the policy. See page 15 of this report for further the Policy on Diversity. information. Zero reportable environmental incidents. HUMAN RIGHTS Zero significant spills. Achieved. A review of our grievance registers confirms the Zero human rights complaints achievement of this target. ENVIRONMENT Disclose tailings information to Investor Mining and Tailings Safety Initiative. against the company. Bogoso operations to obtain ICMC certification. Continue to advance our Commenced public reporting and disclosures aligned with the Develop an energy management framework for the business, including provisions programs on local Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism (see page 32 of this for energy audits and energy targets. procurement. report for more details). Undertake conflict of interest survey with all senior leadership. ANTIAnti-corruption training to the level of superintendent. CORRUPTION Release report on the World Gold Council Conflict Free Gold Standard. Zero fatalities and sustained Zero fatalities. Recordable injury rates saw an expected increase reduction in recordable after implementation of program to encourage reporting of Continue to report payments under the EITI. injuries. incidents. Sustain malaria case rates Achieved. Malaria case rates in 2019 represented 3.3% of clinic under 6% of clinic attendance attendance. We recorded 0.24 cases per capita and achieved the and under 0.6 cases per capita. lowest malaria incidence rate in the history of the company. LEADERSHIP ON THE SDGs LABOUR At Golden Star, we are strong supporters of the SDGs and see them as central to our approach All leadership complete Safety Achieved. All of our senior leadership team participated in the training as part of our three-year Health and Safety Strategy. to corporate responsibility. Leaders Empowerment and Development training. In 2019, several of our initiatives were recognized by the United Nations Global Compact Continue to strengthen Completed second year of three-year plan. Network Canada for our leadership on advancing progress on the SDGs. We were recognized safety culture through alongside several large, multinational companies for their efforts and success. implementation of our Our Golden Star Oil Palm Plantation (GSOPP) was recognized for its important contributions to Safety Plan. SDG 1: No Poverty. GSOPP is an innovative social enterprise initiative that we established in 2006 as a non-profit subsidiary of Golden Star. It adopts the smallholder concept to support the development of oil palm plantations amongst our host communities and provides alternative Achieved. There were no incidents or spills that were livelihoods to over 700 farmers and part-time workers as well as their families. Zero reportable reportable to the Ghanaian Environmental Protection environmental incidents. Agency. For more information on this initiative, see the case study on page 28. ENVIRONMENT Achieved. 100% regulatory compliance met for all Our wide-ranging health initiatives were featured for their contribution to SDG 3: Good Health 100% regulatory compliance stated categories. and Wellbeing. A key focus of these initiatives is partnerships, including with our medical for air, water, noise, dust. services provider, local health authorities, Ghanaian and international NGOs, and international development agencies. For more information on these initiatives, see the case study on page 19. Achieved. Details of these payments can be found in the data CLICK HERE TO SEE OUR Lastly, our approach to local value retention was recognized for its contribution to SDG 8: Continue to report tables available alongside this report on our website. CASE STUDIES FEATURED IN payments under the EITI. THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Decent Work and Economic Growth. This includes our approach to local employment, local ANTICANADA EMERGING procurement, and providing alternative livelihoods beyond mining, including for artisanal, CORRUPTION PRACTICE GUIDE. small-scale miners. Undertake conflict of interest Conflict of Interest survey and modalities were developed. Training In this report, we feature our work on local survey with all senior on the system was incorporated into leaders’ annual antiprocurement in the case study on page 32. leadership. corruption training ahead of roll out in 2020. 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • OUR COMPANY 11 At Golden Star, we recognize that managing our environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts – both positive and negative – requires effective commitment and leadership from the highest levels of our company through to our on-the-ground teams. We also recognize that robust corporate governance mechanisms are essential to establishing a strong foundation for generating long-term, sustainable value for our stakeholders. As Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee at the Golden Star Board, I am proud of the company’s commitment and dedication to corporate responsibility and ESG management and performance. As longstanding members of the World Gold Council, we are also committed to supporting and implementing the Responsible Gold Mining Principles (RGMPs). MESSAGE FROM THE The RGMPs provide a comprehensive framework for the gold mining sector to address key ESG issues and set out clear expectations for consumers, investors, Chair, and the downstream gold supply chain as to what constitutes responsible gold mining. Beginning in 2020, we will implement to RGMPs across our business and expect to be fully compliant by the end of 2022. Corporate Our corporate governance practices and performance are rated strongly by Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS), one of the world’s leading corporate Responsibility governance ranking agencies. We currently have an overall corporate governance rating of 2 on a scale of 1 to 10, with one representing lower governance risk and 10 Committee representing higher governance risk. This represents a superior overall score among mining companies and within our peer group. I am especially proud of Golden Star’s commitment to embed inclusion and diversity across all levels of the company, including among our Board of Directors and executive management team as well as across our wider workforce. Currently, women hold 33% of our Board of Directors and executive management positions – percentages that are nearly twice the 2018 averages of TSX-listed companies.2 In 2020, we furthered our commitment to inclusion and diversity with the adoption of our Inclusion and Diversity Policy, which we released to mark International Women’s Day and the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. As part of the Policy, we set an ambitious target of 20% female representation across our workforce by 2025, a nearly 13% increase from current levels. This will be Our Vision, Our Mission, a challenging, yet exciting endeavour and one that will require commitment and dedication across all levels of the company. I look forward to exciting new and Our Values define partnerships with our stakeholders – including local and international women’s who we are – and how groups – to help achieve our goals. we will grow – as a As we progress in 2020, I look forward to continued collaboration with the Golden Star Board of Directors and the Executive Committee to drive continual company. Underpinning improvements in our corporate governance practices and performance. Doing so each of these is our 10 will lead to enhanced business performance and – most importantly – will help us realize our vision of being a sustainable, diversified gold mining business that our commitment to stakeholders are proud to be associated with. corporate responsibility. OUR Anu Dhir Chair, Corporate Responsibility Committee COMPANY 2 Osler, 2019 Diversity Disclosure Practices report – Women in leadership roles at TSX-listed companies. 12 OUR COMPANY • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • OUR COMPANY 13 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT In line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, we conduct materiality assessments for the development of our corporate responsibility reports. Doing so helps define Material topics overview the key environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure topics that are most important to our business Topic Importance of Topic and our stakeholders, from our investors and shareholders Permitting and Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws, regulations, and permits through to our host governments and communities. The compliance that we must comply with. assessment results also help inform our ongoing corporate Water management Water is a key input in our processing facilities. Effective water management is critical, as water is an important shared resource. responsibility strategy and planning. Tailings management There are a wide range of potential risks associated with tailings facilities that must be effectively managed so as to prevent adverse impacts on the environment and local Topic Area communities. In 2019, we conducted a materiality external experts. Lastly, we considered Standards and the SASB Standards assessment covering our business. Our investor feedback through a review of disclosure requirements. However, the ENVIRONMENTAL Mine closure Mine rehabilitation and mine closure are important parts of the mine life cycle. Providing viable, productive post-mining land uses is critical for our local communities materiality process is illustrated in the investor ranking agencies disclosure level of detail in reporting and associated to ensure we leave a positive, enduring legacy. graphic to the right. requirements and reviewed our grievance disclosures reflect the lower materiality of management systems to incorporate these topics. These topics will be Energy and emissions Energy inputs are significant costs for mining operations. The emissions from the For the purposes of this report, we considered as part of a watch list as our management mining sector as a whole contribute to climate change, which is a key global reviewed our 2019 assessment results and greater external feedback into the results. company evolves. challenge. additional topics for disclosure. To do so, Based on this review, we included the Waste management Responsible resource development requires managing waste – both hazardous and we considered the Sustainability topics from our 2018 report and two new We commit to continually improving our non-hazardous – to prevent adverse impacts and promote environmental stewardship Accounting Standards Board (SASB) topics, namely ‘Energy and Greenhouse materiality assessment process. In 2020, and beneficial reuse. Materiality Map to further define ESG Gas Emissions’ and ‘Waste Management’. we will conduct greater materiality topics that are financially material to our The matrix below provides an overview of engagement as part of our existing, business. We also reviewed and these topics and the table on the ongoing consultation efforts. In addition, integrated topics from our annual following page provides a summary of we will review our materiality assessment enterprise risk management (ERM) review each topic. results annually and will conduct process, including our enterprise risk comprehensive materiality assessments Topic Importance of Topic universe developed with our executive Additional topics are reported every two years and/or when material Health and safety The health, safety and wellbeing of our people is paramount and as such is a core and operations leadership as well as throughout this report in line with the GRI changes occur to our business. part of our business strategy. Our workers and contractors expect a safe and healthy working environment. Employees and people We rely on recruiting, developing, and retaining talent. Our people are our greatest development asset and the foundation of our business success. HIGHER 1 Inclusion and Diversity Inclusion ensures people feel valued and have a sense of belonging. Diversity provides different perspectives for more comprehensive decision-making and better business outcomes. Topic Area Community relations Maintaining inter-dependent relationships with our host communities is essential to Importance to Stakeholders SOCIAL securing our social license to operate. 5 Community Our operations are key catalysts for local social and economic development, including development beyond direct impacts. This is essential to ensuring net benefit from our presence for our host communities. 15 Local procurement Local procurement is one of the key economic benefits of our operations. It helps to 19 13 4 build businesses that can thrive during and after mining is complete for thriving rural 8 3 2 11 economies. 12 Human rights In line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we have an 9 7 ethical responsibility to respect the human rights of our stakeholders throughout the 16 full life cycle of our operations. 10 6 18 17 14 LOWER Topic Importance of Topic LOWER HIGHER Sustainability Robust corporate governance mechanisms provide for the effective management and governance stewardship of our company. Commitment from leaders is critical for effective sustainability management. Topic Area 1 Health and safety 8 Energy and GHG emissions 15 Permitting and compliance Ethics and integrity We must demonstrate to stakeholders that we conduct our business with the highest 2 Water 9 Waste management 16 Local procurement GOVERNANCE standards of ethics and integrity, so they have confidence in how we do business. 3 Community relations 10 Community economic development 17 Diversity and inclusion 4 Local employment 11 Tailings management 18 Governance Board and executive Our company benefits from a diversity of viewpoints, backgrounds, skills, and 5 Economic performance 12 Human rights 19 Community health level diversity experience. Women play an important role in the management and stewardship of 6 Employees and people development 13 Anti-corruption and bribery 7 Artisanal / small-scale mining 14 Mine closure our company. 14 OUR COMPANY • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • OUR COMPANY 15 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE We report all of our public payments under the Canadian Extractives Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA). We also support the Ghanaian chapter of We recognize the importance of sound corporate governance that is consistent the Extractives Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) by publishing a more with the best interests of our investors and that helps all of our stakeholders to be detailed breakdown of our public payments. Both these disclosures are confident in the credibility of our business conduct. available in the data tables associated with this report and on our website at Our Board of Directors (Board) is the highest corporate governance body within Board www.gsr.com/responsibility. our organization. The Board’s mandate is to oversee the management of the Independence In our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, we set a goal of undertaking a business and affairs of the company. It delegates the responsibility for day-to-day conflict of interest disclosure with all of our senior leadership. The purpose of the operations – including ESG management – to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Sustainability disclosure was to identify any specific risks and inform relevant management the Golden Star management team. We have a designated Board-level Corporate Responsibility Committee. Its primary Policies interventions. In 2019, 100% of our senior leadership undertook conflict of interest training ahead of disclosure roll-out in 2020. We will use the results to further function is to assist the Board in the furtherance of Golden Star’s commitments to Safety, Health, and Wellbeing inform our efforts in ensuring ethical business conduct in line with our values. stakeholders in maintaining a healthy and safe workplace, environmentally sound Our Whistleblower Policy provides for a confidential hotline and website to enable and responsible resource development, good community relations, and the Environment 89% employees to report potential violations of our Business Conduct and Ethics protection of human rights. Independent Policy. It also provides for an investigation process and corrective action In 2019, we appointed an Executive Vice President (EVP), Head of Sustainability to non-Executive Director measures, where required. ‘No retaliation’ is a key component of the policy, so our Executive Committee at the senior management level. The EVP is responsible for Human Rights that employees can confidently report potential violations. We do not tolerate leading ESG management across the company and they report to the CEO, who in retaliation or discrimination of any kind towards an employee submitting a turn reports to the Board. Community Development 11% concern or cooperating in a related investigation. At an operations level, we have 136 specialists in safety, health, environment, and Support Executive Director In 2019, we received four complaints to the hotline. All were reported to the Audit communities and security within our business to guide the systems and Committee of the Board and have been concluded on. The company’s external implementation of standards. auditors also tested the system and found the control to be effective. Community Relations In 2020, we have already augmented our approach to sound corporate governance Promoting Board and Executive Diversity by refreshing our Board committee charters. The changes reflect evolving corporate needs as well as external developments related to effective ESG management. Inclusion and Diversity We believe that our company benefits from a diversity of viewpoints, backgrounds, skills, and experience. We also recognize and acknowledge the important role that women play in contributing to the Company’s stewardship Conducting Our Business with Ethics and Integrity and management. We are committed to conducting our business activities with the highest levels of integrity and business ethics. In support of this, we have developed and implemented Board We have developed and implemented a Boardand executive managementmultiple policies related to ethical conduct. This includes a Business Conduct and Diversity level Diversity Policy, which recognizes the importance of having a diverse pool Ethics Policy, a Code of Ethics for Directors and Officers, and a Whistleblower Policy. of directors and executive officers. Doing so enables us to retain a broad range of perspectives, skills, experience, and expertise for the effective stewardship and Our Business Conduct and Ethics Policy is founded on the guiding principle that we management of the company. The Corporate Governance and Nominating must adhere to all applicable laws and ethical business conduct requirements Committee of our Board of Directors actively works with recruitment organizations wherever we do business. It also reaffirms that ethics and behavior are individual to increase the pool of female candidates for Board and executive management responsibilities, and that high standards of behavior are expected of all employees, positions. regardless of position. The Code outlines our requirements related to anti-corruption, including the Click here to access our EITI data tables 67% 33% Women comprise one-third of our Board of Directors and one-third of our executive management team. These figures are above industry averages for Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (CCFPA), the United States male female Canadian-incorporated companies, indicating a healthy diversity at the highest Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Anti-Bribery Act. levels of our company and we remain committed to further supporting diversity These requirements are communicated across all levels of our company through across our company. an annual attestation process. Our 2019 attestation process was deferred to For information on diversity at our operations, 2020 to align with our transition to our new corporate headquarters in the see the ‘Our People’ section of this report. United Kingdom. 100% of directors, management, and specified employees required to complete the attestation did so. Conflict of interest training formed part of the anti-corruption training in the lead up to our inaugural conflict of interest survey, which was completed by all new and existing corporate officers and senior Ghanaian management in 2020. Anti-corruption risks are also considered through our annual enterprise risk management exercises; our operations were not considered to be at high-risk for corruption. 33% of executive There were no incidents of corruption affecting our company in 2019 and no team female employee, contractor, or business partner was terminated for a corruption-related incident. Click here to access our data tables for additional governance data Directors Hon Mona Quartey and Anu Dhir meet with members of the Golden Star team. 16 OUR COMPANY • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • OUR COMPANY 17 Advancing Diversity and Gender Equality We recognize the important benefits a diverse workforce brings to our company. A diversity of viewpoints, experiences, and skills help us make better business decisions and improves our overall business performance. OUR PEOPLE We also recognize that women are largely under-represented across the mining Our business success relies on the individual and collective efforts of a skilled, motivated, sector, including within our company. In 2019, only 7% of our direct workforce was diverse and engaged workforce. We therefore place a strong emphasis on recruiting, female, which is consistent with previous years for our company. We therefore developing and retaining talent. We undertake a variety of training initiatives to further the recognize that there are significant opportunities for our company to invest in development of our workforce. In 2019, we provided a collective 79,000+ hours of training, programs and initiatives to increase the participation of women within our representing approximately 52 hours of annual training per member of our workforce. Key workforce and beyond. focus areas included health and safety, leadership, mining and mine support training. In our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, we committed to developing a In 2019, we also placed a strong emphasis on safety leadership training in support of our company-wide diversity policy to extend our current Diversity Policy beyond our Health and Safety Strategy and Plan. In 2019, we set and achieved a goal to have all senior Diversity Policy Board of Directors and executive management team. We did so in recognition of the operations leadership participate in the training. For more information on this initiative and business benefits diversity will bring to our company as well as in support of SDG 5: our strategy, see the ‘Safety, Health, and Wellbeing’ section of this report. approved by Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. We are pleased to have Board of Directors achieved this goal in 2020. In line with our commitment to respecting human rights, we support our employee’s rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Some 79% of employees are covered by a union across our company and we maintain positive relations with our union partners at both of our operations. In 2019, there were no material labour incidents or events across our company. Bold Action to Empower Women and Girls On March 6, 2020, we released our Inclusion and Diversity Policy to mark International Women’s Day and to recognize the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (1995) – considered the most progressive blueprint ever for advancing women’s rights. 20% The policy was developed through engagement with employees and specialist human resources and community affairs teams. The policy has been approved by the company’s Board of Directors, 99% female diversity target by 2025 demonstrating the importance our company places on advancing gender equality. of Ghana Critically, we set a bold – yet we believe achievable – target of having 20% female representation workforce across our business by the end of 2025. This will be a significant increase from the current 7% level of is Ghanaian female representation across our company. To support these aims, we will continue to work in partnership with a variety of organizations to 54% achieve this target. In 2020, we will start to implement an Inclusion and Diversity plan that will include targets to enhance involvement of women in work placements, internships and graduate of Ghana opportunities. This includes a partnership with Women in Mining UK to provide summer internships workforce at Golden Star. from local We will continue to work with our long-standing partners at the German International Development communities Agency (Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ)) and the Employment and Skills Development (E4D) in Africa Program to promote the empowerment of women and youth in Ghana through skills and enterprise development. In our own Golden Star Oil Palm Plantation we are proud to report that 30% of the workforce is female, up from 16% just five years ago. Achieving gender equality requires bold commitments and collective action from the private sector, governments, and society as a whole. For us, it will require the concerted efforts from the highest levels of our company through to our on-the-ground partnerships. Together, we can all look forward Providing Local Employment Opportunities and Decent Work to a more just and equitable world for all. The local employment we generate is one of the key benefits of our operations and is of great interest to our local communities. We are therefore committed to supporting local employment opportunities as far as practicable and we have established local hiring policies with our host communities. Quotas have been established based on the degree of impact from our 700+ operations as well as population. Click here to access farmers and We also implement a variety of targeted initiatives to support community skills training, our data tables contract workers development, and employability. At both our operations, we implement youth attachments, for additional employed by national service and graduate traineeships on a recurring basis. We also support employment diversity data diversification through alternative livelihood projects, including our award-winning Golden GSOPP Star Oil Palm Plantation (GSOPP) business, which – in 2019 – provided employment for over 700 people and livelihoods for over 2,000. GSOPP directly supports For more information on these initiatives, see the livelihoods for ‘Community Development’ section of this report. over 2,000 local people 18 OUR COMPANY • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • OUR COMPANY 19 8.75 AIFR (All Injury Frequency Rate) A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKFORCE The health and safety of our workforce remains paramount to us and our values of caring and respect. The commitment to safe operations is fundamental to our vision and mission. Our company-wide Policy on Safety, Health and Wellbeing serves as the foundation of our management approach to providing a safe and healthy working environment. Under the Policy, we commit to developing a culture where safety is a core part of our company’s values and an integral part of INNOVATIVE PARTNERSHIPS FOR our operations and performance management. COMMUNITY HEALTH The Policy commits us to developing operating standards that meet or Best Performer Caption: Golden Star team receiving Community health needs are high in our areas of operation and we recognize the exceed all relevant laws and regulations related to health and safety. It is in Occupational awards including ‘Best Performer, unique role we can play in serving as a facilitator for improved health outcomes and applicable company-wide and applies to all of our contractors as a condition Health and Safety achievement of public health goals, including SDG 3: Good Health and Wellbeing. We of doing business with our company. Occupational Health and Safety’ at the also recognize the importance of SDG 17: Partnerships for Development in achieving at the Ghana Ghana Mining Industry Awards. positive health outcomes for local communities. At each of our operating sites, we have developed and implemented robust Mining Industry health and safety management systems that are aligned with ISO 45001. The Awards We partner with our on-site medical services provider, local and national health systems are implemented to meet our corporate policy as well as the We provide our employees with a wide agencies, Ghanaian and international NGOs, and international development Ghanaian Minerals Commission’s requirements. The systems cover our entire range of preventative and curative organizations. Perhaps most important are our partnerships with local and national workforce and are overseen by specialist health and safety personnel with medical and healthcare services, health agencies. By doing so, we help build capacity, strengthen local and national accountability to assess system effectiveness for continual improvement. including national health insurance systems, and promote long-term sustainability. The systems contain a variety of risk management components focused on coverage for our employees and Since 2009, we have partnered with the German International Development Agency, fatality and injury prevention, as well as emergency preparedness. Companydependents. Our health plan Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), on the ‘Prevention is Better than wide risk management for health and safety is overseen by our Executive Vice incorporates programs targeted to Cure’ project, with six other partners in the fields of health service provision, health care President, Sustainability, with the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the promote enhanced health outcomes in infrastructure, medical and diagnostic equipment and health insurance. We financed key areas of need, including malaria the design, construction and equipping of a teaching clinic at Akyempim that has Board providing oversight. Our workforce is involved in the development of our overall safety approach 1.79 prevention, which is one of the leading causes of premature death in Ghana. We been purpose-built for preventative health programs, including family planning and individual health status initiatives. through site-level safety committees and safety standards, and safe work Total Recordable also implement employee health and procedure development. Management review occurs through quarterly COO Injury Frequency Rate3 wellbeing awareness programs to We have also implemented several initiatives in partnership with a US-based NGO, safety meetings. Communications materials are posted throughout the promote non-work-related wellness. Project C.U.R.E., including for health services provision and to deliver the ‘Helping operations to promote awareness as an additional communication vehicle. Babies Breathe’ initiative. The initiative was delivered using the train-the-trainer model In our 2018 Corporate Responsibility to build capacity for reducing post-natal mortality, the leading cause of premature Our systems include tools to report potential, near-miss, and actual incidents. Report, we set multiple safety and health death in Ghana. These include formal and informal processes, including anonymous reporting goals to help drive continual improvement that can be made via a hotline. Reporting of hazards, risks, and incidents is in our performance. We achieved our In recognition of our efforts in support of SDG 3: Good Health and Wellbeing, we encouraged across the company – so much so that we have set targets for goals of zero fatalities and the continued were featured in the UN Global Compact SDG Emerging Practice Guide. this. This approach is guided by our cultural belief ‘If it’s not safe, make it safe’. implementation of our health and safety globalcompact.ca. strategy and plan. We also met our nonSafety competency is a key element of our strategy. In addition to general Click here to access occupational health goal related to In 2019, our involvement in the Private Sector Malaria Prevention Program with and role-specific training, we conducted targeted training initiatives in 2019 our data tables malaria incidence within our workforce. the John Hopkins Center for Communications Programs, led to the achievement including Leaders Empowerment and Development (GS LEAD) training, for additional of the best malaria prevention performance in the company’s history. For more information on our approach to Take-5 training, and safety standards workshops. safety data malaria prevention – including some of These training initiatives are key parts of our health and safety strategy and our international recognition for our plan. The strategy defines a value and principle-based roadmap to successful efforts. managing safety and health risks including elements to evolve our safety See the case study on the culture. Other key elements of the strategy include leadership commitment following page. and workforce involvement, risk management and critical risk controls, enhanced systems and open and transparent reporting. Additional information on our community health initiatives can be found in the ‘Community Development’ section. 3 Per million hours worked 20 OUR COMPANY • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES 21 O.24 malaria incidence (lowest malaria incidence rate in company history) Best Practice in Malaria Management Malaria is one of the most pressing public health concerns impacting our workforce and local communities. West Africa has one of the world’s greatest malaria burdens and malaria is one of the leading causes of premature death in Ghana. “The work Golden Star is doing is genuine leading As a result, the disease has a direct, material impact on our business. It is one of the practice. What they have primary reasons for clinic attendance and results in significant lost time and lower achieved in preventing productivity for our workforce. It is estimated that companies located in Ghana malaria aligns perfectly spend 0.5% of their corporate returns on malaria treatment for their workforce and their families.4 We therefore invest in a dedicated, targeted malaria prevention with the SDGs and our own program. work at the Private Sector 21 Malaria Prevention project In partnership with our on-site health services provider, we have developed and implemented by the John implemented malaria prevention management plans. Key components of the plans Hopkins Centre for include indoor residual spraying (IRS), 24-hour on site testing and access to treatment, monitoring and reporting systems, and education and training initiatives. Communications Education and training initiatives are extended to local communities to promote Programs. We believe that broader local awareness on malaria prevention and treatment. In addition, we work by empowering staff to with our local and international health partners – such as the Gesellschaft für adopt healthy behaviors Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) – to provide malaria bed nets to local for themselves, their communities. In 2019, under this partnership we issued 5,000 long-lasting insecticide families and their treated bed nets to our workforce and host communities. communities we can save Since the program’s inception, we have realized significant reductions in malaria lives. It is for this reason cases, case rates and lost productivity. In our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, that we awarded Golden we set a public goal of sustaining malaria incidence rates under 6% of clinic PROTECTING Star with one of our attendance and under 0.6 cases per capita. We are pleased to have achieved this inaugural ‘Malaria Safe’ goal in 2019 with just over 3% of clinic attendance attributable to malaria and a awards and why they are malaria incidence rate of 0.24 per capita. This represents the lowest malaria now one of the private incidence rate in the history of our company. THE sector companies with low In recognition of our work in this area, we were featured in the United Nations Global malaria case rates in Compact Network Canada SDG Emerging Practice Guide. We were recognized for Ghana.” our important contributions to SDG 3 and SDG Target 3.3, which calls for the end of the epidemic of malaria. We were also recognized as a ‘Malaria Safe’ company by FELIX NYANOR-FOSU ENVIRONMENT the Johns Hopkins Center for Communications Programs. CHIEF OF PARTY Private Sector Malaria Prevention, Johns Hopkins Centre For Communication Programmes 4 Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs. 22 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 23 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP A commitment to environmental protection is part of our core approach to doing business. This commitment is reflected in the highest levels of our company and we recognize that environmental stewardship is both a shared and an individual responsibility. 100% compliance with Our Policy on the Environment commits us to meeting or surpassing all legal and regulatory requirements related to environmental protection. We are also environmental committed – through our support of the UN Global Compact – to the monitoring precautionary approach to environmental management. requirements All of our operations have established environmental management systems which are based on the plan-do-check-act model and are aligned with the 6,871 ML International Standards Organization (ISO) 14001 framework. They are overseen water withdrawal by specialist on-site managers and a variety of support staff. Before the commencement of major projects, we conduct environmental and social impact assessments. We are also required by the Ghanaian EPA to submit updated Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) every three years to account 1,049 ML WATER STEWARDSHIP for ongoing changes to our operations. The EMPs are key documents for water discharged We recognize that access to clean water is a fundamental human right. We also recognize that water is a shared resource and that we must manage our identifying key impacts, developing mitigation measures, establishing roles and responsibilities, providing budgetary allocation, and developing action plans to ZERO interactions with water effectively so that we do our part in preserving water deliver on our commitments. reportable environmental 5,822 ML resources for future generations. We interact with water in a variety of ways. Water is a key input in our processing We also maintain comprehensive monitoring programs for key environmental water consumed components aligned to key regulatory requirements. Our 2019 monitoring incidents activities and we actively dewater our underground mines and open pits. We results show we achieved 100% compliance with our air and noise and vibration manage excess process water and rainfall into our tailings facilities. We also use requirements and 100% compliance with our water management requirements. water for dust suppression on access roads and in our open pits, as well as for Our 2019 monitoring results show we achieved 100% compliance with each of 11,764 ML domestic use at our office complexes and mine residential areas. our air, noise, vibration and water management requirements.. Our last water used We assess water-related impacts as part of environmental impact assessments reportable environmental incident was in 2011. for major projects. Standard impact assessment methodologies include detailed hydrological and hydrogeological studies by technical experts, which are used to understand existing conditions, assess potential risks, and inform the BIODIVERSITY 5,943 ML development of management plans. Stakeholder consultation is a key We recognize that mining operations can have adverse impacts on biodiversity, water recycled component of the impact assessment process to help identify and communicate especially when located near or within areas of high biodiversity value and/or 100% impacts as well as to solicit feedback on operational plans. protected areas. We also recognize the growing expectations that investors and compliance with Our assessments of water-related stress use the World Resources Institute Water other stakeholders place on biodiversity impacts and associated management. regulatory water Risk Atlas. None of our operations are located in areas of ‘high’ water stress. At Golden Star, our operations are not located in or near any protected areas. monitoring program As required, we discharge water according to seasonal conditions, specifically the The areas in which we operate are typically characterized as having low two major rainfall seasons in tropical West Africa. We treat water impacted by our biodiversity value and, as such, we did not identify biodiversity as being a activities prior to discharge as required by the Ghanaian Environmental Protection material topic of high importance. We nevertheless implement management Agency guidelines. measures and controls to manage limited biodiversity impacts at our operations. At our Bogoso processing facilities, we have a process water treatment plant that uses reverse osmosis to treat process water prior to discharge. At our sites, water We conduct a variety of biodiversity studies as part of environmental impact is also treated for release using settling, oil/water separation, de-nitrification and assessments for major projects. Impact identification and associated biochemical treatment marshes as applicable. Background conditions, natural management plans are developed and integrated into our overall EMP. The mineralization, and the profile of receiving water bodies are all considered prior to Click here to access Click here to access discharge. studies provide a knowledge base for broader environmental impacts and our data tables for our data tables for ecosystem health. Action plans are then developed for the management of additional environmental additional water and By maintaining extensive water monitoring programs in our catchment areas, we these limited impacts. performance data tailings data help to ensure we meet or surpass water quality requirements. In 2019, we We maintain registers of IUCN Red List species as part of these plans and maintained 100% compliance to water sampling and quality requirements at our operations. We will set a similar target for 2020. conduct ongoing monitoring to determine their status. Our most recent surveys indicate that a significant majority of present species are classified as ‘Least We seek to avoid unnecessary mixing of clean water with our operations and to Concern’ under the IUCN classification system, with only one species classified recycle as much water as possible to reduce our consumption. We have installed as endangered. diversion systems to prevent clean run off from entering our mining areas. We reuse excess process water from our tailings facilities as make-up process water. For As detailed in our materiality assessment, we will continue to monitor biodiversity dust suppression on access roads, we re-use water dewatered from open pits and management requirements as our company evolves. from rainfall that enters closed-out pits. 24 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 25 RESPONSIBLE ENERGY AND EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT Mining operations worldwide are energy-intensive with energy GSR energy saving project (Autolux) requirements representing significant inputs and costs. As an industry, The Wassa Plant Maintenance Electrical team has designed Autolux, our combined emissions contribute to climate change globally and we an electronic-based power controller that uses a passive infrared all have an individual and collective responsibility to help solve this sensor to detect human motion to control the automatic switching of societal challenge. In addition, there are a range of climate-related risks that may impact 937.4 light and an air conditioner in a room/space. This device is helping to conserve electricity which will have been lost / wasted due to our business: physical risks related to changing climate patterns as well (000s GJ energy consumption) electrical bulbs left on as well as protect appliances (air conditioners) as transition risks related to policy and regulatory changes. from electrical surges. Currently, Autolux has been piloted in the Electrical tools room at the We recognize the growing importance and expectations of our investors and other stakeholders in these areas. As a result, we included 4.6 Plant and it is working effectively and it’s been planned to be energy and emissions management disclosures into our annual energy intensity replicated across the Mine. corporate responsibility reporting after a review of our materiality (GJ/oz gold produced) assessment. 2 We consume electricity mostly from the Ghana National Grid and it is used primarily for processing operations. We use diesel for our heavy and mobile equipment. These inputs represent the bulk of our energy and greenhouse gas emissions generation. Our energy consumption and the energy intensity of our operations as well as our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and emissions intensity are disclosed. In 2020, we will continue to further develop and implement systems for collecting energy and emissions-related data to augment these disclosures and improve our energy efficiency and performance. In 2020, we will be transitioning to a different energy mix at our Wassa 60.7 operations. This will improve our overall energy supply security and total GHG emissions provide the potential to flatten our load profile. In addition, we will (000s tonnes of CO2e) begin conducting energy audits at our operations by 2021 to determine a more comprehensive baseline of our consumption and emissions, in addition to potentially realize cost savings. As such, we are not 0.30 currently positioned to set energy reduction targets across our GHG emissions intensity company although we are committed to doing so within the next two years. In 2020, we will also evaluate the potential to align with the (tonnes of CO2e/oz recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate Related Disclosures gold produced) 1 3 (TCFD) within a three-year timeframe.  1 Autolux Project Team  • T eam members (left to right): 4 Sebastian Adjei, Solomon Odoom, Joshua Ocran, Patrick Akomanyi, Cheslyn Hewlett (not shown) • Team leader: Joshua Ocran • Project Sponsor: Michael Nkansah Click here to access our data tables for additional energy and 2 Internal make-up of Autolux GHG emissions data 3 Complete Autolux device 4 Alternative view of Autolux device 26 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 27 EFFECTIVELY MANAGING TAILINGS SUSTAINABLE MINE CLOSURE RESPONSIBLE RESOURCE USE Tailings management is one of the most material potential We aim to leave a sustainable legacy from our operations once Our operations generate a variety of by-products and wastes environmental risks for mining companies globally. If not mining is complete. This means leaving enduring, positive that may be hazardous and non-hazardous. We are managed effectively, there can be a wide range of significant environmental, social, and economic impacts for our host committed to managing these effectively to promote resource environmental, social, and economic impacts on stakeholders. communities. This has been clearly evident with several recent high-profile conservation and to prevent and minimize adverse Importantly, we take an innovative, holistic approach to mine tailings facility failures. environmental impacts. 39 hectares We operate four tailings storage facilities (TSFs) across our closure to help ensure that we not only rehabilitate sites in a safe and environmentally responsible way, but also to provide for Our Policy on the Environment outlines our high-level land rehabilitated in 2019 company. At our Bogoso processing facilities, we operate two productive, viable next land uses. commitment to resource conservation through effective tailings facilities, including one active facility and one waste management. All of our operations have waste managed inactive facility. At Wassa, we also operate two We begin planning for closure at the beginning of the project management plans as part of their overall EMP. These include registers of identified impacts and management controls as 1,237 hectares tailings facilities, with one active and the other undergoing revegetation trials. development phase by considering viable post-mining land uses with landowners, local communities, and regulatory bodies. As well as management action plans. Key management controls land rehabilitated to date conditions of our environmental and social impact assessment include the adoption of the waste hierarchy, establishment of We design and manage our TSFs in line with Ghanaian regulations, the International Commission on Large Dams permits, all of our projects and operations have mine closure waste segregation streams, and routine training for plans that are updated regularly to account for changes in our employees and contractors. (ICOLD), the Australian National Commission on Large Dams (ANCOLD), and the Canadian Dam Association (CDA) operations. Recycling and re-use provisions are also key parts of site-level guidelines. We post bonds and other security for the closure plans to ensure that waste management plans. We work with EPA-accredited We conduct environmental impact assessments for the its provisions are implemented over time. The Ghanaian regulatory vendors to help ensure the safe disposal and handling of construction of all facilities, including major expansions. framework provides for site relinquishment once established closure waste. Where practicable, we provide recycled materials to Tailings management plans are incorporated into our overall completion criteria are achieved and the site performs in accordance local communities for their beneficial reuse. environmental management plans in order to define roles with monitoring criteria over a period of time. In 2019 we commenced sensitization on our plans to reduce and responsibilities for management actions, budgetary single use plastic usage and in 2020 we imposed a ban on the provisions, and review mechanisms. On-site responsibility for tailings facilities rests with qualified on-site specialist personnel purchase of single use plastic drinking containers by our and site General Managers. Overall responsibility of the operations. In 2020/21 we plan to tackle the use of nonrecyclable materials in our catering system. 2021 operation of our TSFs rests with the Chief Operating Officer with ultimate responsibility resting with the Chief Executive ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING target for ban on Officer. The Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board Artisanal and small-scale mining is a widespread phenomenon single-use plastic provides Board-level oversight of tailings management. in the Western Region of Ghana. Locally, this type of mining is referred to as galamsey. Galamsey is mostly unregulated and is Each of our tailings facilities is operated in accordance with a highly dangerous, from a human safety and rights perspective, In 2018 Lilian Awuah (page 10) proposed and led an initiative to TSF Operations Manual and has established emergency as well as in terms of the significant negative impacts on the eliminate the use of sachet and bottled water at the Wassa response plans. Extensive monitoring provisions are included surrounding environment. In particular, local water bodies are underground. Lilian collaborated with specialists in the business and in the procedures to enable early warning mechanisms and severely impacted by galamsey resulting in widespread built a case for establishment of ice and water dispensers and personal review the stability and integrity of the facility structures. Qualified engineers of record conduct quarterly inspections degradation of water resources for local communities. water ice chests for underground workers. The outcomes were the elimination of plastics in the mine, enhanced air quality and heat stress and independent experts conduct quarterly third-party Galamsey activities occur adjacent to all our operating sites in avoidance. audits. Ghana. The level of activity ranges from small groups conducting Click here to access In 2019, our Wassa operations maintained full certification hand excavations and washing, to larger-scale operations In 2019, Golden Star built on this great initiative with a campaign to our data tables employing blasting, large earth moving equipment, riverbed with the International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC). sensitize the entire workforce on our plans to reduce single use plastic for additional mine dredging/excavation, and/or underground operations. Our Bogoso operations will undergo a pre-audit process in usage, the inauguration of a working group and development and closure and waste 2020 with a view to obtaining re-certification after voluntarily implementation of plans. These efforts allowed us to impose a ban in In order to delineate our activities from those of others, we management withdrawing from the code in 2012. conduct extensive baseline studies and condition monitoring. 2020 on the purchase of single use plastic drinking containers and use data of plastic bags at our operations. We take a holistic approach to rehabilitating and closing our Our water monitoring has shown that in some locales near our TSFs. Since 2016, we have integrated our award-winning operations, illegal miners are employing cyanide for processing. Golden Star Oil Palm Plantation (GSOPP) into our tailings We diligently report the activities and impacts identified by our revegetation practices. This approach allows for progressive monitoring efforts to regulatory agencies via monthly and other revegetation of our TSFs, while enabling viable, post-mining routine statutory reporting. land uses that generate long-term economic value for local communities. We support the Government of Ghana’s efforts to regulate mining in all its forms. In 2012, following a multi-partisan engagement involving small-scale mining associations, a section of our Prestea concession was ceded to the Government, who subsequently released this land for authorized small-scale mining. We continue to critically review our concessions to ensure that areas of land that are not financially viable for us to mine are returned to the Government for potential exploration or mining by others. Click here to see our tailings disclosures to In addition to these actions, our community development the Investor Mining and programs focus on livelihood programs to promote alternative Tailings Safety employment. By doing so, we can help to provide mainstream Initiative employment opportunities that are safer and more secure, while reducing negative environmental risks and impacts on local communities. 28 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES 29 GOLDEN STAR OIL PALM PLANTATION In 2019, we continued to evolve our award-winning Golden Star Oil Palm Plantation (GSOPP) initiative through revegetation trials on inactive sections of our tailings storage facilities ahead of closure. GSOPP promotes the development of oil palm 29 SOCIAL plantations amongst our host communities using the smallholder concept, in partnership with Traditional Authorities and affected farmers, and with the support of the agroforestry industry and other partners. $8.1 million Over the past three years, the initiative has reached several key milestones, including: GSOPP expenditure to date EXCELLENCE • Mainstream plantations have reached over 10 years of age – demonstrating long term commercial viability. • Farmer associations have been established and recognised as industry leading 700+ practice farmers and contract • The GSOPP beneficiary age has reduced, demonstrating the program is a viable workers in 2019 alternative livelihood for youth • Farmers who were formerly on the poverty line, now enjoy farm revenues well in excess of this level ~20,000 GH₵ • Consistent application of best farm management practices ensures yields are more than three times the small-holder average for Ghana revenue per farmer in 2019 • Commencement of a micro credit scheme for beneficiaries that will act as savings model for future re-planting • A third of the plantation workforce are female, and 36% youth (<45 years) – 1,133 ha demonstrating diversity and inter-generational equity. planted to date To date, we have contributed over $8.1M to the GSOPP initiative. GSOPP now employs over 700 farmers and part-time contractors. In 2020, we are committed to further enhance the value arising from GSOPP through programs to enhance autonomy of the business, diversify the operational base, as well as working towards RSPO certification – the global international standard for ethical palm oil production. For more information on this initiative, see the UN Global Compact SDG Emerging Practice Guide at globalcompact.ca GSOPP Plantation successfully established on former TSF. 30 SOCIAL EXCELLENCE • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • SOCIAL EXCELLENCE 31 Sustainable Community Development We recognize the important role we can play in serving as a catalyst for community and economic development for our host communities, even beyond the direct economic benefits we generate. We aim to maximize these benefits as much as possible to provide enduring social and economic value from our operations. BUILDING STRONG COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS We implement extensive community development programs at our operations in partnership with our local communities and Being a partner of choice for host governments and communities is specialized development organizations. Our programming is central to our business strategy. This is because sound community guided by our Policy on Community Development and Support, relationships based on mutual respect and trust are essential to which outlines our philosophy and approach towards investing securing our social license to operate. in local communities. Our Policy on Community Relations serves as the foundation of our We have established Development Foundations at both of our approach to developing and maintaining positive community relations operations. The Foundations are funded with $1 for every ounce with our stakeholders. The policy outlines our overall approach to of gold produced plus 0.1% of pre-tax profit. We have contributed ensuring that sound community relations are an integral part of our almost $3.9 million to the Foundations since their inception. operations and performance management systems. Local CCCs identify and define projects based on local needs We conduct social impact assessments for major projects, which include plans for minimizing adverse impacts, while maximizing 20 assessments. The projects are reviewed by broader-based CMCCs and they make formal recommendations to the positive impacts. The assessments incorporate a risk-based approach communities Boards of the Foundations for project selection. covered by formal Landmark Community MoUs at Wassa to community and stakeholder relations. The results are included in our In November 2019, we signed landmark Memoranda of This inclusive process helps build capacity and promotes local EMP, which cover both the physical and social environments. The plans consultation Understanding (MoUs) with our host communities near our ownership of projects. Importantly, all projects must have a are updated every three years and are submitted to the Ghanaian committees Wassa Mine. The MoUs provides a structured framework for long-term sponsor to promote community ownership and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). further cooperation with our local communities at Wassa. With long-term sustainability. We have comprehensive stakeholder engagement plans based on their signing and ongoing implementation, we will enhance the stakeholder mapping exercises at each of our operations. The plans sharing of key economic benefits from our operations for the We implement a variety of sustainable / alternative livelihoods provide for a structured and streamlined approach to managing mutual benefit of our local stakeholders and our company. projects within our local communities to promote economic stakeholder relationships and expectations. diversification beyond mining. In addition to GSOPP, in 2019, The MoUs cover three main components: local employment, we continued the implementation of animal rearing projects We have established Community Consultative Committees (CCCs) community relations and sustainable livelihoods, as well as the at Wassa. At Bogoso, we continued to implement new projects covering groups of nearby communities at our operations. The CCCs Golden Star (Wassa) Development Foundation. with our partners LOCOMs in the tailoring and building provide for a formal vehicle for ongoing, two-way communication with construction supply chains. The local employment MoU defines local employment quotas our local communities. They are comprised of representatives from a based on potential for operational impact. This includes Partnerships have long been critical to our approach to broad section of stakeholder groups, including Traditional Leaders, provisions for direct employment, traineeships and national community development and even more so with the adoption women’s groups, youth groups and local government officials. service personnel. Various community employment committees of the SDGs and SDG 17: Partnerships for Development. This goal We have also established Community Mine Consultative Committees THREE – comprised of Traditional Authorities, women, youth, local was established to underpin the overall SDG framework, in (CMCCs), which are umbrella groups covering all communities at each MoUs signed with elected officials, and company representatives – have been recognition that achieving the SDGs and associated targets will of Wassa and Bogoso/Prestea. They meet quarterly and are comprised established to oversee its implementation. require concerted, collaborative action. Through partnerships, of Divisional Chiefs, local Members of Parliament, company officials local communities we are able to leverage the skills, expertise, and resources of and members of the CCCs. Critically, the CMCCs make formal at Wassa A second MoU further clarifies and defines the ongoing role of myriad organizations to achieve outcomes that far exceed the the CCCs and CMCCs. The Committees are further empowered capability of any one organization. recommendations to the Golden Star Development Foundation Board to serve as a key vehicle for our ongoing community relations on the selection of community projects to be funded by Golden Star. and engagement activities. Importantly, the CMCCs will oversee We continue to partner with a wide range of development We maintain robust grievance management systems to ensure the the implementation of an Economic and Livelihood organizations from local and international NGOs, local and timely receipt and effective resolution of concerns related to our Empowerment Program (ELEP) to promote skills and business regional government agencies, and international development operations, including a grievance management procedure, development in local communities, including for disadvantaged organizations. In the case study below, we highlight some of our standardized complaints forms, and grievance registers. groups, such as women, the elderly and persons with disabilities. community health initiatives with our longstanding partners. In 2019, we signed landmark memoranda of understanding with our A third MoU covers provisions related to the Golden Star host communities at Wassa, which are modeled on the success of (Wassa) Development Foundation. The MoU formalizes similar agreements established with our GSBPL host communities in governance arrangements for the management of the 2012. Foundation, defines key development priorities based on community needs and establishes provisions for ongoing The signing of these documents is featured in community ownership and management of projects. the case study on the following page. Click here to access our data tables Together, the MoUs will serve as the foundation of our community for additional relations with our host communities at Wassa for several years to Long-term community data come. We look forward to implementing the MoUs in 2020 and beyond to further our commitment of being a partner of choice $3.6M sponsors for our host communities. contributed to required for all the GSDF to date projects 32 SOCIAL EXCELLENCE • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • SOCIAL EXCELLENCE 33 Our Local Procurement Approach and Performance Golden Star recognizes that vibrant LOCAL VALUE RETENTION regional communities rely on diversified THROUGH LOCAL PROCUREMENT economies. We continue to focus on developing the capacity of local Local Procurement Leadership and Transparency businesses, to retain a larger proportion of the value that is derived from the One of the primary benefits of our operations is the local business presence of our business, so that people opportunities created to provide goods and services to our operations. We in the local areas impacted by our therefore aim to procure goods and services from our host communities as operations more directly benefit. far as practicable without compromising safety and quality. By doing so, we support SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth. Our actions to enhance local procurement participation fully align with We are thrilled Golden Star is We are committed to leadership and transparency in our local procurement the Ghanaian Minerals and Mining providing information in approach and performance. To achieve this, we are pleased to support the Regulations, which require procurement accordance with the Mining Mining Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism (Mining LPRM), a of certain goods and services with comprehensive local procurement reporting framework for mining LPRM, helping empower local Ghanaian content. The procurement companies globally. The framework was established by Mining Shared Value suppliers to target supplying – an initiative of Engineers Without Borders – with support from the German plans that we submit for approval, opportunities, and contain provisions for Ghanaian international development agency, Gesellschaft für Internationale demonstrating the procurement targets as well as Zusammenarbeit (GIZ). It provides a streamlined approach to key local importance of local mechanisms to support suppliers to procurement information and performance data, while providing tools for procurement internally to obtain contracts. Comprehensive plans improving performance over time. are submitted every five years, with staff. Being transparent revisions made annually, and we report to We have reported on the Mining LPRM in a manner that mirrors our GRI about procurement processes Standards reporting and will further align to the Mining LPRM in 2020 to the Ghanaian Minerals Commission on a and providing practical A land-mark pilot program in 2015, led to At our operations, we have established strengthen our overall approach to local procurement. semi-annual basis to demonstrate information to suppliers costs the formation of Local Companies in agreements / MOUs that incorporate progress. relatively little, but makes a Mining Services (LOCOMS) a local contract provisions for local At Golden Star our aim is to not only meet collaboration of 18 new local SMEs that communities. As an example, at our world of difference for these statutory requirements, but also to attracted business opportunities that Wassa operations, local communities suppliers and their surpass them, including by focusing on previously would have been directed to have right of first refusal over specific supporting institutions. I opportunities for companies local to our larger companies outside our host categories of contracts, including visited Golden Star’s operations. In the context of our communities. During their partnership quarrying, heavy equipment, and scrap operations in January 2020 operations we have established three with Golden Star, LOCOMS have supplied materials and equipment. In addition, and was particularly categories in procurement – international, hundreds of items of heavy equipment, preference is given to contracts with impressed by the way in Ghanaian and local, with local directly employed over 250 people and higher local content when the overall which the business case for representing companies that have their attracted over US$ 27 million in payments, procurement scoring is within five local procurement was ‘roots’ in our catchment communities. thus strongly contributing to the repercent. understood by procurement invigoration of the local economy. This initiative was recognized at the 2016 At both Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa, we and community team staff. In regularly communicate procurement Ghana Mining Industry Awards as addition, the LOCOMS model leading practice and in 2018, LOCOMS opportunities through our established of bringing together multiple were themselves recognized in the consultation processes, including regular entrepreneurs into one category of Mine Supplies and Services. meetings with community based business entity is a model consultation committees. Procurement that should be explored by A follow-up program in 2018 supported a opportunities are also communicated further 432 SMEs to establish new income through our community liaison offices other mining companies in streams for business diversification. located within our local catchment and Ghana and beyond. Click here to access Click here to access Following the success of this and with the impact communities. In addition, we JEFF GEIPEL our data tables for our data tables for LOCOMS model serving as an official maintain registries of local suppliers as FOUNDER, MANAGING DIRECTOR additional community additional local vehicle for liaison and mentoring, in 2019 part of our local procurement plans. Mining Shared Value investment data procurement data Golden Star commenced a partnership CLICK HERE TO SEE OUR CASE with GIZ E4D entitled “Community-driven All local suppliers are required to follow STUDIES FEATURED IN THE UN all applicable Ghanaian laws as well as GLOBAL COMPACT CANADA empowerment through skills and EMERGING PRACTICE GUIDE. enterprise development in Ghana”. Golden Star’s policies and standards as a condition of contract. These cover business conduct and ethics (including anti-corruption and bribery), human rights, the environment and community development and support. As required, we provide training on these policies to help ensure affective implementation and compliance. 34 SOCIAL EXCELLENCE • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • SOCIAL EXCELLENCE 35 RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS We recognize the potential influence that our operations may have on the human rights of our stakeholders. This includes a broad spectrum of human rights as established by global human rights frameworks, such as the International Bill of Rights. Our Policy on Human Rights outlines our commitment to respecting the human $152M rights of our stakeholders in our sphere of influence. The policy is aligned with in Ghanaian international best practice frameworks for business and human rights, including procurement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We follow our existing due diligence processes for the procurement of contracts. All potential contractors undergo screening to identify potential risks, including potential non-compliance with our corporate and site-level policies. $15M The policy applies across our business and to our contractors and suppliers, and we incorporate human rights clauses into all contracts. This helps ensure that we in local procurement are not involved in negative human rights impacts through our business We work to further support community development through our relationships relationships, in line with the UN Guiding Principles. with local suppliers. At Bogoso/Prestea, all companies who have secured contracts through LOCOMS contribute 1% of contract value to a designated We also evaluate human rights risks as part of our annual enterprise risk community project supported by Golden Star. As part of our community MoUs management system review. All of our operations are subject to these reviews. at Wassa, local companies that secure contracts over US$0.5M must contribute 1% of contract values to the Golden Star Development Foundation for community As a member of the World Gold Council (WGC), we support the WGC Conflict Free projects. Gold Standard. This requires that we conduct due diligence to help ensure we do not contribute to armed conflict through our operations or business activities. Our Throughout 2020 we intend to advance our programs on local procurement, most recent assessment indicated that the jurisdiction in which we operate (i.e. including the finalization of our Policy on Local Content and mapping of the Ghana) are not experiencing conflict and, as a result, our operations are at a low local content plan against the Mining LPRM. These activities will guide us in the Procurement risk for conflict-related impacts. This includes our operational areas and implementation of our partnership with GIZ E4D and assist us to effectively Spend the locations of our proved and probable reserves. Our full statement regarding STRENGTHEN deliver the planned capacity building programs for our host communities, with our commitment to the WGC Conflict Free Gold Standard is available at human rights systems the goal of enhancing SME business development opportunities with a focus on gsr.com/responsibility. for children women and youth. In our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, we set a goal of zero legitimate human rights complaints against our company. After a review of our grievance mechanisms throughout the year, we have confirmed that we have achieved this 8.1% goal. We will set a similar goal for 2020. Local For 2019, we also set a goal of developing a broader inclusion and diversity policy for the company to expand our current Diversity Policy beyond our Board of 75.5% Directors and senior management. We achieved this goal with the release of a Policy on Inclusion and Diversity to mark International Women’s Day in 2020. Other Ghana For more information on the policy, see 16.4% the case study on Page 17. ZERO International human rights complaints in 2019 Click here to access our data tables for additional local procurement data Conflict Free Gold Standard Report to be released in 2020 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • INDEXES 37 GRI INDEX General Disclosures Disclosure Description Location/info ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2019 Annual Information Form, p. 12 102-3 Location of headquarters London, United Kingdom 102-4 Location of operations 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 2 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2019 Annual Information Form, p. 8 102-6 Markets served 2019 Annual information Form, p. 13 102-7 Scale of the organization ai. Total number of employees See the ‘Employment’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables aii. Total number of operations 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 2 aiii. Net sales 2019 Financial Statements, p. 6 aiv. Total capitalization 2019 Financial Statements, p. 7 36 av. Quantity of products or services sold 2019 Management Discussion and Analysis, p, 5 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 16 – 17; see also the ‘Employment’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables 102-9 Supply chain 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p 32. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization The company re-located its headquarters to London, UK. and its supply chain There were no signficant changes to the company's supply chain. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 22 102-12 External initiatives United Nations Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, INDEXES Extractives Industry Transparency Initiative, International Finance Corporation Performance Standard 5, Global Reporting Initiative, World Gold Council Conflict Free Gold Standard, International Cyanide Management Code (Wassa only), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 102-13 Membership of associations Ghana Chamber of Mines and World Gold Council STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 4 ETHICS & INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior http://www.gsr.com/about-us/default.aspx 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 14 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 15 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups See the ‘Community’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 16 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 30 – 31 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 30 – 31 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised See the ‘Community’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables 38 INDEXES • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • INDEXES 39 General Disclosures continued Environment Disclosure Description Location/info Disclosure Description Location/info REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 302: ENERGY 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 2019 Financial Statements, p. 6 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 24; financial statements See also the ‘Energy and Emissions’ tab in our 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2019 Financial Statements, p. 10 2019 ESG Data Tables 102-47 List of material topics 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 12 – 13 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization Data not available. 102-48 Restatements of information Restatements are noted where applicable throughout the Our 2019 reporting focus was on internal energy consumption. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report. 302-3 Energy intensity 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 24; 102-49 Changes in reporting Reporting has been updated to align with the see also the ‘Energy and Emissions’ tab in our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 2019 ESG Data Tables Metals and Mining Sustainability Accounting Standard. Investor Mining and Tailings Safety Initiative, and the World Gold Council Conflict Free Gold Standard. GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 102-50 Reporting period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report August 2020 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 23 102-52 Reporting cycle 2019 full year. 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 23 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Philipa Varris (EVP, Head of Sustainability) 303-3 Water withdrawal 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 23; 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 2 see also the ‘Water’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables GRI Standards 303-4 Water discharge 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 23; 102-55 GRI content index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 37 – 41 see also the ‘Water’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables 102-56 External assurance Our 2019 ESG performance data was independently reviewed and 303-5 Water consumption 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 23; verified by MF & Associates. see also the ‘Water’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables Economic Performance GRI 305: EMISSIONS Disclosure Description Location/info 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 24; see also the 'Energy and Emissions' tab in our GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2019 ESG Data Tables 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed See our ‘Value Sharing’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 24; see also the 'Energy and Emissions' tab in our 201-2 Financial implications and other risks 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 25 2019 ESG Data Tables and opportunities due to climate change 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 24; see also the 'Energy and Emissions' tab in our GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2019 ESG Data Tables 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 31 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), See the 'Energy and Emissions' tab in our and other significant air emissions 2019 ESG Data Tables 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 31; see also the ‘Energy and Emissions’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 26; GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES see also the 'Water' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 32; 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method See the ‘Waste and Materials’ tab in our see also the ‘Local Procurement’ tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables 2019 ESG Data Tables 306-3 Signficant spills 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 22 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 14 GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 205-2 Communication and training about 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 14 – 15 anti-corruption policies and procedures 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 22 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 15 and regulations GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Zero anti-trust, and monopoly practices 40 INDEXES • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • INDEXES 41 Social Disclosure Description Location/info Disclosure Description Location/info GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT CONTINUED 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 35 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY or procedures 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 18 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 35 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 18 that include human rights clauses or that underwent and incident investigation human rights screening 403-3 Occupational health services 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 18 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 18 GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 18 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 30-31 impact assessments, and development programs 403-6 Promotion of worker health 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 18 – 19 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential All operations have the potential for signficant impacts – 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 18 – 19 negative impacts on local communities both positive and negative – on local communities. safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 18 – 19 and safety management system GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 403-9 Work-related injuries See the 'Health and Safety' tab in our ESG Data Tables 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Zero. 403-10 Work-related ill health See the 'Health and Safety' tab in our ESG Data Tables in the social and economic area GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Mining metals supplement 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 16 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 16 Disclosure Description Location/info 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular All employees receive these reviews annually. GRI G4 MINING AND METALS SUPPLEMENT performance and career development reviews MM-1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed See also the 'Rehabilitation and Closure' tab in our for production activities or extractive use) disturbed 2019 ESG Data Tables. GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY or rehabilitated. MM-2 The number and percentage of total sites identified 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 22 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 14 as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION MM-3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and See the 'Waste and Materials' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Zero incidents in 2019. sludges and their associated risks actions taken MM-4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s Zero duration, by country. MM-5 Total number of operations taking place in or Zero GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Zero. Both of our mine sites have unions in place and these are number and percentage of operations or sites freedom of association and collective bargaining protected under Ghanaian law. where there are formal agreements with Indigenous may be at risk Peoples’ communities. MM-6 Number and description of significant disputes Zero relating to land use, customary rights of local GRI 408: CHILD LABOUR communities and Indigenous Peoples. 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Zero. MM-7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used N/A to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary for incidents of child labor rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR MM-8 Number (and percentage) of company operating sites Corporate Responsibility Report p. 27 where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes Both of Golden Star’s operations operate near areas 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Zero. place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and where ASM takes place. for incidents of forced or compulsory labor the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. MM-9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of Zero households resettled in each, and how their GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT livelihoods were affected in the process. 412-1 Operations that have been subject to 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 MM-10 Number and percentage of operations with 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 24 human rights reviews or impact assessments closure plans. 42 INDEXES • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 • INDEXES 43 SASB Index SASB code Description Location/info SASB code Description Location/info GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS, AND RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES EM-MM-110a.1. Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered See the 'Energy and Emissions' tab in our EM-MM-210a.1 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in Zero percent. None of our operations or exploration projects are under emissions-limiting regulations 2019 ESG Data Tables or near areas of conflict located in or near areas of conflict, as defined by the Uppsala EM-MM-110a.2. Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 24 Institute or the Heidelberg Conflict Barometer. manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, EM-MM-210a.2 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in Zero percent. None of our operations or exploration projects are and an analysis of performance against those targets or near Indigenous land located are located in or near Indigenous lands. EM-MM-210a.3 Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence Not applicable as our operations are not located in areas practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights, of conflict. AIR QUALITY and operation in areas of conflict EM-MM-120a.1. Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) CO, (2) NOx Data not fully avaialable. (excluding N2O), (3) SOx, (4) particulate matter (PM10), NOx and SOx emissions resulting from the company’s (5) mercury (Hg), (6) lead (Pb), and (7) volatile organic operations are minimal and are multiple orders of magnitude COMMUNITY RELATIONS compounds (VOCs) less than the regulatory requirements specified by the EM-MM-210b.1 Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 30 Ghanaian EPA. associated with community rights and interests EM-MM-210b.2 Number and duration of non-technical delays Zero ENERGY MANAGEMENT (1) Total energy consumed See the 'Energy and Emissions' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables LABOUR RELATIONS (2) percentage grid electricity See the 'Energy and Emissions' tab in our EM-MM-310a.1 Percentage of active workforce covered under collective 79% EM-MM-130a.1 bargaining agreements, broken down by U.S. and 2019 ESG Data Tables foreign employees (3) percentage renewable See the 'Energy and Emissions' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables EM-MM-310a.2 Number and duration of strikes and lockouts Zero WATER MANAGEMENT WORKFORCE HEALTH AND SAFETY (1) Total fresh water withdrawn See the 'Water' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables (1) All-incidence rate See the 'Health and Safety' tab in our EM-MM-140a.1 (2) total fresh water consumed, percentage of each in Zero 2019 ESG Data Tables regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress (2) fatality rate See the 'Health and Safety' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables EM-MM-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with Zero EM-MM-320a.1 water quality permits, standards, and regulations (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) See the 'Health and Safety' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables (4) average hours of health and safety training See the 'Health and Safety' tab in our WASTE AND MATERIALS MANAGEMENT 2019 ESG Data Tables EM-MM-150a.1 Total weight of tailings waste, percentage recycled See the 'Waste and Materials' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables BUSINESS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY EM-MM-150a.2 Total weight of mineral processing waste, percentage See the 'Waste and Materials' tab in our recycled 2019 ESG Data Tables EM-MM-510a.1 Description of the management system for prevention of 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 14 – 15 EM-MM-150a.3 Number of tailings impoundments, broken down by 2019 Tailings Management Report corruption and bribery throughout the value chain MSHA hazard potential EM-MM-510a.2 Production in countries that have the 20 lowest Zero rankings in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index BIODIVERSITY EM-MM-160a.1 Description of environmental management policies and 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 22 practices for active sites ACTIVITY METRICS Percentage of mine sites where acid rock drainage is: EM-MM-000.A Production of (1) metal ores and (2) finished 2019 Management Discussion and Analyis, p. 5 (1) predicted to occur Acid rock drainage is only predicted to occur at our Bogoso/ metal products EM-MM-160a.2 (2) actively mitigated Prestea operations. We actively mitigate associated risks EM-MM-000.B Total number of employees, percentage contractors See the 'Employment' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables (3) under treatment or remediation including through treatment of impacted water. EM-MM-160a.3 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in or Zero near sites with protected conservation status or endangered species habitat 44 INDEXES • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES 45 Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism Index Indicator Description/location LPRM 100: CONTEXT FOR LOCAL PROCUREMENT DISCLOSURES Mining company name Golden Star Resources Mine site name Golden Star (Bogoso/Prestea) Limited (GSBPL) & Golden Star (Wassa) Limited (GSWL) Reporting period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 Stage of assets Operational Estimated mine life Current mine plans project a 5 year mine life for Prestea and 10 year remaining mine life for Wassa Average number of workers See the 'Employment' tab of our 2019 ESG Data Tables. LPRM 200: PROCUREMENT SYSTEMS 201: Policy on local suppliers Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 – 34 202: Accountability on local suppliers Local procurement accountability rests with the site-level Community and Finance departments. 203: Major contractors and local suppliers Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 31 – 32 204: Procurement process Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 31 – 32 LPRM DISCLOSURE 300: LOCAL PROCUREMENT SPENDING BY CATEGORY 301: Categorising suppliers Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 34; 302: Breakdown of procurement spend see also the 'Local Procurement' tab in our 2019 ESG Data Tables. LPRM DISCLOSURE 400: LOCAL PROCUREMENT DUE DILIGENCE 401: Due diligence process Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 – 34 402: Anti-corruption policy Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 14 – 15 403: Training and guidance for suppliers Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 – 34 LPRM DISCLOSURE 500: METHODS TO INCENTIVIZE LOCAL PROCUREMENT 45 501: Commitments Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 32 – 33 502: Preference in scoring of bids Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 503: Preference in scoring of bids for significant local contributions Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 504: Non-scoring methods to incentivize local purchasing Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 505: Supporting suppliers to understand the tender process Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 – 34 506: Special payment procedures for local suppliers Contracts are paid according to existing company procedures. NOTES 507: Encouraging procurement from particular groups Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 – 34 LPRM DISCLOSURE 600: EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS AND OBLIGATIONS 601: Regulations Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 602: Other agreements and contracts Corporate Responsibility Report, p. 33 – 34 46 NOTES • GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES 47 PHOTOGRAPHIC CREDITS www.gsr.com Natalie Raffield, Philip Mostert, Kingkwekuananse Photography and the Golden Star team GLOSSARY AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate ANCOLD Australian National Commission on Large Dams CCC Community Consultative Committees CCFPA Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act CDA Canadian Dam Association CEO Chief Executive Officer CMCC Community Mine Consultative Committees EITI Extractives Industry Transparency Initiative EMP Environmental Management Plan EPA Environmental Protection Agency ERM Enterprise Risk Management ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESTMA Extractives Sector Transparency Measures Act EVP Executive Vice President FCPA Foreign Corrupt Practices Act GHG Greenhouse Gas GIZ Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GJ Gigajoules GRI Global Reporting Initiative GS LEAD Golden Star Leaders Empowerment and Development Program GSOPP Golden Star Oil Palm Plantation FACEBOOK.COM/GOLDENSTARRESOURCES ICMC International Cyanide Management Code ICOLD International Commission on Large Dams TWITTER.COM/GOLDEN_STAR_RES IRS Indoor Residual Spraying ISO International Standards Organization IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature LINKEDIN.COM/COMPANY/GOLDEN-STAR-RESOURCES LOCOMS Local Companies in Mining Services OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board GOLDENSTARINTHECOMMUNITY.BLOGSPOT.COM SDGs Sustainable Development Goals TCFD Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures TRIFR Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TSF Tailings Storage Facility UN United Nations WGC World Gold Council CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Information contained in this report, which are not statements of historical facts, and the documents incorporated by reference herein, may be “forward-looking information” for the purposes of Canadian securities laws or “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon certain assumptions and judgments of management regarding future events and results, as well as other important factors that, if untrue, could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Golden Star to differ materially from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Although Golden Star has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those described in forward-looking information and statements, there may be other factors that cause actual results, performance or achievements not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. Forward-looking information and statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Golden Star to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking information and statements. Please refer to the factors discussed in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Golden Star’s annual information form for the year ended December 31, 2019. Although Golden Star has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results, performances and achievements to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking information and statements, there may be other factors that cause results, performance and achievements not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results, performance, and achievements and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking information and statements. Forward-looking information and statements are made as of the date hereof and accordingly are subject to change after such date. Forward-looking information and statements are provided for the purpose of providing information about management’s current expectations and plans and allowing investors and others to get a better understanding of the Company’s operating environment. Golden Star does not undertake to update any forward-looking information and statements that are included in this Report, except as required by applicable securities laws.
