H.E. Antó nio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that (Shandz Company for Electrical and Construction Contracting and General Trading Ltd.) supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Shandz Company will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the UN Global Compact COP policy. This includes: • A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the UN Global Compact. • A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the UN Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anticorruption). • A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Sincerely yours, [Signature] [Name Mr. / Ms. Younis Talib Salhi] [Title Managing Director] Address: Iraq -Erbil100m/Peshawa Qazi Str-No.124 Tel. (Office): +964 (0) 66 279 4512 Website: www.shandz.com E-mail: info@shandz.com
