Croatia Educational program “For Responsible Youth” is from now on implemented on the national level In 2013, we started implementing the educational program “For Responsible Electric forklifts Youth”, with the support of TESA Psychological Centre and the Karlovac for a better Police Administration. The main goal of the program, intended for parents and safer work of first grade high school students, is to prevent underage drinking and environment provide support in establishing good communication between parents We have added eleven new electric and children. Since the last school forklifts to our fleet, eight of which year, we have been implementing the have elevated cabins, ensuring program at the national level, with greater visibility and safety while the support of the Ministry of Science Biogas driving. Electric forklifts do not and Education, in roughly 60 schools our new renewable energy source emit exhaust fumes and produce all over Croatia. As part of the two less noise, resulting in a better hundred workshops held so far for and safer work environment for parents, starting 2016 until today, After a series of green investments, we have decided to take another big step our employees. Since electric short researches were conducted. in the field of environmental protection. We have built a new pipeline through forklifts do not use fuel, we have They showed that parents displayed which we run biogas (a by-product created during wastewater treatment in also reduced the amount of waste a significantly greater understanding our brewery) from the purifier to the boiler room, where it is burned and used liquids for disposal, while working of the importance of quality as thermal energy for production and heating. Thanks to this initiative, we on an electric forklift has been communication with their children have reduced the consumption of natural gas for heating, as well as saved significantly simplified because and were more willing to adopt new energy. In addition, we have decreased carbon dioxide emissions by 110 tons less hand and foot movement is knowledge about appropriate ways of annually, which is equal to putting 50 cars out of traffic. required to operate the vehicle. communicating with teenagers. Brewing a Better World in 2019 ADVOCATING RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION PROMOTING HEALTH AND SAFETY London 1,006 FOR RESPONSABLE YOUTH, Zagreb HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK 1,250 days passed since the last accident in the brewery, while we had 60 PARENTS our partnership program with Tesa Psychological two minor traﬃc accidents within the Sales Department. That is why in ŠKOLA SCHOOLS have attended trainings on improving their Centre, was brought to the national level this 1,250 2020 safe driving training is planned for all employees who use an oﬃcial year. The program included around 60 schools in DAYS By participating in our or private car for work. have participated in communication with teenagers. 19 Croatian cities, with a total of 1,006 parents, passed since 'Stay in motion' platform, While participating in our 'Stay in motion' platform, which motivates our For Responsible who attended trainings on improving their the last accident our colleagues have employees to run, walk or cycle and collect kilometres together, our Youth program. communication with teenagers, but also 437 in the brewery. covered almost colleagues have covered almost 1,300 kilometres together, which is students, who were educated on the dangers of equal to the air distance between underage drinking. 1,300 Zagreb and London. KILOMETERS SOURCING SUSTAINABLY EVERY DROP: PROTECTING WATER RESOURCES Advocating responsible Promoting health SUPPLIER consumption and safety C DE LESS WATER People IS CONSUMED SUPPLIER CODE for the production EVERY DROP 100% All of our suppliers have conﬁrmed they fully respect HEINEKEN's principles of responsible Brewing YEAR OF 2019. MATTERS of one litre of beer compared to of our suppliers have conﬁrmed business conduction and have signed the Sourcing a Better Every drop: 4,021 m3 We consume 41% less 2008. Pr o s p protecting they fully respect HEINEKEN's 'Supplier Code'. In this way, we ensure that our sustainably World et water resources WATER WAS water for the production of RESULT principles of responsible an one litre of beer compared cooperation is based on doing business with ADDITIONALLY business conduction. integrity and righteousness, respecting the er it y Pl SAVED to 2008, while this year we additionally saved 4,021 m3 -41% rights and dignity of all people, prioritising by improving of water by improving health and safety, and reducing the negative technological processes. technological processes. impact on the planet. Growing with Drop the C: communities reducing CO₂ emissions GROWING WITH COMMUNITIES DROP THE C: REDUCING CO₂ EMISSIONS INVESTING INTO THE LOCAL REDUCING CO2 EMISSIONS 5,224 COMMUNITY IN PRODUCTION This year we invested more than 1,4 million kuna in the we have reduced CO2 Compared to last year, we reduced CO2 emissions by 1%, and even by 57% compared to 2008. This can be 1,400,000 kn hours of volunteering community in which our brewery is operating, and emissions by 1% CO2 EMISSIONS, attributed to numerous savings actions, such as the were done by the citizens, supported social and green projects, compared to last year. compared to 2008, installation of LED lighting in the production facilities as part of the was invested in the local as well as local events. RESULT were reduced by and the use of biogas for production and heating. Citizens contributed with 5,224 hours of volunteering -1% KA Kvart project. community, to support as part of the KA Kvart project, a long-term cooperation RESULT social and green projects, as well as local events. project with the City of Karlovac, which aims at improving the quality of life of the local community. -57%
