United Nations Communication on Progress Contents Letter of Intent 5 History 7 Vision 9 Principles 11 Goals 13 Framework 15 Management Systems 17 Objectives & Targets 19 DNA 21 Sustainable Actions 22-23 3 The Bowden Print Group supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact concerning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have identified opportunities to embrace the 17 Sustainable Development Goals to transform our world. The Bowden Print Group are proud to have been the first printer in Australia to join the United Nations community, and we have come along way over the past several years. In 2019 we started our journey towards the ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility. An aim to work with the framework and guidance of the United Nations Global Compact and implement our B-Sustainable initiative. We are delighted to present our Blue is the New Green document… our approach is for a more sustainable future utilising our management processes, business model, framework, systems and targets and objectives. All focussed on identifying our Driven Net Accountability, our DNA. In March 2020 our business, our country and the world was placed into upheaval with the COVID-19 pandemic, and like many companies, we were not immune to the economic effect this caused. We were very proactive in implementation strategies to navigate the challenges and have been successful in changing our business model to suit the current environment. We remain resolute in expressing our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. The Bowden Print Group makes a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the community. This document is our first Communication on Progress reinforced by our B-Sustainable initiative, and the Bowden Print Group are proud to take the next step in our journey to a more sustainable future. Damien Burchell, CEO 5 We provide our clients with sustainable print-based procurement, display and marketing solutions. We do this by understanding their goals, implementing cost-saving workflows and providing solutions that create growth. Damien Burchell, CEO With origins dating back to 1935, Bowden Group is one of South Australia’s leading print and marketing solution providers. We are incredibly proud of our heritage and our ability to remain at the forefront of our industry by having a relevant, contemporary vision. 85 years on, we continue the same enthusiastic vision for the future as its founder, Frederick Bowden. Bowden Group is a modern operation that embraces the latest technologies and innovations, but at the same time, never losing sight of the family values that formed the foundation of the company. Our mission is simple…to partner with our clients to produce effective, compelling, targeted and accountable communication solutions, from concept to distribution, that meets their objectives and exceeds expectations. Our vision is clear…to build a better Bowden brand and position ourselves as a print-based communications provider and add value to print through digital solutions. Our values are our promise…to provide the best solutions, the best quality, and value for money, with delivery on time guaranteed. We all share a belief that having the best possible client service further enhances our clients’ experience. “Team Bowden” all share an unshakeable belief in continuous improvement and evolving the business to meet and exceed its clients’ needs. Every one of our 27+ staff plays an integral part in the success of our client relationships, working together to ensure the best possible client experience …. friendly, efficient, reliable and professional. Our clients and our people notice the difference, and it is this reason that we are passionate about what we do and how well we do it. 6 7 A long-term approach to balancing business priorities. The Bowden Print Group’s B-sustainable Initiative of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is our long-term approach to balancing our business priorities with our social, economic, environmental and industry responsibilities. It shapes the ideals that underpin our company’s mission, vision and values. We seek to lead by example and to improve continuously with the belief that a sustainable world needs sustainable businesses. The Bowden Print Groups B-Sustainable initiative is to provide a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Framework based on shared values, Risk Management, Culture, Community Engagement and a Life Cycle Perspective from our everyday activities. We believe that for the Bowden Print Group to earn the trust of stakeholders as a responsible, sustainable and ethical corporate entity, we must become a ‘healthy business’ in the local and national market ecosystem and assume a proactive role in making this system healthier with our products and services. We need to take care of our communities, help those in need become self-reliant, communicate and interact with a variety of stakeholders throughout this process, and form a trust-based relationship with them. From product and solution research & development, through sales, procurement, production and delivery, the Bowden Print Group strives to improve our CSR execution while strengthening our efforts to partner with clients and with key stakeholders. 8 9 Sustainability management that is balanced. The Bowden Print Group balances our focus on sustainability management with the eco-market system, the environment, and the community. Our CSR principles align with the many different targets and objectives of our stakeholders and are considered in all of our management activities to generate differential value in their workflows and processes. This provides a solid foundation for our company’s sustainable growth. United Nations (UN) Global Compact: In July 2009, the Bowden Print Group became the first Australian company in the printing industry to join the UN Global Compact. As a leading South Australian family based company with social responsibilities, we have declared our will to actively participate in solving global societal problems such as labour, human rights, environment, and anti-corruption. The ten principals of UN Global Compact can be categorised into human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. The main point is to protect international human rights and make efforts not to violate those rights, uphold freedom of association, guarantee the right to collective bargaining, and abolish all forms of forced labour, child labour, and labour discrimination. It also contains responsibilities to prevent various environmental problems, develop green technology, and abolish all forms of corrupt activities such as extortion and bribery. 11 To create a business model that will support Corporate Social Responsibility. The B-Initiative will contribute to sustainable growth by implementing structured commitments, objectives & targets on a mid to long-term basis. To develop a business model that will define change. To provide sustainability to the market ecosystem guided by the International Standard Organisation’s ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility To evolve ISO 26000 to a certifiable management system. These goals will help to strategically manage the alignment of cause-and-effect relationships of the market ecosystem and influence our CSR drivers, values, and behaviour. It is this alignment combined with the B-Sustainable Initiative reporting that can enable us to implement broader differences and leadership strategies. 13 A CSR framework to ensure sustainabilty The Bowden Print Group has a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Framework system in place to ensure the sustainability of our workflows and processes to benefit our clients, the community and ourselves. • Life Cycle Perspective • Culture • Community Engagement • Risk Management • Shared Value To influence environmental performance beyond our own, recognise the value of healthy staff and sustain a healthy performance culture, provide support to both local communities and to engage stakeholders in global based initiatives, address pre-emptive and proactive risk mitigation and create shared value throughout all its operations. 15 We strive for sustainability management in a holistic and balanced manner. In order to strengthen the Bowden Print Group’s commitment to our B-sustainable Initiative in conducting its business, taking care of the social and environmental impact of its activities in the long term, The Bowden Print Group has created a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Team. The CSR Team coordinates all of the Bowden Print Group’s departments in order to promote and integrate responsible practices into our business operations and to ensure that B-Sustainable Initiative is properly implemented into all operations. Moreover, the CSR Team proactively participates with many industries and organisations aiming at defining and continually improving. The B-Sustainable Initiative is composed of a circular 4 step workflow: • PLAN: Policies and requirements.. Risk identification/objectives • DO: Procedures, training/communication. • CHECK: Monitoring, measurement and audit. • ACT: Management review. 17 To create differentiated value which will serve as a strong base for a sustainable evolution. The Bowden Print Group plans to contribute to sustainable growth by setting objectives and targets that align directly with our CSR Framework and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). In September 2015, all 193 Member States of the United Nations adopted a plan for achieving a better future for all — laying out a path over the next 15 years to end extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and protect our planet. At the heart of “Agenda 2030” are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which clearly define the world we want — applying to all nations and leaving no one behind. Expanding our Life Cycle Perspective by reducing our carbon footprint and environmental impacts. Creating a sustainable business ecosystem throughout the supply chain, creating a safer work environment and improving work efficiency. Encouraging all employees to participate in activities that contribute to the community. 19 It is in our DNA… identifying our Driven Net Accountability contribution to sustainability Creating value for society as well as for shareholders needs to be closely aligned with business sustainability. The impacts of environmental changes, population and community growth and other sustainable influences have become ever more apparent. Research has identified indicators that focus on the Return on Investment, Economic Benefits, Community Support and Environmental Aspects are measurable and thus can be swayed. These indicators control the objectives & targets allowing reporting on either positive (bringing benefits to society) or negative (imposing costs on society) to be analysed. By visualising these goals, we can see where we are creating a contribution to the market ecosystem, adding value to our community and where future value creation initiatives may be directed to build a sustainable business model. 21 Combine QMS Implement a plan to analyse and EMS Systems Risk and to create a Bowden Opportunity within Management our QMS and EMS Measure, review, Relaunch System Systems. understand, plan and Proofing Studio communicate cultural to support the improvements within industry and the company. clients. To implement a plan that is supported by the guidance that the ISO 26000:2010 standard aspires to. Relaunch website to support How can the community Bowden Print sporting Group engage clubs. Implement Align and at a more socially procedures and develop support responsible plans that create with identified NFP level. sustainability in charities the workplace. Increase How can distribution of Create the Bowden BMS Activities and implement Print Group engage at a Reconciliation a more socially Action Plan responsible NOT STARTED IN PROGESS COMPLETED level. 22 23 blue is the new green... ...a B-Sustainable Initiative www.blueisthenewgreen.com.au Bowden Print Group A. 26 Hindmarsh Ave. Welland SA 5007 T. 1800 818 233 F. 1800 818 622 W. bowdengroup.com.au
