The Halton Group People Policy Halton´s success is based on competent, motivated, engaged employees. Halton promotes health, safety and wellbeing at work and ensures its employees equal and fair treatment in all circumstances in the countries in which Halton operates. Diversity of employees is regarded as richness. Halton complies with all applicable national labour laws, regulations and agreements, and with respective ILO conventions in case they set higher standards. Halton Code of Conduct applies in all operations. RECRUITING Halton´s recruiting process gives equal possibilities to all candidates. The preference is based on objective evaluation of competences and suitability to the role. Organization´s diversity is richness and helps us to be innovative. Rewarding Salaries of Halton´s units are based on job classification, local industry standards, legislation or collective agreements, depending on the country in question. High performance and engagement will be noted and rewarded. Performance evaluation is based on objective criteria. WELLBEING AND SAFETY At Halton, we develop our working environment continuously to ensure our employees´ wellbeing. We regard job satisfaction as a key issue for our success and we monitor it regularly. We promote personal wellbeing by supporting and encouraging healthy lifestyles and leisure activities for our personnel. For managing issues concerning employees´ safety, we have a separate Health and Safety Policy. Work Life Cycle management is important area which effects to employee’s wellbeing. We understand different phases and various situations in people´s life and by supporting their selfdevelopment we give them opportunities to find new challenges which fits to their life and ambition. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Halton belongs to employers´ associations in countries where significant possibilities for such memberships exist. Halton endorses free association and collective bargaining and other terms of the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We ensure fair treatment for all our employees regardless of age, sex, religion, opinion, nationality, social and ethnical background, sexual orientation or other similar issues. We encourage our employees to participate in open, proactive and responsible dialogue within our organization. SUPPLIERS Halton´s suppliers and their sub-suppliers shall comply with applicable laws and regulations as well as with the terms set in this policy, Halton Code of Conduct and Halton Supplier Code of Conduct.. Halton’s Senior Executive Team is accountable for the development and implementation of this policy which applies to all Halton facilities around the world. We will communicate this policy to all Halton employees, review this policy annually and make it available for public review on our website. Effective as of 1 January 2019 Mika Halttunen Kai Konola Chairman of the Board President, CEO Oy Halton Group Ltd. Oy Halton Group Ltd. Enabling Wellbeing
