Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019/20 Communication on Progress Vega Sea A/S Introduction Vega Sea 2020 CSR report As one of Europe’s largest the UN Global Compact iniof our Communication of salmon processing compatiative in 2016. As part of Progress (COP) report. nies, Vega plays a central our commitment Vega has This is our COP report and role in bringing seafood to implemented the Global we sincerely hope you will the global markets. As milCompact principles for Huenjoy learning about our lions of consumers enjoy man Rights, Labor Rights & progress and future ambiVega’s products, we wish to Working Conditions, Antitions. take the wheel and help set corruption & Environment the direction of the salmon as part of our daily operaIn 2019/20 we introduced processing industry. This imtion. many new initiatives within plies that Vega must take all areas covered by the CSR We wish to be measured by social and environmental report. Overall, we are satisour actions and help set the responsibility to fulfill our fied with the results, but we salmon processing industry ambition. are also aware that imdirection provements can be made in Vega’s point of view is that areas where we did not our social and environmenIn addition, Vega is also meet our own expectations. tal ambitions should be committed to communicate Both our successes and measured by our actions. To our progress and CSR activichallenges will be covered emphasize this, we joined ties on a yearly basis as part throughout this report. Feel free to visit: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/33781-Vega-Sea-A-S About Vega Vega Sea was established in 5. We strive to provide the 2010 as a merger between highest grade of quality two Danish companies. and food safety for all our Vega’s main activity is proproducts cessing fresh and smoked Our effort is led by groups salmon products. The comappointed to specific crosspany has grown from a small functional areas. Danish producer to an international player with an an• Energy optimization nual turnover of €140 million • Health & Safety from sales to more than 30 • Product Quality different countries in Europe, • Sourcing & Packaging North America, Oceania and Asia. These groups consist of employees from all parts of our Vega employs 287 people organization and each group across our Head Quarter in have a responsible manager Kolding, Denmark and our appointed to ensure direct Production Facility in access to the management Handewitt, Germany. team. Our CSR effort is centered The executive management around five core values that have the overall responsibilall our employees know and ity for leading and anchoring act upon in our daily operaVegas Corporate Social Retion. sponsibility efforts in the or1. We support and respect ganization. In daily operation the protection of the interwork with specific actions is national bill of human done by our area work rights groups. 2. We strive to minimize our Each group is responsible for environmental & climate setting their own targets reimpact and reduce our flecting Vegas overall ambiglobal footprint tions towards our core val3. We do not accept corrupues. tion in any form 4. We respect labor rights and support healthy working conditions Working Environment Health & Safety is one of our It is important to have a safe focus areas. As COVID-19 and welcoming work envistarted it was an easy choice ronment to support our for us to raise the standard positive development. In and demands in our proceVega we focus on prevendures and guidelines retion of work-related accigarding Health & Safety. We dents and sickness along decided to implement the with initiatives to create a best from the public guidesocial environment that lines in both Denmark and supports employee satisfacGermany to ensure our emtion and daily motivation. ployees can come to work Working in food processing and not worry about being is a job associated with infected by COVID-19. higher risk than other jobs. Furthermore, we have esBecause of this it is of the uttablished our own test cenmost importance for Vega ter at our factory in to uphold a safe working enHandewitt to make sure our vironment for our employemployees have easy and ees. Consequently, Vega has instant access to testing, sechosen to take a proactive curing the highest possible approach and avoid the acHealth & Safety standard for cident before it happens by our employees. taking preventive actions and educating employees in • Education of employees We are 222 employees at topics related to safety. in production equipment Vega, working together to obtain our common goals. Our goal for 2019/20 and usage. Our employees are our onwards was and is to in• Improve safety of pasgreatest asset as their creacrease education, improve sageways. tivity, commitment and amequipment safety and mini• Introduced safety as a bitions drive our positive demize hidden dangers in our measure when renewing velopment and help us to production space. Some of contracts for production reach our goal which is to our major initiatives inequipment. bring the highest grade of cluded: • Installed an alarm system quality food to the end conto highlight hidden dansumer. gers behind closed gates. Number of Accidents with miniAccidents mum 1 day off ab2017/18 9 52 Accidents Number of From our actions Vega days absent has managed to reduce per accident the overall number of hours lost due to occupational accidents in 2019/20 compared to Number of 2018/19. While simulAccidents taneously reducing the number of reported accidents and the num2018/19 17 18 ber of days needed to Number of recover. The number of days absent days is still high and our per accident Vega’s Health & Safety team is working towards making it better every day. Number of Accidents 2019/20 9 16 Number of days absent per accident “The number of accidents and days absent, have decreased in 2019/20 due to efforts by our Health & Safety team” Diversity At Vega, we believe that a A challenge is that food proreach our ambition to indiverse workforce creates duction is a sector previcrease the share of female value. We work to support ously dominated by male managers set in 2018/19. diversity by creating strucworkers due to the physical We haven’t seen progress in tures which do not limit emaspect of the job. Therethis area in 2019/20. ployees based on gender, fore, there is a risk of female To support diversity and nationality or religious beapplicants being rejected in equality Vega started the liefs, as we believe diversity the recruitment process. following initiatives: and the principle of equal This has led to an unequal opportunity to be the most gender balance in our pro• Onsite English language relevant topics within huduction area due to a reeducation for employees man rights. Decisions made cruitment pool primarily beto strengthen communiin the hiring process is ing dominated by men. To cation. based on an assessment of change this situation Vega • Create a culture that supthe merits and qualificahave made efforts to idenport teamwork, fairness tions of the individual based tify work areas in producand empowers the indion the principle of equal option with lower physical revidual to reach their full portunities for all. quirements and educate our potential. internal recruiters to de• Strengthen our HR orIt is our goal to create an encrease gender balance ineganization to ensure divironment of parity among quality. versity in recruitment employees rewarding involvement and commitThe gender balance for ofand to educate management without discriminatfice workers is more equal ment with the right tools ing based on age, gender, and we are happy with the to lead a diverse worksexual preferences, ethniclevel of female employees in force. ity or disabilities. the office. Vega have yet to Female Female Female Managers Office Employees Production Employees 17% 56% 37% “The overall gender diversity is satisfactory with 42% female employees – we do acknowledge the uneven gender distribution in management and have created a policy that requires 25% of all applicants interviewed to be of the least represented gender” Anti-Corruption Vega adheres to fulfill all laws and regulations To support our stand against corruption all our in the countries we currently are operating in. operations undergo an overall risk assessment This is fundamental for Vega’s ambition to be related to corruption. Based on this risk asa responsible company. Our CSR policy clearly sessment we will act generally against corrupstates our view on corruption. tion by establishing internal procedures supporting the anti-corruption commitment and “We maintain a high level of integrity and acensure that relevant employees are properly countability in all our external relationships, informed. and we do not participate in corruption or bribery. We do not offer, promise or give any In addition, all employees who represent Vega kind of bribes to improperly influence public are instructed in good business etiquette and officials, judges or business associates. in standards defining correct behavior in any interaction with external relations. We will also refrain from receiving or accepting any bribes ourselves. Our agents, intermediaries or other persons Status acting on our behalf are subject to the same We have not received any administrative or obligation to not participate in corruption or judicial sanctions for failure to comply with bribery.” anti-corruption laws. No claims or request for As stated, Vega does not find any form of cormonetary sanction for corruption and no legal ruption acceptable. It is not part of our busicorruption cases against any of our sites have ness practice and we have clear expectations been reported. We intend to continue with of our employees to neither use nor accept our anti-corruption effort to ensure that our any form of corruption in their line of busirisk assessment tools, policies and processes ness. are updated continuously to reflect the world around us. Vega’s products are sold globally but most of the raw material is sourced from Norway, while minor volumes are sourced from Canada and Chile. These are all countries rated highly by Transparency Internationals. Environment Vega is a large player in a In 2019/20, the Group inActions very competitive market vested in its own For the coming year, one of driven by commodity volawastewater treatment plant our main actions driving our tility. An essential part of to ensure an even cleaner effort is to innovate and reour success is therefore to discharge in the local area, duce the thickness of carton be as resource efficient in and to ensure our producpackaging and printed foil our production processes as tion facility is optimized for used in production of our possible to be competitive the future. This is truly an goods. We are already movand sustainable. Vega use important step, when looking in the right direction three main input for proing forward and pursuing with the following stats: duction of our salmon prodour goals of focus on susucts that each constitute a tainability. • 10% reduced plate materisk of starring the environrial. After installing this we have • 15% reduced foil material. ment through excess reseen a significant improve• 100% recyclable cardboard. source use and packing: ment in our wastewater • 100% recyclable plastic • Raw material monitoring parameters, inused for mono material. • Packaging materials cluding a reduction of lipo• Utilities philic substances and aroVega will continue having matic organic chlorine. focus on our process of Since Vega operates in the packaging innovation while food processing industry it is The material is now rewe also closely monitor the a risk that the energy moved from our new packaging solutions inneeded for processing unwastewater and not distroduced to the market. necessarily strains the clicharged into the environmate. ment but is instead colWe are also focusing on oplected to produce biogas. timizing the way we prepare To ensure that Vega’ effect our goods for transportaon the environment is reThis is in line with our curtion. Our goal is to decrease duced as much as possible rent goals: the amount of cardboard we strive to be innovative used in order to help our • A reduction in fish waste and efficient in our usage by partners reduce their car(sold for animal food). utilizing as much of the raw bon footprint. • A reduction in packaging material as possible so we material use per item. reduce waste, while limiting In 2019/20 we have contin• Reduction in use of gas, our use of packaging materiued implementing the enelectricity and water. als and utilities by adopting ergy standard, ISO 50001 for new technologies and which we are holding a formethods. mal third-party certification. Vega is also looking into these three goals posted by the UN: Our effort measured by numbers 3% lower production volume compared to 2018/19 Decrease in packaging consumption not at the same level as production volume due to change in consumer trends 8.270 km Plastic Foil used in production (+2% Y-o-Y) 2.751.000 Cardboard Boxed for transportation (+3% Y-o-Y) 24.562.079 Product Plates used for goods (+7% Y-o-Y) Energy consumption increase is due to construction work of new facilities. Once the capacity is fully utilized, overall energy consumption per kg produced is expected to decrease 4.555.745 kWh. Natural Gas (+1% Y-o-Y) 6.216.890 kWh. Electricity (+9% Y-o-Y) 125.105 m³. Wastewater (-12% Y-o-Y) 4.814.791 tons of Fish Waste used for animal food (4% Y-o-Y) Food Safety At Vega food safety is a maVega has set up an internal food safety, legality of prodjor concern. We take every lab located at our producucts, hygiene, food defense, action possible to ensure tion site to allow for effifood fraud, quality managethat the products our cuscient testing, such that we ment and HACCP with a tomers buy, fulfill our strict can act immediately if rescore of 97,6 out of 100. In requirements. Our apquired. the year 2019/20 we also proach is not just limited to kept our FDA License. To support our work with our own production facilifood safety and quality sevThese international certifities, as we also take eral policies have been crecates all focus on quality, remeasures to help educate ated including a minimum sponsible sourcing, traceaand improve all parts of the number of hours required bility and food safety are ausupply chain from farmer to for daily cleaning and the dited by 3rd parties on a conretailer. standpoint: “the Quality Detinues basis. It is important for us to compartment always has the fiWe have also implemented ply with the society’s high nal decision” in any context a set of KPIs tracking our expectations towards food related to food safety and performance on metrices safety and quality. To meet product quality. related to Quality and Food these expectations, Vega Certification safety, and these are rehas invested resources in ported internally as well as creating a top tier Quality Vega holds a list of certificato Vega’s board members Department with the purtions including ASC, Global on a monthly basis, along pose of testing every prodG.A.P, MSC, EU Organic, OU with and outline of any uct batch that enters and Kosher, and an IFS certificaplanned changes that will be leaves our factory. To assist tion covering all aspects of implemented to further our Quality Department, strengthen our effort.
