A leading equipment rental company We aim to be a productivity partner for our customers, a digital innovator and a frontrunner in our industry. As part of the sharing economy, Cramo is one of the leading providers of equipment rental services in Europe and a frontrunner in sustainability and digital innovation in the rental industry. Our ambition is to become our customers’ productivity partner in rental and beyond. We offer a full range of state-of-the-art construction machinery and equipment, innovative digital solutions as well as value-adding services. We aim to be a business partner with an offering that enhances the productivity, work safety and sustainability of customers. We serve more than 150,000 customers in construction and the industrial segment, the public sector and households through a network of 300 depots and a digital solution with an easy-to-access web portal and mobile applications. Our mission is Shared resources simplified. Through our digital solutions, we simplify the whole rental process and make it easier for our customers to plan, rent and manage equipment digitally, get a better overview of their rentals and manage returns of equipment. By making the sharing of our rental solutions and services easy and convenient, we are also driving the development towards a sharing economy across the industry. Cramo employs some 2,700 (FTE) rental professionals in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Lithuania, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia. In Russia and Ukraine, we operate through the 50-percent owned joint venture Fortrent. Cramo is a Nordic Mid Cap Company in the Industrials sector on Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Our Group head office is located in Vantaa, Finland. Comprehensive rental solutions We serve construction companies of all sizes, the industrial and public sectors as well as households. The needs and demands of the different customer segments vary not only depending on their size and sector, but also based on the type of business they are in – whether they work with new builds, renovations or maintenance, or as operators. We have the capability to bundle our products – tools, access and construction equipment, and work site facilities – and rental-related services so that they always meet the different customer demands in the best way. Customer mix, 613 MEUR Construction industry 65 Industrials 16 Other¹ 19 1 Other consists of public sector, households and other We are one of the few players in our industry with the capacity to serve the largest construction and industrial projects that have thousands of building professionals on site. With our comprehensive rental solutions, including advanced, value-adding services, we can serve our customers in every phase of a project – from planning and construction to project completion. This ensures that even the largest construction sites can be run as efficiently as possible, enabling our customers to focus on their core business and competences. Broad offering By combining our product portfolio with digital solutions and an extensive offering of services, we can provide a wide range of rental solutions from planning to completion that meet different customer needs and demands. We also share competences, best practices and insights with our customers to ensure the safe, sustainable and efficient use of our equipment. Sales by offering, 613 MEUR Rental 71 Services¹ 23 Other² 6 1 Services consists of assembly, maintenance, repair and logistics 2 Other mainly consists of sales of products and new machines Rental equipment and mobile applications Our comprehensive fleet consists of 217,000 rental units – modern and safe tools, access equipment, construction equipment and building site facilities with high environmental performance. Approximately 11,000 of the units are digitally connected. A connected fleet means an opportunity to monitor and gather data that can serve as an input for data-driven decision making and more efficient construction processes for our customers and for our development of value-adding services. Tools and complete package solutions in building equipment. Construction equipment for all types of assignments, from major infrastructure projects to small-scale jobs. Access equipment with comprehensive safety solutions for working at heights. Building site facilities for various purposes and capacity needs. 217,000 11,000 85% rental units digitally connected units electrically powered units within the energy powered ﬂeet For customer convenience, Cramo has developed two mobile applications, MyEquip for on-site rental management and Product Viewer for easy access to product data and documents. The MyEquip app lets customers order or return equipment on the go – whenever and wherever they want. The Product Viewer app gives customers easy, job-site access to tutorials, instructions and safety manuals for all of our rental equipment by scanning the product number on the equipment. Services Our services are focused on addressing the main concerns of customers and are developed to enhance productivity, work safety and sustainability – and to help run the most demanding projects efficiently. Construction logistics services cover five areas and include a total of twenty different services within preplanning, on-site logistics and logistics management, transport coordination and material management Management and planning services, such as recommendations on alternative methods and equipment or capacity needs, user and safety instructions, advice on applicable HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) regulations and standards Smart concepts for optimising on-site work processes, such as clean house, dry construction, smart energy and security Key figures in 2019 612.6 10.9% Sales, MEUR Comparable ROE 72.7 11.9% Comparable EBITA, MEUR Comparable EBITA margin 1.92 9.7 Net debt/EBITDA Lost time injury rate (LTIR)¹ 1 Number of work-related accidents with at least one full day of absence/million working hours Serving markets in Northern, Eastern and Central Europe Cramo is a leading player serving industrial and building construction customers with equipment rental and related services. We combine our proximity to customers and our understanding of their needs with an offering that increases productivity and work safety. Customer mix, % Construction industry 65 Industrials 16 Other¹ 19 1 Other consists of public sector, households and other Sales by business region, MEUR Scandinavia 339 Finland and Eastern Europe 144 Central Europe 129 Capital employed by business region, % Scandinavia 49 Finland and Eastern Europe 28 Central Europe 23 Personnel by country¹, % Sweden 36 Germany 18 Finland 17 Norway 8 Estonia 6 Poland 6 Lithuania 5 Other Central European countries 4 1 Headcount Scandinavia Scandinavia – Sweden and Norway – is Cramo’s traditionally strongest foothold and accounts for half of the revenue. Our Group Operational Centre is located in Stockholm, Sweden. In Norway, we have piloted many of our new innovations, for example pricing and digital solutions. Cramo is a true partner to our customers, some of which are the largest companies in Norway. The same model for business growth and improving customer loyalty will be tested in other countries as well. Finland and Eastern Europe Cramo’s Group Head Office is in Vantaa, Finland, close to Helsinki and logistically easy to reach. In addition to Finland, the segment’s 111 depots cover Estonia, Lithuania, Poland and Fortrent Group, a 50% owned joint venture in Russia. The use of our 24/7 digital services is growing in Finland, including status checks, order placement, fleet management, and machine-specific instructions and document downloads. Central Europe We expanded our offering in Central Europe in 2018 by acquiring the construction site logistics company KBS Infra. Through this acquisition we expanded our offering of equipment rental products in Germany into planning and logistics services. Cramo also serves the markets in Austria, Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia. Taking Cramo to the next level In 2019, we focused on developing and strengthening Cramo, a pure equipment rental company. An inspiring new vision and a differentiating strategy were defined, and the implementation was started with enthusiasm by all Cramo people. We are now well prepared to take the leap towards an even stronger position in our industry in Europe. Year 2019 was both successful and challenging for us. Cramo’s partial demerger was successfully completed at the end of June 2019. Carrying out such a complex transaction required a major effort from our people in every Cramo country. I am very impressed with and proud of our employees’ great contribution. With the more unstable and levelling market, 2019 was a challenging year for Cramo in terms of performance. The Group’s sales and organic sales decreased slightly and, as estimated, our profitability was weaker than in 2018. However, the Group’s cash flow was strong. As soon as we recognised that the performance for the year would be less than satisfactory, we launched a Group-wide performance enhancement programme to strengthen our competitiveness in a tightening market situation and to improve our profit generation. The programme aimed at right-sizing the organisation and operating expenses after the demerger, resulting in a more streamlined cost base. The programme was fully executed by the end of 2019. The full effect of the programme will be reached in 2020. A large part of the summer and autumn was also dedicated to strategy creation, resulting in Cramo’s new financial targets in pursuit of increased growth, capital efficiency, leverage and shareholder return. Becoming our customers’ productivity partner by delivering on our new strategy A new, inspiring chapter for all of us at Cramo has begun as we start developing our company towards its full potential as a business fully focused on equipment rental. Our starting points are solid: our market position is strong in Europe, and we are a recognised industry frontrunner in sustainability and digitalisation, two areas where we continue to have high ambitions to lead the way. There is no doubt that Cramo is still positioned as one of the strongest players on the market, as it has an extensive fleet, local presence and a broad range of services and solutions that give us good credibility as a supplier. Our strong values of commitment, credibility and creativity permeate our company and give us the advantage of strong customer relationships. Our new Cramo NXT strategy prepares us for the future through four focus areas. We will cement our market position through top-tier performance, expansion in the industrial segment, increased digitalisation and improved commercialisation of our services. We are a company with a history of capturing the potential of our markets and we will continue to do so. Our Cramo NXT strategy is an integral part of differentiating ourselves through the customer value we create and of fulfilling our vision of your productivity partner in rental and beyond! Focus on leveraging our operations and achieving business growth Performance in our depot network is the foundation for leveraging our operations and achieving business growth. This entails ensuring that we have the right coverage, product assortments, logistical set-up and fleet utilisation so that we can optimise our cost base and improve our revenue streams. We aspire to have a depot network where every depot contributes to improving our profitability. Our market position is an important part of our growth story. We aim to adapt our geographical footprint with the intention of being number one or two in the marketplace where we operate. This may be in a region or in a whole country. We want to be the one shaping the business environment and driving the customer experience in the equipment rental market. A strong position allows us to utilise our scale, which, in turn, contributes to efficient operations. Efficient operations involve strengthening and developing our business processes to further improve our way of working. Digitalisation and increased customer demands are putting new challenges on our organisation. By sharing best practice and developing new tools we can create new ways of working that increase efficiency not only for us internally, but also for our customers. Differentiation through our innovative service offering Services that differentiate us from the competition play a central role in delivering on our vision. Customers expect more and more advanced services that meet their needs and solve their key concerns related to productivity, sustainability and safety. We aim to harness this potential by offering a wide range of advanced construction site logistics and other services, often based on digital solutions to help customers run their sites more efficiently. We have chosen to take the lead in the digitalisation of our industry. At the beginning of 2019, we launched an eCommerce platform and two mobile applications that were very well received. We aim to continue to create innovative digital services that are based on customer needs as well as on data collected by our connected fleet. Continued focus on sustainability and on our people Sustainability is embedded in our strategy, and we have assured our industry position as a frontrunner in this field. We have invested in developing our sustainability framework, Cramo Care, and have worked systematically to improve our sustainability targets. The next step is to bring circularity into sharper focus and develop it as a part of our business rationale. We participated in a joint project together with one of our major customers and investigated the requirements for a CO2-free construction project. Our part in this project was to identify how we could eliminate the carbon footprint of our equipment. “We are Shapers” is our people promise and emphasises how we at Cramo focus on the development of our people. We know that people are the key factor to our future success. We take responsibility to align the development of our employees with our business strategy and ensure that people are a business agenda priority. We also recognise the importance of diversity and equality as prerequisites for building a culture that encourages innovation and sustainability. Public tender offer for all shares in Cramo by Boels approved early 2020 The consolidation of the European equipment rental industry, a trend in which also Cramo has been an active player, continued to intensify. On 11 November 2019, Boels Topholding B.V., one of the most renowned equipment rental companies in Europe, and Cramo entered into a Combination Agreement, pursuant to which Boels made a voluntary recommended public cash tender offer to purchase all of the issued and outstanding shares in Cramo. The offer was approved on 5 February 2020. The combination of Cramo and Boels Rental will create a more competitive organisation that is better positioned for greater growth, increased profitability and with the financial strength to better manage market challenges and level out economic volatility. The merger is a great strategic fit and utilises the strengths of each respective company. Factors such as the complementary geographical footprint, a stronger combined presence in mainland Europe, the optimised portfolio of products and services offered by joint operations, and the improved rental expertise through the combination of first-rate teams are examples of how the combined company will be a true European rental leader in quality and scale. Ready to take Cramo to the next level We have now taken the right steps to improve performance and set the foundation to differentiate ourselves from the competition. With our innovative solutions, digitalised offering, and committed employees, we are well positioned to capture the opportunities of changing markets and customer needs. We are on the brink of starting a new journey and I could not be more excited about taking Cramo to the next level! Sincerely, Leif Gustafsson President and CEO Financial targets 2019–2023 Double-digit EPS growth between 2019 and 2023¹ Operative ROCE² >15% by year-end 2023 Net debt to EBITDA lower than 3.0x Dividend pay-out ratio >50% of EPS³ 1 CAGR. Comparable EPS 2 Excluding goodwill and tangible assets. Operative ROCE defined as comparable EBITA to average of tangible assets and net working capital 3 Excess capital can be distributed through dividends or share repurchases Creating value through our competitive and efficient business model We create added value for our stakeholders and society by making the sharing of sustainable rental solutions simple and by driving our internal value-chain most efficiently. We provide customers with value-adding services and digital solutions that meet their needs and enhance their productivity. Supporting our people to perform at their best ensures our future success and value creation. Input Economic Fleet Equity MEUR 403 217,000 equipment rental items Net debt MEUR 376 11,000 digitally connected items 14,500 suppliers 85% electrically powered units within the energy 8,873 shareholders powered fleet Available through a network of 300 depots in 11¹ countries Available in Cramo’s 24/7 digital eCommerce platform Intellectual capital Human capital Strong, trusted brand 2,500 rental professionals (FTE) Corporate culture encouraging innovation Trainees, interns and summer employees Comprehensive competence and know-how Certified quality, environment and occupational health and safety management Social and relationships Natural Customer insights Energy Stakeholder dialogue Water Collaboration with partners Oils and chemicals Community relations Consumables 1 Cramo operates in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Lithuania, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia. In Russia Cramo operates through the 50 percent owned joint venture Fortrent Outcome Economic 2019 MEUR 2018 MEUR Customers Sales (services, solutions) 613 632 Employees Employee benefits 153 148 Suppliers Purchases 203 204 Owners Dividends paid 40 38 Financial community Financial expenses, net 13 10 Society Taxes, social security 50 53 charges, pension expenses Customer Care Sharing reduces the amount of new machinery and equipment needed, thus reducing the consumption of natural resources Cost-effectiveness by sharing costs Enabling optimisation of capital investments Services, solutions and innovations that increase productivity Flexible access to modern equipment with high safety and environmental standards Shared know-how, for example, within joint development projects Optimised transport utilisation Sustainable sourcing Employee Care Good work environment Fair employment conditions Personal development Career opportunities Diversity and non-discrimination Environmental Care Reduced CO2e emissions Increased energy efficiency Responsible waste handling and reduced waste volumes Social Care Business relations based on strong ethics and trust Added value through taxes to society in 11 countries Responsible corporate citizen 1 Competitive advantages 2,500 rental professionals (FTE) 217,000 rental units available in 300 Effective solutions and innovations serve over 150,000 customers in 11 depots based on customer needs countries 11,000 digitally connected units with Multi-channel business model to Sustainable solutions enabling and data driven insights ensure customer experience driving the sharing economy Shape and Share strategy’s financial targets achieved The financial targets of our former Shape and Share strategy for the Cramo Group and the Equipment Rental business were successfully achieved in early 2019 before the partial demerger. Following the partial demerger of Cramo, we started preparations to streamline the fully focused equipment rental company and to create a new strategy. To improve competitiveness and profitability going forward as a fully focused equipment rental company, a Group-wide performance enhancement programme was initiated after the partial demerger. The programme aims to secure a more streamlined cost base and was largely executed by the end of the year. Our new strategy for the 2019–2023 period was introduced in September 2019, and we started to execute it immediately. We have a strong track record of delivering on our strategy, proving the strength and capability of our organisation to focus on areas of strategic importance, and thus we strongly believe in our success with the new strategy as well. Cramo NXT – a strategy for growth and differentiation We created a new vision and strategy to better serve our growth and other strategic ambitions as a focused equipment rental company. We aim to capture the opportunities in the market through differentiation with a comprehensive offering that enables improved productivity for our customers. A deep understanding of our customers’ key concerns is central for our success. From the perspective of a fully focused equipment rental company, we thoroughly analysed our operating environment and the key concerns of customers in order to create a new vision and strategy for Cramo. The analysis showed that enhanced performance and differentiation will be the most critical success factors for a rental industry company in the future. We also identified significant opportunities to increase our core business, equipment rental, through, for example, intensified initiatives towards the industrial segment. The most important finding in discussions with our key customers was that their ultimate concerns are strongly related to the productivity of construction projects – concerns that we are able to address through our services and digital initiatives. Based on these key findings and a deep understanding of the different markets where we operate, we defined and started implementing our new vision and a strategy that we believe best supports our growth and future success as a top-tier company in our field of business. Our new vision is Your productivity partner in rental and beyond. We aim to achieve our vision by providing our customers with value-adding services that also differentiate us from the competition. Our new Cramo NXT strategy focuses on growth, further enhancing operational efficiency, strengthening our market position in the industrial segment, increasing our service offering and developing innovative digital solutions to improve customer efficiency. We have also defined four key enablers that will support us in realising our strategic objectives. Our values – credibility, creativity and commitment – remain unchanged. A video from Capital Markets Day in September 2019 summarising Cramo’s vision, Cramo NXT strategy and financial targets. Top-tier performance across group to improve our operational efficiency and further strengthen Cramo's position as a leading European equipment rental player Target: #1-2 position in each local market of relevance Read more Stronghold in the industrial segment to expand the business and to balance the cyclicality of construction business Target: 30% of revenues from industrial segments Read more Leading partner for services to provide a differentiating service offering promoting long-term customer partnerships that enable value-added benefits for customers while supporting equipment rental Target: 30% of revenue from services Read more Digital leader in the rental industry to increase productivity for our customers through digital initiatives that enable superior customer experience and productivity Target: 100% of construction and access equipment ﬂeet connected Read more New financial targets focusing on growth and operational efficiency We have four new financial targets based on the Cramo NXT strategy for the 2019–2023 strategy period. These targets cover growth, capital efficiency, leverage and shareholder return, offering a good balance between growth and operational efficiency. Financial targets 2019–2023 Double-digit EPS growth between 2019 and 2023¹ Operative ROCE² >15% by year-end 2023 Net debt to EBITDA lower than 3.0x Dividend pay-out ratio >50% of EPS³ 1 CAGR. Comparable EPS 2 Excluding goodwill and intangible assets. Operative ROCE defined as comparable EBITA to average of tangible assets and net working capital 3 Excess capital can be distributed through dividends or share repurchases Comprehensive approach to sustainability Sustainability is embedded in our strategy, and we have assured our industry position as a frontrunner in this field. During the year, we updated our sustainability strategy, in line with our new Cramo NXT business strategy. In the coming years we will increase our focus on sustainable customer use, transports and logistics as well as sustainable sourcing. Our aim is to have the most satisfied customers in the industry and to work together with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to further decrease the environmental and social footprint of rental equipment. We will also continue to improve our internal operations, integrating sustainability into all parts of our organisation. Our focus on business ethics, occupational health and safety, mitigating our environmental impact and taking an active role in the communities we operate in will remain strong. Cramo NXT enables us to take the lead in advancing sustainability in the rental industry and to move towards circularity. Non-ﬁnancial strategic targets Customer Care Strategic target: Most satisfied customers in the industry Target: Customer satisfaction index >75 Target: Share of units powered by electricity within the energy powered fleet 90% by 2023 Employee Care Strategic target: Zero accidents Target: LTIR¹ 0 by 2023 Environmental Care Strategic target: Zero emissions Target: Emissions² (t/MEUR revenue) <15 t/MEUR by 2023 Social Care Strategic target: Top ranking in business ethics Target: 0 legal proceedings 1 Number of work-related accidents with at least one full-day absence/million working hours 2 CO2e emissions, scope 1 and 2 (relative to sales). A market-based method is used to calculate the CO2e emissions from electricity Cramo as a productivity partner We aim to achieve our vision of being “Your productivity partner in rental and beyond” by providing our customers with value-adding services that also differentiate us from the competition. Our productivity partner approach is based on the motto that our customers’ success is our success. We serve the entire construction industry – from the planning phase to the finished construction site – and focus on helping our customers increase their productivity and work safety. Our digital applications enable 24/7 communication, allowing our customers to manage their fleet when convenient. Through our digital tools we also learn how customers behave by collecting data, and can transform it into service offerings that enhance our capability to be a productivity partner in our industry. Our part in the ecosystem of building and maintenance Our services are focused on addressing customer concerns. We have identified three key concerns – productivity, sustainability and safety – and we address them through value-added services that match customer demand, size and location. Different hub structures in different regions, paired with depots, make the logistics of physical equipment swifter and more cost-effective for everyone. With optimised repair and maintenance, we make sure our tools and equipment are ready to perform their part of the job at our customers’ sites while keeping up their resale value. Our comprehensive value chain of services, equipment and easy accessibility is built to inspire traditional customers to take new methods into use while answering even the most progressive customers’ demands. Top-tier performance to improve operational efficiency Target: #1-2 position in each local market of relevance With our vision to be a productivity partner for our customers, Cramo continues as a frontrunner of the rental industry. For us, top-tier performance has three main building blocks. Top-tier financial performance Firstly, financial performance will be boosted by systematically lifting performance across countries and networks, by rolling out a global pricing framework and by driving scale. A focus will be on Germany and Finland, where we are improving depot sales efficiency and adjusting the network as well as building on new teams and new capabilities across functions. This methodology has already been successfully applied in Norway. #1-2 position across relevant markets Secondly, we will reach for the number one or two position in our relevant markets by growing organically and by seizing M&A opportunities. The market for rental equipment is still very fragmented in Europe and offers big opportunities for growth. At the moment, the top 10 rental companies serve less than 30% of the market. Top-tier fleet efficiency Fleet efficiency is a primary key performance indicator in the rental business, and our fleet strategy is centred around driving fleet return and time utilisation. Through efficient fleet management, we aim to increase profitability for us and for our customers. Additionally, we aim to increase the amount of centrally negotiated equipment supplier contracts to 95%. With today’s 75% we are already at a very high level, considering we serve all kinds of local preferences. By helping our customers anticipate their needs throughout the construction site lifetime, we can increase the systematisation on our side. Regarding systematic improvement of fleet return and time utilisation, we have systematic ways to collect data from a large part of our fleet to optimise usage and performance. We monitor the impact that machine repairs and maintenance have on lifetime and resale value, resulting in the refurbishment of some machines to upgrade their capability levels. Top-tier fleet efficiency is also driven through depot optimisation and digital initiatives. Our hub structure is being adjusted to better meet market demands. We plan in advance how we operate in each of our areas, which depots and hubs have what machines, which customers we serve from where, and which services are offered to meet local demand. Systematic fleet management and digitalisation of order streams enable us to optimise our offering in large hubs as well as in small walk-in depots. Stronghold in the industrial segment – more tailored packages Target: 30% of revenues from industrial segments A significant share of our revenue already comes from the industrial segment where the correlation to the new construction cycle is low. In 2019, 16%, or EUR 99 million, of our revenue was from the industrial segment. Our target is to have 30% of revenue from the industrial segment to better shelter Cramo’s business from economic cycle swings. Cramo is one of the few actors on the market that can serve the needs of big industrial construction sites – from construction and industrial stops to supporting daily maintenance and operations. We invest in building upon our skills in serving industrial customers and on further expanding our offering to them through an increase in tailored packages and machines matched to their specific needs. Today’s tailored packages include, e.g., on-site services, dry chain and maintenance stop site hut packages. Cramo has signed industrial contracts that span from 12 to 70 months and are worth some EUR 60 million. These projects comprise activities in all our regions and each of them encompass 3 to 20 Cramo people and 1,000–3,500 rental items. Martin Holmgren Senior Vice President, Fleet Management, Cramo As an example, Cramo has been a preferred rental partner to a giant industrial project where Billerud Korsnäs built a state-of-the-art paper plant production line in Gruvön, Sweden. Our deliveries to this project contained all types of rental equipment, one of the largest site hut parks in Nordic history, electricity, hoists, access, tools and several connected services. In addition, Cramo served the industrial construction site with an on-site rental depot and it staffed different service functions during the main part of the construction. Follow the gigantic construction project, step by step, from January 2017 to May 2019. This enclosed video from the BillerudKorsnäs construction site shows you the all-round use of Cramos' equipment and related services during a large, complex industrial project. Leading partner for services – focused on addressing customer concerns Target: 30% of revenue from services To build on our services and further improve our customer understanding, we conducted a thorough study and interviewed some 80 customers in Sweden, Norway and Finland during 2019. Among other things, the responses confirmed that most of our customers want to focus on the construction or renovation job at hand and welcome a rental partner offering good construction site logistics. The majority of respondents in the study believe that Cramo could cover their needs for value-added services in rental and beyond during construction projects. We at Cramo want to further develop in this area and especially address the three biggest customer concerns: productivity, sustainability and safety. We have been working with Cramo for several years now and we are satisfied with their quality service, work speed, reliable equipment, flexibility and wide range of products for all our needs. Cramo is now our strategic rental equipment partner. By working with one main partner, we optimise our time and cost efficiency. Alvydas Černys Technical director, Conresta, Lithuania Having Cramo as a partner simplified several deliveries for our project. Cramo designed, planned and delivered both temporary heating and power. Everything worked as it should and Cramo was always available if we had any questions. Clas-Gøran Nordberg Site manager, JM, Norway Our target of 30% of revenue from services is a testament to the potential we see for this segment. In 2019, 23%, or EUR 139 million, of our revenue came from services. In Finland and Sweden, Cramo offers a very wide portfolio of both flexible and customised value-added services. In Germany, we increased our value-adding services through the KBS Infra acquisition in 2018. We aim to increase the services offered in all our operating countries. The expansiveness of our on-site value-adding services is well described through a project in which we helped to build the best children’s hospital in the world – a project that still makes us feel both humble and proud. For the New Children’s Hospital construction project in Finland, Cramo delivered: Construction site logistics, rental equipment delivery coordination, traffic and people flow management, loading and unloading, and transport to the installation area to ensure productivity Site tidiness and safety measurement to ensure safety Waste management, floor and material protection, and heating and dry construction services to ensure sustainability Digital services – how we create new value and solutions for industry Target: 100% of construction and access equipment ﬂeet connected We intend to be the frontrunner for digitally enabled business models in our industry. Insights collected throughout our operating countries guide our investment in digital solutions. These solutions help us to ensure that we are serving our customers with clear value-adds in productivity, sustainability and safety. To achieve this, we digitally streamline our internal operations, increase our fleet utilisation and, foremost, create added value for our customers through our digitally connected fleet and the data we receive from it. We already have in place a digital eCommerce platform and the Product Viewer and MyEquip apps, and other digital solutions are being developed. Digital innovation Our digital eCommerce platform is more than a rental tool – it gives our customers easy management of their rental fleet and rental costs. Every day, our sales forces work flexibly with our customers using our eCommerce offering, giving them access to the offering and up-to-date data and information whenever needed throughout the day. We are constantly adding more services to our eCommerce platform. In 2019, a pilot on temperature services was carried out. This service is accessible on a mobile screen and can be used to measure how concrete is maturing. Skanska’s Site Manager apprentice Janita Ojala has piloted the wireless eGate to measure humidity at her work site in Finland in real time. With eGate, I can monitor all measurement points at once, instead of one at a time. The weekly follow-up of average humidity values is also useful data. The cooperation with Cramo is proceeding well! Janita Ojala Site Manager apprentice, Skanska, Finland Our digital interfaces are a result of intensive customer journey studies. At the same time, smooth functions and increased transparency over the rented fleet and its costs help to increase customer productivity. It can be expensive for our customers to have machines they are not using just sitting at their construction sites. In the long run, it is of value to us to ensure our customers’ productivity. Therefore, we are piloting rental alerts to remind our customers to return unused items. Cramo Customer journey model Mobile access to documents and data Our Product Viewer app gives customers access to machineand tool-specific documents, such as machine registration, maintenance information and safety instructions. Site managers can use Product Viewer to find very detailed information, such as what kind of oil has been used in a specific machine, which can be useful information in case of an oil leakage. The app guarantees instant access to detailed product information – a feature that is new today, but will surely be an expectation in the future. Our MyEquip app shows the customer what they have on rent. For example, in Stockholm there are construction sites with hundreds of units of equipment on site at any given time. The customer is usually not well equipped to keep track of these as that is outside the scope of their core business, which makes it a timeconsuming and additional task. MyEquip gives the customer full transparency of what they have on rent at each construction site. Capturing opportunities in the market Cramo is focusing on further strengthening its leading position as a European equipment rental player and reaching the number one or two position in each local market of relevance. In several markets Cramo already is a strong player and sees potential for further uplift. Diversified end-market exposure drives balance between growth and stability. Our strategy aims at capturing opportunities in the market via differentiation through products, services and innovative digital solutions designed to increase productivity for our customers. In Sweden, Norway and Finland we see growth opportunities in both the industrial segment and through digital offerings as well as in the high demand for rental-related services. In our markets in Germany, Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Austria, Hungary and Slovakia, the growth opportunities are rooted in increasing rental penetration, outsourcing deals and in the possibility to proactively build on the demand for rental-related services. In all markets we are also looking to grow both organically and inorganically. Market outlook The estimated size of the rental market in the countries where Cramo operates totalled about EUR 10 billion in 2019. In 2019, the market growth levelled out in many countries. Our sales decreased largely due to overall weaker market conditions in Sweden, but was also affected by the ending of two large industrial projects. New projects were commenced only in late 2019 and will have positive sales impact in 2020. For 2020, the European Rental Association (ERA) estimates that growth in the equipment rental industry will be between 4-5% in all of Cramo’s operating countries, except in the Czech Republic and Polish market, where growth is forecasted to be 6% and above 8%, respectively.¹ In equipment rental, ERA sees two trends that are pushing rental penetration. One is the better understanding rental customers have regarding the advantages of renting out a piece of equipment, such as savings, modern equipment, more flexibility and less capital expenditure. Secondly, the rental market is consolidating, which plays a major role in the rental industry’s efficiency and promotion. 1 ERA Equipment Rental Industry 2019 Market Report Market overview and our position ERA Forecon Market size 2019 Market CAGR 19Market size 2019 Market growth Market position (ERA), MEUR 21 (Forecon), MEUR 2020, % estimate Scandinavia 2,500 3.9% 2,800 2.2% Sweden 1,600 3.6% 1,800 0.0% #2 Norway 900 4.5% 1,000 6.0% #3 Finland and 1,500 5.8% 1,700 6.4% Eastern Europe Finland 600 4.5% 800 5.0% #2 Eastern Europe1 900 6.6% 900 7.5% #1, #44 Central Europe 5,600 4.1% 5,600 4.3% Germany 4,900 4.0% 4,900 4.0% #4 Other Central 700 4.7% 700 4.8% #23 2 Europe Total market 9,600 4.3% 10,100 4.0% Forecon data for Poland and Central European countries based on ERA outlook for 2019 and 2020 1 Estonia, Lithuania and Poland 2 Austria, Czech Republic and Slovakia 3 #2 in Austria and one of the leading equipment rental companies in Czech Republic and Slovakia 4 #1 in the Baltics and #4 in Poland Sources: ERA market report and Forecon Market with long term structural growth and robust mid-term outlook Equipment rental outgrowing the construction market Source: ERA Market Reports, Forecon, EIU, Euroconstruct, World Bank 1 In Cramo’s geographic markets. Data for Sweden, Finland and Norway are based on average between ERA and Forecon (starting 2013/2014 depending on data availability). No historical data available for Austria and Czech Republic beyond 2013; 2013 figures applied as base numbers for years before A diversiﬁed end-market exposure drives balance between growth and stability Mature markets Developing markets End-markets Share of sales (2019) ~70% ~30% Construction rental penetration High Low Growth and volatility Robust mid-term growth outlook Mid to high single-digit growth Less amplitude in cycles outlook Higher amplitude in cycles Growth opportunities Industrial and digital offering Large outsourcing deals enabling growth Medium demand for rental-related High demand for rental-related services services Organic and non-organic growth Organic and non-organic growth opportunities opportunities Scandinavia Our market position in Scandinavia has been strong for years – but we can ensure further growth and profitability by spreading our business to less cyclical customer segments. In Sweden, we hold an established position as one of the top two rental partners. In Norway, we are well-equipped to further strengthen our position as one of the top players in the market. We want to grow along with our customers in both of these markets. We aim for digital leadership and to help customers increase their productivity through our effective and transparent digital business models. Based on forward-looking rental market analyses and the ongoing digital transformation in our society, our new Cramo NXT strategy clearly defines the adjustments needed to secure our longterm profitability. We will further focus on our customer offerings and all the enabling activities for the coming business period. Henrik Norrbom Executive Vice President, Scandinavia, Cramo Business environment Scandinavia accounts for some 55% of the Group’s revenue. There is a strong tradition of renting instead of owning, and services are expected. In 2019, Cramo held the biggest market share in Sweden. Outside the market’s top two players, who have a national presence, there are smaller competitors who are more scattered and have local strongholds. The market growth has been levelling out, and a decline in residential building can already be detected as a precautionary reaction to market uncertainty. Public sector construction projects are still expected to grow, albeit at a slower pace. The market share in bigger projects, like infrastructure and industrial projects, remains lucrative, thanks to less volatility, longer contracts, comprehensive orders and skilled procurement. The market continues to be strong in Norway, where the building and construction market is expected to grow and is being driven especially by big new infrastructure projects and the building of hospitals for the public sector. The competition is strong with more than 200 rental companies, and the market leader is estimated to have a market share of some 13%. Cramo is building towards becoming one of the top two players in the Norwegian market. Advantages Digital ﬂeet management All Cramo digital tools are fully accessible in all markets in Scandinavia. The ongoing digital transformation is driving us to further expand our digital offering with even more smart tools and services that increase our customers’ efficiency and profitability. Supported by our new strategy, we aim to assume our position as the “Digital leader in the rental industry”. Our eCommerce platform supports easy online rental, return and fleet management encompassing all rental items as well as cost follow-up and invoices. The Product Viewer app gives easy on-site access to detailed product information – from measurements to weight and reach as well as user manuals, safety instructions and other documents. The MyEquip app is especially designed for on-site management of all rental items, not only Cramo’s; it also gives direct access to smart return functions to help our customers to return equipment that is not being used in a fast and easy way. After a short and simple demo of Cramo’s eCommerce solution we decided to implement it for our company. The solution provides us with prices and all the necessary product information. It is easy to use – just like any other web shop! We like that we can both order and return equipment through the same solution. Cramo’s eCommerce solution definitely saves us time in our day to day work. Richard Wessberg Site manager, Consto, Norway Size Our modern fleet, leading depot network and in-house competences cover all our market areas, assuring our ability to take on both demanding and complex projects. Cramo is one of the few players that can provide a full scope of equipment and services and solve big, project-specific issues. Wide range of services Cramo offers a wide range of rental-related services, such as electricity, climate and heating assembly, site huts and site hut assembly. In addition to the more traditional services, we also offer our customers training services, for example in equipment usage and safety. Our customer base that uses our digital services, such as online access for ordering and monitoring deliveries, online returns etc., is continuously growing, and will continue to do so going forward. Solid references We have a very solid track record of successful customer projects that speak for themselves. In 2019, our partnerships in Sweden included the building construction site of a new paper plant production line for Billerud Korsnäs in Gruvön, the building of the new Children’s Hospital Östra Sjukhuset in Gothenburg, as well as the renovation of the Swedish government’s Head Office, a project involving high-level security practices. In Norway, successful projects in 2019 included deliveries of power, heating, hoist, construction, access and building machinery as well as on-site support for Veidekke’s large, prestigious residential project in Ulven and deliveries of equipment even beyond the normal range for the construction of a large winter park outside Oslo. Highlights of 2019 Digital productivity partnership Small and mid-sized customers have realised that they need a good digital agenda and we can provide them with that. The biggest interest can be seen in the traditional segment, meaning building companies, where our experts proactively help customers use the digital tools. Utilisation is growing steadily as customers see the benefits both from the perspective of cost and fleet management. Everything is documented in Cramo eCommerce. Thanks to Cramo eCommerce, I know exactly how much we rented during the project. And it lets me book equipment in advance. This has given me, and everyone involved in the project, much more control. Axel Lindström Entrepreneur engineer, RO Gruppen, Sweden Innovative ﬂeet optimisation We are building on the sharing economy by innovating new ways to optimise fleet efficiency. Through a service we have piloted with some customers, we use the IoT to monitor their rental fleet and take notice when a rental item has not been used for a while. We ask the customers if they want to return the idle equipment and tools to us to avoid unnecessary rental costs. Removing the dispensable rental fleet from the customer not only saves them costs, space and time, it also ensures that we have the equipment and tools available to other customers. Positive performance development and strengthened position in Norway Since 2017, we have focused on strengthening our performance development in Norway. We started by creating a sense of urgency in our organisation and then defining and communicating a clear common goal – a target of financial growth. Empowering our personnel to engage with the growth plan was crucial. We then concentrated on three development areas: making sure that we have the right people in the right places; systematically improving our sales process; and adjusting our depot network. The development has been positive: not only has our performance improved, but we are also perceived as a potential partner by all of the largest construction companies in Norway. Several new industrial contracts In 2019, we won three significant industrial contracts in Sweden, lasting between 36-70 months and valued at EUR 50 million. 1. SCA’s updated paper plant in Obbola: Cramo is a main provider of rental equipment, tools and services. Revenue is approx. EUR 10 million, and project timeline is estimated to be 36 months. 2. Northvolt’s battery factory in Skellefteå: Cramo is one of the main rental partners. Construction will last some 70 months, require some 3,000 rental items, on-site Cramo employees, and will bring revenue of approx. EUR 28 million. 3. Microsoft’s new server centre in the Gävle region: Cramo will work together with Microsoft’s partners being the preferred rental partner in the first three phases. Revenue is approx. EUR 12 million and will require some 1,500 rental items. Project timeline is estimated to be 36 months. 2020 focus on top-tier performance and digital leadership To reach a top-tier performance, we need to further diversify our customer projects portfolio so that it is more balanced and includes less cyclical business areas offering more secure growth. Especially in Norway, we are focusing on growth to achieve the number 1-2 positions on the market. Our organic growth in Scandinavia will be further boosted by digital leadership, where as a frontrunner in digital solutions we have the tools in place to increase customer productivity and to offer an improved customer journey and user experience. At the same time, we are increasing our own fleet utilisation and concentrating on developing additional customer value through a connected fleet and data. Our target is to have 100% of our construction and access equipment fleet digitally connected by 2023. 2019 Sales MEUR 2019 Comparable EBITA MEUR 2019 Comparable Operative ROCE 339.4 60.1 18.7% 2018: 370.5 2018: 74.8 Sales by customer group, MEUR Construction industry 249 Industry 39 Other 51 Finland and Eastern Europe Customer behaviour and expectations form the basis for our offering in each country – Finland, Estonia, Lithuania and Poland. We follow the markets, interact with our customers and, when we see favourable signs, proactively introduce new services to support our customers’ success. This is how we have been growing the vast service range Cramo has to offer in Finland for over 65 years. Cramo NXT draws on our strengths and turns them into targets and actions we can easily refer to. It is a strategy that is easy to understand for all our people and therefore we can really act according to it. The new strategy gives us the tools to offer value to our customers while at the same time is allows us to act and have an impact on our own results. Tatu Hauhio Executive Vice President, Finland and Eastern Europe, Cramo Business environment Finland and Eastern Europe account for some 24% of the Group’s revenue. The area consists of quite different markets. In 2019, the competitive environment in Finland remained similar to the previous year. Momentum was good during the first half of the year, but residential construction declined, and some bigger construction sites were finalised during the second half. For 2020, there is still a good amount of public and industrial construction as well as renovation under way, although customers are anticipating a market downturn. Changes in buying behaviour, like requesting bids on smaller parts of a total offering, are beacons of a downturn and an attempt to reduce prices. We see this also as an opportunity to show that total solution contracts can clearly benefit customers who have fewer of their own people and want subcontractors with full-scope capabilities. In Estonia, increased competition consists of more versatile actors entering the market, whereas the markets in Lithuania and Poland are still dominated by small, specialised companies. In these markets, the customers generally do not expect any services from their subcontractors. Through reassurance and verification of the benefits of combining equipment rental with services, Cramo is working on winning bigger market shares in Eastern Europe. In Estonia and Lithuania, the service market is slowly building, and we have commenced to the offering of equipment through digital platforms. We have been working with Cramo for several years now and we are satisfied with their quality service, work speed, reliable equipment, flexibility and wide range of products for all our needs. Cramo is now our strategic rental equipment partner. Working with one main partner optimises our time and cost efficiency. Alvydas Černys Technical director, Conresta, Lithuania In Poland, the fundamentals are in place for market growth; the number of apartments compared to people is low. The Polish market is expected to return to normal growth after a slight slowdown. Advantages Comprehensive service portfolio In Finland, we have a very broad service portfolio that allows us to easily respond to customer expectations and help them be more productive. By offering services such as site logistics, environmental and safety services, and right-on-time maintenance equipment, we enable them to focus on their key business. Through our new expert services offering, we have certified engineers to support customers in the measurement of drying concrete or heat maps, for example. User friendly eCommerce digital platform Our digital solutions have an easy-to-access web portal and are in a class of their own in terms of functions and performance. Our customers benefit by using the digital platform and applications for fleet management, document and safety instruction downloads, as well as rental returns and cost calculations. Trying to reach people over the phone can be slow going. Now I don’t have to figure out where to call first to ask for specific equipment, I just go to the Cramo eCommerce platform and rent what I need – all at once and without unnecessary delays! Mikko Saarinen Site Manager and Site Engineer, Peab, Finland Insight into total equipment costs We help customers make timeand cost-efficient decisions by giving them insight into the total equipment costs. In addition to acquisition costs and resale prices, the total cost of equipment includes setup, repair and maintenance costs. We offer customers not only cost-effectiveness, but also responsibility: not only do we rent equipment, but we also make sure it works so that the customers can concentrate on meeting their productivity targets. Good reputation Our reputation as a quality company is an advantage, especially in Lithuania and Poland. In Poland, our quality offering combined with rental equipment inspection documentation differentiates us from the competition. I would like to thank Cramo Sp. o.o. for its cooperation and professionalism in the implementation of the investment “Non-invasive Medicine Centre Stage 2”. Thanks to the quality of your work and high standards of service, we were able to carry out our work on time. We hope to cooperate on future projects. Deputy Site Manager, ERBUD S.A., Branch office Toruń, Poland Depot network Especially in the Estonia and Lithuania markets, our depot network and expansive equipment portfolio give us a competitive advantage. And our new, optimised hub and depot network in Finland bring a renewed competitive advantage. As a main contractor, we always have to plan well in advance to ensure construction projects progress according to the planned schedule. When renting equipment and machinery from Cramo, we do not have to plan too far ahead – we always get what we need, exactly when we need it. Heiko Raschinski Project Manager, YIT Eesti AS, Estonia Highlights of 2019 Successful roll-out of logistics optimisation In 2019, the organisation and logistics setup in Finland was reorganised around an automatic tool circulation process and central product coordination. Logistics planning and tool transfer control was centralised to one unit, allowing stock level optimisation based on market demand and outlooks. The big hubs provide tools and the small depots close to the customer provide large equipment, thereby improving fleet return and time utilisation. Joint development of digital services Cramo Finland has been set on learning to better understand customer expectations while offering customers user-support for digital services. The number of orders received through our eCommerce platform is growing. We engage with our customers to find the services they value, such as equipment documentation and easy returns, and put more and more effort on showing them how these can benefit their business and help with fleet management. We began threading some exciting new paths in 2019 when we launched our new Dry Chain 10 [Kuivaketju 10] offering to our customers in Finland. Throughout the year, our certified engineers have helped customers to plan and execute a dry construction environment. Simultaneously, new expert services that use digital and AI (artificial intelligence) solutions are being developed. We are working to give our customers better visibility over their site, work progress, machine usage and safety features. Tatu Hauhio Executive Vice President, Finland and Eastern Europe, Cramo Maintenance break cycle tool part of portfolio Our maintenance break cycle management tool developed in 2018 became a part of our customer service offering in Finland in 2019. The tool ensures that customers can obtain all the equipment they need right when they have their service maintenance break. It also allows us to serve more customers because we can optimise the utilisation of equipment needed for maintenance between the different maintenance breaks. eCommerce to Eastern Europe In 2019, we introduced our digital eCommerce platform to our customers in Estonia and the first customers have started using it. In Lithuania, where the digital platform was introduced in late 2018, we see good opportunities to increase the variety of digital services offered, as customers are already utilising the digital platform to complete orders. 2020 focus on productivity partnership In many markets, our customers are focused on improving their own efficiency and development – and they expect efficiency from their suppliers as well. Customers want to optimise the time construction workers spend on an actual job, and we help them find ways to achieve that through logistics and work planning. We develop and pilot innovations to help customers get visibility over their site and the use of our equipment. 2019 Sales MEUR 2019 Comparable EBITA MEUR 2019 Comparable Operative ROCE 144.0 19.4 10.7% 2018: 147.0 2018: 23.6 Sales by customer group, MEUR Construction industry 102 Industry 20 Other 23 Central Europe We continue to wrap the integration of logistics and on-site services as well as management and planning services into our offering for Central Europe. As a continuum to the KBS acquisition in 2018 in Germany, we served our first mid-sized customers with offerings ranging from the installation of construction site fencing to project finalisation. In Central Europe, we are focused on integrating KBS services into our equipment rental offering. It enables us to be a true productivity partner for our customers in all phases of their projects. Cramo NXT is a solid strategy and a perfect match for what we can and need to do in our region. Hartwig Finger Executive Vice President, Central Europe, Cramo Business environment Central Europe accounts for some 21% of the Group’s revenue and is starting to capture the great potential for organic growth. In 2019, construction market growth has been slowing in Germany, but demand for services – from the planning phase to project finalisation – is still strong. The market and demand are clearly divided according to customer size. Cramo has a good market position to serve mid-sized customers, where there is growing demand for subcontractors with a comprehensive offering – from rental equipment products to on-site services. Customer demand services and digital compliance are especially triggered by the younger generations looking for easy and smooth ways to manage construction site logistics. As a result of the integration of the site logistics services acquired through KBS and our development of digital eCommerce platforms and applications, we are able to truly grow. The market in Austria and Hungary remains good. The market for complete solutions is beginning to mature in Austria, while customer demand in Hungary is still more focused on specialised offers. In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, construction market growth is stabilising. Customers generally split contracts and acquire rental equipment and services from specialised companies. In 2019, the market became more competitive in certain areas where Cramo operates, such as access equipment. There are many reasons why Cramo is such an important partner for HSF System. Besides being helpful and reliable, they serve us flexibly with on-time and accurate deliveries, and they have a broad range of products. Cramo simply helps us meet our daily targets. We are glad our close cooperation has lasted for years, and we hope it will continue in the same way for many years to come. Jan Hasik CEO and owner, HSF System, Czech Republic Advantages Robust basis for expanded offering Our customer value has been created through strong commitment to each construction project and the high quality of delivered items and services. These form an excellent basis when building on our new offering ranging from equipment rental products to planning and logistics services. Our comprehensive offering of products and services is our springboard for generating organic growth in Central European markets. Hartwig Finger Executive Vice President, Central Europe, Cramo Leader in quality and commitment In Central Europe, the market is fragmented. Our customers value the quality of our rental equipment repair and maintenance services. They trust that when they rent from us, they will get their equipment on time and in fully functional condition. Our market position forms a robust basis for being the leader in quality and commitment as well as for increasing our offering with site-related services. Stronghold in access equipment In the Czech Republic, we have a clear market stronghold in the rental of access equipment. Our focus on creating customer value through good customer service and interaction is paying off and forms an advantage as competition on the market is increasing. Highlights of 2019 New service offering brought new customers and an improved market position We gained two new industrial customers in the automotive industry as well as several new customers in midsized construction projects in Germany to whom we deliver equipment and services throughout the building process. In our offering to these new customers, we have combined Cramo’s equipment rental and the acquired KBS Infra’s construction site logistics and site planning services. We receive full service around the construction site and prompt answers on enquiries; and, no matter where the project takes place, we can rely on fair delivery and rental prices. Patrick Weiss Implenia Instandhaltung und Tiefbau, Germany We have chosen Cramo as a rental partner as they are well-organised and can serve us throughout Germany. We always receive fast and professional service – even on short notice, they handle our enquiries with ease. Key criteria for us are high quality and good personal relations that make co-operation easy. Mr Hüftle Wolff & Müller, Germany Our joined offering – ranging from the installation of construction site fencing to project finalisation – and knowhow of Cramo and KBS give us better prerequisites to serve customers directly on their construction site. We have received a very positive welcome and are regarded as a reliable partner for all parties involved in construction. Looking towards the future, we see a huge potential to together improve our market position further, and in doing so, attract new customers and partners. Stefan Diegisser Managing Director, KBS Infra GmbH Successful trade show In April we participated in BAUMA 2019, the world’s largest construction machinery trade fair. Our participation paid off, and customers welcomed our value-added offering that combines equipment rental products with planning and logistics services for construction projects. 2020 focus on top-tier performance and packaging of services Cramo is already seen as a reliable and committed partner in all Central European rental equipment markets. In 2019 we continued to shape our offering and focused our sales on addressing client concerns. In many regions and customer segments, the market has matured to receive consistently packaged and structured offers that include both products and services. Especially in Germany, there is a growing demand for these from mid-sized customers. Going forward, we will focus on utilising our new capabilities to offer planning and logistics services in addition to rental services in order to grow organically in all markets. 2019 Sales MEUR 2019 Comparable EBITA MEUR 2019 Comparable Operative ROCE 129.4 5.5 3.2% 2018: 114.4 2018: 9.5 Sales by customer group, MEUR Construction industry 46 Industry 40 Other 43 Cramo’s strategic approach to sustainability In 2019, we advanced sustainability in many areas. We continued investing in the development of our framework, Cramo Care, and worked systematically to improve our sustainability targets. We worked in a joint project with one of our major customers to investigate the requirements for a CO2-free construction site. Our part in this project was to identify how we could eliminate the carbon footprint of our equipment. We also put special focus on our people through our people promise “We are Shapers”. During the year, we updated our sustainability strategy to align with our new business strategy Cramo NXT. It enables us to take the lead in advancing sustainability in the rental industry and to move towards circularity. Sustainability as a foundation for our business Rental is a sustainable business model for managing assets. It enables more efficient use of equipment and, at the same time, reduces the demand for non-renewable resources. Our sustainability strategy is in line with and mutually supportive of our business strategy, which is aimed at strengthening our long-term focus from the perspective of all our stakeholders. Our ambition is to lead the way in advancing sustainability in the rental industry and to meet the requirements of our stakeholders and of internationally agreed standards. Sustainability has a direct impact on our internal value creation through growth, return on capital and risk management. It also generates value for our customers and other stakeholders, leading to greater costeffectiveness, improved access to products with the highest safety and environmental standards, and a reduced environmental impact. We have assured our position as a sustainability frontrunner in our industry. Through our updated sustainability strategy, we will further increase the focus on sustainable customer use, transports and logistics as well as sustainable sourcing in parallel with improving internal operations. Maria Karlsson Vice President, Sustainability, Cramo The key elements of our sustainability strategy: 1. Moving towards circularity Responsible sharing of resources is the core of our business. Our ambition is to work together with our customers and other stakeholders to further decrease the environmental and social footprint of rental equipment and to meet customer demands by focusing on sustainable customer use, transports and logistics and sustainable sourcing. Cramo NXT enables us to take the lead in advancing sustainability in the rental industry, as the digital leader and a leading partner for services. Through Cramo NXT, we are moving towards circularity. 2. Cramo Care – our model for responsible business Cramo Care is our model for responsible business, integrating sustainability into all parts of our organisation. We have a strong focus on business ethics, occupational health and safety, mitigating our environmental impact and taking an active role in the communities we operate in. The enablers of our sustainability strategy: 1. Value-creating targets include both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial objectives Our key performance indicators and value-creating targets allow us to monitor and continuously improve our performance and to meet the requirements of our customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders. 2. Overall responsibility lies with Group Management, whereas operational responsibility and employee engagement lie with country managers Cramo Group Management has overall responsibility for the strategy and policies. Country managers are responsible for their implementation and integration at the country level. 3. Relevance and continuous improvement are strengthened through an active dialogue with all stakeholder groups and partnership development initiatives with front-line actors Strategic partnerships with leading experts and our stakeholders put us at the forefront in developing sustainable rental solutions. Cramo and circularity 1. Replacing the concept of a consumer with that of a user Responsible sharing of resources is the core of our business. Rental replaces the concept of a consumer with that of a user, which enables more efficient use of equipment and reduces the demand for non-renewable resources. Read more  2. Replacing non-renewable fuels Cramo’s ambition is to step-by-step increase the use of renewable energy internally as well as among customers. Our target is to have 90% electric-powered units within the energy-powered fleet by 2023 and >90% renewable electricity at our depots. Read more  3. Sustainable sourcing Sustainable sourcing is an area where we have identified potential improvements. Our ambition is to work with Original Equipment Manufacturers to further decrease the environmental and social footprint of rental equipment. Read more  4. Increasing the life span of rental units Periodic maintenance of our equipment as well as refurbishing or renewing our site huts is part of our business model, and it increases the life span of our rental units. Read more  Cramo Care material aspects Strategic targets Strategic Target Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Status1 target 2019 2018 2017 2016 Customer Most CSI2 steady 75 75 73 72 Care satisfied over 75 customers in the industry Share of 85% n/a n/a n/a units powered by electricity within the energy powered fleet: 90% by 20233 Employee Zero LTIR4 0 by 9.7 8.85 9.9 13.7 Care accidents 2023 EnvironmentalZero Emissions6 19.47 15.6 17.5 18.4 Care emissions (tonnes/MEUR tonnes/MEUR tonnes/MEUR tonnes/MEUR tonnes/MEUR sales) <15 tonnes/MEUR by 2023 Social Care Top ranking 0 legal 0 18 0 0 in business proceedings ethics (human rights, corruption, environment) 1 On-going – excellent progress or target achieved On-going – on track On-going – not on track 2 Weighted average. Hungary and Slovakia are for statistical reasons excluded from the survey 3 New KPI since 2019 4 Number of work-related accidents with at least one full day of absence / million working hours 5 The result from 2018 is adjusted from 9.5 to 8.8 due to adjusted numbers of working hours 6 CO2e emissions, scope 1 and 2 (relative to sales). A market-based method is used to calculate the CO2e emissions from electricity 7 The increase in CO2e emissions scope 1 and 2 (relative to sales) is due to the demerger of Adapteo in 2019 and the acquisition of KBS Infra in 2018. KBS is included for the first time in the reporting for 2019 8 In 2018, there was one case of sexual harassment reported in Cramo’s operations. The case was investigated by the company, which took actions, and was also heard in a court of law. The company was not a party in the legal proceeding Aiming to exceed stakeholder expectations The foundation of our sustainability strategy is a materiality study that identified our stakeholders’ top priorities and our major impacts throughout the value chain. Our ambition is to exceed our stakeholders’ requirements. The Sustainable Development Goals have also been part of the materiality study. We have identified three goals where our actions have the highest impact: These, as well as all the other goals, are taken into consideration throughout the strategy development process. Our biggest impacts occur beyond our direct control. Therefore, we have to work in partnership with suppliers, customers and other stakeholders to tackle these challenges and seize opportunities throughout the value chain. Impacts throughout our value chain Major negative impacts Major positive impacts 1. Supply chain resource use innovation focused on resource environmental risks efficiency, increased circularity health and safety risks and improved safety corruption risks human rights risks 2. Cramo resource use rental as a resource-efficient health and safety risks alternative to owning improved safety strong values and well-anchored ethical guidelines 3. Transportation resource use transport optimisation 4. Customer use resource use resource efficiency health and safety risks waste reduction corruption risks enabling safe working environments 5. End of life waste innovation focused on increased environmental risks circularity health and safety risks controlled phase-out of outdated corruption risks equipment human rights risks Since 2009, Cramo has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact, supporting the ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Efficient internal operations Our sustainability platform establishes clear targets and ways to monitor performance and priorities. To uphold our commitment, and to ensure the quality and relevance of our solutions, we work for continuous improvement. We have established a Group-wide structure of Cramo Care managers in every country. Together with the country managers and local specialist functions, Cramo Care managers work to develop and implement local action plans based on our sustainability strategy. Local target setting and action plan development are part of the business planning and budgeting process, and follow-up is conducted on a regular basis. Internal organisation, roles and responsibilities Cramo aspires to lead the way in advancing sustainability in the rental industry and to continuously mitigate our impact across the value chain. Our rental solutions provide safe, resource-efficient options for our customers, enabling them to excel in meeting their stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. from the Cramo Care Policy Aiming for ISO certification in all markets We aim to have the most satisfied customers in the industry and a leading market position in our chosen markets. In 2017, we made the decision that all our markets should be certified according to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001, or similar standards. In 2019, we continued the work to establish and implement common Group policies, targets and processes with a focus on quality, environmental improvements, and health and safety. During the year, Estonia and Poland finalised their certification processes for ISO 9001 and became two of five Cramo markets that are certified. Estonia also finalised its certification process for ISO 14001 and ISO 45001. A decision was made during the year to extend the deadline for when all markets need to be certified, from 2020 to 2023. Advancing sustainability in the rental industry The rental industry experiences the same kind of sustainability challenges that Cramo does, and cooperation is sometimes needed to meet those challenges. The European Rental Association’s (ERA) Sustainability Committee was established in 2013 with Cramo as an active member. We are also an active member of the ERA’s Technical Committee, which has a strong focus on product safety. Through our membership and together with other rental companies, we are advancing sustainability in our industry. In 2019, the ERA conducted a study on the carbon footprint of rental equipment. Depending on specific user practices, it’s estimated that renting instead of owning can lead to significant reductions in CO2 emissions, in the range of 30% and sometimes over 50%. The parameters with the most influence on the carbon footprint of equipment are intensity of use, using the right equipment for the job, transportation and maintenance. During the year, the ERA also initiated a Sustainable Supplier Assessment project. The aim of the project is to develop an industry-wide approach to sustainability assessment that can be completed once by the supplier and then used to meet multiple requests from rental companies. Nasdaq ESG Transparency Partner It is vital that our customers, investors, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders trust that we conduct business in an ethical, transparent and lawful manner. During the strategy period, we have increased our focus on sustainability reporting, and, in 2019, Cramo became a Nasdaq ESG Transparency Partner. We will annually report environmental, social and governance data to the Nasdaq ESG Disclosure Portal, further improving our transparency. Reporting to the CDP Cramo is focused on being the most climateand resource-efficient rental solutions company. We have been reporting to the CDP since 2013; in 2019, we received a score C (D in 2018). The improved result shows greater awareness and ability to report on our progress. We are continuously improving our way of managing and following up on our carbon footprint. Moving towards circularity Sustainability is embedded in our strategy, and we have assured our position as a sustainability frontrunner in our industry. During the year, we updated our sustainability strategy, in line with our Cramo NXT business strategy. In the upcoming years, we will increase our focus on sustainable customer use, transports and logistics as well as sustainable sourcing. Our aim is to have the most satisfied customers in the industry and to work together with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to further decrease the environmental and social footprint of rental equipment. We will also continue to improve our internal operations, integrating sustainability into all parts of our organisation. We will maintain our sharp focus on business ethics, occupational health and safety, mitigating our environmental impact and taking an active role in the communities we operate in. Cramo NXT enables us to take the lead in advancing sustainability in the rental industry and to move towards circularity. 2020 Implementation of the new sustainability strategy will start in 2020. We will continue the work to establish and implement common Group policies, targets and processes with a focus on quality, environmental improvements, and health and safety. We will also continue to raise issues concerning sustainability and responsible sharing in the European Rental Association and other forums. Dialogue with stakeholders seen as an investment Through our marketing and communications efforts, we want to ensure all stakeholders have a strong buy-in to the Cramo brand and our key initiatives. We invest in active dialogue as well as support the business, management and employees with information, which is accessible, relevant and gives increased understanding for our business. How we communicate and cooperate with our stakeholders Customers Priorities Activities and channels issues included in Cramo’s mission – Shared depots and online solution resources simplified; vision – Your productivity partner ombudsman in rental and beyond; and value proposition – safety and other training programmes Credibility, Creativity and Commitment co-development projects related to innovations and health and safety resource efficiency business ethics digital solutions enhancing operational excellence resource efficiency customer satisfaction survey operational excellence news releases, websites, social media and local responsible suppliers customer magazines innovations ensuring future success events, fairs and seminars strong brand Annual Report including sustainability Personnel Priorities Activities and channels mission, vision and values People strategy employee satisfaction People promise health and safety Code of Conduct diversity and equality safety training skills development programmes for health and well-being development plans and goals Cramo School and Cramo Academy business ethics and sustainability issues Cramo Dialogue performance management new employee brand expression intranet and employee magazine employee events Great Place to Work Annual Report including sustainability Investors and shareholders Priorities Activities and channels market environment stock exchange releases performance and business value business reviews, half-year financial report and operations financial statements bulletin corporate responsibility Annual Report including sustainability reporting Board of Directors’ report strategy Group website and social media financial position Corporate Governance Statement mergers and acquisitions Annual General Meeting investor and analyst meetings and events Partners and suppliers Priorities Activities and channels responsibility throughout the supply chain supplier evaluation criteria energy efficiency and other environmental aspects implementation of Supplier Code of Conduct safety co-development projects to find safe, resourceefficient processes efficient solutions promoting sustainability and sharing digitalised solutions, such as purchase-to-pay solution purchase system (supplier catalogue) Local communities Priorities Activities and channels engaging with and supporting local communities Groupand country-level charities and sponsorships partnership with SOS Children’s Villages job opportunities and traineeships for people outside the labour force Trade and other associations Priorities Activities and channels developing sustainability and the attractiveness of the active member of the European Rental Association rental industry as a future employer in Europe (ERA) promoting the sharing economy member of the UN Global Compact Cramo’s President and CEO is a Board member of ERA Media Priorities Activities and channels digital leader in our industry press releases major deals and acquisitions management interviews sustainability and responsibility websites and social media strategy and business Sustainability contact: Maria Karlsson, Vice President, Sustainability tel: +46 70 249 87 44 email: maria.a.karlsson@cramo.com Customer Care Strategic target: Most satisfied customers in the industry Priority will be given at all times to our customers’ key concerns – safety at construction sites, resource efficiency and strong business ethics. Cramo contributes to our customers’ success by enabling them to provide safe working environments, reduce their energy usage, limit their climate impact and minimise waste. An active dialogue and collaboration with our customers and other stakeholders are key to the further development of sustainable rental solutions. – from the Cramo Care Policy Customer Care Topics Key Target Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Status1 performance 2019 2018 2017 2016 indicator Customer Customer CSI2 steady 75 75 73 72 satisfaction Satisfaction over 75 Index (CSI) Share of All 77% 3 80% 81% 82% operations operations covered by covered by ISO 9001 ISO 9001 by (relative to 2023 sales) Customer Share of 90% by 2023 85% n/a n/a n/a use units powered by electricity within the energy powered fleet 4 Energy 220 kWh/m2 229 kWh/m2 231 kWh/m2 233 kWh/m2 235 kWh/m2 usage from by 20235 site huts Number of 10% 11,433 12,698 9,895 10,622 individuals increase individuals, individuals, individuals, individuals participating in per year a 10% a 28% a 7% external safety from 2018 decrease increase decrease training provided by Cramo to customers, subcontractors, suppliers and other external parties Share of All 78% 78% 78% 67% countries countries providing with more external than 3 safety depots training providing (excluding external countries safety with less training by than 3 2023 depots) Share of 9.6% by 2020 11.2% 11.3% 12.4% 16.0% diesel(equals a powered 40% heating reduction vs equipment 2016) of total heating fleet Share of 16.8% by 18.3% 25.2% 39.5% 56.0% Stage I-III 2020 (equals diesel a 70% engines of reduction vs total rental 2016) equipment with diesel engines Sustainable Share of >60% by 30% n/a n/a n/a sourcing purchase 2023 spend covered by Supplier Code of Conduct 4,6 Share of 25% by 2023 0% 7 n/a n/a n/a critical suppliers managed by Group Sourcing that has been subject to anticorruption, human rights, health and safety and environmental risk assessment 4 1 On-going – excellent progress or target achieved On-going – on track On-going – not on track 2 Weighted average. Hungary and Slovakia are for statistical reasons excluded from the survey 3 The decrease in share of operations covered by ISO 9001 (relative to sales) is due to the demerger of Adapteo in 2019 and the acquisition of KBS Infra in 2018. KBS is included for the first time in the reporting for 2019 4 New KPI since 2019 5 Updated target after the demerger of Adapteo 6 The Supplier Code of Conduct covers environmental, health and safety, human rights and anti-corruption and bribery matters 7 A model for anti-corruption, human rights, health and safety and environmental risk assessment will be developed in 2020, implementation will start in 2021 ISO Management Standard 9001 has been implemented in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia and Poland. Certification is ongoing, with all Cramo markets targeted. Monitoring customer satisfaction Our vision of being “Your productivity partner in rental and beyond” is based on the motto that our customers’ success is our success. We have gained our customers’ trust throughout the years by working closely together with them and by living and acting according to our values Credibility, Creativity and Commitment. Our strategic target is to have the most satisfied customers in the industry. In 2019, the target for customer satisfaction, Customer Satisfaction Index >75, was reached, with a result of 75 (75 in 2018) and a Net Promoter Score of 55. Important aspects of customer relations, such as product and service quality, were all rated high with delivery quality on top with an index of 85. The result is based on over 900 customer interviews, conducted within nine of our eleven markets. The smallest markets, Hungary and Slovakia, are for statistical reasons excluded from the survey. Target of zero accidents Safety is our first priority and integral to our business. We have established solid processes and guidance to ensure the safe handling of our equipment. Cramo also provides a wide range of safety equipment and more comprehensive safety solutions as well as external safety training to customers, subcontractors, suppliers and other external parties. Our vision is zero accidents at job sites. Cramo follows and continuously monitors national laws as well as industry-specific safety regulations. Safety data sheets are available for all our equipment in our product database. Equipment that is returned to Cramo from customers is inspected following established check lists and routines. We also conduct periodic maintenance based on information that we receive from the manufacturers as well as from our 11,000 digitally connected units. The periodic maintenance is carefully planned in accordance with our planning framework. Internal training is conducted on a regular basis to ensure that all our employees have the right knowledge to be able to handle our equipment safely. External safety training for customers, subcontractors, suppliers and other external parties is provided in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Germany, Austria, Lithuania and Poland. In 2019, a total of 11,433 (12,698 in 2018) individuals participated in Cramo’s safety training programmes, including fall protection training as well as training on how to use the equipment in a safe and efficient way. Continuously modernising our fleet We work proactively to comply with the latest environmental regulations and drive development even further. With a modern fleet of equipment, we aim to be a sustainability frontrunner in the rental industry. By doing so, we can also help our customers achieve their sustainability targets. We see an increasing demand from customers regarding electrification and renewable fuels. 85% of the units within our energy-powered fleet are today powered by electricity, and we are continuously working to increase that number. Our target is to have 90% of our energy-powered fleet powered by electricity by 2023. In 2019, Cramo in Finland signed the Work Machine Green Deal agreement of the Association of Finnish Technical Traders. It includes targets regarding, for example, increasing the share of electric-powered machines in the rental fleet. The commitment will be handed over to the Finnish Ministry of the Environment. Our systematic approach to reducing environmental impacts also includes refurbishing or renewing our site huts, including their heating equipment. We are continuously working to improve the environmental and health standard by choosing more sustainable materials and by making the site huts more energy efficient. The improvements are partly based on an environmental and health assessment conducted by an external party in 2017, analysing every single site hut component, including the flooring, windows and insulation used. In 2019, the average energy usage in our site huts decreased from 231 kWh/m2 to 229 kWh/m2. Innovation through partnerships and joint development projects Cramo’s ambition is to play an active role in developing sustainable solutions – not just to meet existing requirements and regulations, but to contribute to further development towards a more sustainable world. An active dialogue and structured cooperation with customers and other stakeholders are key components of this strategy. Projects with customers cover several sustainability areas, ranging from energy and fuels to mutual information-sharing targets and to finding new rental solutions, such as temporary constructions, and to learning more about accidents and incidents and how to prevent them. Together with other stakeholders, we address different areas, such as promoting the sharing economy and social integration, i.e. how we as a company and as individuals can help provide experience and contacts with the working world. Aiming for fossil-free construction sites Strategic partnerships with customers put us at the forefront in developing sustainable rental solutions and services. During 2019, we worked in a joint project with one of our key customers to investigate the requirements for a CO2-free construction site. Our part in this project was to identify how we could eliminate the carbon footprint of our equipment. The project is continuing in 2020 and includes an evaluation phase conducted by an external evaluator. At the end of 2019, a research and development project run by eight partners within the Norwegian construction industry received a NOK 14 million grant from Enova, Forskningsrådet and Innovasjon Norge. The aim of the project is to investigate opportunities for emission-free construction sites. Cramo is one of the partners and, as part of the project, will test battery-powered machines. Fossil-free heating solution in the centre of Oslo Cramo offers a wide range of heating equipment. In 2017, we set a target to decrease the total heating fleet’s share of diesel-powered heating equipment by 40%. We are very close to achieving that target. In 2019, Cramo delivered fossil-free heating to the AF Group construction project Bispevika in the centre of Oslo. The B6a project comprises a total of nine different buildings, all connected by one large basement level.The whole construction site is heated with district heating provided through a solution delivered by Cramo. Close cooperation with our customer has made it possible to find the most optimal route for the district heating. Scaffolding for the Estonian e-waste Lighthouse Reducing and handling waste properly is a strong focus for Cramo. In 2019, we provided scaffolding for the Estonian e-waste Lighthouse, an installation created by sculptor Elo Liiv in the central square of Telliskivi Creative City. The Lighthouse, symbolising the 125 cubic meters of electrical and electronic waste generated in Estonia in one day, should be seen as a reminder of the importance of recycling to reduce the carbon footprint. Knowledge sharing Sharing knowledge and learning from each other’s experience is key to our success. In 2019, we were able to share effective sustainability knowledge both internally among our employees and externally with customers, suppliers and investors. Cramo’s Vice President of Sustainability, for example, gave a presentation on “Employee Commitment as a Driver for Sustainability” at the Volvo Construction Equipment EMEA’s business update meeting in October. The presentation was broadcasted live to the organisation in Europe, Middle East and Africa. It was a great way of sharing effective sustainability learnings and maybe one step closer to a carbon-neutral construction business. 2020 In 2020, we will start implementing the new sustainability strategy with an increased focus on sustainable customer use, transports and logistics as well as sustainable sourcing. We will continue to develop our rental offering and services in partnership with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Employee Care Strategic target: Zero accidents Cramo offers safe, stimulating workplaces for all our employees, where men and women of different ages and backgrounds have the same opportunities for development. We aspire to provide a stimulating environment for professional and personal development. A systematic and preventative approach to safety should always be the highest priority. – from the Cramo Care Policy Employee Care Topics Key Target Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Status1 performance 2019 2018 2017 2016 indicator Health and LTIR (Number 0 by 2023 9.7 8.82 9.9 13.7 safety of work-related accidents with at least one full day absence/million working hours) Share of All 64% 61% 63% 60% operations operations covered by covered by ISO 45001 or ISO 45001 or similar similar by (relative to 2023 sales) Diversity Number of 0 legal 0 13 0 0 and legal proceedings equality proceedings (discrimination and sexual harassment) Share of female 15% by 2023 11% 11% 10% 11% employees within the operational organisation (administrative HQ functions excluded) Share of 20% by 2023 17% 16% 14% 12% female managers 1 On-going – excellent progress or target achieved On-going – on track On-going – not on track 2 The result from 2018 is adjusted from 9.5 to 8.8 due to adjusted numbers of working hours 3 In 2018, there was one case of sexual harassment reported in Cramo’s operations. The case was investigated by the company, which took actions, and was also heard in a court of law. The company was not a party in the legal proceeding We have successfully implemented the ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System or the like in Finland, Sweden and Estonia. Our aim is certification in all Cramo markets. Our people promise Cramo’s people promise, “We are Shapers”, emphasises our decision to focus on our employees and demonstrates our belief that they are one of the main sources of our future success and continuous growth. The people promise clarifies what people can expect from their journey as an employee at Cramo. Collaborating, sharing knowledge, supporting and helping each other as well as being open-minded and innovative are valued traits that are encouraged. In addition, all employees are actively offered various opportunities for development and for shaping their own career. Cramo Development is our framework for our employees to grow and develop throughout their entire lifecycle at Cramo. The framework defines the kind of behaviour and professional know-how that are expected of employees at different levels. The expectations are based on Cramo’s common values and our strategy. The framework supports and guides our employees in their personal and professional growth in a clear, inspiring manner throughout their time at Cramo. Shaper Award The Shaper Award is our concept for awarding employees who have shown that they are true Shapers. A Shaper is a person who lives and acts according to, or even above, what is expected of employees and leaders in our company; a Shaper is a good role model for Cramo. In 2019, a new approach with a stronger focus on our core values and a broader scope of nominated employees was added to the Shaper Award. Among almost 90 nominations, three winners were announced and awarded with an educational grant. Occupational health and safety At all times and throughout the Cramo Group, priority is given to systematic and precautionary safety work, including risk assessment and identification of potential hazards. Managers at all levels play a key role in implementing systematic and precautionary safety work. During 2019, Cramo provided two days of training for all managers and safety representatives in Sweden; the training included theoretical aspects as well as practical cases from the operations. The aim has been to increase knowledge and awareness, in accordance with the strategic target of zero accidents. In May, Cramo arranged the very first Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) week in Norway. The overall aim was to further strengthen a common safety culture and to ensure that employees and other stakeholders experience Cramo as a safe and healthy workplace. The week was filled with different activities, ranging from seminars and team building events to healthy food and friendly competitions among the depots. HSE week was an instant success. In 2019, the lost time injury rate (LTIR) increased to 9.7 (8.8 in 2018). The absentee rate increased to 4.4% (4.3% in 2018) and the lost day rate decreased to 0.12% (0.22% in 2018). The decrease in lost day rate indicates less severe accidents in 2019 than in 2018. Cramo Care manager meeting with focus on occupational health and safety In May, we held a two-day meeting for Cramo Care managers together with local health and safety specialists. The aim was to further develop our common occupational health and safety platform, taking into consideration both internal and external stakeholder expectations. Cramo Care managers play a key role in implementing our sustainability strategy. Regular meetings, both physical and online, on different subjects establish a solid platform for sharing knowledge and learning from each other’s experiences. Diversity and equal opportunities A corporate culture based on diversity contributes to the positive future development of Cramo. We want to offer men and women of different ages and backgrounds similar development opportunities. This is stated in our diversity policy, which has Group-wide application. The share of female employees in the operational organisation was 11% by the end of the year (11% in 2018) and the share of female managers was 17% (16% in 2018). Different experiences and educational backgrounds are seen as strengths, and all forms of discrimination are to be counteracted. In 2019, there were no cases of sexual harassment or discrimination reported in Cramo’s operations. Decentralisation of HR development In 2019, a decision was made to decentralise HR development. With this change, the HR development function that was part of the Cramo Group Management structure since 2016 was removed during the year, and HR development is now handled by local HR managers. The decision enables a more effective management of personnel issues to better meet local needs and priorities. 2020 In 2020, our strong focus on health and safety and on gender equality will continue. We will continue the work to establish and implement common Group policies, targets and processes with a focus on occupational health and safety. Number of employees at end of period: 2,690 Diversity Gender 2019 (2018) Men 2224 (2543) Women 466 (496) Diversity Age group 2019 (2018) -23 • 92 (116) 24-35 • 848 (915) 36-45 • 718 (798) 46-59 • 869 (1014) 60• 163 (196) Employee contracts 2019 (2018) Permanent hires 2656 (3049) Temporary hires 34 (66) Personnel by segment¹ 2019 (2018) Scandinavia 1111 (1104) Finland and Eastern Europe 882 (859) Central Europe 620 (589) Group Functions 77 (90) 1 Cramo's three business segments: Scandinavia (Sweden, Norway), Finland and Eastern Europe (Finland, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland) and Central Europe (Germany, Austria, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia) Employees covered by collective bargaining Employee turnover rate in 2019 agreements in 2019 54% 20% (61% in 2018) (19% in 2018) Rate of new employee hires in 2019 Employees covered by an occupational health and safety management system 21% 2,641 (21% in 2018) 98% of employees Employee turnover New employees 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total 518 486 Total 560 550 Men 428 403 Men 439 449 Women 90 83 Women 121 101 -23 27 36 -23 57 60 24-35 186 160 24-35 257 266 36-45 146 124 36-45 134 124 46-59 127 117 46-59 104 90 6032 49 608 10 Employees in the operational organisation 2019 (2018) Men 2052 (1989) Women 250 (245) Managers 2019 (2018) Men 371 (395) Women 74 (74) Group management by gender and age Board of Directors 2019 (2018) Men 6 (5) Women 1 (2) Group Management 2019 (2018) Men 7 (9) Women 1 (1) Board of Directors Age 2019 (2018) -23 • 0 (0) 24-35 • 0 (0) 36-45 • 0 (0) 46-59 • 4 (4) 60• 3 (3) Group Management Age 2019 (2018) -23 • 0 (0) 24-35 • 0 (1) 36-45 • 3 (3) 46-59 • 5 (6) 60• 0 (0) Health and safety Total Scandinavia Finland and Central Europe Group Functions Eastern Europe Absentee rate1 4.4% 4.4% 3.7% 5.9% 2.1% men 4.1% 4.3% 3.6% 5.1% 1.0% women 5.7% 4.7% 4.3% 9.4% 3.9% Lost time injury 9.7 8.1 8.0 16.3 0 rate2 men 11.5 9.6 9.4 19.7 0 women 0 0 0 0 0 Lost day rate3 0.12% 0.08% 0.2% 0.12% 0% men 0.15% 0.09% 0.24% 0.15% 0% women 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 1 Total number of absentee days/total number of scheduled workdays 2 Number of work-related accidents with at least one full day absence/million working hours 3 Absentee days due to occupational accidents/total number of scheduled workdays Environmental Care Strategic target: Zero emissions Cramo is focused on being the most climateand resource-efficient rental solutions company. We will work continuously to mitigate our climate impact by reducing energy use and emissions, switching to fossil-free energy sources, reducing and recycling materials, reducing waste, and handling hazardous waste properly. We take a precautionary approach to environmental considerations in our procurement decisions and the selection of suppliers as well as in our customer dialogues. – from the Cramo Care Policy Environmental Care Topics Key Target Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Status1 performance 2019 2018 2017 2016 indicator Resource CO2e <15 19.43 15.6 17.5 18.4 efﬁciency emissions, tonnes/MEUR tonnes/MEUR tonnes/MEUR tonnes/MEUR tonnes/MEUR scope 1 by 2023 (equals >20% and 22 decrease vs (relative to 2019) sales) Share of >90% by 82% 75% n/a n/a renewable 2023 electricity4,5 Energy <100 113.76 92.5 89.2 94.5 usage, MWh/MEUR MWh/MEUR MWh/MEUR MWh/MEUR MWh/MEUR scope 1 and by 2023 2 (relative to (equals sales) >10% decrease vs 2019) Share of <15% by 23% 28% 30% 38% mixed 2023 waste7 Share of All 75% 8 80% 81% 82% operations operations covered by covered by ISO 14001 ISO 14001 by (relative to 2023 sales) 1 On-going – excellent progress or target achieved On-going – on track On-going – not on track 2 A market-based method is used to calculate CO2e emissions from electricity 3 The increase in CO2e emissions scope 1 and 2 (relative to sales) is due to the demerger of Adapteo in 2019 and the acquisition of KBS Infra in 2018. KBS is included for the first time in the reporting for 2019 4 New KPI since 2019 5 Electricity certified by Guarantee of Origin or similar system 6 The increase in energy usage scope 1 and 2 (relative to sales) is due to the demerger of Adapteo in 2019 and the acquisition of KBS Infra in 2018. KBS is included for the first time in the reporting for 2019 7 Austria, Germany and Hungary were excluded in 2016, 2017 and 2018 due to difficulties obtaining the information required from suppliers but are included in 2019 8 The decrease in share of operations covered by ISO 14001 (relative to sales) is due to the demerger of Adapteo in 2019 and the acquisition of KBS Infra in 2018. KBS is included for the first time in the reporting for 2019 ISO Management Standard 14001 has been implemented in Finland, Sweden, Norway and Estonia. The ongoing certification targets all Cramo markets. Improving energy efficiency A key aspect of our sustainability work is reducing energy use in transport, lighting and heating. Our rental services include the transport of machinery, equipment and site huts to our customers. Rental products are also transported between depots. With route optimisation and improved driving patterns, we strive to reduce the number and duration of transports, thus also reducing emissions. In order to work systematically to reduce the use of electricity and heating, continuous monitoring of energy use at our depots and headquarters is needed. In 2019, Cramo introduced a new energy monitoring system in Sweden. The system signals in real-time deviations in the use of electricity and heating and allows for quick corrective actions in the event of any shortcomings. It also enables real-time follow-up on the effectiveness of actions taken. The energy monitoring system will thus help us gain control of energy use and provide a basis for the prioritisation of energy efficiency improvements. During the year, the central hub in South-West Finland was moved to new premises. Improved insulation and geothermal heating in the new hub decrease the energy use by more than 50%. It also offers an improved work environment for the employees and possibilities to adjust the amount of space in usage and thus the environmental impact. Energy use, scope 1 and 2 relative to sales increased in 2019 to 113.7 MWh/MEUR (92.5 MWh/MEUR in 2018). The increase is due to the demerger of Adapteo in 2019 and the acquisition of KBS Infra in 2018. Switching to renewable energy The use of energy is critical to Cramo. We work continuously to mitigate our climate impact by reducing energy use and switching to fossil-free energy sources wherever possible. In 2019, Germany and Austria switched to renewable electricity, increasing the share of electricity from renewable sources on Group level from 75% to 82%. CO2e emissions, scope 1 and 2 relative to sales increased in 2019 to 19.4 tonnes/MEUR (15.6 tonnes/MEUR in 2018). The increase is due to the demerger of Adapteo in 2019 and the acquisition of KBS Infra in 2018. Reducing business travel Another important aspect of reducing our climate impact is reducing business travel. We promote and facilitate online and phone meetings whenever possible, and video conferences are increasingly used throughout the Group. CO2e emissions from air travel was 570 tonnes in 2019. Most of the air traveling is within Europe, within and between countries where Cramo operates. Sharp focus on sorting waste We work systematically to increase material efficiency and to reduce waste, especially mixed waste and waste to landfill. Priorities include the handling of hazardous waste and increasing the share of waste for recycling. At the majority of our depots and at our headquarters, sorting and recycling waste is part of our daily routine. In some countries, however, local circumstances complicate the implementation of an efficient system for waste handling. In those countries, Cramo is studying potential alternatives to improve the sorting and recycling of waste. The share of mixed waste decreased in 2019 to 23% (28% in 2018). 2020 Our focus on energy efficiency and waste handling will continue in 2020. We will continue the work to establish and implement common Group policies, targets and processes with a focus on environmental improvements. Climate emissions, tonnes CO2e Total Scandinavia Finland and Eastern Central Europe Europe Scope 1 (direct 8,391 2,336 2,732 3,323 energy usage) – transportation 7,709 2,156 2,618 2,935 – stationary 682 180 114 388 combustion Scope 2 (purchased 3,461 593 2,366 502 energy) – electricity 2,137 49 1,702 386 – heating 1,324 544 664 116 Energy usage, MWh Total Scandinavia Finland and Eastern Central Europe Europe Scope 1 (direct 33,845 9,638 10,990 13,217 energy usage) – transportation 30,691 8,641 10,404 11,646 – stationary 3,154 997 586 1,571 combustion Scope 2 (purchased 35,736 24,247 9,516 1,973 energy) – electricity 21,945 15,515 5,112 1,318 – heating 13,791 8,732 4,404 655 Waste and recycling Total Scandinavia Finland and Eastern Central Europe 1 Europe Total weight of waste, 5,971 2,965 1,445 1,561 tonnes Of which: – non-hazardous 4,815 2,413 1,377 1,025 waste – hazardous waste 1,156 552 68 536 Of which: – non-mixed waste 4,625 2,575 1,059 992 – mixed waste 1,346 390 386 569 Handling method, non-hazardous waste, % – recycling 1,857 971 607 279 – landfill 267 105 97 65 – incineration 1,813 1,160 431 222 – other 13 0 8 5 – unspecified 1 865 177 234 454 Handling method, hazardous waste, % – recycling 569 505 61 3 – landfill 15 11 2 2 – incineration 94 36 1 57 – other 2 0 0 2 – unspecified 1 476 0 4 472 1 All waste is treated by reliable suppliers and in accordance with national laws and regulations. Information regarding the handling method is not available Social Care Strategic target: Top ranking in business ethics Cramo aims to be a responsible corporate citizen, contributing to a sustainable future and generating value for all our stakeholders and for society. We endeavour to take an active role in the communities we operate in, and we encourage our employees to contribute to local charity projects. – from the Cramo Care Policy Social Care Topics Key Target Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Status1 performance 2019 2018 2017 2016 indicator Business Number of 0 legal 0 0 0 0 ethics legal proceedings proceedings (human rights, corruption, environment) Share of 100% 74% 33% 77% 73% employees getting Code of Conduct training 2,3 Share of 100% 74% n/a n/a n/a employees that have confirmed in writing that they have read and understood the Code of Conduct 2,4 1 On-going – excellent progress or target achieved On-going – on track On-going – not on track 2 The Code of Conduct covers environmental, health and safety, human rights and anti-corruption and bribery matters 3 Employees that have received Code of Conduct training during the last two years are included 4 New KPI since 2019 Highest ethical standards It is vital that our customers, investors, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders trust that we conduct business in an ethical, transparent and lawful manner. Everything we do has an impact. This is why we make sure that day-to-day decisions are based on doing business properly and with integrity. This supports us in maintaining long-term relationships with our stakeholders. Our Code of Conduct, with its focus on helping our employees make the right decisions, guides us in our daily work. The Code covers areas such as compliance with laws and policies, creation of safe, healthy workplaces, and our conduct as a responsible corporate citizen. Cramo has also established a specific Code of Conduct for suppliers, since we encourage our business partners to adhere to similar high ethical standards. Cramo prioritises long-term collaboration with suppliers. Most of our machinery and equipment is purchased from suppliers in Europe, the US and Japan. See the full Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct. Transparent communication and anchoring Our ethical guidelines are systematically communicated and anchored throughout the organisation. We train our employees in our values and strengthen our corporate culture with the objective of excelling in customer satisfaction. The Code of Conduct is translated into local languages and communicated to all our employees. It is also part of the onboarding process. In 2019, a mandatory e-learning unit to support the implementation of our Code of Conduct was introduced to all Cramo employees. By the end of 2019, 74% of the employees had completed the e-learning and confirmed that they had read and understood the Code. In 2019, we also launched Shape and Share – The Game. This entertaining game not only engages employees and management, it also facilitates discussions about ethical dilemmas and how to deal with them. During the year it had been played by the Group Management Team as well as local management teams and employees within administrative functions and in our operational organisation. Following up on our Code of Conduct Internal audits are conducted on a regular basis within Cramo and are an important tool for assessing the implementation of our Code of Conduct. The audits help us accomplish our objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of the risk management, control and governance processes. Internal auditing is an independent assurance and consulting activity, designed to add value and improve our operations. It protects and enhances our values by providing risk-based and objective assurance, advice and insight. Our whistleblowing mechanism provides a way for all our employees to report suspicions of misconduct, that is, actions that do not align with our company values and that may harm individuals, the company or the environment. The system is provided by an external party, ensuring full anonymity for the whistleblower. Any concern or issue reported by a whistleblower is treated seriously, fairly and promptly. Possible investigations are carried out in a discreet, confidential manner by the Vice President of Sustainability and the Director of Internal Audits. Possible investigations do not affect a whistleblower’s employment status. The number of cases reported through our whistleblowing system increased in 2019, from five cases in 2018 to eight cases. All cases were investigated, and the appropriate actions were taken. No case resulted in legal action. The increase in whistleblowing cases indicates greater awareness among our employees regarding the importance of reporting suspicions of misconduct. Our whistleblowing channel is an early warning system to reduce risks, and it’s an important tool for safeguarding high corporate governance standards and maintaining a high level of confidence in our operations. It is important that our employees know about its existence and how and when to use it. Except for the cases reported through the whistleblowing system, there was one case of fraud reported in Cramo’s operations in 2019. The case was investigated by the company, which took actions, and was also reported to the legal authorities. Cramo as a taxpayer Cramo is committed to compliance with all applicable tax laws, rules and regulations in every jurisdiction it conducts business activities in. By creating jobs and paying taxes, we contribute to a functioning society in all countries we operate in. Our operations create added value through taxes to society in 11 countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Czech Republic and Slovakia. In 2019, Cramo paid EUR 72.1 (106.1; 2018) million in taxes to governments in countries that the Group has operations in. Our main tax payments are corporate income tax and value-added tax (VAT). A total of EUR 11.2 (20.0; 2018) million was paid in corporate income tax and EUR 61.0 (86.1 in 2018) million was paid in VAT (net). Cramo follows international transfer pricing guidelines and local laws. Business-driven decisions are made taking relevant tax considerations into account. VAT is reported on a net basis, which is VAT on sales, less VAT on purchases and investments. Cramo contributes to social sustainability Being a responsible corporate citizen is a long-term commitment for us. At the Group level, we have been a main sponsor of SOS Children’s Villages since 2008. Over the years, we have contributed some 760,000 euros to their work in Ukraine, Russia, Latvia and Estonia. Our commitment involves providing financial support, marketing and sales expertise, and access to Cramo’s business network, with the intention of facilitating the long-term operations of SOS Children’s Villages and further collaboration with the Baltic business community. Running high-quality social care operations in the Children’s Villages is resource-intensive. Over the past decade, support from Cramo has helped to ensure that over 200 children and adults have had access to everything from family-strengthening programmes to a loving home in a children's village. The familystrengthening programmes are tailored to each family’s specific situation and needs, which may involve, for instance, psychological support, microloans or aid in the form of treatment, medicine and education. Cramo’s support in 2019 has helped to ensure for example that: Lunch and dinner have been provided to 15 children in one Children’s Village 26 children and adults have received support through the family-strengthening programmes for one year With this support long-term sustainable societies are created that are based on children and adults receiving loving care, education and support, completely in line with our Cramo Care sustainability strategy. In addition to our support for SOS Children’s Villages, Cramo also supports several local community involvement initiatives in the different markets where we operate. 2020 In 2020, we will continue to have a strong focus on business ethics. We will further improve our business ethics compliance procedures, and we will also further develop our approach to community involvement. GRI Index Universal standards Link Remark GRI 101 Foundation 2016 GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation A leading equipment rental company 102-2 Activities, brands, Broad offering products, and services 102-3 Location of headquarters A leading equipment rental company 102-4 Location of operations A leading equipment rental company 102-5 Ownership and legal form A leading equipment rental company 102-6 Markets served A leading equipment rental company 102-7 Scale of the organisation A leading equipment rental company, Broad offering, Key figures in 2019 102-8 Information on employees Employee Care and other workers 102-9 Supply chain Social Care 102-10 Significant changes to the During 2019, the modular organisation and its supply space business operating chain under the Adapteo brand was demerged. 102-11 Precautionary principle or Environmental Care approach 102-12 External initiatives Cramo’s strategic approach to sustainability, Social Care 102-13 Membership of Cramo’s strategic associations approach to sustainability 102-14 Statement from senior President and CEO's review decision-maker 102-16 Values, principles, Cramo NXT – a strategy for standards, and norms of growth and differentiation, behaviour Social Care 102-18 Governance structure Consistent and transparent corporate governance, Cramo’s strategic approach to sustainability 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder relations 102-41 Collective bargaining Employee Care agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting Cramo’s strategic stakeholders approach to sustainability, Stakeholder relations 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder relations None of the engagement engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 102-44 Key topics and concerns Stakeholder relations raised 102-45 Entities included in the Financial Statements and Adapteo is included in the consolidated financial Board of Directors' report organisation's consolidated statements financial statements but is not covered by the sustainability report. 102-46 Defining report content and Cramo’s strategic topic boundaries approach to sustainability 102-47 List of material topics Cramo’s strategic approach to sustainability 102-48 Restatements of LTIR (Number of workinformation related accidents with at least one full day absence/million working hours) from 2018 is adjusted from 9.5 to 8.8 due to adjusted numbers of working hours. 102-49 Changes in reporting Cramo’s strategic Some changes in topics and approach to sustainability targets have been made based on Cramo's new sustainability strategy. 102-50 Reporting period January 1-December 31,2019 102-51 Date of most recent report March 4, 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Calendar year 102-53 Contact point for questions Stakeholder relations regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in This report has been accordance with the GRI prepared in accordance Standards with the GRI Standards: Core option 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 102-56 External assurance No assurance Material topics Customer Care Link Remark Material topics: Customer satisfaction, Health and safety, Resource efficiency, Business ethics, Responsible suppliers GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material Cramo’s strategic topic and its boundary approach to sustainability 103-2 The management approach Cramo’s strategic and its components approach to sustainability, Customer Care 103-3 Evaluation of the Customer Care management approach GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-5 Reductions in energy Customer Care requirements of products and services GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental Cramo’s strategic impacts in the supply chain approach to sustainability, and actions taken Customer Care GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in Cramo’s strategic the supply chain and approach to sustainability, actions taken Customer Care GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health Customer Care and safety impacts of product and service categories Employee Care Link Remark Material topics: Employee satisfaction, Health and safety, Skills development, Diversity and equality GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material Cramo’s strategic topic and its boundary approach to sustainability 103-2 The management approach Cramo’s strategic and its components approach to sustainability, Employee Care 103-3 Evaluation of the Employee Care management approach GRI 401 Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and Employee Care employee turnover GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and Employee Care Occupational health and safety management system safety management systems have been implemented locally in all our markets. The management systems are implemented mainly because of legal requirements and cover 98% of the employees and in Sweden also franchises. In Finland, Sweden and Estonia, the occupational health and safety management systems are certified according to ISO 45001 or the like. Our aim is certification in all Cramo markets. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk Employee Care All markets have a process assessment, and incident in place for employees to investigation report work-related hazards and hazardous situations. Nine of Cramo's eleven markets have a process in place to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis and a policy and a process in place for employees to remove themselves from work situations that they believe could cause injury or ill health. Nine of Cramo's eleven markets also have a process in place to investigate work-related incidents to determine corrective actions and to determine improvements needed in the occupational health and safety management system. 403-3 Occupational health Employee Care Ten of Cramo's eleven services markets offer occupational health services to the employees. 403-4 Worker participation, Employee Care Seven of Cramo's eleven consultation, and markets have a process in communication on place for employee occupational health and participation and safety consultation in the development, implementation and evaluation of the occupational health and safety management system, and for providing access to and communicating relevant information on occupational health and safety to employees. Five of Cramo's eleven markets have formal joint management worker health and safety committees. 403-5 Worker training on Employee Care All markets provide occupational health and occupational health and safety safety training to employees. 403-6 Promotion of worker health Employee Care Seven of Cramo's eleven markets offer access to non-occupational medical and health care services to the employees. Six of Cramo's eleven markets offer voluntary health promotion services or programs to employees. 403-7 Prevention and mitigation Customer Care, Social Care of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business realtionships 403-8 Workers covered by an Employee Care Employees covered by an occupational health and occupational health and safety management system safety management system: 2,641 (98%) Employees covered by an internally audited occupational health and safety management system: 1,916 (71%) Employees covered by a certified or externally audited occupational health and safety management system: 1,829 (68%) In Sweden, franchises are covered by the occupational health and safety management system certified according to ISO 45001. Other workers, other than employees, are not covered by Cramo's occupational health and safety management systems since they are covered by similar systems by their employers. 403-9 Work-related injuries Employee Care Number (and rate) of recordable work-related injuries: 119 (25.6) Number (and rate) of workrelated injuries with at least one full day absence: 45 (9.7) Number (and rate) of highconsequence work-related injuries: 1 (0.2) Number (and rate) of fatalities: 0 (0) Number of hours worked: 4,657,089 The numbers include franchises in Sweden. Other workers, other than employees, are not covered by Cramo's occupational health and safety management systems since they are covered by similar systems by their employers. The main types of workrelated injuries are due to falling, slipping, cutting and heavy lifting. Rates are calculated using 1,000,000 hours worked. GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance Employee Care bodies and employees GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Employee Care and corrective actions taken Environmental Care Link Remark Material topics: Resource efficiency, Reduced environmental footprint, Increased circularity GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material Cramo’s strategic topic and its boundary approach to sustainability 103-2 The management approach Cramo’s strategic and its components approach to sustainability, Environmental Care 103-3 Evaluation of the Environmental Care management approach GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within Environmental Care the organisation 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Care GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Environmental Care emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Environmental Care GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Environmental Care Scope 3 GHG emissions GHG emissions from air travel are included in the report. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental Care GRI 306 Efﬂuents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Environmental Care method Social Care Link Remark Material topics: Local engagement, Business ethics GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material Cramo’s strategic topic and its boundary approach to sustainability 103-2 The management approach Cramo’s strategic and its components approach to sustainability, Social Care 103-3 Evaluation of the Social Care management approach GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and Social Care training about anticorruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Social Care corruption and action taken GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with Social Care environmental laws and regulations GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws Social Care and regulations in the social and economic area Managing risks to support our new strategy Effective risk management is used to proactively mitigate Cramo’s exposure to financial and non-financial risks. Within Cramo’s risk management framework, we identify and evaluate potential risks and their consequences, and define and implement actions needed to minimise their impact. Cramo has identified a number of potential risks that are associated with the ability to create value in the short and long term and that can prevent us from reaching our strategic targets. These include strategic and operative risks as well as risks related to financial markets, competition, compliance with laws and regulations, sustainability and the Group’s reputation. Once identified, the risks and their potential financial and nonfinancial impacts are analysed and evaluated, and the actions needed to mitigate the impacts are defined. The risks are managed through control activities that are set throughout the organisation. Ensuring value creation ability The most significant operative risks are related to strategic investments, the success of the Group’s acquisitions and information system projects, as well as the efficiency of operations. Risk mitigation related to personnel, occupational health and safety, the environment, and compliance with laws and regulations is also identified as being crucial to our value creation ability. As a response to the megatrends affecting our industry and to ensure responsible business operations and growth, sustainability is deeply embedded in our strategic and operational decision-making as well as in our risk mitigation. Cramo acknowledges the impact of local and global developments as possible risks Economic uncertainty may be reflected in Cramo’s operations as decreased demand in one or more market areas, fiercer competition, lower rental prices, higher financial expenses, or customers experiencing financial difficulties and increasing credit losses. In addition, economic uncertainty increases the impairment risks to the balance sheet values. Of geopolitical risks, global trade tensions and tariffs are creating uncertainties in the markets in which Cramo operates. The threat of an economic slowdown in Europe, European political fragmentation, including the Brexit outcome, and sovereign debt challenges in Italy may also influence general economic development and, consequently, construction and the demand for rental services. Our risks and how we mitigate them Economic conditions Potential impact Demand for our services is linked to the general level of economic activity over the long term. Equipment rental demand is directly linked to construction activity, which is cyclical in nature Mitigation Manage and control capital expenditures and investments, taking into account the different phases of the economic cycle Build flexibilities into the business model Increase exposure to less cyclical business (industrial maintenance and services) Maintain capital structure and debt facilities in order to absorb market disruptions Development We adapted to lower market demand in 2019 by clearly reducing our investments compared to the previous year and executing a cost programme Our balance sheet is strong and our cost position competitive to perform well also in a weaker market environment Link to strategy Top-tier performance Stronghold in the industrial segment Leading partner in services Target: Net debt/EBITDA <3.0 Competition Potential impact This already competitive and active market can become even more competitive New entrants or existing competitors can introduce new, market-changing solutions or offerings Increased and fierce competition could result in reduced sales, a smaller market share and lower profitability Mitigation Create a competitive advantage by providing the best service at a price that offers the highest value for our customers – concrete promises to customers Safeguard our market position by having industryleading IT solutions, experienced employees, a depot network that is easily accessible and a large, versatile equipment fleet Monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors Create digital solutions that help customers improve their competitiveness Development In 2019, organic sales growth for Equipment Rental was -2.3% Competition in the equipment rental industry increased in 2019. Our pricing strategy, digitalisation and high-quality customer service will support our position in the competitive landscape We have reacted to changing customer needs by launching new digital solutions Link to strategy Leading partner for services Digital leader in the rental industry Financing Potential impact Debt facilities, bonds and other financing arrangements are committed and valid only until their maturity. Debt facilities also include financial covenants. The main risks are failing to renew maturing instruments, causing insolvency, and breaching these covenants, leading to default Mitigation Maintain at all times the availability of sufficient financing instruments with long and balanced maturities. Negotiate new agreements well before they are needed Target to have a conservative leverage ratio, net debt/EBITDA below 3.0 Development Our strong cash flow profile and performance enables us to benefit from strong financial markets with ample availability and competitive pricing of funds On 31 December 2019, Cramo Group’s undrawn committed credit facilities (excluding leasing facilities) amounted to EUR 251.7 (258.5) million Link to strategy Target: Net debt/EBITDA <3.0 Information technology Potential impact Our operations rely heavily on information technology since we have high transaction volumes due to our large fleet and customer base. A cyberattack could lead to a loss of sensitive data or failure to deliver service to our customers. This could affect our reputation and we could suffer financial losses or penalties Mitigation Updated parameter protection and enhanced logging and monitoring of network traffic to avoid unwanted traffic Blacklisting of sites Site advisory system Enhanced protection of clients Updated firewalls Enhanced partnership with IT security partners Development Advanced e-mail protection system MDM tool for mobile devices Vulnerability checks on all IT infrastructure components 4 times a year Link to strategy Digital leader in the rental industry Health and safety Potential impact Our customers and employees put a high priority on health and safety. Furthermore, we need to comply with laws and regulations governing occupational health and safety. An inability to match or respond to external and/or internal demands will result in damage to our reputation, a loss of customers and decreased employer attractiveness. It might also result in severe injuries to individuals and legal claims against the Group Mitigation Cramo works systematically to reduce health and safety risks by, e.g., providing internal safety training and relevant protective equipment, conducting audits, and promoting wellness and an active lifestyle To reduce the risk at customer sites, Cramo works systematically with safety instructions, offers safety training and instructions, and reports major incidents to the manufacturers concerned Development In 2019, LTIR (number of work-related accidents with at least one full day absence/million working hours) increased, from 8.8 to 9.7 No legal claims pertaining to health and safety were filed against Cramo during the year Link to strategy Target: LTIR 0 by 2023 Target: 0 legal proceedings Environmental impact Potential impact We meet increased demands from customers for resource efficiency and a reduced environmental impact. We also need to comply with laws and regulations governing environmental protection. An inability to match or respond to those demands will result in damage to our reputation, a loss of customers and/or lost opportunities. It might also result in environmental damage and legal claims against the Group. An inability to optimise resources will lead to increased operational costs Mitigation We work systematically to reduce our environmental impact, focusing on reducing our energy usage and emissions as well as minimising waste As part of our strategy, we aim to reach out to customers and other stakeholders, seeking opportunities to cooperate in the development of sustainable solutions Development At the end of 2019, 85% of the units within our energypowered fleet were powered by electricity CO2e emissions, scope 1 and 2 relative to sales, were 19.4 tonnes/MEUR in 2019 (15.6 in 2018) No environmental legal claims were filed against Cramo during the year Link to strategy Target: Share of units powered by electricity within the energy powered fleet 90% by 2023 Target: CO2e emissions, scope 1 and 2 relative to sales, <15 tonnes/MEUR by 2023 Target: 0 legal proceedings Human rights Potential impact The protection of human rights is fundamental to Cramo. We have identified non-discrimination as a major focus area. An inability to maintain a nondiscriminating working environment will result in damage to our reputation, decreased employer attractiveness and a loss of customers. It might also result in harm to individuals as well as legal claims against the Group Mitigation We have established a diversity policy, including a policy on equal rights and opportunities Our values and Code of Conduct are systematically communicated and embedded throughout the organisation. We also provide a whistleblowing service for our employees to report suspicions of misconduct Our Supplier Code of Conduct is included in all new supplier contracts Development In 2019, no legal claims regarding human rights including discrimination and sexual harassment were filed against Cramo (1 legal proceedings in 2018) Link to strategy Target: 0 legal proceedings People Potential impact Retaining and attracting people with the right competences is key to delivering an outstanding performance and excelling in customer satisfaction Excessive staff turnover or an inability to attract new talent may impact our capability to perform and to maintain the high quality of our customer service, and could ultimately adversely affect our financial performance Mitigation Cramo works systematically to offer safe, stimulating workplaces and aspires to provide an inspiring environment for professional and personal development for all our employees Employee satisfaction is regularly monitored to help identify development areas, and we have a process in place for annual performance reviews We work actively to strengthen our employer brand to attract potential employees, and we also put effort into surveying the expectations that future talents have regarding working life Development In 2019, we continued to establish our people promise, We are Shapers – with the ambition to increase employee engagement and strengthen Cramo’s employer brand The employee turnover rate in 2019 was 20% (19% in 2018) The rate of new employee hires in 2019 was 21% (21% in 2018) Link to strategy Enable people to perform Business ethics Potential impact It is vital to us that our customers, employees and other stakeholders trust that we conduct business in an ethical, transparent and lawful manner. Failure to comply with laws and regulations will result in damage to our reputation, a loss of customers, and a loss of trust among our employees as well as among other stakeholders. It might also result in legal claims against the Group Mitigation Our values and Code of Conduct are systematically communicated and embedded throughout the organisation. We also provide a whistleblowing service for our employees to report suspicions of misconduct Our suppliers are evaluated using business ethics criteria. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is included in all new supplier contracts Development 0 legal claims regarding non-ethical behaviour, such as corruption, were filed against Cramo in 2019 During the year 74% (33%) of our employees received Code of Conduct training and confirmed in writing that they have read and understood the Code of Conduct 30% of our purchase spend was covered by our Supplier Code of Conduct Link to strategy Target: 0 legal proceedings Target: All employees get Code of Conduct training and confirm in writing that they have read and understood the Code of Conduct Target: >60% of purchase spend is covered by Supplier Code of Conduct by 2023 Consistent and transparent corporate governance Corporate governance at Cramo is based on Finnish law and the company’s Articles of Association. The Group complies with the rules of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code (2015 and, 1 January 2020 onwards, 2020) published by the Securities Market Association. Cramo issues Corporate Governance and Remuneration Statements, which are available on the Group’s website along with more detailed information about corporate governance and remuneration. Cramo prepares annual financial statements and interim reports conforming to Finnish law and to the Internal Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which are published in Finnish and English. Board of Directors The roles and responsibilities of Cramo’s Board of Directors have been defined in the Charter of the Board and in the Group’s Operating Principles. If necessary, the Board’s charter is revised and amended annually in conjunction with the first meeting of the Board after the election of its members at the Annual General Meeting. Cramo’s Board of Directors is composed with consideration to diversity matters, such as gender, age, educational background and experience. Composition of Board of Directors in 2019 At the Annual General Meeting 2019, the following people were re-elected to the Board of Directors: Mr VeliMatti Reinikkala, Ms AnnaCarin Grandin, Mr Peter Nilsson, Mr Joakim Rubin and Mr Raimo Seppänen. Mr Andrew P. Studdert and Mr Christian Bubenheim were elected as new board members. The Board’s constitutive meeting elected Mr Reinikkala as Chairman of the Board and Mr Nilsson as Deputy Chairman of the Board. Member attendance at the meetings is shown below, and member independence is presented here. The Board’s work in 2019 The Board of Directors convenes according to a predetermined schedule as well as when considered necessary. In 2019, the Board held twenty-four meetings. Three permanent committees – the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the M&A Committee – assist the Board. The Board elects the committee members and appoints the committee chairmen. The Board specifies the key duties and operating principles of each committee in a written charter. Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in its supervisory responsibilities in line with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. At the Board’s constitutive meeting on 28 March 2019, Mr Joakim Rubin was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Ms AnnaCarin Grandin and Mr Christian Bubenheim were elected as members. The Audit Committee held six meetings. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is tasked with preparing a proposal to the Board for the President and CEO’s appointment and his/her employment terms, and with preparing matters pertaining to the company’s compensation issues for the Board’s approval. At the Board’s constitutive meeting on 28 March 2019, Mr Veli-Matti Reinikkala was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and Mr Peter Nilsson and Mr Raimo Seppänen were elected as members. The Remuneration Committee met four times. M&A Committee In 2018 the Board of Directors of Cramo Plc resolved to establish a new board committee called the M&A Committee, the purpose of which is to support the management on potential M&A activities and the development and implementation of the company’s strategy work. At the Board’s constitutive meeting on 28 March 2019, Mr Veli-Matti Reinikkala was appointed Chairman of the M&A Committee and Mr Joakim Rubin and Mr Andrew P. Studdert were elected as members. The M&A Committee met twelve times. Shareholders’ Nomination Committee The Shareholders’ Nomination Committee, established by the General Meeting of Shareholders, annually prepares proposals to the Annual General Meeting for the election and remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors. The Nomination Committee consists of a maximum of four members, of whom a maximum of three represent the company’s largest shareholders who hold the largest number of votes calculated based on the total number of shares in the company on the last business day of August preceding the next Annual General Meeting. The following people were appointed on 28 November 2019 as members of the Shareholders’ Nomination Committee: Mr Fredrik Åtting, Mr Ari Autio, Ms Annika Ekman and Mr Veli-Matti Reinikkala. Mr Åtting was elected as the Chairman of the Shareholders’ Nomination Committee. The committee held three meetings. Cramo’s board member attendance at meetings and remuneration received on a cash basis in 2019 Board Audit Remuneration M&A meetings Committee Committee Committee Name Position Attendance Fees, Attendance Fees, Attendance Fees, Attendance Fees, Total EUR EUR EUR EUR VeliChairman 24/24 85,000 4/4 4,000 12/12 6,000 95,000 Matti Reinikkala Peter Deputy 23/24 37,500 4/4 4,000 41,500 Nilsson Chairman Christian Member 18/18 37,500 4/4 4,000 41,500 Bubenheim1 AnnaCarin Member 21/24 37,500 6/6 6,000 43,500 Grandin Joakim Member 23/24 42,500 6/6 6,000 12/12 6,000 54,500 Rubin Raimo Member 24/24 37,500 4/4 4,000 41,500 Seppänen Andrew Member 18/18 37,500 10/10 5,000 42,500 P. Studdert¹ Perttu Deputy 6/6 2/2 4,000 2/2 1,000 5,000 Louhiluoto²Chairman Caroline Member 6/6 2/2 2,000 2,000 Sundewall² Total 315,000 22,000 12,000 18,000 367,000 1 since 28 March 2019 2 until 28 March 2019 President and CEO The Managing Director, who also acts as the President and CEO, is in charge of the company’s day-to-day management in accordance with the Finnish Companies Act and related legislation, instructions and orders given by the Board. Remuneration of the Board of Directors In 2019 the General Meeting approved the following annual remuneration for Board services: Chairman of the Board EUR 85,000 Other Board members EUR 37,500 The remuneration is paid in cash and the Board of Directors will adopt a policy on Board member share ownership. The policy shall entail that Board members who do not already have such a holding of Cramo Plc’s shares are expected to acquire Cramo Plc’s shares for a total market value equal to at least one year’s Board fees before taxes, excluding any Committee compensation, during a four-year period from the start of their directorship. As part of its process, the Nomination Committee will follow up on the Board members’ shareholding annually and assess whether it is in accordance with the policy. In addition, all Board members are entitled to compensation of EUR 1,000 per attended meeting of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and EUR 500 per attended meeting of the M&A Committee. Furthermore, the Board member elected Chairman of the Audit Committee receives additional compensation of EUR 5,000 per year. Reasonable travel expenses will be refunded upon receipt of invoice. The Board members are not covered by the company’s long-term incentive schemes, bonus scheme or pension schemes. No shares or share-related rights were granted to Board members as remuneration during the financial period. Remuneration Remuneration principles Remuneration is part of Cramo’s management system. The aim of a well-designed remuneration scheme is to attract and engage talented employees at the company and to promote the company’s financial success. The company applies a competitive policy related to salaries. In addition to fixed salaries, Cramo offers shortand long-term incentive schemes for management and its key personnel. In addition, operating companies have local short-term incentive schemes. Remuneration of the President and CEO Written service contract approved Compensation package includes a In 2019, the maximum bonus paid to by the Board fixed annual salary and a profit-based the President and CEO was 80% of incentive tied to the Group’s financial base salary. The President and CEO targets and/or personal targets set by participates in Cramo’s short-term the Board. Remuneration also incentive schemes as of 2016, One includes a voluntary pension benefit Cramo Share Plan as of 2015, and and fringe benefits such as a share-based incentive plan as of 2016. company car. Notice period and retirement age The notice period for the service In case the contract is terminated by contract is six months, during which the employer, there is a severance time he/she receives a full salary. The payment of 12 months’ salary. retirement age is 65 years. Remuneration to the President and CEO and the Group management team on an accrual basis in 2019 EUR Fixed ProﬁtFringe Termination SharePost2019 Total annual base based beneﬁts beneﬁts based employment salary incentives payments beneﬁts President 887,845 406,359 12,166 451,456 152,605 1,910,431 and CEO Group 1,522,099 290,318 68,177 544,380 615,156 274,637 3,314,767 management team Total 2,409,944 696,676 80,343 544,380 1,066,613 427,242 5,225,198 Short-term and long-term incentive schemes Element Target group Objective Link to Amount paid in 2019 strategy/performance measures Short-term Group management To support the Management Variable pay for 2019 incentive: Annual team members, OpCo achievement of bonuses are tied to (accrual based) bonus schemes managers and key Cramo’s financial the achievement of amounted to EUR employees, and targets by financial targets for 406,359 for the Group key employees. encouraging a strong the Group and President and CEO performance culture. operating countries. and EUR 290,318 for The targets are set the Group annually, and any management team compensation is paid members. once a year after the end of the financial period. The financial targets are based mainly on Economic Profit and Return on Capital Employed. Long-term Managers and key To support the The potential reward In 2019, the target incentive: employees, including achievement of the from the Plan for the achievement level Performance Share Group management Group’s long-term discretionary period was about 61.12%, Plan 2015-2017 team. goals by attracting 2019 was based on resulting in a total and/or 2018-2019 and retaining those the Cramo Group´s reward payment of identified as key key figure Earnings approximately employees. per Share (EPS) and 129,548 Cramo Plc Return on Equity shares, including a (ROE). The maximum part to be paid in reward to be paid on cash in spring 2022. the basis of the Due to the demerger discretionary period of Cramo Plc in 2019, 2019 could have the incentive plan corresponded to the was revised so that value of 290,000 the participants are Cramo Plc shares. entitled to receive one Adapteo Plc’s share, or a corresponding cash compensation, for each Cramo Plc share earned under the plan. Long-term All Cramo employees. To encourage all The monthly saving is A total of 471 are incentive: One employees to become 2–5% of each currently Cramo Share Plan shareholders in participant’s monthly participants in the Cramo, to reward gross salary, with the One Cramo Share employees for their total amount of all Plan. The number of efforts in working savings from the Plan matching shares towards Cramo’s Period not to exceed delivered to targets and to EUR 4 million. employees strengthen the tie participating in the between Cramo Plan was 6,033 Cramo shareholders and Plc shares in 2019. employees. Due to the demerger of Cramo Plc in 2019, the incentive plan was revised so that the participants are entitled to receive one Adapteo Plc’s share, or a corresponding cash compensation, for each Cramo Plc share earned under the plan. Pension beneﬁts Directors Cramo’s executives participate in local pension systems for each operating country; these systems provide a retirement benefit based on years of service and earnings, according to the prescribed statutory system. President and CEO and Group Only the President and CEO In 2019, the expenses of the voluntary management team participates in a contribution-based pension system for the President and voluntary pension system. CEO totalled EUR 152,600. Internal control and risk management regarding financial reporting Internal control over financial reporting is part of the overall internal control system at Cramo. The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, tailored to the Cramo Group’s business needs, provides the overall framework for the Group’s internal control and risk management. Internal control over financial reporting strives to provide reasonable assurance that the Group’s financial reporting is reliable and that external financial reporting is prepared in accordance with legislation, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and other requirements set for listed companies. Roles and responsibilities The Board has ultimate responsibility for the appropriate arrangement of internal control over financial reporting. The Board supervises and approves annual financial statements and interim reports. The Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in overseeing the effectiveness of established internal control and risk management principles. In practice, the President and CEO and the OpCo (Operating Country) managers are in charge of performing internal control activities for financial reporting. They are supported in this task by the CFO, the Group Finance and Development function and OpCo financial management. Risk assessment, control and monitoring Cramo has established objectives for reliable financial reporting in order to identify financial reporting risks. Within the risk assessment process, Cramo identifies and analyses risks in achieving financial reporting objectives as a basis for determining how those risks should be managed and mitigated. The risks identified are managed through control activities that are set throughout the organisation, at all levels and in all functions. In order to ensure the effectiveness of internal control regarding financial reporting, monitoring is conducted by the Board, the Audit Committee, the President and CEO, the CFO and the Group Finance and Development function, Internal Audit, the Group management team, and OpCo managers and controllers. Related party transactions Cramo’s related parties include the Board of Directors, the Group management team, their close family members, and entities under the control or significant influence of persons belonging to related parties, subsidiaries or joint ventures. Transactions between the company and related parties are allowed, provided that they promote the purpose of the company and are conducted on acceptable terms and in the interests of the company from the company’s business perspective, as well as in compliance with applicable regulations. Insider administration Cramo manages inside information and insiders in accordance with the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), the Insider Guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. and Cramo’s Insider Guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. Cramo’s Insider Guidelines include instructions and definitions regarding inside information, trading by insiders, managers’ transactions and a list of managerial persons. Coordination and control of insider affairs are included in the responsibilities of the General Counsel. General Data Protection Regulation The Company is committed to compliance with the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation and other applicable privacy regulations. In 2018, the company implemented enhanced processes to address the new regulatory demands and appointed a data privacy officer to oversee and coordinate privacy-related matters. Auditing The company has a minimum of one and a maximum of two authorised public accountants (APA) or firms of authorised public accountants, chartered by the Central Chamber of Commerce of Finland. Their term of office expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting following their election. If the AGM elects only one auditor, which is not a firm of authorised public accountants chartered by the Central Chamber of Commerce, it must elect one deputy auditor. At the Annual General Meeting on 28 March 2019, the audit firm KPMG Oy Ab was appointed as Cramo Plc’s auditor for the term expiring at the end of the next Annual General Meeting, with APA Mr Toni Aaltonen as the responsible auditor. The audit firm KPMG Oy Ab has served as auditor, with APA Mr Toni Aaltonen as the responsible auditor, since 2014. Total compensation for external auditing EUR 1,000 2019 2018 Change, % Audit fees 943 686 37 Certificates and statements 146 26 462 Tax consultation 10 24 -58 Other services 86 281 -69 Total 1,185 1,018 17 Board of Directors 31 December 2019 Veli-Matti Reinikkala AnnaCarin Grandin Board member and Chairman of the Board since 2017; Board member since 2018; Member of the Audit Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and M&A Committee. Committee. Born 1967, Swedish citizen; Born 1957, Finnish citizen; B.Sc. (Business Administration). Executive Master of Business Administration. Primary work experience: Primary work experience: CEO, Sweden, Coor Service Management 2016–present; President Europe, Member of Group Executive Executive Vice President, Coor Service Management Committee, ABB Switzerland 2015; President of Process 2014–2016; Senior Account Manager, Statoil, Coor Service Automation division, Member of the Group Executive Management 2014; CEO, Norway AS, Coor Service Committee, ABB Ltd. Switzerland 2006–2014; Head of Management 2011–2014; Business Unit President, Coor Business Area Process Automation, ABB Ltd. Service Management Sverige AB 2004–2010. Switzerland 2005; Local Division Manager, Automation Other positions of trust: – Technologies Division, ABB (China) Ltd., Member of Global Automation Technologies Division Management Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: Team 2003–2004; Business Area Manager for Drives & 1,000 (31 Dec 2018: 0) Power Electronics, ABB Automation Management Ltd., Switzerland 2002–2003; various positions at ABB, 1994– Deemed independent of the Company and its major 2001. shareholders. Other positions of trust: Board member: UPM-Kymmene Corporation, Fortum Corporation. Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 13,000 (31 Dec 2018: 10,000) Deemed independent of the Company and its major shareholders. Christian Bubenheim Peter Nilsson Board member since 2019; Member of the Audit Board member since 2015; Member of the Remuneration Committee. Committee. Born 1965, US and German citizen; Born 1962, Swedish citizen; Diploma in Economics and Engineering. M.Sc. (Econ.). Primary work experience: Primary work experience: CEO, Internetstores GmbH Stuttgart, Berlin, Lyon, President and CEO, Sanitec Corporation 2010–2015; CEO, Stockholm 2018; SVP Scout24 & GM AutoScout24 GmbH, Duni AB 2004–2007; various Senior Management Munich, Berlin 2015-2017; Division GM Consumables & positions, Swedish Match Group 1987–2003. Prime, Amazon Germany, Luxembourg 2008-2014; VP & Other positions of trust: GM Magellan GPS, Los Angeles, CA, 2002-2008; GM Intel Board Chairman: Adapteo Plc, Lindab International AB, Mobile & VP Xircom, Los Angeles, CA 2000-2002; GM House of Flowers Sweden AB, Unilode Aviation Solutions Mobile Compaq Computer, Houston, TX, 1997-2000; Sr. International AG and Poleved Industrial Performance AB. Manager Apple, Munich, Cupertino, CA, 1991-1997. Board member: Team Tråd & Galler Holding AB, J.H. Other positions of trust: Tidbeck AB, Wermer Förvaltning AB, Lindab LTIP17-19 Board member: Dunlop Protective Footwear (Raalte, NL) AB, Signtronic Produktion AB, Kylpanel i Nassjö AB, and KfzTeile24 (Berlin, DE). Start-up mentor and investor Sandur ehf., Dagar ehf. and Navibus AB. Munich, Berlin, Barcelona. Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 17,516 (31 Dec 2018: 7,516) 0 (31 Dec 2018: -) Deemed independent of the Company and its major Deemed independent of the Company and its major shareholders. shareholders. Joakim Rubin Raimo Seppänen Board member since 2015; Chairman of the Audit Board member since 2014; Member of the Remuneration Committee; Member of the M&A Committee. Committee. Born 1960, Swedish citizen; Born 1956, Finnish citizen; M.Sc. (Industrial Engineering and Management). Civil Engineer. Primary work experience: Head of Housing Repairs, YIT Construction Ltd., Housing Partner and Chief Investment Advisor of EQT Public Helsinki Metropolitan Area East unit (since 2006). Value, EQT AB; Founding Partner, Zeres Capital Partners Primary work experience: AB; Senior Partner, CapMan Group 2008–2015; several Specialist (Structural technology), Helsinki Housing positions e.g. Head of Corporate Finance and Debt Capital Production Bureau (ATT), 2000–2006; General Site Markets, Handelsbanken Capital Markets 1995–2008. Manager, Head of Site Management for renovation and Other positions of trust: residential construction, Haka, Skanska, 1987–2000. Board member: Adapteo Plc, Hoist Finance AB and ÅF Other positions of trust: Pöyry AB. Board Chairman: Rakennusmestarien Säätiö. Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 1,916 (31 Dec 2018: 1,916) 1,916 (31 Dec 2018: 1,916) Deemed independent of the Company, but not Deemed independent of the Company, but not independent of a major shareholder. independent of a major shareholder. Andrew P. Studdert Board member since 2019; Member of the M&A Committee. Born 1956, USA citizen; BA. Primary work experience: CEO, NES Rentals, Chicago, IL, USA 2004-2017; Various Executive Positions, UAL/United Airlines, Chicago, IL, USA 1995-2002; COO, 1999-2002; SVP, Fleet Operations, 1997-1999; CIO, Technology Division, 1995-1997; Various Executive Positions, First Interstate Bancorp, Los Angeles, CA, USA 1984-1994. Other positions of trust: Board member: IPAF (International Powered Access Federation). Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 6,500 (31 Dec 2018: -) Deemed independent of the Company and its major shareholders. Group Management 31 December 2019 Leif Gustafsson Aku Rumpunen President and CEO since 2016. CFO since 2016. Born 1967, Swedish citizen; Born 1974, Finnish citizen; Construction Engineer; Employed by Cramo since 2016. M.Sc. (Econ), M.Sc. (Geography); Member of Group management team since 2013; Employed by Cramo since Primary work experience: 2012. CEO, Stena Recycling International, 2012–2015; CEO, Stena Recycling AB, 2008–2012; CEO, YIT Sverige AB, Primary work experience: 2005–2008; Division manager, YIT Sverige AB, 2003–2005; Senior Vice President, Group Business Control, Cramo Division manager, ABB Contracting, 1999–2003. Plc, 2013–2016; Business controller, Financial manager, YIT Construction Ltd, 2003–2012. Other positions of trust: Board member: ERA (European Rental Association). Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: Member of Board of Trustees: SNS (Studieförbundet 11,996 (31 Dec 2018: 7,340) Näringsliv och Samhälle). Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 36,392 (31 Dec 2018: 24,463) Hartwig Finger Tatu Hauhio Executive Vice President, Central Europe since 2018; Executive Vice President, Finland and Eastern Europe Managing Director, Cramo AG since 2018. since 2013. Born 1973, German citizen; Born 1970, Finnish citizen; MBA; Member of Group management team since 2018; M.Sc. (Econ.). Member of the Group management team Employed by Cramo since 2018. since 2006; Employed by Cramo since 2004. Primary work experience: Primary work experience: President, Continental Europe Dwyer Group, 2015–2018; Managing Director, Cramo Finland 2006-2019; RK Group, Global Business Unit Manager, Imtech, 2014–2015; SelfDirector for Project Rental and foreign operations 2004– employed, Interim Manager, 2013; CEO, Polygon 2005; Suomen Projektivuokraus Oy, Business Germany, 2005–2012; Deputy Managing Director, RISO Development Director 2003; Cap Gemini Oy, IT Central & Eastern Europe, 2000–2005; Financial consultancy, quality and risk management positions Controller, IMI Hydronic Controls Germany, 1994–2000. 1997–2002. Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: Other positions of trust: 251 (31 Dec 2018: 0) Board member: Fortrent Oy. Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 30,617 (31 Dec 2018: 24,843) Martin Holmgren Sohana Josefsson Senior Vice President, Fleet Management since 2013. Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications since 2019. Born 1967, Swedish citizen; B.Sc. (Business Administration); Member of the Group Born 1973, Swedish citizen; management team since 2009; Employed by Cramo since MPP (Public policy); M.Sc. (Management); Member of the 2003. Group management team since 2019; Employed by Cramo since 2019. Primary work experience: Product Area Manager Fleet Management, Cramo AB, Primary work experience: 2003–2008; Business Development Manager, Telia Mobile, Green Cargo AB, SVP Marketing and Communications 2000–2003; Supply Chain Manager, ABB, 1998–2000; Site 2015-2019; Green Cargo AB, various managerial positions Manager, Platzer Bygg, 1989–1995. 2008-2015; Schenker AB, Key Account Coordinator 20012007; TNT Sweden AB, Commercial Manager Norway Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 1998-2000. 8,804 (31 Dec 2018: 4,616) Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 0 (31 Dec 2018: -) Mika Kouhi Henrik Norrbom Senior Vice President, M&A and Corporate Development Executive Vice President, Scandinavia since 2019; since 2018. Managing Director, Cramo AB. Born 1978, Finnish citizen; Born 1977, Swedish citizen; M. Sc. (Economics and Business Administration); Diploma in Business Finance (IHM Business School); Member of the Group management team since 2018; Member of Group management team since 2019; Employed by Cramo since 2013. Employed by Cramo since 2019. Primary work experience: Primary work experience: Group Head, M&A and Corporate Development, Cramo Oyj CEO, Skanova 2015-2019; Vice President & Head of 2016–2018; Director, Business Development, Cramo Oyj Networks, Telia Sweden 2014-2015; COO and Sales 2016; Head of Finance, Cramo AG 2014–2016; Head of Director, Eltel Networks AB 2012-2013; several Project Management and Process Development 2013– managerial positions, Eltel Networks AB 2005-2012. 2014; various managerial positions, e.g. Head of Finance Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: and Associate Director Corporate Finance, Agennix AG 0 (31 Dec 2018: -) 2006–2012. Cramo shares on 31 Dec 2019: 3,196 (31 Dec 2018: 1,453) Contacts For all questions and enquiries, you may contact: Aku Rumpunen Merja Naumanen CFO IR Communication Officer tel: +358 40 556 3546 tel: +358 10 661 1211 email: aku.rumpunen@cramo.com email: merja.naumanen@cramo.com General enquiries: email: investor.relations@cramo.com
