WE HELP EARTH BENEFIT FROM SPACE IN SUMMARY 2019 CONTENTS About this report 2019 HIGHLIGHTS 3 This is an English summary of Swedish Space Corporation’s (SSC) 2019 Annual and Sustainability Report. CEO STATEMENT 4 The Swedish report, available at our web­ site, is the legally binding annual report. THIS IS SSC 6 The report summarizes the 2019 fiscal year and covers performance on issues most important to SSC's ability to deliver SSC GLOBAL PRESENCE 8 value to stakeholders in a changing and complex business environment. This summary serves as our United Nations 9 Global Compact (UNGC) Communi­ EVOLVING SPACE LANDSCAPE cations on Progress. 10 Visit: STRATEGIC APPROACH https://www.sscspace.com/about-ssc/finances/reports-archive/ Copyright: Unless otherwise indicated, SSC has the copyright to images in this publication. FOCUS AREAS FOR PROFITABLE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 12 EMPLOYEES OUR GREATEST ASSET 14 MEET OUR PEOPLE 15 2019 HIGHLIGHTS 2019 HIGHLIGHTS 2019 was another year of exciting space missions and projects for the space sector as a whole, but also for SSC. The rapid development has allowed us to grow and take new steps to prepare for the future. MASER 14 and inauguration of SubOrbital Express as a service Our MASER 14 sounding rocket reached an altitude of approximately 250 kilometers and spent over six minutes in microgravity. The mission inaugurated SubOrbital Express, a service to enable research into microgravity applications, atmospheric physics or other scientific disciplines. In this microgravity environment, we conducted experiments on fluid drainage, X-ray radio­graphy and dust formation. Read more: https://www.suborbitalexpress.com Inauguration of exciting antenna art in Inuvik The two SSC antennas at the Inuvik site are painted by the local artists Anick Jenks and Ron English. The project wants to honor the indigenous cultures and their history, and to acknowledge the diversity of the people in Inuvik. For SSC, there is a symbolic meaning to this particular antenna painting as our ground station solution Infinity offers coverage around the globe, connecting people and continents by enabling satellites to stay in contact with Earth. Photo: Weronica Murray High-profile Moon landing attempt by SpaceIL We supported Israeli SpaceIL in its attempt to land on the Moon, by servicing the spacecraft in orbit and communicating with Earth throughout the mission. Although technical difficulties prior to landing caused a crash landing on the Moon, SpaceIL achieved its aim of raising awareness among Israelis on space capabilities and inspiring young people to study natural sciences. Photo: SpaceIL SSC | 3 CEO STATEMENT CEO STATEMENT Growth and development for a sustainable world ”That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind” were Neil Armstrong's famous words as he first set foot on the Moon in July 1969. With this achievement the world demonstrated that the impossible was possible through determination, innovation and technology. Faith in the future grew as a result. Fifty years have passed since the Moon landing and Esrange and new space services for a space is once again a source of inspiration. More sustainable world affordable and advanced technology is making space accessible and our technology-driven and globally Rapid increase in the number of satellites makes it interconnected society is increasingly dependent on possible to collect and measure more data on our space-based services. planetary health. This data needs the correct infra­ structure to be collected, processed and translated The pace of innovation is high, driven in part by the into information that can lead to concrete actions for need to find ways to help meet some of humanity's the benefit of humanity. key challenges — like climate change and sustainable use of resources. Many such initiatives are already taken by the space sector. We are actively exploring these opportunities, seeking to promote both profitable business and Business growth contributing more directly to the global sustainability goals defined in Agenda 2030. SSC delivered positive returns on our core business in 2019 and we are reinvesting it in future sustain­ One example is Global Watch, a joint initiative between able growth. We signed several exciting contracts SSC, Luleå University of Technology and the private with customers globally and are increasing our range consultancy agency AFRY, aiming to provide a global of services to meet needs of both institutional and situation overview on Earth by enabling qualified data commercial customers and to actively contribute management and processing. The possible end-user to meeting the 17 Agenda 2030 goals. At the applications are endless, ranging from analyses of CO2 same time, geopolitical developments have led to emission data, deforestation, and other phenomena greater uncertainty in the world. To a certain degree, related to global warming to disaster preparedness this affects our ability to fully leverage marketto mention just a few. growth potential. 4 | WE HELP EARTH BENEFIT FROM SPACE CEO STATEMENT Esrange is essential to our contribution to the sustainability agenda. We are currently building a SSC delivered positive returns Testbed for Europe’s next-generation sustainable on our core business in 2019 and rocket technology at Esrange with partial funding from the government. We have already received we are reinvesting it in future contracts for testing new engine technology when Testbed is operational in 2020. sustainable growth There is a global shortage of launch capabilities. By establishing capability to launch small satellites from Esrange, we can contribute both to European competitiveness and societal sustainability and growth. Constructive discussions are ongoing with Government Offices regarding a partial investment on this capability. An increase in satellites poses also challenges. Space debris and “dead satellites in operation increase the risk of collisions, jeopardizing the ability to leverage future capabilities. That is why we need international regu­la­tion and transparent space traffic control. SSC is exploring the business case for a new role in this area in dialogue with international organizations such as the UN, EU and ESA. As a provider of advanced space services in a global market we can contribute to a more open, equitable and just society. Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Initiative and its ten prin­ ciples is an important foundation to achieving this. Stockholm, May 2020 Stefan Gardefjord CEO SSC | 5 THIS IS SSC THIS IS SSC SSC’s mission is to help Earth benefit from space. Our vision is to be a leading global provider of advanced space services by 2023. SATELLITE GROUND NETWORK SERVICES A GLOBAL NETWORK OF GROUND STATIONS SSC operates one of the world’s largest partner satellite stations strategically civilian networks of ground stations, located around the world. providing access to satellites in virtually any orbit. In many cases, the ground stations operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. SSC’s Ground Network comprises core SSC owned stations and collaborative SPACECRAFT OPERATIONS & ENGINEERING SERVICES — ADVANCED ASSIGNMENTS IN THE SPACE SECTOR The Engineering Services Division and engineering, ground segment provide engineeringand operations opera­tions and engineering, space services to the international space engi­­ neering and scientific services, market and support all project phases, simulations and training. from designing and testing through to launch and operations. In 2019, SSC strengthened its market Covering the full mission range, SSC’s position through the acquisition of expertise includes satellite operations Jade Aerospace in Germany. SCIENCE & LAUNCH SERVICES — ESRANGE SPACE CENTER The Science Services Division offers balloons from Esrange. launch services of sounding rockets and stratospheric balloons with scientific or The launches are often carried out technical instruments for research and in collaboration with international technological development. customers. The division also provides development of experiment payloads. Since 1966, we have launched more that 570 sounding rockets and over 640 6 | WE HELP EARTH BENEFIT FROM SPACE THIS IS SSC SSC is a Swedish limited company owned by the Swedish state and is represented in eleven countries. At year-end SSC had 548 employees. 96% Our assignment SSC has both a societal and a commercial assignment. The societal assignment consists of operating and 2019 Quality index deve­lop­ing Esrange Space Center and is measured against two objectives, utilization rate and quality index. The commercial assignment consists of offering Revenues per geographical region advanced space services on a global market, with profitability requirements from the owner. Objectives Financial: A minimum return of 6% on operating capital. Capital structure: The net debt/equity ratio shall over time be in the range of 0.3 to 0.5. Societal: Utilization rate at Esrange and a quality index, reported annually to the owner. 2019 performance Average number of employees per country Net sales: SEK 1013 M (SEK 945 M). Operating profit: SEK 30 M (SEK 47 M). Cash flow from operations : SEK 195 M (SEK 134 M). Investments: SEK 171 M (SEK 54 M). Utilization rate at Esrange: 82% Quality Index: 96% SSC | 7 GLOBAL PRESENCE SSC GLOBAL PRESENCE Europe Americas Asia Pacific SSC SSC SSC SSC P.O. Box 4207 Aurora Technology 417 Caredean Drive PO Box 94 SE-171 04 Solna Zwarteweg 39 Suite A Mingenew, 6522 WA Sweden 2201 AA, Noordwijk, Horsham, PA 19044 Australia The Netherlands USA SSC SSC Esrange Space Center SSC SSC Space Krenovation Park P.O. Box 802 Atlas Building, Fermi Avenue, Inuvik Satellite Station 88 Moo Tambon Thung Sukala, SE-981 28 Kiruna Harwell Campus, Didcot, 3528 30 Street North Amphoe Siracha, Chonburi Sweden Oxfordshire OX11-0QX Lethbridge, AB T1H 6Z4 20230 Thailand United Kingdom Canada SSC LSE Space SSC SSC Argelsrieder Feld 22 Principe de Vergara, 211 1ºB Autopista Los Libertadores D-82234 Wessling 28002 Madrid Km 28, Peldehue Germany Spain Santiago Chile SSC LSE Space Robert-Bosch-Strasse 16a D-64293 Darmstadt, Germany 8 | WE HELP EARTH BENEFIT FROM SPACE EVOLVING SPACE LANDSCAPE EVOLVING SPACE LANDSCAPE The space industry is in a period of rapid evolution. The develop­ ment can be summarized in four areas, all of them beneficial for sustainable global development. Earth Observation Satellites monitor the Earth’s landmass, sea and atmos­ phere every day and images are getting more detailed. New technology also makes satellites and sensors less expensive. Advanced technology for processing large amounts of data, such as AI and Machine Learning, creates opportunities for new applications for supporting global sustainable development. The market for Earth observation data services is expected to grow exponentially. Photo: ESA Positioning Society already relies heavily on positioning services in order to function. The importance of added-value services based on positioning data is expected to increase dramatically, from services that support sustainable cities to selfdriving cars. Already today, value added services based on positioning data are estimated to USD 800 billion. Photo: SOS Alarm Communications Communications via satellites – such as television broadcasting and telecommunications – have pre­ viously been carried out with a few large satellites in geostationary orbit at a great distance from Earth. Thanks to technological advances permanent connectivity can be delivered, even to places where the internet has not been available. The introduction of 5G further enhances these possibilities. Photo: OneWeb Space Exploration We see an era of entrepreneurship with more missions from both traditional and new players. This includes exploration of the far side of the Moon, space tourism as well as plans to reach Mars by 2030. In addition to the desire to understand our planet and the universe, space exploration can contribute to sus­ tainable solutions on Earth. Photo: SpaceX SSC | 9 STRATEGIC APPROACH STRATEGIC APPROACH Our strategy is designed to deliver profitable, sustain­able growth. SSC delivers advanced space services on a global lop our competence, technology and services. The market, serving both insti­ tutional and commercial general geopolitical landscape may affect our ability customers worldwide. Our customer base is growing to conduct business in certain countries and regions. as new countries, companies and organizations join On the other hand, space technology can be used to the space industry. meet these challenges. Dialogue and international space collabora­tion can lead to exploring synergies The European Space Agency (ESA) is our largest and adapting common solutions. customer, followed by the German space agency (DLR), NASA (USA) and a number of commercial To increase sales and market presence, we need to customers. The Asian market continues to de­velop with balance long and short-term priorities and tackle new players and opportunities in several countries. risks posed by geopolitical instability while fully em­ bracing the opportunities which arise. Quality and availability are keys In doing this, strong innovation is a key. Other key to value creation areas for success is utilizing Esrange already today SSC's responsibility is to deliver reliable services based one of the most versatile space centers in the world on customers' expectations for quality and availability, to its full potential, as well as constantly developing using both standardised and tailored solutions. quality of our services, by exceeding our customers' expectations. Space can be leveraged to help humanity meet global challenges of our time. Data from space enables factSecurity part of our brand based decision-making, which can contribute to more The world faces increased security challenges, deriving robust societies and greater resilience. High-quality from geopolitical instability, tensions and criminality. service delivery from SSC can actively contribute At the same time, space services increasingly become to this. critical for important societal functions. To meet this development, SSC has since long made security as a Opportunities and challenges part of our brand, continuously investing in high comKeeping pace with global development is a key petence and measures covering the full domain from challenge for SSC in order to meet the future. Together strategic security to detailed local solutions. with customers and partners, we continuously deve­ 10 | WE HELP EARTH BENEFIT FROM SPACE STRATEGIC APPROACH SSC SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK OUR CONTRIBUTION Agenda 2030 INNOVATION Sustainable ESRANGE Exceeding expectations SERVICES QUALITY OUR CHALLENGES Managing Ensuring long-term Engaging & attracting Reducing our SUSTAINABILITY RISKS FINANCIAL STABILITY TALENT CLIMATE IMPACT Business to foster sustainability While adapting our business strategy to the fast the most relevant sustainability topics for success. mov­ing space sector and changing conditions, our sustainability approach is focused to maximize These were clustered into areas where we can create long-term value for owners, customers, society at large lasting value and where our impact on people and and to our employees. the environment are the biggest as well success factors which can influence how SSC is perceived as Based on this, the future-oriented materiality process accountable. and stakeholder analysis conducted in 2019 identified SSC | 11 FOCUS AREAS FOCUS AREAS for profitable, sustainable growth As a global provider of advanced space services, we contribute in many ways to global sustainability efforts. By leveraging on our existing business, we seek to maximize our contribution to the global sustainability agenda. Space is today integrated in our modern society and 2019 performance thereby part of our daily life. By delivering our services, • SSC set up a group function to realize innovation SSC plays an important role in upholding these that contributes to sustainable development. func­tions. We deliver data which is used to monitor • Global Watch Center: Together with Luleå sea levels, deforestation and many other important University of Technology and the consulting firm research areas related to global warming and climate AFRY, we presented a feasibility study on how to change. use advanced digital technology in Earth observation data processing and analysis. The project Through our sounding rocket and balloon programs continues in 2020. at Esrange, we give access to space for scientists within • Testbed Testing facility for next generation various scientific fields. Our skilled engineers also take sustainable rocket technology: Construction of the part in many important space missions beneficial to site started in 2019, to be finalized in 2020. our societies. • SmallSat Express Developing small satellite launching capability at Esrange: Further steps Innovation Agenda 2030 taken to realize the plan, including a business plan Our goal is to be a leading player for creating innova­ showing great potential for both profitability and tive space services by 2025. Together with our societal benefits. customers and partners, we aim to create innovative • SubOrbital Express Microgravity rocket flights as a space services that make a difference. commercial service: Successful first flight in 2019. Easier and more cost-efficient access to space for Several projects are ongoing, ranging from how to researchers as well as other customers who want develop Esrange and how to utilize space data more to send something to space. efficiently to promoting sustainable use of space. • SSA Space Situational Awareness: Service develop­ ment on how to contribute to interna­ tio­ nal Esrange to foster sustainability Space Situational Awareness and Space Traffic Esrange is among the most versatile space centers Development. in the world. By further developing the capability at Esrange to meet the global space sector’s needs, we can increase our contribution substantially. 12 | WE HELP EARTH BENEFIT FROM SPACE FOCUS AREAS High quality delivery of space services Most important sustainability risks are security/ cybersecurity, market and business ethics (including By maintaining and continuously develop the quality human rights), and sustainable supply chain. of our services, we can develop new services in close co-operation with customers and partners and Through our Sustainable Business Analysis (SBA), now maximize our value creation. implemented for both Sales and Procurement, these risks are being addressed in a systematic way. The results of our customer surveys show that we are on the right track. One example is the customer Within this process, sustainability criteria such as satisfaction index of 96 percent for the societal human rights, export control and overall security assignment at Esrange. Other indicators also point in priorities are considered. the same direction. Addressing our carbon footprint Managing sustainability risks We are working actively to reduce our negative cliThe world is increasingly complex, while the space mate impact. Over the years, substantial efforts have industry is rapidly evolving. This requires robust been made at Esrange. We will continue to address processes to assess negative and positive impacts other domains, such as business travel and energy use of our business on the well-being of individuals at ground stations globally. and society as a whole. Contributing to Agenda2030 Space sector contributes to most of the global sustainability goals defined in Agenda 2030. We identified the goals most relevant for our contribution, linking these to our strategy for profitable, sustainable growth. Operating on a fully global market, we can use our position to strengthen collaboration and to leverage on the opportunities, and thereby contribute to the goals. Based on this, we will focus on the following Agenda 2030 goals: Take action to combat climate change and its Transparency and strong institutions: Global Partnership for Sustainable consequences. Promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for Development. sustainable development. How to increase our contribution: How to increase our contribution: How to increase our contribution: By creating innovating services that contri­ By providing space-based services that in­ By creating projects together with customers bute to climate action, establishing satellite crease access to transparent informa­ tion or other actors where we can use each other's launching capability at Esrange and by and streng­then institutions working for the skills and create new services that contribute exploring new service segments such as pro­ sustainable use of space. For example, by to all Agenda2030 goals. cessing and analyzing Earth observation data. exploring new services within Space Situational Awareness. SSC | 13 EMPLOYEES OUR GREATEST ASSET EMPLOYEES OUR GREATEST ASSET 548 25 11 employees nationalities countries Diversity both a challenge and a main asset Employees, as per age and gender SSC is a service company whose operations require high levels of competence. We also aim to be a com­ pany with courageous leaders and with an inclusive corporate culture. SSC is growing and needs new com­petences to take on the future. Our priori­ties for creating an attractive workplace is to focus on leadership and collaborative culture, innovation and new thinking. In a global organization, diversity is an asset that allows us to increase collaboration across the company. Since space is traditionally a highly male-dominated sector, we are taking action to promote a shift to greater gender equality. Our Global Leadership program has engaged most managers and key staff, providing skills necessary to keep up with the speed of change in the space industry. Since many years, we promote the ‘Tekniksprånget’, a program initiated by the Royal Swedish Academy of All staff has participated in our Global Diversity Engineering Sciences (IVA). Training Program, which now continues to be driven by our employees. Based on the evaluation, employees In 2019, SSC initiated a Space Career Program, perceive our international environment as an asset to attract new talents to drive future technical project and that the program has promoted cooperation management. within SSC. 14 | WE HELP EARTH BENEFIT FROM SPACE MEET OUR PEOPLE MEET OUR PEOPLE ”This is an exciting time to be part of the industry” Philip Påhlsson As one of two space centers in Europe, Esrange has no plans to slow down. Currently, construction of New Esrange is in full swing, including a new modern Testbed for rocket engine and stage tests. Philip Påhlsson is Project Manager for New Esrange. “It is an exciting time to be part of this organization and the space industry as a whole – a lot is happening very quickly and the customer demands are growing fast. I'm responsible for the future development of Esrange, to find new ways of utilizing Esrange and combine current services to invent new ones. That includes, for example, finding new ways to make use of the unique touch-down area that surrounds our space center.” I have always been in love with all kinds of aircraft Filipa Correira With a long history dating back to the 50’s, SSC has been part of historical space missions, including the Apollo Moon programs. Filipa Leonor Correia works as a Spacecraft Controller in Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany. I have always been in love with all kinds of aircraft and the idea of freedom and going beyond borders that they convey. Before SSC, I worked as an aircraft engineer but my eagerness for the space field was also there. So one day, when I was told that there were several opportunities to join SSC, I just took the chance. My main role at SSC is to monitor and control constellation spacecraft. This includes execution of daily standard procedures and other planned activities that ensure and maintain the constellation in a healthy status, or that detect that something may not be nominal. I want to make as big of an impact as possible Darren Charrier Space missions of all kinds are a natural part of SSC operations, and ground stations are required for every single one of them. Darren Charrier works as a Solutions Architect in San Diego, US. My goal is to make as big of an impact on the Space industry as possible. In my lifetime humans will colonize the Moon and Mars and I am determined to make that happen. We are currently in the most transformative period of space exploration, and I am in­credibly passionate about it. At SSC I work as a solutions architect, being the liaison between the intense rocket science required for our work and the world of sales and marketing that brings our services to the industry. Currently I am working on everything from supporting companies that are going to the Moon and building space robots to supporting our marketing and sales team in communicating the amazing work we do . SSC | 15 sscspace.com 16 | WE HELP EARTH BENEFIT FROM SPACE
