SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI (SABIR HAZELNUT) UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2020 We have a workforce of 166 persons which is made up of 135 women and 32 men who are happy all the time … We place importance on the employment of women and support this every year.… “Sabırlar Fındık aims at satisfaction of its employees and customers, presenting products and services with universal qualities and standards by efficiently using the scarce natural resources, and at contributing to economic and social development. By this means, it aims at being a symbol of reliability, sustainability, and respect for all of its stakeholders including the customers, employees, and suppliers, and abides by the laws. Pursuant to our goal of happy employees we design our workplace in such a way as to make our employees happy for working in a modern environment free of problems both during and after the work In this context, we know very well that we should coalesce in order to enjoy our success and work process that we carry out together with our employees as a team. The philosophy of “Happy Employees” which is the most important element of Sabırlar Fındık’s human resources policy provides for transparency and sustainability in internal communication. Our whole team contributes to continuous improvement by sharing their views openly in all aspects. Statement of Continued Support From The CEO of Sabırlar Fındık Ihracat Ltd. Sti. To our stakeholders, business partners and organization members. Sabırlar is a family owned company in the field of processing Hazelnuts, and the company exports 99% of its production to all business partners around the globe. The company was first established in 1965, and we are very proud of being a member of the UN Global Compact signees. We also work with our sector partners, Government to establish sustainable hazelnut produce in Turkey. We join working groups, are part of ongoing projects and support 3rd party projects for sustainable hazelnuts production, too. I confirm that Sabırlar Fındık Ihracat Ltd Sti’s support to Ten Principle of UN Global Compact will continue with increasing effort. We will work on all the 10 principles on the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We infuse all these 10 principles into our business strategy and relation with our workers and suppliers and daily operations. I believe our company will be achieving both its business and social goals while actively integrating these 10 principles, too. We are committed to share this information with our clients using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, 2019, ANUGA FAIR – GERMANY We undertake to respect and apply such principles as not using forced labor and child workforce, no discrimination, conforming to work hours and wages, and collective bargaining freedom and freedom for getting organized which are indicated in the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Work Principles and fundamental human rights within the scope of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. WORKING STANDARTS SABIRLAR FINDIK İHRACAT LTD ŞTİ BLUE COLLAR WORKERS RECRUITMENT PROCEDURE 1. RESPONSIBILITY The General Manager and Human Resources Department are responsible for recruiting personnel 2. PURPOSE The purpose is to define the recruitment process and procedure in such a way as to make it possible to select the most suitable candidates with high potentiality for the work and enterprise who will accommodate themselves to the principles and values of Sabırlar Fındık and to set forth the route to follow in this process. In the selection of personnel, education, performance, skills, experience, and manners are taken into consideration, and no discrimination is made as to religion, language, race, gender, and disability. 3. APPLICATION 1. Job Application Form: Applications for a job are made directly by coming to the factory and filling in the application form or through the employment agency of İşkur. The recruitment procedure starts by filling in the application form fully by the candidates. At the first phase, the applications are evaluated by the General Manager and Human Resources and the most suitable candidates are selected and invited for an interview. 2. Preliminary Examination The Company’s General Manager examines the applications in the candidate pool in the light of their background and work profile. The purpose of this examination is to eliminate the candidates who are not suitable (in terms of experience, compatibility, and other requirements). The suitable candidates are invited for an interview as a result of the examination. 3. Interview With the candidates, their knowledge level, capabilities and subjects related to the work are conversed. The interview is made for the following purposes: – Giving brief information to the candidate about the job and the company, – General appearance, manners and behaviors, personality characteristics of the candidate – Having an idea about his/her motivation, – Learning the expectations of the candidate from the job and answering his/her questions. The ınterview is held generally by the General Manager. After the applicants pass the oral interview, the candidates suitable for the job criteria are selected. 4. Starting to Work, Orientation, and Introduction of the Company: The new starters are directed to the human resources first. The personal file documents required for starting to work are obtained from the personnel, and the necessary documents are signed, and systemically, employment procedures (social insurance) are fulfilled one day before starting to work. After the procedures are completed, the personnel supervisor directs the new starter to the workplace doctor for examination for starting to work. The employee is given an orientation program which covers the mission and vision, quality policy, culture, and working rules of the company. After the procedures are completed, the employee is given a training for work safety and health by the work safety specialist. He/she is given a tour of the factory by an authorized person, and he/she is also given information about all the departments. 5. RECORDS : The records made as a result of the application of this procedure are maintained. SABIRLAR FINDIK İHRACAT LTD STI WHITE COLLAR WORKERS RECRUITMENT PROCEDURE 1. RESPONSIBILITY The General Manager and Human Resources Department are responsible for recruiting personnel 2. PURPOSE The purpose of this procedure is to realize the recruitment of personnel with required qualities and sufficiency, to carry out the activities in line with the mission, vision, quality policy, purposes and targets, to increase the service quality by continuously growing, to invest in human resources to develop the corporate capacity. 3. APPLICATION PROCESS FOR RECRUITMENT WITHIN THE COMPANY: In the event of a need for personnel, Sabırlar Fındık meets this need from its own resources with a resolution of the Board of Directors, if the resources are sufficient. 1Promotion according to seniority: The power of experience obtained in a long professional life facilitates the conformity to the work, and enables a professional worker to know the rules and principles required by the work closely. 2Promotion according to successful performance: Promoting an employee to a higher position according to his successful performance and work discipline. RECRUITMENT FROM EXTERNAL RESOURCES: Everybody other than the personnel and who has the desire and strength to work is an external resource. 6. Work Announcement: The company may use a work announcement relating to the position to the filled. The announcement relating to a vacant position is made in such internet sites as www.yenibiris.com or through İşkur. Application may be directly made to the employer. The criteria determined by the board of directors to meet the need for an employee are indicated in the internet site. These criteria are: a. Title of the company and work area b. Position title of the candidate to be recruited c. Required qualities of the candidate d. Working conditions d. Manner and conditions of application e. Deadline and place for the application If the applying candidate has these qualities, he/she applies for the position, and leaves or sends a cv. 7. Preliminary examination The company’s General Manager makes a preliminary examination of all the candidates’ backgrounds in the light of their job profile in the candidate pool. The purpose of this examination is to eliminate the candidates whose qualities do not conform to the qualities (education, experience, capabilities, and others. The suitable candidates after the elimination are invited for an interview. 8. Interview The interview is made for the following purposes: – Giving brief information to the candidate about the company and the job, – Confirming the information in the CV, – Obtaining more detailed information about the subjects in the CV, – Clarifying the points not indicated in the CV but is important for the qualities of the job. – General appearance, manner and behavior and personality characteristics of the candidate. – Having an idea about his/her motivation, – Learning the expectations of the candidate from the job and answering his/her questions. The ınterview is held generally by the General Manager. After the applicants pass the oral interview, the candidates suitable for the job criteria are selected. 9. Starting to Work, Orientation, and Introduction of the Company: The new starters are directed to the human resources first. The personal file documents required for starting to work are obtained from the personnel, and the necessary documents are signed, and systemically, employment procedures (social insurance) are fulfilled one day before starting to work. After the procedures are completed, the personnel supervisor directs the new starter to the workplace doctor for examination for starting to work. The employee is given an orientation program which covers the mission and vision, quality policy, culture, and working rules of the company. After the procedures are completed, the employee is given a training for work safety and health by the work safety specialist. He/she is given a tour of the factory by an authorized person, and he/she is also given information about all the departments. 10. RECORDS : The records made as a result of the application of this procedure are maintained. SABIRLAR FINDIK İHRACAT LTD STI POLICY FOR THE EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS  We are very careful about treating our employees equally without considering their religion, language, race, age, color, and nationality and we give them all equal chances. In our company, the processes of selecting the workforce, recruitment and placement, training, and determination of wages are carried out by considering qualifications, performances, skills, and experiences.  As Sabırlar Fındık, we act sensitively on the basis of our principle of “equal pay for equal work” by presenting competitive and equal opportunities to our employees under the market conditions.  We undertake to present a working environment to our employees where there is no harassment, abuse, malfeasance, or violence.  In the workplaces where we have operations we place importance on strengthening the health and safety.  We do not tolerate forced and involuntary labor.  We never employ child workforce in the workplaces of Sabirlar Fındık.  We never use illegal discrimination in our workplaces.  We are very careful and painstaking in inclusion of the applications of human rights in the in-house communication channels and training programs within Sabırlar Fındık.  We develop regulations in such a way that they will conform to the legislation of Occupational Safety and Health, and we place importance on increasing the awareness of our employees. SABIRLAR FINDIK EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVE PROCEDURE DUTY, AUTHORITY, AND RESPONSIBILITIES of THE EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVE Being informed about the inconveniences with respect to occupational safety and health by being in contact with the whole personnel and Department Managers, Informing the Occupational Safety and Health Team (OSH) in respect of issues that may seriously affect the occupational health and safety so that the necessary measures can be taken and provide and ensuring that the necessary measures have been taken, Decreasing the probable risks in the workplace environment to a minimum, and decreasing the dangers or submitting proposals to the OSH so that the danger can be eliminated at its source, Not negatively using the possibilities provided by the employer can fulfill the duties and responsibilities with respect to the occupational health and safety. Attending the OSH meetings to be held with respect to Occupational Safety and Health, Working for ensuring that the Corporate Policy of the Enterprise is understood by all the employees, Giving information to the OSH team so that the personnel should be given occupational safety and health trainings periodically or at times when he/she finds it necessary, Following up the subjects indicated in the occupational safety and health regulations, Knowing the legislation about occupational safety and health in relation to his own duty, Giving his/her own opinions during the audits conducted in the workplace by authorized bodies, Fulfilling the works stipulated by the management, Abiding by the procedures, instructions, laws, and other conditions relating to the Management Systems. REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS: Open to novelties, technology, and trainings and education Having knowledge about the occupational safety and health management Honest, trustworthy, and neutral Having the professional attention and daintiness Prone to cooperation and team work, Successful in human relations, thinking positively, strong communication skills, result oriented. . SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI Discrimination and Harassment Prevention Procedure Our company respects the constitutional rights of all our employees in relation to Sexual Harassment, Mobbing, and Discrimination, and doesn’t make any concessions in this respect. Those persons who do such actions will be referred to the Disciplinary Board. After their defense is taken if their breaches are proved their employment agreements are terminated immediately. Increasing the awareness of all the employees about the below mentioned concepts is of great importance for the company. Sexual Harassment and Abuse Those actions may be defined as sexual harassment which include violation of personal rights protected by the Turkish Civil Code and Turkish Penal Code, which cause disturbance or disturbing work environment even if it is not directed to a specific person or persons, which are crimes requiring imprisonment and are against ethics and goodwill, and which include sex and sexual preference. Mobbing Mobbing is an aggressive action applied in a systemic manner on a person’s self-confidence continuously and frequently in order to intimidate him/her even by applying physically aggressive actions. In other words, it is to intimidate and force a person to abide who is declared to be a persona non grata by a person or persons in the workplace by verbal or physical harassment, by externalizing him/her. Discrimination Discrimination is an unjust treatment of a person by others due to his/her gender, race, color of his/her skin, religion or beliefs, political views, sexual preference, age, disability and handicap, or his/her nationality, social status or ethnical roots. Those employees who have concerns or complaints in these aspects may write down their complaints and put them in the wishes/complaints box or they may directly apply to the Personnel Department. SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI COMPANY POLICIES Mission& Vision Being a fast, flexible, the most trustworthy and reliable hazelnut exporting company which is sensitive to the needs of the hazelnut sector and has the awareness of sustainability. Corporate Culture 1Honesty : Honesty constitutes the core values of our business 2Confidentiality: The information of our employees, customers, suppliers, and business partners is valuable for us. We take utmost care in order to keep such information confidential. 3Flexibility: With our flexible thinking system and our fast adaptation capability, we are open to each and every idea. Our Quality Policy & Understanding of Social Suitability Our company is well aware of the fact that investment in the humans is the best investment. And we aim at taking quality to forefront and making it a sustainable company policy by acting with an understanding of human focused management. Our company is managed with an understanding that aims at a long term and sustainable success and quality by keeping customer satisfaction at the top level with the participation of all the units of our company. At the same time, we manage our company in such a way as to provide benefits for our employees and society with sensitivity for the environment. In our company Child Labor is NEVER used. In our company we don’t use forced and involuntary labor. No threat, harassment, and bad treatment are ever used on the employees in our company. No discrimination is applied to the employees in our company. SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY We undertake: For Child Workmanship, to comply with the working age/conditions within the framework of the Labor Code with enactment number 4857 with respect to employing children, For Discrimination, not to make any discrimination among our employees in their recruitment and throughout their employment in our company with respect to their language, religion, race, gender, social class, pregnancy, marital status, and physical handicaps, For prevention of harassment and maltreatment, to guarantee that there will not be any psychological and physical harassment/pressure so that the work life will be peaceful and healthy, For Forced and Compulsory Employment, not to force anybody to work involuntarily, In Recruitment, to inform the employees that it is an important criteria that they should conform to and follow the rules and social standards of the company in addition to their technical/functional qualifications, For Work Hours, to determine and fix the work and overtime work hours in consideration of the laws and regulations in force, For Wages and Payments, that the wages and social rights of the employees shall comply with the legislation, For Raising the Awareness of the Employees, to give information to the employees about their personal benefits, company rules, and working conditions on a regular basis, For Freedom of Representation, to respect the rights of being represented for the employees, For Health and Safety at Work, to consider the goals for the Health and Safety at Work as an important part of the management system at each and every level; to keep the work environment safe against any injuries and occupational diseases; to meet and fulfill all the requirements of legal obligations in Safety and Health at Work; and furthermore to take the worldwide criteria, evaluations, and applications as examples; to make the necessary studies for risk evaluation and for decreasing risks and to put targets for them; to realize the “Zero Work Accident” targets by continuously improving the culture for Safety and Health at Work, For Prevention of Environmental Pollution, to minimize the harm to the environment within the environmental policies, and to raise the awareness of our employees in this respect, For Training, to organize training seminars that will contribute to the occupational and personal development of the employee by considering the fact that the level of training and education determine the general level of the company, For Prevention of Bribes, not to accept any gifts, money, checks, property, free vacation, special deductions that will put the company under a liability, For Communication, to provide an environment for the employees where they can communicate among themselves and with the managers, For Conformance to the Law and Other Liabilities, to carry out our activities in compliance with the laws and regulations, quality management systems, and with the conditions that our customers request us to follow. SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY Complying with the sectorial obligations and liabilities in the legislations of the countries where we have operations with respect to Occupational Safety and Health. Making our employees, suppliers, sub-contractors, customers, and visitors aware of the Occupational Safety and Health. Realizing emergency action plans in each and every required field in order to deal with the defined potential risks effectively. Reporting the accidents and occupational diseases that may take place within the company to the required places and analyzing such accidents and diseases. Managing the necessary corrective and preventive activities in this respect. Minimizing the accidents that may take place within the company. Ensuring a healthy and safe work environment by way of effectively applying the Occupational Safety and Health legislation and by continuous improvements of its performance; and preventing the accidents and occupational diseases. SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI SUPPORT FOR ENVIRONMENT Sabırlar Fındık undertakes to protect the environment; Fulfilling the legal requirements in the subjects relating to the environment. Making our personnel and suppliers aware, minimizing the consumption of energy sources and natural resources by encouraging recycling works and effective usage ways, preventing the environmental pollution and protecting the environment. Keeping the effect of the performance of the environmental management system, and making it better. We receive services related to environmental auditing from a private consultancy firm. SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI Risk Audit for Struggle Against Corruption Head of the Struggle Against Corruption The Human Resources, which has been appointed as Head of the Struggle Against Corruption by the Board of Directors is responsible for the following: • It develops, defines, publishes, and audits an effective program for struggling against corruption. • It develops and publishes the compliance rules determining the standards for struggling against corruption. • It gives opinions about the subjects relating to struggling against corruption. • It fulfills the duty of coordinating and auditing the program of struggle against corruption and inspecting the incidences of corruption that have been reported. The Supervisor Responsible for Struggle against Corruption The Social Compliance Supervisor who is appointed by the Board of Directors is responsible for the following as being the Supervisor Responsible for Struggle against Corruption: • He/she develops, defines, applies, and audits an effective program for struggling against corruption. • He/she ensures the coordination of the activities for the adoption of the group rules, for making additions according to all the legal and regulative requirements, and for coordinating the activities for the correct application of the group rules. • He/she gives opinions relating to struggling against corruption. • He/she helps the employees with respect to making evaluations about struggling against corruption. • He/she investigates all the actions of corruption reported. For this purpose, the supervisor in charge of struggle against corruption has the authorities of investigating the alleged or actual corruptions, requiring and examining all sorts of documents, and conveying them to the Board of Directors whenever necessary. The Supervisor responsible for struggle against corruption reports the doubts on data protection, confidentiality rules, and money laundering to the Head of Struggle against Corruption. Internal Evaluation of Probable Breaches All the employees are in a position of reporting the probable breaches of these rules immediately. The doubted breaches may be reported to the immediate supervisor of the employee, to the Compliance Officer, or to any member of the Board of Directors. For the reporting of such doubted breaches, other reporting mechanisms may be used. In the event that the employees encounter an incidence of a demand which is not ethical they may directly report the case to the management or they may put their report in the complaint box. The employees of Sabırlar or those persons who act on behalf of the company are obligated to report persons or entities who act against the rules of this procedure or situations against these rules immediately to the Human Resources or directly write to www.sabirhazelnut.com.tr or call us on 0462 272 53 53. All the reports are kept fully confidential. And maximum care is taken for the confidentiality rules during the examinations and investigations to be carried out after reporting, and care is also taken so that the reporting employee will not be exposed to any harm and danger. Sabırlar Fındık forbids the application of sanctions on the person who has reported with good intentions. All the reports and notifications must be followed up by the Compliance Officer and taken seriously. The Compliance Officer and the Compliance Committee must keep the sources of the reports and notifications confidential. A manager who has received a report which contains a breach of laws and regulations against corruption must convey this report immediately in written form to the Compliance Officer. The Compliance Officer must ensure necessary action, and he/she must consider including any subjects and questions that may come up as a result of the reports in the scope trainings and meetings. The employees are given trainings and programs for making them aware of the program of struggle against corruption. Reliable and attainable communication channels are provided so that the employees can communicate their notifications and reports. Enforcement This document, which includes actions for struggle against corruption takes effect with the approval of the Board of Directors. SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We took part in the works of the ILO as a supporter in August, 2019 at the time of harvest. Also, because we are a member of FLA we took part with the support of Nestle for us in the project called ‘Harvesting the Future’ which was a project of FLA. This is a 3 year project which is still continuing. In addition, we organized dining in the cities of Ordu, Giresun, and Samsun in order to strengthen our communication with our greengrocers in these cities. Our manager Hasan Bey has taken part in all of them and had the opportunity to meet our greengrocers. By this means, we have ensured the flow of data for traceability. We organized these dines in October, 2019. OUR TARGETS In order to establish an effective traceability system, we should need to make a map of our supply chain and the main actors here, to make a risk assessment and to determine tracing and improvement strategies. In this respect the goal is to set forth the profile of the mobile seasonal agricultural workers, to determine the risks in the supply chain in the light of the data obtained, and to develop solution proposals suitable for elimination of these risks. SUMMARY Throughout our research during a 16-day period, our supplier which is a breaking plant (Baha Fındık) in the township of Ünye in the province of Ordu was visited, and in the next phase discussions with the greengrocers were made. In the light of the discussions with the greengrocers the villages were visited and we met with the producers. In two predetermined villages, 5 garden owners were audited internally. As Sabırlar Fındık, we organized dancing, music, and karaoke activities three times for seasonal agricultural child workers in the METİP field in the township of ÜNYE and we organized the same activities one time in the METİP field in Saraycık. Also, daily supper supports were provided in the METİP fields in Ünye, Fatsa, Saraycık, and Karlı. In addition, the mapping of agricultural brokers in our supply chain was realized in order to realize the project called “Harvesting the Future” with the three week consultancy of the PİKOLO Association. 1) FIELD WORKS 1.1. VISITS TO LOCAL ADMINISTRATION Because the Chief Governmental Officer of Ünye Mr. Ümit Hüseyin Güney was outside the town we spoke to him on the phone. We paid a visit to the Chief Secretary of this Office Mr. Nurettin Görür in his office, and we gave him comprehensive information about the operations of our company. We also paid a visit to the National Education Director of Ünye Mr. Özgür Tokgöz in his office, and he was given information about our social activities. We spoke on the phone to Erdal Meriç, Ordu University, Vocational Academy, Head of the Child Development Department. We have exchanged ideas with Mr. Ömür Duyar, who works as an agricultural engineer in the Provincial Directorate of Agriculture and Forestry of the province of Ordu. He has informed us that he will give the required training support. We paid visits to the Chairman of Ünye Chamber of Agriculture Mr. Osman Sarıkahraman, to Secretary General of this chamber Mr. Cengiz Çalık, and to the agricultural engineer Mr. İbrahim Hakan Gün, and they were all given information about the works and studies that we will do, and we exchanged ideas with them. It was emphasized that their support is important for us and especially for our field force. The Chairman of the Chamber of Agriculture of Ünye Mr. Osman Sarıkahraman told us that he will provide with full support. 1.2. VISITING THE BREAKING PLANT Firstly, Mr. Turgay Ustaoğlu the manager of the breaking plant called Baha Fındık which is included in our supply chain was visited and given general information about our works and studies. He was also informed about the traceability project of our company, and in the light of the required guidance we have communicated with the greengrocers. We have met three greengrocers from whom the manager of Baha Fındık Mr. Turgay Ustaoğlu purchases the most hazelnuts. We have passed onto the phase of data collection about the list of producers through three greengrocers called Gülay Tarım Ürünleri, Öztaş Tarım, and Ali Demir. 1.3. VISITING THE GREENGROCERS Among the greengrocers, those who buy the most hazelnuts especially from the villages have been visited. These greengrocers are called Yüksel Öztaş, Hamza Gülay ve Demir Tarım, Seyit Yılmaz, Boğaziçi Tarım. We have paid daily visits especially to Yüksel Öztaş and Hamza Gülay. We have given them comprehensive information about our company and projects, and we told them about the importance of their support with respect to traceability. We have obtained from our grocers the village names, names, and telephone numbers of the persons who obtain workers from the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia. This way the risk areas have been determined, and visits have been paid to those villages. Our manager Mr.Hasan SABIR participated in our dining organizations, and had conversations with the hazelnut cracking companies and hazelnut greengrocers about the subjects on hazelnuts. 1.4. VISITS TO THE PRODUCERS Within the information obtained from the greengrocers, firstly the villages which obtain workers from the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia have been found to be risky areas, and a course has been set which is made up of the producers there. First, the headmen of the villages determines have been contacted, and they have been informed about our company and projects, and their supports have been obtained for reaching the producers. We have reached 62 producers all of whom are from the villages in the township of Ünye in the province of Ordu. The names of these villages and the number of producers contacted in these villages are as follows: Düzsaylan 2, İnkur 4, Kaledibi 10, Hanyanı 1, Ataköy 3, Kale 2, Beylerce 2, Gölcüğez 19, Taflancık 4, Aydıntepe 3, Tekkiraz 3, Yazkonağı 2, Günpınarı 2, Göbü 1, Göbünalcı 1, Saraycık 1. Our company was introduced, first, to the garden owners who were contacted, and we explained why we would like to speak to them, and a tie of confidence has been formed at first. Many of the villages and producers were visited a couple of times, and they were told that the company will give agricultural consultancy support to the producers in the supply chain of the company. At the same time, in the visits paid to the producers and workers, between the producers and the workers, such basic needs of the workers as accommodation, nutrition, and transportation, and the conditions of working were observed, and the data were recorded. Moreover, the producers were told about the rights and responsibilities of the seasonal agricultural workers, and the importance of agreements with workers were emphasized in order that they shouldn’t experience suffering in this respect; they were also told about that the hazelnut agriculture is not suitable for child workers. In the conversations with the producers, the social, agricultural, and technical needs of the farmers that they expect from our company have been detected, and their demands in this respect have been received. The names of the villages and the number of the gardens of the producers visited by the agricultural team in these villages in the township of Ünye in the province of Ordu are as follows: Gölceğiz 10, Düzsaylan 2, Aydıntepe 2, Taflancık 2, Günpınarı 2, Kaledibi 4, Kale 1, Beylerce 2, Hanyanı 1, Tekkiraz 2, İnkur 3, Göbü’de 1, Göbünalcı’da 1. A total of 33 producers’ gardens were visited. The garden owners were given preliminary information about the detection of insectum, diseases, unconscious trimming in the hazelnut gardens visited. Information about the importance of soil (earth) analysis in fertilizing was given. We have told these producers that as an agricultural team we will give them the necessary trainings together with group and individual publishing methods. At the same time, the sample gardens to be used next year have been determined. By looking at the findings and the observations made, it has been decided that the village of Gölcüğez is the most convenient place for the school project planned for next year within the context of taking the children of the mobile seasonal agricultural workers away from the gardens. The village of Gölcüğez hosts many different agricultural workers’ families, and it accommodates workers from different regions; and it is also close to the villages around and to the center of the town. Therefore, it is a convenient place within the transportation system. In addition, internal audits were conducted in 2 gardens in the village of Tekkiraz and in 3 gardens in the village of Gölcüğez. By taking into consideration the unsuitability in the audit report, improvement plans will be prepared and the unsuitability will be eliminated. 1.5. VISITING THE WORKERS Visits have been paid to the garden owners who use labor especially from the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia, and the workers working in their gardens were spoken to. Wıth a 3day support of ILO, special worker interview forms were formed within the company the purpose of which is to set forth the profile of the workers employed by our producers. The questionnaire prepared consists of 4 sections which contain information about demography of the worker, his/her accommodation possibilities, his/her work life, and the situation of the children in the field. With the information from these forms, the needs are detected, and a plan will be made for the trainings to be given to the workers in the following year. The names of the villages and the number of the workers interviewed in these villages are as follows: Gölcüğez 13, Kaledibi 7, Düzsaylan 1, Taflancık 3, Aydıntepe 2, Yazkonağı 1, Günpınarı 1 and Tekkiraz 3. A total of 31 seasonal mobile workers were interviewed. It has been found that most of the families interviewed are from the province of Şanlıurfa. The worker groups from Batman and Syria are included in these. 2. PROJECT OF “HARVESTING THE FUTURE” Within the scope of the Fla project called “Harvesting the Future”, 31 producers from 8 different villages, 31 workers and 12 agricultural intermediaries were interviewed with the consultancy support of PİKOLO Association. Within the framework of this research, PİKOLO Association gave a consultancy support for 3 weeks, and the intermediaries were reached through the predetermined producers. The information about the intermediaries according to the interview form prepared by Fla contained the profile of the workers he/she brought, products for which he/she brought workers according to months, and the duties and responsibilities. Within the scope of the information given, the agricultural intermediaries will be given trainings, and they will be encouraged to receive an intermediary certificate. Furthermore, the farmer form in which such information is included as general information about the farmer, information about the workers, and the needs of the farmers was given to 31 farmers, and the purpose here is to find out what the farmer will need in the following year. At the same time, the worker form which contains the general profile of the workers, and working conditions was directed (given) to 31 mobile seasonal agricultural workers. 3. SOCIAL ACTIVITIES Social activities were organized 3 times in the Ünye METİP field and 1 time in the Saraycık METİP field in Ordu. These activities were organized for children for 2 weeks. These activities were made up of karaoke, music, and dance. In these activities which were realized with the participation of the whole field force, both the present situation of the children was observed and they were given an opportunity to have a nice time in their environment. Within the scope of the social activities, the children were communicated and interviewed with respect to their living conditions, and their future expectations and dreams. After this activity, an active loud speaker, an organ, and a microphone set was given as a souvenir to the Ünye METİP field for the use of the seasonal mobile agricultural workers. Also, on the 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 26th, and 27th August 2019, a total of 7345 buns (pastry) and nectars were provided for the children in the METİP fields in Ünye, Fatsa, Saraycık, and Kırlı. In addition, a basketball hoop was granted for use in the METİP field for the children of the seasonal mobile agricultural workers. But, because the number of the workers in the field this year was over their normal number, a suitable field for erecting the basketball field was not found, and it was granted for use in the Ünye METİP field. As a result of the training held at the schools in Artvin for the purposes of telling about the importance of the struggle against Brown Skunk Beetle we gave one of the children who picked the most insects a bicycle as a gift. FOR CONTACT US ,PLEASE VISIT www.sabirhazelnut.com.tr
