Solution makers 2020 GRI Index Contents About this report 3 Leading water stewardship 33 Reporting practices 3 Advocating for global water security 33 Reporting scope 3 How DuPont Water Solutions Reporting process 4 is solving global water challenges 33 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations 4 How we manage water at our sites 34 External assurance 4 Water consumption and withdrawal data  35 Feedback4 Delivering world-class health and safety 36 Our organization 5 Environmental health and safety management system 36 Our businesses 6 Hazard identification and risk assessment 37 Our markets 7 EHS incidents and investigation 37 Occupational hygiene 38 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer 8 Health and safety training and communication 38 Audits and evaluation 39 Our values 10 High risk activities 40 Code of conduct 11 Employee and contractor safety data 40 Reporting ethics concerns 11 Improving our health and safety data analysis 41 Human rights 11 Health and safety innovations 41 Our supply chain 12 Our People 42 Supplier diversity 12 Accelerating diversity and inclusion 43 Sustainable sourcing 12 A diverse and inclusive DuPont 43 Letter from the Chief Technology and Sustainability Officer 14 Workforce demographics 44 Our sustainability strategy 15 Cultivating well-being and fulfillment 46 Materiality16 Employee health and well-being 46 Material topics 16 Creating a culture of well-being 47 Our goals 17 Balancing work and life 47 Sustainability governance 17 Skill development 47 Improving our online wellness platform 48 Stakeholder engagement 18 Listening to our employee feedback External initiatives, memberships and associations 18 on well-being and fulfillment 48 Engage us on sustainability topics 19 Partnering for improved performance 49 Our Innovations 20 Building thriving communities 50 How we innovate 21 Maximizing our impact through strategic Develop globally, innovate locally 21 community impact programs 50 Expanding our innovation spaces 21 Appendix52 Delivering solutions for global challenges  22 GRI Content Index 53 Sustainable innovation at DuPont 22 SASB56 Innovating safer by design 24 DuPont 2019 Environmental Data 57 Safer and more sustainable, by design 24 Energy57 DuPont PFAS commitments 25 Emissions59 Product safety and quality  25 Waste60 Product and service labeling 26 Water60 Information on products produced with Biotechnology  26 DuPont 2019 People Data 61 Enabling a circular economy 27 Employee and Contractor Health & Safety 61 DuPont Second Life Materials 27 Employee Demographics 61 Striving for zero waste 28 Product Efficiency Data 63 Keeping plastic out of marine environments 28 Enabling improved product efficiency 63 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste data 28 Note regarding the formation and Our Operations 29 history of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. 65 Acting on climate 30 Joining the global effort 30 External Assurance Statement 66 Managing our climate footprint 30 Bold energy plan 31 Cautionary Statement Regarding Energy and emissions data 32 Forward Looking Statements 70 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 2 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy About this report GRI 102-50. GRI 102-52. GRI 102-54. GRI 102-55. Reporting practices Reporting scope This document, along with the web-based Sustainability Story Hub, GRI 102-45. GRI 102-46. GRI 102-48. GRI 102-50. is the inaugural sustainability report of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. For the purposes of this report, references to “us,” “our,” “the Company,” The scope of this report includes facilities owned and operated by or “DuPont” refer to DuPont de Nemours. There is an online version DuPont de Nemours, Inc. during calendar year 2019 and all entities of this report, found here. This document goes into further detail included in DuPont’s 2019 consolidated financial statements. on various aspects of our 2019 performance data and management processes compared to the online version of the report. Case Consistent with best practices and applicable reporting framework studies, stories of progress and other DuPont sustainability guidelines such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, where applicable, highlights can be found in our Sustainability Story Hub. we generally include acquisitions’ environmental data in our reporting boundary for their first full year of operation following We commit to annually report our sustainability performance their acquisition. in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We’ve prepared this report, in conjunction with the web-based version We also include safety data from acquired sites in our corporate of our 2020 Sustainability Report, in accordance with the Global totals for the first full year of operation following acquisition. Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. It covers DuPont An exception to this is if an acquired site has a recordable incident activities from January 1, 2019 until December 31, 2019, unless during the year it is acquired, in which case we include the otherwise noted. Sections of this report are badged with the incident(s) and manhours for the affected site beginning with applicable GRI disclosure. the month in which the incident(s) occurred. This report also adheres to the Sustainability Accounting Standard Financial, legal, and governance information, including our Board (SASB) Resource Transformation — Chemicals (RT-CH) 2019 Form 10-K and 2020 Proxy Statement, is available on Standard. Sections of this report are badged with the applicable our investor website. Prior years’ sustainability reports will SASB code. A GRI and SASB Content Index is available at the end be available in our Sustainability Publications archive. of this report. DuPont de Nemours, Inc. is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and adheres to the ten principles laid out in the UNGC. This report, in conjunction with the web-based version of our 2020 Sustainability Report, serves as our communication of progress. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 3 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy About this report (continued) Reporting process External assurance GRI 102-46. GRI 102-56. The content of this report is based on our materiality assessment DuPont contracts an independent third party, WSP, to provide a and sustainability strategy and is developed with consideration of limited level of assurance on our energy, greenhouse gas emissions, the GRI reporting principles. and employee safety information using the ISO 14064-3 standard. The most recent statement of verification, which details the scope, The report content is developed and reviewed by representatives activities and conclusions of their engagement, is included in the and relevant subject matter experts from each business unit Appendix at the end of this report and in our Sustainability and operational function. Our senior leadership, including our Publications archive. Chief Technology & Sustainability Officer and Chief Executive Officer, review the final report prior to publication. Additionally, In addition, DuPont has policies and internal practices to enhance our process includes third-party assurance of a portion of our and provide assurance regarding the accuracy of the report. For sustainability data. See the External Assurance section below instance, internal and second-party audits are conducted on many for more information. of DuPont key activities including safety, health, environmental performance, financial accounting, and compliance with the DuPont Data measurement techniques Code of Conduct. Third-party audits are also conducted to review this data as part of our certification and conformance processes and basis of calculations for ISO 14001 and Responsible Care©. We have internal data management and analysis systems to ensure consistent and accurate data collection and aggregation from our Feedback facilities. For the majority of our environmental, health, and safety GRI 102-53. indicators, we conduct quarterly quality control checks to evaluate the reliability of facility-specific and aggregated data and correct For copies of our publicly available policies, or for more information any errors. regarding our operations, please visit our website at dupont.com. You can find a downloadable version of our GRI Index, as well as We provide more detail about our data tracking and calculation our responses to the CDP Climate Change and CDP Water Security methodologies in the sections throughout this report. questionnaires, in our Sustainability Publications archive. Due to rounding, individual numbers in text, charts and tables may For questions, comments and suggestions about our report, not sum to the totals shown. The unit of currency used in this report please email us at sustainability@dupont.com. is the U.S. dollar. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 4 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our Organization DuPont 2020 GRI Index 5 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our organization GRI 102-1. GRI 102-2. GRI 102-3. GRI 102-4. GRI 102-5. GRI 102-7. GRI 102-10. GRI 102-41. DuPont de Nemours, Inc. is a publicly traded specialty solutions company based in Wilmington, Delaware, U.S.A. We deliver global innovations for multiple industries across four businesses — Electronics & Imaging, Nutrition & Biosciences, Safety & Construction, and Transportation & Industrial. In 2015, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and The Dow Chemical Company entered into a “merger of equals” with the Our businesses and 2019 intention of creating three independent companies. The resulting segment revenues company, DowDuPont, had three divisions — Material Science Division, Agriculture Division and Specialty Products Division. GRI 102-2. The DowDuPont Specialty Products Division was to carry the Electronics & Imaging – $3.6B name DuPont de Nemours after the separation. On June 2, 2019, We serve the semiconductor, circuit board, industrial, display, and DuPont took the Specialty Products Division into its next chapter digital and flexographic printing industries. We innovate solutions as a standalone premier innovation company. around connectivity, more brilliant electronic displays, and printing For more information, see the “Note regarding the formation for packaging and textiles, and more. and history of DuPont de Nemours, Inc.” in the Appendix. Transportation & Industrial – $5.0B DuPont has approximately 195 principal locations, 14 major R&D We deliver solutions to transportation, electronics, medical and centers, and 11 innovation centers, located in over 70 different industrial industries. We provide high-performance engineering countries. At year-end 2019, we had approximately 34,000 resins, adhesives, and lubricants to enable material systems employees and about nine percent of our workforce are covered solutions for applications and environments including aerospace, by collective bargaining agreements. Net sales in 2019 were automotive, medical devices, energy production, and more. approximately $21.5 billion (B). Nutrition & Biosciences – $6.1B We apply expert science to advance healthy and sustainable products for the food, beverage, dietary supplement and pharmaceutical industries. We also use pioneering biotechnology to enable bio-based solutions that make industrial processes more efficient and sustainable. Safety & Construction – $5.2B We develop solutions that protect workers and first responders, keep homes warm and dry, and purify the essentials of life. We create high-performance fibers and foams, aramid papers, nonwoven structures, water purification technologies, and protective garments, including well-known brands like Kevlar®, Nomex®, Tyvek®, Styrofoam™, Corian®, and Great Stuff™. Detailed information about the scale of our organization, corporate governance and Board of Directors composition, operational Non-core – $1.7B structure, markets served and geographical footprint is available We develop key materials for the manufacturing of photovoltaic in our 2019 Annual Report and U.S. Securities and Exchange cells and panels; materials for semiconductors and technology for Commission Form 10-K and our 2020 Proxy Statement available production of clean, high-octane gasoline; specialty biotechnology at investors.dupont.com. materials for carpet and apparel; and films for consumer electronics, automotive, and aerospace markets. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 6 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our markets GRI 102-6. Our technology serves over 15 major industries. Our top 10 end markets are shown below. See a list of all industries we serve here. Food & Industrial Beverage Construction Consumer Automotive Water Smartphones Health & Electronics Wellness PPE/ Defense DuPont 2020 GRI Index 7 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Letter from the Chief Executive Officer GRI 102-14. One year ago, we created a truly new DuPont with a clear purpose — to empower the world with the essential innovations to thrive. Our purpose is rooted in the passion and proven expertise of our people, to use science and innovation to create sustainable solutions for the complex challenges facing our world. What we didn’t know at the time was how quickly our purpose and resolve would be tested. Our actions are shaped by our strategic priorities to drive change by addressing megatrends like climate change, circular economy, water stewardship, product safety and transparency and health and wellness. The 2030 Sustainability Goals we launched in 2019 underscore the importance of our collective action as a company and a global community, bringing sustainable innovations to market while reducing negative impacts along the value chain. Our commitment to transparency and sustainability also includes our policies and protocols. Always guided by the science, this past year, we established a set of bold commitments to manage perand polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). I’m pleased with the progress on delivering promises we made in 2019. Specifically, we eliminated the use of long-chain PFAS from our processes, including recently integrated operations. I encourage you to review our PFAS Commitments to learn more about the progress on actions we are taking. Since the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been Essential innovations to thrive guided by our Core Values to place the highest priority on the As a global specialty products company, we’re helping customers safety and well-being of our employees, customers, suppliers, and across industries and countries make real progress to improve communities. Our colleagues are working tirelessly to support the safety, productivity, efficiency and profitability while reducing massive effort to provide critical protection to healthcare and other waste, energy consumption and environmental impacts. To be front-line workers who bear the greatest burden in the fight against able to pursue valuable innovation opportunities that embody our this pandemic. Our science and innovation capabilities enabled us core values of Safety & Health, Respect for People, Highest Ethical to rapidly create and deploy new tools in this battle and we will Behavior, and Protecting the Planet, is a great source of pride. continue to advance those, along with targeted in-kind and financial donations, to provide as many as possible with our solutions. A clear example of this is the value and impact of our Water Solutions business. In 2019, we augmented our portfolio in A strategic first year this growth segment by acquiring four strong technologies to In 2019, we transformed our portfolio and the way we operate, strengthen our offering and leverage state of the art technologies and today we can confidently describe ourselves as a high value, to deliver more robust solutions faster. Across the globe, our multi-industrial company. We designed a business specifically Water Solutions technologies are processing over 25 million gallons tailored to address a fundamental challenge facing the world of water every minute — that’s five gallons a day per person. Our right now — the need for sustainable innovation that meaningfully actions are helping put us in an even stronger leadership position to advances the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals deliver against our goals and fulfill our purpose to provide enough and protects the resources we have and for future generations. clean water for people around the world. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 8 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Equity through action We are living in a time of profound change on a global scale, Even as our business evolves, we fully recognize we have more yet in the face of an unprecedented health, economic, and work to do. Our approach to sustainability means more than societal challenges, I am personally hopeful and encouraged contributing to our stakeholders’ lives; we must act to empower by the progress of innovation to respond quickly to our changing people everywhere to achieve a more just and equitable world environment. We have the science, products and people to continue for all. That is why I was proud to sign on to the Catalyst CEO to effect real, sustainable change, and as you’ll see, this year’s Champions for Change, pledging to advance more women, report illuminates examples of our 2030 Goals, as well as areas particularly women of color, into senior leadership positions where we’re intensifying our efforts. and onto our board, and the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge, which commits DuPont leaders to take measurable action Thank you for taking the time to learn more about our sustainability in advancing diversity and inclusion in the workplace. As an early achievements and the journey we are on, and for your continued signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are also interest in DuPont. committed to advancing ethical business practices across our value chain to promote human and labor rights, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. Edward D. Breen Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer DuPont 2020 GRI Index 9 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our values GRI 102-16. DuPont’s core values underpin everything we do as a company and guide every decision our employees make during their work. Our four core values reflect the longstanding commitments of our heritage companies, demonstrate our steadfast commitment to our people and the planet, and exemplify the way we operate. These values are timeless and foundational for a sustainability strategy that positions DuPont for long-term growth, strengthens and preserves our connection within local communities, and makes us the company of choice for the best and brightest talent. Safety Respect Highest ethical Protecting and health for people behavior the planet We’re committed to protecting We treat our employees We conduct ourselves in We find science-enabled, the safety and health of our and all our partners with accordance with the highest sustainable solutions for our employees, our contractors, professionalism, dignity, ethical standards, and in customers, always managing our customers, and the people and respect, fostering an compliance with all applicable our businesses to protect the in the communities where environment where people laws, always striving to environment and preserve we operate. can contribute, innovate, be a respected corporate the earth’s natural resources and excel. citizen worldwide. — for today and for future generations. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 10 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our values (continued) Code of conduct and oversees all investigations, coordinating when necessary with Corporate Security, HR, Legal, and other parts of DuPont. GRI 102-16. GRI 205-2. The team has been trained in fraud prevention and detection, forensic accounting, law enforcement, and other relevant disciplines. All DuPont employees are expected to understand and comply When an incident involves suspected corruption or any other with the DuPont Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct also applies violations of our core values, the GEI team will gather the to all of our subsidiaries, affiliated companies, and joint ventures information needed for a decision on whether to pursue the in which we have a majority interest or operating responsibility. issue — which could then lead to disciplinary action, a root cause It includes our company policies on matters of business ethics, analysis, and related control improvements, if appropriate. anti-corruption, and conflicts of interest and requires every employee to conduct the company’s business with integrity, DuPont offers multiple channels to report suspected misconduct. in compliance with applicable laws, and in a way that excludes Employees and the general public can report ethics concerns consideration of their own personal advantage. through management, HR, the DuPont Hotline, our online reporting portal or directly to a Compliance Officer or Champion. This site The DuPont Code of Conduct is available in 24 languages on will allow you to create a unique user ID and set up a password www.dupont.com. The Code of Conduct explains in detail what to submit a confidential concern to the third-party provider. we mean by our core value of highest ethical behavior. Employees The concern will be handled following the same process that receive annual training and frequent communications on the Code is in place for hotline calls. of Conduct, and we provide training resources via our employee intranet. For example: The DuPont Ethics and Compliance Hotline is a multilingual and free phone number that is available to anyone with a DuPont• Every year, all DuPont employees worldwide must complete the related ethics concern, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week in more than DuPont Code of Conduct course — a web-based training module 25 languages. Callers can choose to remain anonymous, and any covering ethics, anti-corruption, and related topics — and be resulting investigations are confidential. Lessons learned from certified in Business Ethics and Compliance. investigations are communicated through our Business Ethics • Periodically issued Business Ethics Bulletins and Bulletins, Ethics Connections, and other training avenues, ETHICSConnections highlight positive and negative behaviors while protecting the privacy of those involved. and increase our shared understanding of the Code of Conduct and the seriousness of ethical misconduct. In 2019, DuPont received 180 ethics complaints, resulting in 21 disciplinary actions. • New employees receive training on our core values and the DuPont Code of Conduct. • Each DuPont function and business unit has an Ethics & Human rights Compliance Champion, who plays a key role in improving GRI 102-16. GRI 407-1. GRI 408-1. GRI 409-1. GRI 414-1. and advancing ethics and compliance within their part of the company and helps coordinate ethics and compliance training. DuPont is committed to protecting and advancing human rights wherever we operate. Once a year, members of the DuPont Board of Directors have to complete an added level of compliance, by signing and We’ve based our Human Rights Policy and Principles on Child and acknowledging their obligations under the Code of Business Forced Labor on our core values. We also endorse the 10 Principles Conduct and Ethics for the DuPont Board of Directors. in the UN Global Compact. The DuPont Code of Conduct outlines our global policy and commitments to external initiatives in the The DuPont Code of Conduct also outlines our global policy and areas of human rights, respect for people, and freedom of commitments to external initiatives in the areas of human rights, association, among others. respect for people, and freedom of association, among others. Compliance with these policies and applicable laws is every Reporting ethics concerns employee’s responsibility and we work to identify and do business with partners who aspire to conduct their business in a similar GRI 102-17. manner. The DuPont Supplier Code of Conduct sets out expectations for our suppliers in relation to our core values, including human Employees must report all suspected ethics violations promptly rights. Also, language requiring respect for human rights is included through one of the various channels available to employees and in our contracts with suppliers and other business partners. the public. All potential ethical breaches are reviewed by the Global Ethics Investigations (GEI) team, which is part of an independent Ethics & Compliance Central (ECC) function that answers directly to the DuPont Board of Directors. The GEI team reviews all allegations DuPont 2020 GRI Index 11 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our supply chain GRI 102-9. GRI 102-10. GRI 308-1. GRI 308-2. GRI 414-1. GRI 414-2. With our diverse portfolio of businesses, global footprint, and extensive operations, DuPont operates a highly complex, integrated supply chain. While it’s difficult to succinctly summarize every aspect of our supply chain, in general, DuPont businesses process constituent materials through manufacturing stages to produce goods for our customers. DuPont works with approximately 52,000 suppliers from 53 Guided by 11 key performance indicators (KPIs), our goals include countries worldwide. In 2019, we spent about $12.9 billion with increasing the total amount of our spending with these suppliers, these suppliers, $597 million of which was spent on energy ensuring that they’re included in our competitive bid process, and and feedstocks. sponsoring and attending outreach events. We engage our top suppliers to support supplier diversity, and we reinforce this All DuPont suppliers are expected to uphold the DuPont Supplier expectation in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which encourages Code of Conduct, which includes the principles of the United our suppliers to develop a diverse supply base themselves in Nations Global Compact, and details supplier expectations on support of the materials and services they provide to us. In fact, matters of the environment, labor, human rights, and impacts on one of our KPIs is measuring “Tier II” spend — what our suppliers society. We include the Supplier Code of Conduct in our Terms and spend with diverse suppliers in the performance of their work Conditions for all supplier purchase orders. This is in addition to with DuPont. existing contract language and other mechanisms that are in place to make sure our suppliers adhere to our Human Rights Policy, In 2019, we spent a total of $449 million with 154,000 small and Supplier Code, and with all applicable laws and regulations. diverse suppliers in the U.S. We assess all new suppliers across various risk parameters including quality, geo-political stability, supply condition and Sustainable sourcing security, health and safety, regulatory compliance, ethics and GRI 102-9. GRI 102-10. GRI 102-12. GRI 308-2. GRI 414-2. business conduct, environmental controls, human rights and more. DuPont businesses systematically perform additional We are aware of stakeholder concerns related to the sourcing reviews for suppliers that have a relevant risk profile for any of of certain feedstocks, most notably environmental and labor the aforementioned categories. As noted in our Supplier Code issues that may impact regions where palm oil is sourced. of Conduct, we reserve the right to audit our suppliers regarding For our management practices related to this and other adherence to the Code of Conduct and other relevant DuPont feedstocks please see the following sections. We are not policies. We also expect our suppliers to adhere to all applicable aware of any significant environmental, labor, or human laws and regulations, including labor laws, environmental rights impacts in our supply chain that occurred in 2019. regulations and product safety and transparency regulations such as REACH for Europe and other parts of the world. Dupont’s Nutrition & Biosciences business joined the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) Platform in 2018. SAI Platform is the global food and drink industry platform for developing collaborative, Supplier diversity member-driven sustainable agriculture solutions with a goal of Through our Supplier Diversity Program, we’re working to include catalyzing change and establishing sustainable agriculture as a small and diverse businesses among our sources of supply and pre-requisite for doing business throughout the food and drink help these businesses develop into competitive suppliers. industry supply chain. As a SAI Platform member, DuPont is We work closely with local, small, and diverse suppliers to actively participating in that process. help them understand the DuPont business model and other elements of our procurement strategy. For example, we’re taking part in SAI Platform’s Wild Harvest project, which aims to create an industry-aligned reference for sustainable sourcing of wild harvested ingredients such as berries, rosehips, mushrooms, and nuts. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 12 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our supply chain (continued) Palm oil Soy At DuPont, we understand that palm oil may be sourced from The vast majority of our soy comes from the U.S. For soy sourced biologically sensitive regions of the world and can contribute to from South America, DuPont has issued a position statement deforestation. Consistent with our core values and our commitment making clear our support for conservation of the Amazon rainforest to safety, health and the environment, our Nutrition & Biosciences through responsible sourcing practices. DuPont only purchases soy business has taken steps to responsibly manage our palm oil from suppliers situated in areas near the Amazon biome that have sourcing, including: signed a contractual agreement prohibiting the vendors from providing DuPont with soy beans grown on lands deforested after • Supporting the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) July 2006 in the Amazon biome — in line with the Soy Moratorium. since 2004. DuPont Nutrition & Biosciences is also a member of the Roundtable • Becoming the first in the industry to offer RSPO-certified for Responsible Soy. sustainable emulsifiers from a mass balance source in 2009, and in 2011 bringing the first palm oil-based products from a Seaweed segregated supply chain to the market. Developed in collaboration with the Anderson Cabot Center • Contributing to the WWF Palm Oil Scorecard. In 2019, we doubled for Ocean Life at the New England Aquarium, our seaweed our score, showing our continuous improvement in this space. program guides seaweed farmers and harvesters toward adopting more sustainable practices. We designed the DuPont Better • Engaging with globally reputable suppliers for our palm oil-based Management Practices for Seaweed Production to drive change raw materials. in the environmental and social criteria of sustainability and bring • Supporting the inclusion of smallholder palm oil farmers in transparency throughout this complex supply chain. The goal is sustainable supply chains. Smallholders account for 40% of to ensure that the most environmentally friendly practices are global palm oil production, making them instrumental in the followed and that seaweed producers receive fair treatment sustainable transformation of global palm oil production. Low and work safely. yields affecting economic viability and inadequate access to information regarding best practices are some of the challenges The Sustainable Seaweed program launched first in Norway they face. In 2019, DuPont Nutrition & Biosciences joined the and Iceland and will eventually expand to other regions where Mariposa program (WISSE), a crowdfunded effort that’s providing seaweeds are sourced. access to training on sustainable palm oil production to 1,800 smallholder palm oil farmers in Honduras. Nine hundred of them will work toward International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) and RSPO certification. • Offering our customers an extensive range of emulsifiers based on mass balance and segregated palm oil (and palm oil derivatives) as well as a variety of non-palm and ‘palm-free’ versions of our palm-based emulsifiers. • Contributing to robust evidence about palm oil and sustainability. DuPont was part of the group of companies funding the first life cycle assessment comparing certified and non-certified palm oil. Results of this independent study show that RSPO-certified palm oil out-performs non-certified palm oil for global warming and nature occupation. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 13 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Letter from the Chief Technology and Sustainability Officer GRI 102-14. Today, we are navigating through a time of unprecedented change and volatility. Each of our daily lives has been profoundly impacted, yet we are reminded how deeply connected we are to one another, and how our actions, large and small, affect our neighbors around the corner and around the world. Aligning our science and innovation to the SDGs helps us gauge what the biggest market drivers will be in the years to come and chart a clear path ahead for our businesses. We have curated an innovation culture that drives us to create science-based solutions that create positive societal change and competitive advantages in areas such as clean water, health and safety, 5G, and automotive electrification. For instance, we are advancing water security, availability and quality worldwide through our filtration and purification technology. Most recently, DuPont Water Solutions began a partnership with charity:water to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 in vulnerable communities through the deployment of hand-washing stations, hygiene and sanitation training and community health messaging. Our healthcare innovations — which are enabling advances in biopharmaceuticals, wound care, drug delivery, device fabrication, Gaining perspective on how to create a positive impact requires two and other areas — will improve health outcomes for millions of seemingly opposing skills — holding fast to a vision for the future, people worldwide, in the same way that our DuPont™ Tyvek® and while being flexible enough to adapt to events as they unfold. At Nomex® materials protect healthcare workers and first responders DuPont, our mission — to empower the world with the essential as they risk their own safety to protect communities and families innovations to thrive — remains intact. Our global team of scientists, around the world. engineers and business leaders hold this mission closely as we Similarly, our investments in the AHEAD™ automotive electrification innovate new solutions to global challenges, adapting our approach program will transform the automobile industry, increasing energy to best meet the urgency of our times and the changing needs of efficiency, vehicle connectivity and reducing greenhouse gas our customers and vulnerable populations around the world. emissions. The AHEAD program benefits from our work advancing At the end of 2019, we announced our 2030 Sustainability Goals 5G high speed connectivity, which will enable more connected, — nine ambitious, long-term goals developed to amplify our sustainable communities. company’s capabilities in areas that are critically important to our In this, our first sustainability report, we introduce our roadmap stakeholders and society. Our 2030 goals draw inspiration from the to meet our goals and address our progress thus far. You’ll read United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs about how we manage our talented employee base, our operations provide a global consensus that helps to catalyze collaboration, and our innovation portfolios — where we are driving change in new partnerships and shared commitments between all actors, our businesses and where we have opportunities to improve — both public and private. with the help of partners like many of you. Sincerely, Alexa Dembek Chief Technology & Sustainability Officer DuPont 2020 GRI Index 14 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our Sustainability Strategy DuPont 2020 GRI Index 15 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our sustainability strategy Materiality We continually identify emerging topics and changes in our business that may affect our materiality determination. While we GRI 102-15. GRI 102-42. GRI 102-44. GRI 102-46. GRI 102-48. GRI 102-49. have not identified any changes to material topics since our formal materiality assessment in 2018, we plan to refresh the assessment In 2018, the DowDuPont Specialty Products Division, now as needed to identify new opportunities and risks. DuPont de Nemours, conducted a materiality assessment to determine the strategic sustainability priorities for the specialty products businesses. Material topics GRI 102-47. We polled customers, investors, suppliers, NGOs and internal stakeholders representing each of our businesses, to find out Analyzing stakeholders’ feedback led us to six priority areas — which topics they thought DuPont’s new sustainability strategy Circular Economy; Climate Change; Health, Safety and Well-being; and 2030 Sustainability Goals could potentially address. After Product Safety and Transparency; Sustainable Innovation; and evaluating their feedback, we cross-referenced that list with the key Water Stewardship. Several of these priority areas, like climate issues identified in our previous materiality review (in 2015) as well change, circular economy, health and safety, and water stewardship, as topics covered in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, must be addressed through innovation, operational excellence, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and Sustainability and new collaborations with our business partners. Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards. We created a framework that supports our company growth We also held workshops with subsets of these internal and strategy, provides common ground for our diverse businesses, external stakeholders, where we captured a rich and diverse and led to the establishment of ambitious sustainability goals set of viewpoints and evaluated the likelihood and magnitude that address our most critical sustainability areas. We published of both longand short-term risks and opportunities in our these goals in the fourth quarter of 2019. operations and value chains. We validated our results with external sustainability experts. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 16 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our sustainability strategy (continued) Our goals Sustainability governance GRI 102-15. GRI 102-18. DuPont’s new 2030 Sustainability Goals are helping to shape Each DuPont business segment has a dedicated sustainability leader our innovation agenda and processes. We designed the goals responsible for overseeing business and product-level sustainability to be challenging, provoke technological breakthroughs and efforts. These business sustainability leaders are part of a crossnew ideas for addressing society’s biggest challenges. business, cross-functional Sustainability Leadership Council, chaired by the VP of Corporate Sustainability. Executive responsibility Go here to learn about the rationales and beliefs that underpin for sustainability performance sits with the Chief Technology & our sustainability goals. Sustainability Officer (CTSO). The CTSO role was created specifically • Delivering solutions for global challenges: Align 100% of our for DuPont to capitalize on the intrinsic link between sustainability innovation portfolio to meaningfully advance the UN SDGs and and innovation in our operating model. create value for our customers. The CTSO chairs the Sustainability Oversight Committee, an • Enabling a circular economy: Integrate circular economy executive steering committee, whose members are strategically principles into our business models considering lifecycle impacts appointed based on their respective areas of leadership — in the markets we serve. operational excellence, employee experience and development, • Innovating safer by design: Design 100% of our products and innovation, and business oversight. The Sustainability Oversight processes using sustainability criteria including the principles Committee reviews and approves DuPont’s corporate sustainability of green chemistry. goals, performance, policies and initiatives. The CTSO reports directly to the CEO, and routinely engages the Environmental, • Acting on climate: Reduce greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions 30%, Health, Safety & Sustainability Committee of the Board of including sourcing 60% of electricity from renewable energy Directors on matters of sustainability, product stewardship by 2030, and deliver carbon neutral operations by 2050. and community impact. • Leading water stewardship: Implement holistic water strategies across all facilities, prioritizing manufacturing plants and communities in high-risk watersheds; and enable millions of people to access clean water through leadership in advancing water technology and enacting strategic partnerships. • Delivering world-class health and safety performance: Further our commitment to zero injuries, occupational illnesses, and incidents. • Accelerating diversity, equity and inclusion: Become one of the world’s most inclusive companies, with diversity well ahead of industry benchmarks. • Cultivating well-being and fulfillment: Create a workplace where employees report high levels of well-being and fulfillment. • Building thriving communities: Improve over 100 million lives through targeted social impact programs. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 17 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-12. GRI 102-13. GRI 102-40. GRI 102-42. GRI 102-43. GRI 102-44. At DuPont, we regularly engage with civil society organizations around the world, and we’re active in multiple sustainability initiatives. DuPont businesses and leaders have a long tradition of sustainability leadership. Our roots include a founding membership in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, early adoption of the UN Global Compact, and years of engaging industries, national governments, international bodies and others to advocate for action on climate change. Through our memberships in global industry organizations we’re collaborating to point the specialty products industry External initiatives, in an increasingly sustainable direction. As an active member memberships and associations of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, we participate in the Food Reform for Sustainability and Health GRI 102-12. GRI 102-13. (FReSH), Water and Chemicals Sector working groups. In the We partner with organizations around the world, support global United States we are actively supporting the development of the sustainability initiatives, and engage regularly with outside American Chemistry Council’s new sustainability metrics, and we stakeholder groups. Examples of externally developed principles helped to create the Cefic (the European Chemical Industry Council) and initiatives that we support include: Mid Century Vision, which sets out a path for robust sustainability in the European chemical industry by 2050. DuPont is also a UN Global Compact: Since 2001, DuPont has committed to aligning member of the World Resource Institute Corporate Consultative our operations and strategies with the ten principles of the UN Group, a network of Fortune 500 companies that come together Global Compact, which includes areas like human rights, labor, to advance sustainable business practices, mitigate risks, and environment and anti-corruption. The publication of this GRI report support sustainable growth. is one way we fulfill this commitment. We engage directly with our customers, investors, suppliers, and Responsible Care® Management System: DuPont was one of other stakeholders on our sustainability efforts, to ensure that the first companies to adopt the American Chemistry Council’s these stakeholders have accurate, credible information about Responsible Care® Codes of Management Practices. Since the our company, and to communicate how we’re considering their late 1980s, DuPont has led efforts to expand Responsible Care® priorities within our own strategy. We engage government to encompass advances such as security, public reporting of stakeholders primarily through meetings with member and metrics, management systems certification, and sustainability. jurisdictional committee staff, including the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee and House Energy and At the business unit, regional and corporate level, DuPont Commerce Committee in the U.S. participates in a number of organizations and initiatives to advance sustainability efforts related to their innovation and market Examples of issue-specific stakeholder engagement can be priorities. For example: found in the following pages, and throughout this GRI Index. • Beyond Benign – provides tools training and support to make green chemistry an integral part of chemistry education • Cefic Sustainability Forum – promotes Sustainability Principles in the European chemical industry and shares sustainability best practices among members DuPont 2020 GRI Index 18 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Stakeholder engagement (continued) • EcoVadis – shares performance on sustainability indicators to We also formally support the following sustainability-related stakeholders and allows businesses to monitor their upstream initiatives: value chain’s sustainability performance • Cefic Mid Century Strategy Vision – the vision of the Chemical • ePure – advocates for the development of clean mobility and Industry in 2050, providing an invitation to discuss and debate renewable fuel the urgent decisions industry and policy makers are facing on • EU Battery Alliance – brings together industry and political the path to a more sustainable and circular future stakeholders to discuss the future of battery production in Europe • CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ – a CEO-driven business • European Bioplastics – represents the interests of the bioplastics commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace industry in Europe by raising awareness of the benefits of • Operation Clean Sweep (OCS) – a voluntary program of bioplastics across stakeholder groups PlasticsEurope to eliminate loss of plastic pellets into the aquatic • International Sustainability & Carbon Certification (ISCC) – drives environment. the development of sustainability standards through stakeholder engagement, contributing to the sustainable production and use Engage us on sustainability topics of biomass in global supply chains GRI 102-11. GRI 102-53. RT-CH-530a.1. • PlasticsEurope Mass Balance Taskforce – engages industry partners to develop key criteria when applying so-called mass We publish our Position Statements online, so that stakeholders will balance approaches and to ensure a verifiable and certified know where DuPont stands on key industry-related issues such as approach is applied by companies willing to accelerate the use of Climate Change, Human Rights, Product Safety and Transparency, renewable feedstocks and waste feedstocks along the value chain and more. We are committed to transparency by submitting information about our climate and water performance to CDP, • Roundtable of Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB) – ensures the releasing a sustainability report following Global Reporting sustainability of biomass and biomaterial production and Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board processing through stakeholder engagement and standards (SASB) Standards, and completing numerous stakeholder surveys • Smart Water Alliance Network (SWAN) – brings together and questionnaires. businesses and utility representatives to develop water policy recommendations and exchange best practices Our EHS Commitment outlines our commitment to designing, building, operating, and maintaining our facilities to effectively • US Chamber of Commerce Climate Change Task Force – engages manage process safety and other hazards and to minimize process the Chamber to act on climate by focusing on practical, nearand and product risks to the environment, our employees and the long-term solutions people of our local and global communities. • World Business Council for Sustainable Development – brings together the CEOs of over 200 leading businesses to accelerate Stakeholders who have comments or questions about sustainability the transition to a sustainable world at DuPont can email our Corporate Sustainability Team at sustainability@dupont.com. • German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) – represents the interests of chemical and pharmaceutical companies to create an We also publish information about our positions, policies, and 2030 attractive industrial location in Germany, Europe and worldwide Sustainability Goals at dupont.com/sustainability, so that anyone • Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM) who is interested in sustainability at DuPont can easily find the – brings together the leading multinational chemical companies information they need. in China to help contribute to the sustainable growth of China’s chemical industry and the development of a better society • Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA) – promotes the healthy development of the chemical industry through the research and study of production, distribution and consumption of chemical industry materials • Taiwan Responsible Care Association (TRCA) – leads the implementation of world-class health, safety and environmental management systems throughout the chemical industry in Chinese Taipei DuPont 2020 GRI Index 19 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our Innovations DuPont 2020 GRI Index 20 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy How we innovate Develop globally, innovate locally While we have dozens of business-specific technology and R&D facilities globally, innovators from across DuPont converge in our 14 GRI 102-3. multi-business research centers, to collaborate on developing new solutions and finding new applications for existing technologies. DuPont develops globally applicable technology solutions, but we recognize that our technologies, products and market applications To catalyze progress on key industry and societal challenges, need to be locally relevant — they need to match our customers’ we’ve initiated several new innovation programs focused on unique and individual needs and the markets they serve. Innovating specific areas. In healthcare, for example, scientists and innovators close to the customer yields the highest impact and fastest results, from across DuPont’s businesses have been working together so we’ve strengthened our operating model by fully embedding our to identify and move forward on potential solutions to some of research & development teams into our businesses while retaining the healthcare industry’s biggest and most pressing challenges. corporate capabilities that can be leveraged by the businesses. We’re focusing on areas of emerging science where we can At our 11 Innovation Centers around the world, DuPont scientists leverage multiple DuPont technologies to enable rapid progress. meet customers, partners, academic researchers and others to Through collaboration across DuPont’s businesses and beyond, discuss ways our latest technologies can help solve their most we believe we can help the healthcare industry make biological pressing challenges. We’ve designed the centers to support pharmaceuticals that are safer and more affordable; develop drug co-creation and collaboration, making them true epicenters for delivery devices that will increase patients’ compliance and save innovators from DuPont and the world at large. We take these healthcare costs; and introduce surgical and wearable devices insights back to our research centers and use them to advance that can prevent, diagnose and treat disease in ways that are the process of scientific discovery and technological development not possible today. innovation for new products, new applications, new business 33% models and new manufacturing processes. of medical tablets sold globally have DuPont pharma excipients, the inactive ingredients used in pharmaceuticals Identifying new ways to leverage our technologies is only the first step. Ultimately, we want to convert market needs and our technology capabilities into commercially viable solutions. So, we continue to strengthen our processes that enable us to In 2019, we had Innovation Centers in 11 strategic locations globally: Brazil, China, identify and prioritize our strategic innovation platforms, identify India, Japan, Russia, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, United States: Silicon Valley, CA; any gaps in our capabilities, and, if necessary, bring in third-party Auburn Hills, MI; Wilmington, DE. And 14 major R&D Centers, in: Brazil, China, Denmark, Germany, India, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Switzerland, Taiwan, expertise to fill those gaps — by working with external collaborators United States: Palo Alto, CA, Wilmington, DE, Marlborough, MA, Midland, MI. and partners or by acquiring businesses with unique capabilities that make them a good fit to become part of DuPont. Open innovation, inside DuPont Every day, DuPont scientists and engineers come together Expanding our innovation spaces across disciplines, and roll up their sleeves to leverage each other’s work for new applications, a style of innovation that has We’ve relaunched our entire network of Innovation Centers for the given rise to world-changing innovations and tens of thousands new DuPont: of patents. Today, our teams collaborate on a global scale, whether • Opened a new Global Innovation Center in Wilmington, DE they’re connecting across great distances via digital platforms • Expanded and reopened our Shanghai Innovation Center or are meeting face-to-face in our research facilities or at our innovation-focused employee events. • Renovated Innovation Centers in Japan, Russia, Taiwan and Turkey DuPont 2020 GRI Index 21 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Delivering solutions for global challenges GRI 102-15. GRI 302-5. Ask any scientist why they got into science in the first place, and they’ll likely say because they were curious about the world around them and wanted to have a role in changing it for the better. For inspiration on how to create that change, DuPont looks to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to see what global challenges we face that need to be solved now. Then we dig deeper to ask, “What is DuPont able to contribute to the effort?” Challenge Sustainable innovation at DuPont The UN Sustainable Development Goals lay out GRI 102-2. a bold vision to ensure a just and sustainable world by 2030. Success will require massive investment Aligning our science and innovation to the SDGs helps us gauge and innovation across and between all sectors, what the biggest market drivers will be in the years to come and chart a clear path ahead for our businesses. We’ve identified and the solutions we create together hold the key. seven of the 17 SDGs where we believe our science and innovation 2030 Goal capabilities can make a significant contribution to address Align 100% of our innovation portfolio to meaningfully important and valuable societal challenges and create value. advance the UN SDGs and create value for our customers. • Our DuPont Danisco™ Nurica® To begin working on our ten-year ambition, we will first: enzyme and our POWERFresh® anti-staling enzAwymes and • Prioritize SDG challenge areas in early-stage marketing HOLDBAC® protective cultures to and innovation processes help meet the goals of eliminating • Integrate sustainability criteria into M&A and hunger and promoting well-being. investment decisions • Enact partnerships for scalable impact to advance SDGs • Our Water Solutions portfolio to advance water security and water quality worldwide. • Our investments in the AHEAD™ automotive electrification program to transform the automobile industry, increasing energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. • Our work in 5G High Speed Connectivity to enable more connected, sustainable communities. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 22 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Delivering solutions for global challenges (continued) 80% • Our healthcare innovations — which enable advances in biopharmaceuticals, wound care, sterile medical packaging, drug delivery, device fabrication, and other areas — will improve health outcomes for millions of people worldwide (SDG 3). And our efforts to identify beneficial uses Over 80% of hip and knee implants for production byproducts and to expand our Tyvek® recycling program will help to bring in the U.S. and Europe are packaged about more responsible consumption and with Tyvek® medical packaging production on a global scale. For more examples of how we deliver solutions for global DuPont’s recently released 2030 Sustainability Goals are also challenges, please visit our sustainability story hub. helping to shape our innovation strategy and processes to increase the speed and impact of our investments to grow our business. We designed the goals to be challenging — to advance innovation and provoke new ideas for addressing society’s biggest challenges. Now our innovation teams are getting down to the work of determining how we will do it. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 23 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Innovating safer by design GRI 102-15. GRI 302-5. RT-CH-410b.2. Chemical inventions and the materials and technologies derived from them have shaped much of our modern way of life. We find our motivation to keep going in the potential for new materials and technologies that will shape an even better world. Challenge Safer and more sustainable, by design Industrial processes and product design have GRI 102-11. traditionally focused on efficiency, process safety and material performance, while discounting aspects As scientists, our commitment is to find and develop the solutions that will make the world safer and more sustainable, and that such as inherent hazard and potential upstream and requires careful choices at every step of the process. It means making downstream product lifecycle impacts. In recent years, sure innovators throughout our company understand the principles chemical regulations and value chain transparency of green chemistry and cultivating a product stewardship mindset in requirements have also increased significantly. everything we do. It means collaborating across industries to review, At DuPont, we’ve committed to changing the develop, and champion the science and practices that will define traditional approach to product and process design what it means to be safer. And it means continually strengthening our by incorporating sustainability criteria across the processes and our portfolio to address key areas of concern and to stay relevant and aware as we learn more and the field develops. product lifecycle, increasing value chain transparency and collaboration, and integrating the principles Ultimately, we recognize that we have to be prepared to walk of green chemistry to create a portfolio where away from opportunities that do not align with our commitment all materials are safer by design. to safety and sustainability in our portfolio. That means being willing to shrink a potential market opportunity, and discontinue 2030 Goal or completely reformulate product solutions that do not meet Design 100% of our products and processes using our safety standard. For instance, in the past we have decided sustainability criteria including the principles of to discontinue use of a potential skin irritant in our cell phone green chemistry. screen solutions, and we have ensured that certain adhesive solutions are only sold to professionals who have the training and To begin working on our ten-year ambition, we will first: proper personal protective equipment to use our product safely. • Develop and implement a company chemical management policy including governance for chemicals of concern • Expand the integration of safer design principles into new product development and our existing product portfolio • Collaborate with Beyond Benign and others to promote the adoption of sustainable and green chemistry DuPont 2020 GRI Index 24 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Innovating safer by design (continued) DuPont PFAS commitments Product safety and quality GRI 102-11. GRI 102-15. RT-CH-410b.2. GRI 416-MA. GRI 417-MA. RT-CH-410b.2. Safety, health and protecting the planet are DuPont core values. Our comprehensive Product Stewardship and Regulatory As a company that constantly pushes to innovate new scientific Management System (PS&R MS) is at the core of our commitment discoveries, we have to responsibly navigate unknown territories to product safety-related risk management and a critical part of to bring the world safe, reliable solutions to everyday challenges. our new product innovation process. Since 2004, DuPont has DuPont learns from its past, including the past of its heritage made the decision to follow the American Chemistry Council’s companies like E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and (ACC) Responsible Care® management system, which provides The Dow Chemical Company, so that we can innovate for the future. a strong benchmark for our PS&R MS. Each of DuPont’s businesses uses the PS&R MS globally to assess and manage potential Perand polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are a group of chemicals risks associated with each product, and to regularly identify used to manufacture many everyday household products and opportunities for continuous improvements throughout the firefighting foam since the 1940s. PFAS is a classification that product life cycle. includes thousands of materials with very different properties; some PFAS, like PFOA and PFOS, are considered “long-chain” The PS&R MS requires a strong commitment from business chemicals. Long-chain substances are often bio-persistent, leadership. Business and corporate leadership annually review which means that they tend to remain inside a biological the adequacy and effectiveness of the PS&R MS and make organism, rather than being expelled or broken down. changes to enhance and improve stewardship performance throughout the organization. DuPont does not make PFOA, PFOS or GenX. Further, DuPont never manufactured or sold firefighting foam. Across our As part of our comprehensive Product Stewardship & Regulatory portfolio, DuPont’s use of other PFAS is a small fraction of the Management System, the goal is to have all new and existing total PFAS used in the world. While our use is extremely small, products and services covered by a product stewardship review, we’re actively pursuing alternatives to PFAS where possible in which includes health, safety, and environmental impacts. Product our manufacturing processes. stewardship reviews for all products and services are scheduled, conducted, and documented to assess and manage risk prior DuPont is committed to being a responsible partner in addressing to commercialization and repeated on a periodic frequency concerns about the health and environmental impacts of PFOA. commensurate with overall product risk. The process also The knowledge base around PFOA and other PFAS environmental requires businesses to conduct product stewardship reviews footprint and health effects continues to evolve through work when significant product changes occur, which may include led by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Centers product use, regulatory changes, or other new product information. for Disease Control (CDC) and other health and environmental organizations around the world. We’re committed to working The PS&R MS has delivered significant improvements for on-time with regulatory bodies and agencies to support their efforts completion of product stewardship reviews, the completion of to develop science-based guidelines. product stewardship review action items, worldwide training, and assurance of PS assessment of all new products prior to In 2019, we eliminated the use of long-chain PFAS from our commercialization. The PS&R MS also established business PS products and processes, including recently integrated operations. metrics with action levels for businesses and includes the PS See our PFAS commitments for more updates on our progress. Incident Program with an overall commitment to continuous These commitments, along with our Safer by Design goal, improvement. will help ensure that we consistently live our core values. As part of our commitment to Responsible Care, each DuPont For more examples of how we innovate safer by design, business conducts routine internal PS&R MS audits to review please visit our sustainability story hub. performance and assess any incidents. External audits of our product stewardship program consist of a sampling of our businesses, U.S. Chemical manufacturing sites and our headquarters every three years to verify that our management systems meet or exceed the ACC’s requirements. Our programs were audited by a third party in 2019 and found it to be in conformance. The next verification year is 2022. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 25 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Innovating safer by design (continued) Product and service labeling Information on products GRI 416-1. GRI 417-1. GRI 416-2. GRI 417-2. RT-CH-410b.1. produced with Biotechnology DuPont’s Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management System RT-CH-410c.1. requires compliance with global and local safety data sheet and labeling information requirements. Reviews of informational Certain DuPont Nutrition & Biosciences products (such as plant requirements are covered as part of the product stewardship review proteins, and other food ingredients) may be derived from crops process for all new and existing products and services. These produced using Biotechnology. As such they may be considered reviews include an assessment of product and service information, “GMO” for food labeling purposes. such as compliance with global and local safety data sheets and Other products such as enzymes and human milk oligosaccharides product labeling requirements, and the applicability of regulations, (HMO) may be produced with genetically engineered microorganisms legislation and other Responsible Care® related requirements. (GEMs), optimized to produce proteins and other molecules found Completed reviews in 2019 were 99.5% as per internal scheduling. elsewhere in nature in a natural fermentation process similar to the Every Dupont product has a globally harmonized Safety Data Sheet production of beer and wine. As these final products do not contain that provides essential information on chemical and physical any live production organism or its genetic material when we characteristics, toxicology, safe handling, spill and emergency deliver them to the customer, these products are not subject to response measures and contact numbers. We maintain informational GMO labelling requirements in the EU and elsewhere. contact with suppliers and customers throughout our product value We respect the consumer’s right to choose and encourage chains. In 2019 there were no known incidents of non-compliance engagement with audiences to communicate further about the with product health, safety, or transparency regulations. benefits and safety of our technology. All of our ingredients endure our rigorous quality and safety testing protocols and adhere to strict regulatory standards in all the countries where we choose to do business. For more information on the use of biotechnology in food production, please see this study co-authored by a DuPont Product Stewardship & Regulatory expert. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 26 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Enabling a circular economy GRI 102-15. DuPont is acting now to enable a low carbon and circular economy. For example, we’re taking action to discover and commercialize new ways to turn unused materials into useful products or recycling them back into production for a more circular process. Challenge DuPont Second Life Materials In a resource-constrained world that is only 9% circular, GRI 301-2. we need to move away from linear “take-make-dispose” models. That requires better understanding of the The DuPont Second Life Materials (2LM) business was created three years ago by our Safety & Construction business to explore barriers to adopting low carbon and circular techniques how we can create value by becoming a circular economy solutions across value chains for every product and industry. provider throughout the value chains DuPont serves. 2LM operates It also requires that we come together to overcome as an intrapreneurial startup within DuPont, working closely with and solve those barriers. both internal and external customers to identify opportunities that simultaneously reduce waste to landfill and realize financial 2030 Goal benefits. First, 2LM conducts a technical site visit to identify the Goal: Integrate circular economy principles into our various forms of waste a customer produces, including end-of-life business models considering lifecycle impacts in the product disposal processes and costs associated with each waste markets we serve. and product stream. 2LM then works with the customer to identify avenues of unrealized benefits within those streams and then Our portfolio already includes many technologies and processes execute opportunities together. developed specifically in order to reuse waste — one of the fundamentals of a circular economy. And we’re continuing For example, the 2LM team worked with a tire cord manufacturer to pursue new “beneficial waste” solutions in food, apparel, to procure their Kevlar®-containing manufacturing waste, which manufacturing, and many other areas. DuPont was able to transform into an aramid pulp product for friction applications in Automotive. Together, the customer turned To begin working on our ten-year ambition, we will first: a disposal cost into a revenue stream, and DuPont further expanded • Establish a Circularity Community of Practice with internal its product portfolio in the Automotive market. and external stakeholders to help us create profitable circular business models that minimize use of natural resources, For more examples on how we enable a circular economy, waste and emissions please visit our sustainability story hub. • Participate in forums promoting the advancement of a circular economy in our value chains • Deliver business-led projects that enable circularity • Implement 4R (Reduce, Reuse, Re-purpose, Recycle) waste reduction programs at 100% of our sites DuPont 2020 GRI Index 27 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Enabling a circular economy (continued) Striving for zero waste Hazardous and non-hazardous GRI 306-MA. GRI 307-1. waste data Throughout DuPont, we share a common vision of driving toward GRI 306-2. RT-CH-150a.1. zero waste. DuPont is working to define what “zero waste” looks like for each of our unique operations — not only inside the four walls of Beneficial Use of Waste (Avoided Waste), in metric tons (MT) their respective plants, but also across the complete lifecycle of the Reuse 24,500 products we make. And by working closely with our customers and our partners we’re already achieving some promising results. Recycling/Reclamation/Recovery 164,700 Composting 29,000 Our waste reduction efforts build on years of continuous improvement driven by the ISO 14001 certification process and by Land Application 71,000 other compliance audits, as well as by our own internal standards. Energy Recovery 101,700 For example, the DuPont Waste Management Facility Selection standard defines our practices in relation to the handling and Other 460 disposal of process-related waste. A corporate working group Total Avoided Waste 391,300 manages this standard to ensure that it’s in line with all applicable laws for our global sites. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, in metric tons (MT) Keeping plastic out of marine environments 80,000 100,000 GRI 102-12. GRI 306-MA. DuPont has signed on to Operation Clean Sweep®, an international program designed to prevent waste and help keep plastic materials out of marine environments. DuPont’s Transportation & Industrial 60,000 (T&I) polymer business signed the pledge for European operations in 2016 and for US operations in 2019. DuPont T&I manufacturing 40,000 sites will embed Operation Clean Sweep® priorities into their ISO14001 environmental management systems. This will help them work toward zero discharge of plastics to marine and 20,000 freshwaters by preventing spills; training employees on spill prevention, containment, clean-up and disposal; and regularly Hazardous Non-hazardous reviewing the program. Incinerated 55,100 19,100 We plan to roll out the Operation Clean Sweep® program to all T&I Landfill 11,900 71,800 sites globally, and all participating sites will be expected to have an Other 6,600 18,800 improvement plan in place by the end of 2020. Total Waste by Type 73,600 109,800 DuPont is also working with many other organizations to develop Total Waste 183,400 and adopt methods and frameworks that will be needed for a truly circular economy. For example, as a member of the PlasticsEurope Mass Balance Taskforce, we’re part of the effort to accelerate the use of renewable feedstocks in chemical processes, which could significantly increase the use of renewable and circular feedstock. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 28 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our Operations DuPont 2020 GRI Index 29 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Acting on climate GRI 102-15. We are working to drive down our GHG emissions at a pace that’s aligned with current climate science. As a longstanding scientific leader, DuPont has an important role to play in this global effort around technology innovation. We’re also actively pursuing opportunities to reduce GHG emissions along the value chains for a wide range of DuPont processes and products. To achieve our new goals, we’ll procure our electricity from more Challenge renewable sources, ramp up our work on energy efficiency projects Climate change requires urgent action, bold that reduce costs and impacts to people and planet, innovate commitments, and innovation. Finding a way low-carbon and energy efficient solutions that help industries to shorten the lead times for game-changing decarbonize, and advocate for consistent, predictable policy technologies and turn the long lifetimes of energy and regulations that foster climate innovation and investment. infrastructure into a net positive for the climate will require a multi-faced, collaborative approach. Joining the global effort 2030 Goal GRI 102-12. Reduce greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions by 30% Our advocacy on climate change takes many forms. For example, including sourcing 60% of electricity from renewable we signed the We Are Still In declaration, joining other American energy, and deliver carbon neutral operations by organizations and 10 U.S. states in publicly affirming our continued 2050 or sooner. support for the Paris Climate Agreement. We’ve joined the CEO Climate Dialogue, a collaboration between large companies and 2019 Baseline NGOs working together to advance effective climate legislation in • 5,380,000 MTCO2e of GHG emissions the U.S. And we’re part of the Alliance to Save Energy and other • 2.9% renewable electricity use organizations that advocate for clean mobility and renewable fuel. To begin working on our ten-year ambition, we will first: • Reduce our overall energy use by investing in Bold Energy Managing our climate footprint Plan projects GRI 302-MA. GRI 305-MA. RT-CH-110a.2. GRI 307-1. • Source low-carbon power, heating and cooling by deploying a global renewable energy strategy About one fifth of all global greenhouse gas emissions come from industrial activities such as manufacturing, food processing and • Create low-carbon industrial processes construction. Most of that impact is from on-site activities — • Advocate for sound climate policy that fosters low-carbon burning fuel for power or heat, chemical reactions and leaks innovation from industrial processes or equipment. But the emissions created from generating energy for the industrial sector are also substantial, and in many locations that energy was produced using high-emitting fossil fuels. In order to achieve our Acting on Climate goals of a 30% GHG reduction over ten years and carbon neutrality by 2050, we’re implementing our Integrated Energy Strategy to address all sources of GHG emissions, including efforts to create low-carbon industrial processes, source low-carbon and renewable energy, and reduce our overall energy use. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 30 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Acting on climate (continued) Bold energy plan • DuPont’s Asturias and Valencia sites in Spain purchase renewable energy that covers 100% of the electricity needs of those buildings. GRI 302-MA. GRI 302-4. GRI 305-MA. GRI 305-5. RT-CH-110a.2. The electricity contract for these two sites includes Green Origin certificates for all on-site annual energy consumption. The primary mechanism for reducing our energy use is the Bold Energy Plan, a program we launched in 2008 to improve energy At its heart, the Bold Energy Plan is a tool for continuous efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our global improvement, and we’ll continue to rely on it as we reach for facilities. Our Procurement, Sustainability, Engineering and EHS even greater energy savings and GHG reductions over the teams are currently working to develop a global renewable coming decade, in line with our 2030 Sustainability Goals. energy strategy that will make a significant impact on our We’ll continue to report on our progress in the 2021 DuPont operational footprint. Sustainability Report and CDP Climate submission. The Bold Energy Plan is managed by our global Energy Community of Practice, made up of Site Energy Champions, corporate and Award-winning energy efficiency business Engineering teams, and EHS regional leaders. At the beginning of each year, DuPont Energy Champions work with their The American Chemistry Council awarded three site Energy Teams to identify activities and projects that support DuPont sites with Responsible Care® Energy our Acting on climate targets. We track these projects and their progress through a central database. Global site energy champions Efficiency Awards for our 2019 projects: meet monthly to discuss the efficacy of Bold Energy Plan projects, project management, strategic opportunities, market trends, • Parlin Thermal and Steam System Evaluation, and more. Repairs and Upgrades — will lead to annual savings of about 13,700 MMBTU and 950 MTCO2e In 2019, we completed 66 energy savings projects with a savings potential of about 14,200 MTCO2e for the year. • Towanda Site Thermal Insulation Systems Evaluation and Repairs Project — will lead Here are some examples of actions we took to reduce our to annual savings of about 1,300 MMBTU climate impacts: and 380 MTCO2e • The DuPont Nutrition & Biosciences (N&B) site in Grindsted, Denmark, has recently replaced all former coal-fired fuel sources • Delrin® Washington Works Steam and Electricity with sustainably sourced wood chips and thereby reduced its CO2 Conservation — will lead to annual savings emissions by more than 40,000 tons CO2e per year. As a result of about 90,000 MMBTU and 8,200 MTCO2e of the conversion, the site has also significantly increased its production of surplus heat that is delivered back into the local district heat network. This allows the site to aid in supplying For more examples of how we act on climate local households with sustainably sourced heat, thereby helping in our operations and though our innovations, to avoid additional CO2 emissions in that system as well. please visit our sustainability story hub. • At our Safety & Construction manufacturing plant in Spruance, Virginia, we worked with our customer, Veolia, to overhaul utility production equipment to be more energy efficient, including converting coal-driven boilers to natural gas so that coal is no longer used at the plant. Improvements at this one site are estimated to reduce DuPont’s overall GHG emissions by 2–3%. • In late 2015, our specialty products businesses began a multiphase project to reduce anhydrous ammonia in our N&B New Century, Kansas, manufacturing site. Although anhydrous ammonia is a highly efficient refrigerant with less global warming potential than synthetic refrigerant alternatives, in October 2019, New Century succeeded in reducing the handling of anhydrous ammonia by 90%, which will make a significant, positive impact on the environment as well as employee and community health and safety. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 31 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Acting on climate (continued) Energy and emissions data GRI 302-1. GRI 302-3. GRI 305-1. GRI 305-2.GRI 305-4. GRI 305-7. RT-CH-110a.1. RT-CH-120a.1. RT-CH-130a.1. Energy and emissions intensity by production Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, MTCO2e Total energy: Energy intensity: Scope 1 3,057,000 14,220,000 MWh 4.54 MWh/MT Scope 2 (Location-based) 2,323,000 Total emissions: Emissions intensity: Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions 5,380,000 5,380,000 MTCO2e 1.65 MTCO2e/MT Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Renewable energy use by type 5,380,000 MTCO2e 8,000,000 6,000,000 4,000,000 2,000,000 MWh Renewable Fuels 7,784,000 8.0% Electricity 3,757,000 2.9% Total Direct GHG Emissions 3,057,000 Steam 3,140,000 6.4% (Scope 1) Total Indirect GHG Emissions 2,323,000 (Scope 2 – Location-based) Other Air Emissions, in metric tons NOx 1,640 SOx 344 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 3,240 Air carcinogens 30 Particulate matter (PM) 300 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 32 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Leading water stewardship GRI 102-15. Water is essential to life on earth. That gives this simple molecule an outsize role in every aspect of sustainability. Already, one in three people in the world lack access to clean drinking water. Over the next three decades, population growth will drive a 50–70% increase in water demand for the municipal and industrial sector, resulting in water stress in many of Earth’s watersheds. members. Its mission is to educate the EU legislators about the fact Challenge that water is a horizontal issue that needs to be addressed in many Water scarcity is expected to displace 700 million different policies. people worldwide by 2030. To manage the water needs of today while securing water for the future, To tackle water problems effectively, silos between different policy areas need to be overcome. This is why we think policies that new technologies and new forms of collaboration improve global water stewardship and security have a great will be needed. potential to make a sustainable future a reality. 2030 Goal Implement holistic water strategies across all facilities, How DuPont Water Solutions is prioritizing manufacturing plants, and communities in high-risk watersheds. Enable millions of people’s access solving global water challenges to clean water through leadership in advancing water GRI 102-2. technology and enacting strategic partnerships. We need new and better water technologies to protect the world’s To begin working on our ten-year ambition, we will first: natural processes; to increase the availability of clean water; and ultimately to improve human well-being, from equality to economic • Develop an enterprise-wide Water Stewardship Strategy empowerment and education. DuPont Water Solutions is a global prioritizing sites in water-stressed regions leader in sustainable water purification and separation technology. • Explore collaborations and partnerships to protect watersheds Our experts provide state-of-the-art membrane science and ion and provide greater access to clean water exchange solutions that help make drinking water safer, cleaner • Leverage our leadership in water technologies to improve and more abundant for homes and communities; help industries access to clean water and markets operate more efficiently and sustainably; and make water-scarcity challenges more manageable, wherever they occur. 25m Advocating for global water security GRI 102-12. Since Water Solutions joined DuPont, we have been amongst the most active stakeholders following the European Union Water Public Policy. Moreover, DuPont is amongst the founders of the gallons of water are processed every newly born Brussels-based Smart Water Alliance. The Alliance is a minute globally through our technologies political stakeholders platform bringing together representatives from the business and utility companies. The aim of this platform is to develop recommendations to European policy makers regarding the water agenda and facilitate exchange of best practices amongst DuPont 2020 GRI Index 33 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Leading water stewardship (continued) To further expand our capabilities in this area, we announced We don’t yet collect aggregated data on all DuPont sites’ internal several strategic acquisitions in 2019, including: ultrafiltration and water use (such as water recycling) or our total water discharges, membrane businesses Memcor and Inge; closed-circuit reverse but we continue to track water quality associated with Chemical osmosis company Desalitech; and OxyMem, which develops and Oxygen Demand (COD) at all major manufacturing sites, including produces Membrane Aerated Biofilm Reactor (MABR) technology both discharges directly to surface water and discharges to off-site for treating and purifying municipal and industrial wastewater. treatment systems. With these additions to our portfolio and reach, DuPont is better positioned than ever to achieve our vision for a water-optimized The company operates global manufacturing, product handling, world. 25 million gallons of water are processed every minute and distribution facilities that are subject to a broad array of globally through our technologies. environmental laws and regulations, including those related to water withdrawal, use and discharge. Such rules are subject to To learn more about DuPont Water Solution’s innovations, change by the implementing governmental agency, and the watch this video. company monitors these changes closely. Company policy requires that all operations fully meet or exceed legal and regulatory How we manage water at our sites requirements. In addition, the company implements voluntary programs to decrease the volume of water use and effluents, GRI 303-MA. GRI 303-1. GRI 306-MA. RT-CH-140a.2 RT-CH-140a.3. increase the efficiency of resource use, and reduce the GRI 307-1. generation of persistent, bio-accumulative, and toxic materials. In 2019, we began to examine our new global footprint to understand where and how DuPont de Nemours operations interact with local watersheds. We withdraw and purchase water from various local sources and entities for the purposes of conducting business. Some of that water is treated and returned to a local waterbody; some is rendered in our manufacturing processes, or used for other purposes such as employee health and hygiene. To better understand the water risks and impacts at our sites, we used the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to identify operational locations facing “high” to “extremely high” baseline water stress currently or by 2030. To gain further insights, in 2020 we will use WWF’s Water Risk Tool to model water stress for all DuPont sites around the world The WWF tool will help us assess water risks using an expanded set of parameters, such as reputation and regulatory risk, that may affect business continuity in the future. To help ensure we meet our 2030 Sustainability Goals, we will implement the Alliance for Water Stewardship International Water Stewardship Standard (the AWS Standard) for sites where we’ve determined that there could be significant water risks. The AWS Standard framework helps companies and other major water users to understand their water use and impacts, and to work collaboratively and transparently for environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable water management at the scale of a local catchment. Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship At DuPont, implementing the AWS Standard will support our efforts to: • Understand water dependencies and impacts For more examples of how we lead water stewardship in our operations and through our innovations, • Mitigate operational and supply chain water risks please visit our sustainability story hub. • Ensure responsible water procedures are in place at our sites • Build relationships with local water-related stakeholders • Address challenges shared with others in the catchment DuPont 2020 GRI Index 34 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Leading water stewardship (continued) Water consumption and withdrawal data GRI 303-3. GRI 303-4. GRI 303-5. RT-CH-140a.1. Total water in million gallons, 2019 60,000 45,000 30,000 15,000 Total % from water-stressed areas1 Total withdrawal 47,400 3.2 Total consumption 15,300 9.6 1 Using the WRI Aqueduct Model for the chemical sector, we identified DuPont sites in areas with “high” or “extremely high” baseline water stress according to Aqueduct’s methodology. To determine those sites that could affect water availability, quality, or accessibility, we are in the process of combining the Aqueduct results with other criteria, including insights learned from the WWF Water Risk Model, stakeholder engagement, plant water surveys, the nature of business activity at these sites and other parameters. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 35 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Delivering world-class health and safety GRI 102-15. GRI 403-MA. At DuPont, we re-commit ourselves to our core value of health and safety every single day. This commitment is embodied in our company culture, our stakeholder engagement, and in the innovations we produce for the world. 73% Challenge Maintaining safety and health in workplaces globally requires a vigilant awareness of the shifting factors — social, regulatory and others — that can affect the dynamics, and an ability to apply new ideas and new In 2019, about 73% of DuPont sites ways of thinking in response. Manufacturing industries achieved zero injuries and/or illnesses have their own particular risks, which need to be managed effectively. 2030 Goal Environmental health and Further our commitment to zero injuries, occupational illnesses, and incidents. safety management system GRI 403-MA. GRI 403-1. GRI 403-8. RT-CH-320a.2. 2019 Baseline • Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Management Systems, 0.311 (151 recordable cases) which cover both employees and contractors, ensures that we • Days Away from Work Case (DAWC) rate continually prioritize our commitment to health and safety. 0.045 (22 total days away from work cases) Our EHS management system conforms with the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care Management System® Above all else, we’re supporting the health and safety of our and ISO 14001. DuPont manufacturing sites in the U.S. have employees and contractors around the world — and we’re implemented a management system based on the plan-do-checklistening to our employees to understand how we can further act continuous improvement model. The system provides us with enhance well-being in our workplaces and beyond. processes to identify and evaluate hazards and risks associated To begin working on our ten-year ambition, we will first: with our product development and manufacturing processes, distribution, and other operations. We then establish goals and • Advance our EHS culture by focusing on leading causes of objectives to address any significant hazards and risks, taking the injuries, changing mindsets and behaviors, and reducing feedback and concerns of employees, contractors, communities, exposure to high risk activities customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders into consideration. • Deploy ISO 14001 and Responsible Care™ 14001 management systems across global manufacturing plants In 2019, our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Management • Improve our systems and execution on alarm management, System covered 46,743 individuals (33,117 employees and 13,636 process control, human factors, and effective operating contractors), which is 100% of the DuPont workforce. procedures to reduce Tier 1 and 2 incidents All DuPont employees are covered by our core values of Safety & Health, Respect for People, Highest Ethical Behavior, and Protect the Planet. These values are described in the DuPont Code of Conduct. Compliance with the DuPont Commitment and applicable safety and health laws is every employee’s responsibility. Management in each business is responsible for educating, training, and motivating employees to understand and comply with the DuPont Commitment to EHS and applicable safety and health laws. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 36 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Delivering world-class health and safety (continued) All workers have the opportunity and are encouraged to participate hazardous materials (e.g., radiation sources and chemicals) in health and safety activities at their respective sites. Each are brought on site or when performing any activity that may employee is also responsible for complying with the DuPont generate hazards that have not been already identified in EHS policies, standards, and guidelines. the work-permitting process. DuPont uses contractors with demonstrated commitment to EHS. Hazards of chemicals that are new to a site must be recognized and When pre-qualifying a contractor, they must be evaluated for controlled. Sites are required to have an occupational hygiene (OH) indicators of satisfactory EHS performance. The pre-qualification review and approval procedure for purchase of chemicals that are is conducted annually. The following EHS criteria are included: new to the site. New chemical usage (e.g. existing chemicals being used in a larger volume, in a different application, or in a new plant • Injury/illness performance area) are also reviewed and approved by OH administrators so that • Special skills and training hazards are recognized and controlled. • Effective EHS management programs Before allowing contractor firms to start work on a DuPont site, • Regulatory compliance contract administrators verify that contractor firms have provided the site with up-to-date safety data sheets (SDSs) for all chemicals Hazard identification that they plan to bring on site, to permit a review of the hazards and development of appropriate health and safety plans. Changes and risk assessment in suppliers, types, or models of personal protective equipment used to protect against health hazards (e.g., respirators, breathing GRI 403-MA. GRI 403-2. GRI 403-4. GRI 403-7. air, or chemical protective clothing) must be reviewed and approved We identify the top risks to monitor by analyzing documented by site OH. EHS Events in the corporate data system of record. We also issue a periodic Safety Perception Survey to all contractors, subEHS incidents and investigation contractors, and employees to assess the safety culture at DuPont sites and solicit feedback. The Safety Perception Survey score GRI 403-MA. GRI 403-2. GRI 403-3. GRI 403-4. determines next steps needed by the site, the business, or the DuPont has authored numerous EHS policies governing employee corporate EHS team. The top three causes of OSHA recordable and contractor safety. Salient among them are our DuPont EHS occupational injuries and illnesses at DuPont are overexertion, Management System Policy and our Managing Occupational slips/trips/falls, and “line of fire” events. We create monthly Injuries and Illnesses Standard. There is a contractor administrator corporate safety campaigns to address these three causes, but we assigned to each site, and the global contractor administrator understand that lowand high-risk activities vary from businesses network holds monthly safety meetings to identify opportunities to business, so targeted initiatives are rolled out by business EHS for continuous improvement. We screen contractor organizations leaders and site EHS leaders to address unique needs. based on EHS risk potential, including their total recordable EHS hazards are identified and risk assessments are performed incident rate (TRIR), EHS management practices, and certain in a collaborative manner by cross-functional teams. Our corporate regulatory factors. EHS Management System Policy mandates risk assessments be Our corporate EHS Management System Policy states that conducted at the EHS competency, business, function, and site businesses are required to work with appropriate EHS and site levels as necessary. This requirement encourages proactive personnel to help ensure hazard and risks associated with work hazard evaluations when they are deemed necessary by employees activities are properly managed. This policy also requires or management. Also, personnel from businesses, functions, employees to report any work-related hazards and hazardous and sites are required to develop applicable prevention and situations as a condition of employment. To accomplish this, we mitigation strategies to reduce risks within the operational encourage open and proactive communication between workers and business context. and their line management. As the policy states, “working in a safe, Our policy requires the output of these hazard identification healthy, and environmentally responsible manner is a condition of and risk assessment activities be documented and used for the employment.” development of EHS objectives, plans, and appropriate risk control Our EHS Event Classification, Investigation and Reporting Policy measures. In addition, DuPont requires, as part of each site contract requires sites, businesses, and functions to have procedures and administration process, a contractor permit to work and a trained personnel to report, classify, and investigate EHS Events contractor job safety analysis (JSA) process (or similar hazards (i.e. near misses and incidents). It also requires all employees to recognition and control process) for contractor-performed jobs report all EHS Events promptly to their line management, so that and tasks. We also require contractors to notify DuPont before an appropriate and timely response can be made. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 37 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Delivering world-class health and safety (continued) Every employee is required to notify their line management of any can be implemented. The assessments are reviewed periodically symptoms, injuries, or illnesses that may be associated with work. and updated as appropriate to verify that no subtle changes have Employees must then: occurred between reviews that would change the conclusion of the assessment. • seek medical evaluation and treatment for possible work-related injuries, illnesses, or pre-existing conditions that may be The OH administrator monitors exposures when the qualitative aggravated and comply with any prudent restrictions, and assessment indicates that the OEL may be exceeded, or when • self-monitor personal fitness to do the job safely, consult with required by regulations or other exposure assessment IHS as appropriate, and communicate to line management considerations. Reasons for exposure monitoring include the on personal conditions that may warrant restrictions. following: 1) protecting worker health, 2) measuring the extent of exposure to determine if controls should be improved to EHS Event Classification, Investigation and Reporting Policy reduce concentrations below OELs, 3) confirming that exposures describes the requirements when investigating work-related continually remain under OELs, 4) measuring the extent of exposure incidents. After the work environment has been “controlled” to determine if installed controls have reduced the concentration following an incident, the official investigation process begins. below OELs, 5) complying with regulations that stipulate monitoring Depending upon the incident specifics and outcomes, the and documenting employee exposures for legal purposes, 6) appropriate personnel are brought in to be part of the investigation investigating complaints of worker symptoms, 7) developing and team. For example, “experienced” fire safety individuals would be maintaining a database of employee exposures for documentation required for fire incident investigations. Once the team is created, and epidemiological studies. it documents the facts of the incidents and key factors, then issues recommendations for corrective and/or preventative actions in an Exposure assessments and monitoring data are reported to line incident report. The action items in an incident report are tracked management and tracked in order to identify trends that may be to completion. For some incidents, the team conducts a “root cause applicable to other work groups, sites or businesses. Workers in the failure analysis.” SEG being monitored are notified of results in a way that meets the local regulatory requirements. We use the Cority Industrial Hygiene Occupational hygiene management system at all of its sites to provide timely data analysis and tracking of OH records. GRI 403-MA. GRI 403-2. GRI 403-3. GRI 403-4. GRI 403-5. GRI 403-7. Occupational exposure assessment must be covered in first-party To protect the health of our workers, workplace exposures are and second-party EHS audits to confirm compliance with site, maintained at a site level. Each site has a dedicated Occupational business, and corporate standards and regulations. Hygiene (OH) administrator that is knowledgeable about the exposure assessment process and is trained to the level appropriate for the complexity of the OH work at the site. This individual is also Health and safety training responsible for overseeing the strategy for, and outcomes of, and communication qualitative exposure assessments; establishment of similar GRI 403-2. GRI 403-4. GRI 403-5. exposure groups (SEGs), documentation of assessment reports, and database management. As required by DuPont EHS standards and applicable local regulations, personnel are notified of the chemical, physical, Each site’s OH administrator must conduct and document ergonomic, and biological hazards to which they may be exposed. qualitative exposure assessments. They develop exposure profiles Hazard training, labeling, posting, and safety data sheet (SDS) for each SEG and update them when 1) changes occur in processes, handling are executed according to DuPont Hazard Communication facilities, or tasks; 2) exposure controls are modified, including Policy and applicable government regulations. Personnel are changes in engineering controls or personal protective equipment; trained on the corporate and business policies, standards, and 3) the agent hazard profile is updated; 4) there is a change in an safe work practices, for the occupational hygiene (OH) hazards to agent’s acceptable exposure limit, a published Occupational which they may be exposed. Both initial and refresher trainings are Exposure Limit (OEL), or the applicable regulatory OEL or; 5) conducted and documented as required by applicable regulations quantitative data (e.g., personal monitoring results) have and corporate standards. Personnel must have all certifications been collected. and licensing as required by applicable government regulations The updated assessment should confirm that, taking the new (e.g., asbestos, lead, emergency response, hazardous waste, hazard information into account, the previously acceptable and radiation). exposure is still acceptable. If the exposure is no longer acceptable, temporary controls will be instituted until permanent controls DuPont 2020 GRI Index 38 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Delivering world-class health and safety (continued) The primary vehicles of communication internally are SharePoint Employee spotlight sites, websites, digital signage, posters, and team meetings. Sites also have systems in place to encourage and collect suggestions The American Chemistry Council named from workers on how to improve the safety and effectiveness of Barbara Dawson, EHS Fellow in the facilities and procedures. External communication is achieved via participation in advisory panels and through use of the Center of Excellence at DuPont, as their DuPont.com website. Member Company Employee of the Year. Barbara provides training, auditing, and Each business within the company has ongoing training programs that are designed specifically to maximize the performance of its technical consultation and direction to employees in meeting business objectives, including better health our global network of safety personnel. and safety outcomes. DuPont taps into the expertise of external training providers and the company’s own functional experts to In 2019, Barbara developed standards offer a wide range of courses in areas including Safety & Health. that enable sites to implement a robust There are many thousands of courses available to employees via Occupational Hygiene program to the electronic learning management systems available at DuPont. enhance worker safety. Barbara also Our senior leaders and EHS personnel in each DuPont business co-leads monthly safety network review our company-wide EHS performance on a weekly and meetings to provide site representatives monthly basis, via reports that cover all Occupational Safety and with best practices, training and timely Health Administration (OSHA) metrics. And we update employees throughout DuPont on our EHS performance at quarterly global information that contribute to improved town hall meetings. performance across the company. DuPont had its lowest global injury The DuPont EHS Management System Policy requires EHS meetings be conducted at least once per quarter. Monthly meetings are and illness rates ever recorded in 2019. recommended, and many teams hold these monthly safety meetings to help reinforce DuPont core values, which include in-person training and updates on safety topics both inside and outside the workplace. Audits and evaluation GRI 403-MA. GRI 403-2. GRI 403-4. GRI 403-8. All employees are encouraged to participate at least quarterly and are key participants on the teams that manage the process. Meeting We conduct internal and second-party audits annually on many attendance and the topics covered are documented. Training and of DuPont’s key activities including safety, health, environmental documented procedures are provided to ensure that workers are performance and compliance with the DuPont Code of Conduct. knowledgeable about the relevant safety, health, and process risks Third-party audits are also conducted to review this data as part of the facilities in which they work. Processes are in place to ensure of our process to certify that our EHS management systems understanding of these risks and competence of workers to operate in conformance with ISO 14001 and Responsible Care©. effectively manage them in the completion of their work. Employees who can’t attend these meetings complete The management system audit is used to confirm the effectiveness supplemental training. of internal and external communications, and workers actively participate in these audits. Our corporate EHS organization leads the second-party audits of process for sites on a rotating basis based on their relative risk. Each site is required to conduct first-party audits annually according to corporate policy. Each site or business is subject to formal third-party EHS management system auditing requirements according to its EHS-related commitments or certifications, such as Responsible Care Management System and ISO 14001 requirements. All sites have periodic documented EHS management review meetings, and outputs from the annual review of the EHS management system include any decisions and actions related to possible management system changes. The minutes, reference slides, and identified actions are recorded in the appropriate database system and are communicated to workers. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 39 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Delivering world-class health and safety (continued) High risk activities DuPont uses OSHA’s requirements, interpretations and explanations for recordkeeping regardless of where the injury or illness occurs, GRI 403-MA. GRI 403-2. GRI 403-4. RT-CH-540a.2. in order to ensure global uniformity in tracking work-related injuries and illnesses. Illnesses are evaluated in alignment with injuries. In 2014, based upon evaluating historical injury/illness performance, Therefore, the HRAs also apply to illnesses. During 2019, none our EHS teams created a list of “high risk activities” (HRAs) below. of the illnesses involved a corporate HRA. No workers were These activities were typically associated with U.S. Occupational excluded from the data. Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) recordable injuries/ illnesses that resulted in, or had the potential to result in, a serious injury, illness or fatality (SIF). Employee and contractor safety data GRI 403-9. GRI 403-10. RT-CH-320a.1. RT-CH-540a.1. • Lethal Energy – Working with Potential for Electrical Shock/Arc Employees + – Working at Elevation or from Heights Employees Contractors Contractors – Using High Pressure Water for Cleaning DAWC Cases 17 5 22 – Performing Hot Work DAWC Rate 0.049 0.035 0.045 – Operating Powered Industrial Trucks (PITs) Total Recordable Cases 99 52 151 – Working On or Near Suspended Loads TRIR 0.288 0.368 0.311 – Working with Potential for Body Entrapment — Machine, Excavation Fatalities 0 0 0 – Driving on Public Highways DAWC – Days Away from Work Case is a work-related case where an employee is unable to work due to a work-related injury or illness. • Toxic/Lethal Environments TRC – Total Recordable Cases includes Days Away from Work Cases, Restricted – Entering Confined Spaces Workday Cases, and Medical Treatment Cases. – Performing Line Breaks to Hazardous Processes or Systems TRIR – Total Recordable Incident Rate (Number of Recordable Cases X 200,000/ Number of Exposure Hours) in a given time period. – Working in Oxygen Deficient Atmospheres 32 – Working with Highly Toxic Materials During 2019, the following HRAs were present in the injuries. • Operating PITs (3 cases) • Performing Hot Work (1 case) • Working at Elevation or from Heights (5 cases) In 2019, 32 DuPont sites earned Responsible Care • Working in Oxygen Deficient Atmospheres (2 cases) Facility Safety Awards from the American Chemistry The cross-business People Safety Team is always evaluating Council, including 24 Certificates of Excellence for work-related hazards and injury/illness performance with achieving zero fatalities, zero days away from work businesses and functions to discover new ways to prevent additional occupational injuries and illnesses, or see if adjustments cases, and zero job transfer or restriction cases to existing injury/illness prevention programs are needed. In addition, various corporate EHS standards require that employees look for hazards that could cause an injury or illness and look for ways to eliminate or minimize exposure to hazards. When potential hazards are found, employees are required to promptly report them to their line management so an appropriate and timely response can be made. Corporate EHS emphasizes SIF prevention and adequate preparation for work activities that involve HRAs in order to prevent additional SIFs from occurring in the future. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 40 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Delivering world-class health and safety (continued) Improving our health In healthcare, for example, our unique portfolio of pharmaceutical excipients offers increased efficiencies, improved formulations, and safety data analysis and cost savings in the development of new medicines, ultimately helping patients live healthier and more comfortable lives. GRI 403-MA. GRI 403-2. GRI 403-4. RT-CH-320a.2. For example, we’ve developed a new surfactant, FM1000, that could improve the stability of biological pharmaceuticals, more Creating an effective workplace safety strategy begins with than doubling their shelf life. Our non-irritating soft skin adhesives, accountability, root cause analysis and performance reviews. when incorporated into wearable pharmaceuticals, could offer At DuPont, we recognize the role that data collection and analysis a more effective and reliable alternative to conventional vaccine can play in helping us to protect our employees and communities. and medicine delivery methods. And we’re making progress in Our senior leaders and EHS personnel in each DuPont business the use of smart materials for wearable medical applications. review our company-wide EHS performance on a weekly and monthly basis, via reports that cover all Occupational Safety To learn more about DuPont’s materials innovations in healthcare, and Health Administration (OSHA) metrics. And we update watch this video. employees throughout DuPont on our EHS performance at 33% quarterly-global town hall meetings. In 2019, we launched the new EHS Performance Dashboard, which uses Power BI to present the data from our monthly EHS reports dynamically, giving our EHS teams and corporate leaders a powerful new way to look at trends and to examine the main causes of injuries, illnesses and other EHS incidents at our facilities. The database makes it easy to isolate a specific date range and of medical tablets sold globally have our to view data for the whole company or an individual business or pharma excipients, the inactive ingredients site. This will enable managers in our businesses, our sites, and used in the manufacturing of pharmaceuticals at regional operations to create safety, health, and/or industrial hygiene programs that are better informed and well-tailored to their unique operations and working environments. DuPont also offers some of the most advanced and trusted materials and products in Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Health and safety innovations including our strong yet lightweight and durable Kevlar® fibers, and we’re constantly innovating to make the world’s industrial and GRI 102-2. emergency response workers safer on the job. When incorporated into firefighting hoods, DuPont’s Nomex® Nano offers lightweight DuPont’s portfolio includes many products developed to improve and breathable heat protection while blocking 99% of particulates health and well-being, and make people safer, on a global scale. — offering up to four times the particulate protection of We’re investing in solutions that protect the world’s industrial conventional hoods and helping to keep our firefighters safe. workers and first responders from harm, and we’re creating technological advances that will improve health outcomes for everyone, including some of the world’s most vulnerable For more examples of how we are delivering world-class populations. And we’re constantly working to create new health and safety in our company and our communities, breakthroughs and to advance new applications for existing science please visit our sustainability story hub. in nutrition, healthcare, personal protection, and other industries. 70% of the thermal protection in a firefighter’s suit comes from inner components made of DuPont Nomex® fiber DuPont 2020 GRI Index 41 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Our People DuPont 2020 GRI Index 42 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Accelerating diversity, equity and inclusion GRI 102-15. The growth of the new DuPont will be driven by innovation. Innovation is created through ideas. The more perspectives we have around the table, the more ideas we can generate. That makes diversity, equity and inclusion central to DuPont’s success as a company. Our high-performing culture and support for diverse communities and viewpoints help us to attract the best talent in the market. Challenge A diverse, equitable, To succeed in a complex world and deliver meaningful and inclusive DuPont innovation, companies need to support and enhance GRI 405-MA. all forms of diversity. This includes building strong cultures of equity and inclusion, where everyone Our diversity, equity and inclusion strategy is based on three can bring their authentic selves to work each day. key pillars — representation, understanding, and support. 2030 Goal From senior executives to early career employees, we’re working Become one of the world’s most inclusive companies, to improve representation across all diverse communities. This with diversity well ahead of industry benchmarks. includes changes to how we manage talent internally and our approaches to external recruiting. To begin working on our ten-year ambition, we will first: • Cultivate diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) through We also want to understand the factors that enable or hinder Employee Resource Group-centric activities inclusion in the company. Only when we understand where we are succeeding, or failing, can we define the appropriate interventions • Regularly assess DEI progress versus benchmark data for improvement. We do this using survey data, interviews, focus • Frequently communicate about DEI initiatives and progress groups, and feedback from our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). This research will help us establish metrics for tracking progress. Our ERGs include: • DuPont Corporate Black Employees Network • DuPont Asian Group • DuPont Pride Network • DuPont Latin Network • DuPont Women’s Network • DuPont Veterans Network • DuPont Early Career Network • DuPont Persons with Disabilities and Allies DuPont 2020 GRI Index 43 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Accelerating diversity, equity and inclusion (continued) DuPont is an equal opportunity employer. It is our policy not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment Workforce demographics1,2 because of age, race, religion, color, gender, disability, national GRI 102-8. GRI 405-1. or ethnic origin, ancestry, marital status, family status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or veteran status with All employees, gender2 respect to any terms or condition of employment, including hiring, promotion, demotion, transfer, recruitment, termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation and selection for training. Recognition DuPont strives to create an environment where everyone feels welcome and supported. This is why in 2019 we signed on to the Catalyst CEO Champions for Change, pledging to advance 71% 73% more women, particularly women of color, into senior leadership 83% positions and onto our board. We also signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge, which commits our leaders to take measurable action in advancing diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace. We are proud to be disability inclusive and recognized as a 2019 “Best Place to Work” by the Disability Equality Index for the fourth 29% 27% year in a row. The Index is a joint initiative between Disability:IN 17% and the American Association of People with Disabilities. It serves as the nation’s most comprehensive annual benchmarking tool Global Workforce 1 Senior Executives 5 Board of Directors allowing America’s leading corporations to self-report their Female Male disability policies and practices. We are also honored to be part of the 2019 Bloomberg GenderEquality Index (GEI). Companies are only included in the index if All employees, generation3 they demonstrate a commitment to supporting gender equality through policy development, representation, and transparency. 8% The 2019 GEI included firms from 10 sectors headquartered across 20% 36 countries and regions. Collectively, these firms have a combined 34% market capitalization of $9 trillion USD and employ more than 15 million people — including 7 million women — around the world. 33% For the sixth year in a row, we scored a perfect 100 on the Human 34% Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index (CEI). The CEI addresses topics such as equal opportunity at all levels and in all functions; equal benefits for same-sex and different-sex couples; the presence of an LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group; and the frequency of 62% external engagement with the LGBTQ+ community. 59% 46% For more examples of how we are accelerating diversity and inclusion in our company and our communities, please visit our sustainability story hub. 4% Global Workforce 1 Senior Executives 5 Board of Directors Generation Z Millennial Generation X Baby Boomer Traditionalists 1 As of December 31, 2019. Excludes expatriates, interns, temporary workers 4 Reflects the minority population in our U.S. population only, as defined by and other seasonal and temporary workers the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. There are approximately 2 Excludes gender/diversity data for those employees who chose not to 14,500 total people in our U.S. employee population disclose data. 5 Executive team is defined all employees with SGL 15+ and all direct reports 3 Age ranges for generations reflect those provided by the U.S. Social Security to the CEO Administration DuPont 2020 GRI Index 44 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Accelerating diversity, equity and inclusion (continued) All employees, diversity4 67% 75% 77% 33% 25% 23% Global Workforce 1 Senior Executives 5 Board of Directors Minority White 1 As of December 31, 2019. Excludes expatriates, interns, temporary workers and other seasonal and temporary workers 2 Excludes gender/diversity data for those employees who chose not to disclose data. 3 Age ranges for generations reflect those provided by the U.S. Social Security Administration 4 Reflects the minority population in our U.S. population only, as defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. There are approximately 14,500 total people in our U.S. employee population 5 Executive team is defined all employees with SGL 15+ and all direct reports to the CEO DuPont 2020 GRI Index 45 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Cultivating well-being and fulfillment GRI 102-15. GRI 403-5. GRI 403-6. The success of our company depends on our employees, who drive our strategic vision, manage our operations and develop the products we offer the world. Their well-being — which includes physical, mental and intellectual health — is of critical importance. Every day and at every stage of their careers, DuPont employees have the support of our Integrated Health Services (IHS) teams, who Employee health and well-being provide programs and services aimed at boosting nutrition, fitness, GRI 403-3. GRI 403-5. GRI 403-6. mental well-being, and much more. In addition to exemplifying our core value of safety and health, there’s a strong business case for At all sites, onsite Integrated Health Services (IHS) staff and/or this work, because investing in our employees’ health and resilience onsite workers’ compensation coordinators facilitate access to can boost our collective productivity, bring down medical treatment medical care related to occupational injury or illness. Our larger costs, and enable each DuPont employee to achieve their full manufacturing and research sites have onsite clinics where potential, in life and at work. Integrated Health Services (IHS) staff provide occupational care, render first aid, provide travel vaccinations, and provide referrals for non-occupational illness and injury. Many of our sites have an Challenge annual flu vaccine program and other programs, such as diminished Employees carry the stresses of their personal lives with capacity and fatigue management. IHS also coordinates annual them to work every morning and take the stresses of health risk assessments to determine leading health concerns for their jobs home with them every night. Creating a work our employee population and executes the Medical Surveillance environment that improves holistic well-being for every Exams based on occupational risks and regulatory compliance employee’s unique and diverse needs, on and off the job, priorities are noted by the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) team. IHS provides training for emergency response and first aid at requires continuous employee engagement and many locations, especially those at higher risk of natural disasters. targeted, outcome-oriented programming. IHS also coordinates critical incident support provided by the EAP. 2030 Goal IHS assesses health risks across DuPont to find out which Create a workplace where employees report high health concerns are most important to our employees, and also levels of well-being and fulfillment. conducts medical surveillance exams based on occupational risks and regulatory compliance priorities flagged by DuPont’s 2019 Baseline Environment, Health and Safety team. • Well-being program engagement • Unique log-ins 2019 total year: 77.3% of eligible population Services are tailored to each DuPont site. Our larger manufacturing – Total log-ins: 96,026 and research sites have onsite clinics where employees can get occupational care, first aid treatment, travel vaccinations, and – Health challenge participation: 19% referrals for off-site medical care. At many of our sites, IHS provides – Coaching Session: 378 flu vaccinations, fatigue management programs, first aid and • Results of Impact Survey emergency response training, and other programs. And IHS staff – 74% of employees surveyed believe the company provides are always standing by to coordinate support in the event of a adequate resources to support employee health and critical incident onsite. well-being. Integrated Health Services maintains an intranet site to communicate To begin working on our ten-year ambition, we will first: services and creates new Health and Wellness Contacts with short, relevant content that is posted to the home page at least monthly. • Increase access to a variety of well-being resources We communicate to employees regularly about their benefits and • Establish an Employee Value Proposition focused on other health and wellness topics via email, bulletin boards, and large opportunity, experience and purpose LCD screens at sites. • Expand employee development offerings that have a positive impact on job performance DuPont 2020 GRI Index 46 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Cultivating well-being and fulfillment (continued) Creating a culture of well-being Skill development GRI 403-6. GRI 403-5. GRI 404-2. In recent decades, sedentary behavior has become one of the At DuPont, we’re committed to creating innovative talentlargest public health concerns globally. According to the National management opportunities that are aligned to the strategic needs Institutes of Health, it’s one of the main causes of preventable of our workforce and which will unleash the potential of our people. premature death. The poor health outcomes associated with being We offer a diverse set of training, education, and development sedentary are only amplified when paired with poor nutrition and opportunities, both formally and informally, throughout the year. sub-optimal mental health. DuPont employees spend most of their weekday hours at our sites. We want to instill a culture of well-being Each business within the company has ongoing training programs supported by healthy work environments so that our employees that are designed specifically to maximize the performance of our can thrive. employees in meeting business objectives, including better health and safety outcomes. DuPont taps into the expertise of external Some global sites have an onsite wellness champion and/or training providers and the company’s own functional experts IHS health contact that facilitates access to health and wellness to offer a wide range of courses in areas such as Leadership & resources. Many DuPont sites offer an onsite fitness center, walking Management, Sales & Marketing, Finance, Manufacturing, Human trails, or other exercise facilities, as well as special wellness events, Resources, Information Technology, Personal Skills, and Safety such as 5K walks or runs, or “lunch and learn” events, to encourage & Health. There are many thousands of courses available to employees to stay active during a busy workday. We want to ensure employees via the electronic learning management systems that all of our employees have access to onsite resources that available at DuPont. For example: enhance their overall well-being. • DuPont employees have access to over 20,000 unique courses, In 2020, DuPont’s IHS team will conduct a company-wide cultural which map to key competency areas and are delivered via a audit looking at the variety and nutritional content of on-site food variety of learning management systems and online learning options in our workplaces, the availability of resources for physical academies. activity, and the support options for those impacted by mental • Each of our business units and corporate functions provides health or substance abuse challenges. Once a baseline is learning opportunities to employees at every level, from career established, the team will engage with site managers and facility starters to senior leaders, focusing on the subjects that are most leaders to set and meet priorities for improvement. We’ll use this critical and relevant in that area of DuPont. information to develop a DuPont Healthy Food policy with new • Each year, all DuPont employees complete online training, minimum standards for sourcing healthy cafeteria and catering which covers topics from the DuPont Code of Conduct as well offerings, food labeling and packaging standards, and more. as ethics and compliance issues. After the course, employees receive regular communications about the DuPont core values. Balancing work and life All meetings with DuPont staff begin with a manager-led discussion of our core values, to help keep them top of mind. GRI 401-3. GRI 403-6. Learning is a continual process at DuPont, and our employees In the U.S., 25% of women have to go back to work in just two weeks have many opportunities to enhance their skills. A formal career after childbirth, often at a detriment to their babies’ long-term development process helps employees and their supervisors plan well-being and also their own. Studies show that providing longer development opportunities that meet both business and personal parental leave contributes to fewer low-birth-weight babies, fewer goals. All employees take part in a mix of on-the-job training and infant deaths, higher rates of breastfeeding, longer parental unique, experiential learning opportunities offered in collaboration lifespan and improved mental health, as well as increased longwith leading universities, research institutions, companies, and term achievement for children. industry and professional organizations. Thanks in large part to the efforts of the DuPont Women’s Network, Other development opportunities include training sessions and DuPont’s recently updated New-Parent Leave policy makes it easier seminars presented by industry or professional organizations. for new moms and dads to give these important moments the DuPont also offers a program that provides financial assistance attention they need and deserve. Key features include four weeks’ to employees pursuing courses at academic institutions. paid leave for all new parents, including non-birthing parents and adoptive parents, and twelve additional paid weeks of maternity leave for birth mothers. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 47 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Cultivating well-being and fulfillment (continued) Maximizing our IMPACT DuPont remains committed to medical privacy and security. Over the past five years, DuPont employees and leaders have We have rigorous systems and checks in place and use up-to-date experienced a significant amount of organizational change — medical record-keeping technology, methodologies, and divestitures, acquisitions, mergers, etc. So much change can governance so that our employees’ medical records stay be difficult for employees, but it also provides fertile ground confidential and secure. At the same time, we’re working to make it for improvement. easy for employees to meaningfully interact with their own health information, because that’s one of the best ways to make informed In November 2018, we launched our first ever IMPACT Survey decisions about our healthcare and behaviors, every single day. of DuPont employees, as a tool to help us create an exceptional employee experience at DuPont. The survey was available in 19 languages and all DuPont employees were invited to Listening to our employee feedback confidentially share their opinions on their experience at DuPont. on well-being and fulfillment Thousands of employees responded, providing insights on aspects of workplace culture like core values, communication GRI 401-1. GRI 404-2. and employee development. In 2019, we included questions about well-being in our 2019 IMPACT In the six months after the survey, we created over 2,900 action Survey of DuPont employees. One clear message received was that plans to address employee feedback. The plans focus on things employees want more learning and development opportunities. In like providing structured career development programs, creating response, we initiated a new Management Academy starting with a online continuous learning tools, improving customer engagement program called LAUNCH for first-time and existing leaders. processes, expanding new employee training, and more. The action The Management Academy makes use of both virtual and in-person plans were tailored to each business, function and region. training sessions to reach employees globally. This model allows We repeated the survey in 2019 with the intention of understanding us to standardize our leadership development approach across how we had improved since the prior year, and to advance our DuPont. The objective: to cultivate leaders who can draw from ongoing action-planning process. a place of authenticity to lead teams with self-awareness and emotional intelligence, and who are able to inspire excellence and innovation — to empower colleagues to perform their best Improving our online in a fast growing, multicultural environment. wellness platform The DuPont Management Academy will pilot with roughly 1,200 GRI 403-6. leaders globally in 2020. We also plan to roll out two additional leadership development programs — the ASCEND curriculum for We offer an online well-being platform globally for employees senior leaders and the SUMMIT curriculum for executive and other to manage and learn more about their health. After completing strategic leaders, ultimately investing in every leader at DuPont. an online health assessment, the portal enables customized content to the employee targeted to their risk factors and health interests. Voluntary attrition is another important measure of employee Employees can also participate in challenges where they compete fulfillment. In 2019, the company’s total voluntary attrition rate with or against their colleagues in a shared quest for increased was 3.5%, which compares favorably to industry benchmarks. fitness. Many of our larger sites have fitness centers, and many of our sites around the globe are located on campuses that We use the following equation to calculate turnover rate: have walking trails or other areas conducive to exercise. (((Total resignations from July-2019 to Dec-2019)/(Average In 2018, we found that 74% of those surveyed believe DuPont of number of employees from July-2019 to Dec-2019)) x2) x 100. provides adequate resources to support employee health and well-being. Although that’s a positive result, we’re determined to do even more to support our employees’ well-being, starting with understanding how we should prioritize our further improvements. In 2020, we’re adding new mental and financial well-being resources to our online wellness platform for DuPont employees, and a new range of incentives for employees, starting with those at our U.S. locations, who take action to improve their health and well-being. For example, there will be opportunities to earn a free activity tracking device, a medical premium credit, gift cards, merchandise, or a donation to a charity of their choice. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 48 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Cultivating well-being and fulfillment (continued) Partnering for improved performance GRI 404-3. At DuPont, our Performance Partnership is the process for managing, coaching, developing, assessing, and rewarding employee performance. It consists of ongoing formal and informal coaching. All exempt employees (100%) and some non-exempt employees globally participate in the Performance Partnership process. Hourly employee participation is based upon the local site practices. The Performance Partnership process is designed to: • Ensure clear objectives linked to business results • Build strong alignment between manager and employee • Integrate competencies into objective setting and development • Conduct frequent and meaningful performance and development discussions • Provide support and coaching for business and personal success • Link rewards to performance At a minimum, all employees are expected to engage in: 1. An annual Individual Performance Plan objective session where employees create and the manager approves objectives, competencies, and current year development plan; 2. A mid-year review to verify alignment, provide support, and plan a year-end review to confirm progress on overall plan; and 3. A year-end review to confirm progress on overall plan. For more examples of how we are cultivating well-being and fulfillment in our workforce, please visit our sustainability story hub. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 49 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Building thriving communities GRI 102-15. Wherever DuPont operates around the world, we want to enable people and communities to thrive. The end result was a strategy that provides guidance for our Challenge community giving and initiatives, that is still flexible enough for The UN projects we’ll have nearly 10 billion people our global sites to tailor to meet their specific community needs. in the world by 2050. In a world where everyone Through our people, products, and partnerships, we focus on deserves the chance to be safe, healthy, nourished supporting and furthering Community Impact initiatives in three and educated, we must find a way to improve lives key areas of focus that are core to DuPont: at scale in communities around the world. • Basics to Thrive – empowering communities by increasing access to critical needs such as water, shelter, nutrition, and economic 2030 Goal opportunity. Improve over 100 million lives through targeted social • STEM Education – increasing access to STEM education for all, impact programs. and helping to build a talent pipeline for the future In order to achieve our ten-year ambition, we will: • Innovations for Good – focusing our science and innovations on • Implement signature partnerships that can amplify our megatrends that can improve people’s lives and create scalable social impact impact in communities around the globe • Establish regional advisory councils to support community To help drive progress in these areas, we partner with community impact grants and volunteerism locally organizations to develop programs that can make a meaningful • Implement a corporate grants management system and difference and achieve measurable outcomes in people’s lives. a global volunteer management system to quantify our Beyond funding, we believe the most successful collaborations collective impact and catalyze employee volunteerism involve all our assets — people, products, and partners — alongside our customers, our suppliers, and community organizations. Our Global Community Impact Team leads our efforts by helping our local teams engage stakeholders, build long-term relationships, Maximizing our impact through and develop high-impact programs that address critical community strategic community impact programs issues. We want to provide our employees with ample opportunities to help build thriving communities through volunteerism, both RT-CH-210a.1 skills-based and traditional. This is how we build a culture of purpose. In 2019, working with an external consultant, we held over 60 Clear into the Future internal interviews with DuPont business presidents, functional Clear into the Future® is a global DuPont grant program that was directors, site managers, and regional and country leaders to help created to drive positive impact in our communities and for the inform a new global Community Impact strategy for the company. environment. Clear into the Future® supports programs that We wanted to create a Community Impact strategy that aligns engage and educate the communities that we live and work in. with the company’s purpose and strategic goals, that also provides The program also supports scientific work that expands the shared value to both the company and the communities. understanding of ecological challenges and opportunities in these communities. All of the supported projects focus on creating impact in one or more of four areas: climate change adaptation and mitigation, water stewardship, circular economy, and ecosystem services. In 2019, Clear into the Future® awarded 23 grants to nonprofits delivering environmental and social impact in nine countries. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 50 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Building thriving communities (continued) Strategic global partnership DuPont partners with Habitat for Humanity International to provide safe, affordable, and energy-efficient housing for people in need worldwide. Each year, hundreds of DuPont volunteers in many communities help to build new houses or rebuild and revitalize neighborhoods. DuPont also provides grant funding and donates our energy-efficient building products, including Styrofoam™ brand insulation, DuPont Weathermate™ Homewrap, and Great Stuff™ Insulating Foam Sealant. Homes built with DuPont products have lower annual energy costs for homeowners compared to homes built without them. A typical home spends about $2,000 every year on energy bills. Properly installed sealing and insulation products such as Styrofoam™, Great Stuff™, and Tyvek®, can save homeowners an average of 30% on energy use, which equates to about $600 in heating and cooling bills annually. By enabling energy-efficient materials that deliver increased thermal and weather barriers and provide air and moisture protection around gaps and cracks, we’re helping Habitat homeowners lower their energy bills and live in a healthier and more comfortable home. In the second half of 2019, 400 DuPont employees donated over 2,550 service hours to Habitat projects in 16 communities across the U.S. and Canada. And, DuPont’s donation of building products throughout 2019 benefitted nearly 550 families in over 100 communities. For more examples of how we are building thriving communities, please visit our sustainability story hub. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 51 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Appendix DuPont 2020 GRI Index 52 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy GRI Content Index GRI 102-54. GRI 102-55. GRI Disclosure GRI Disclosure Description Information Links Page(s) in this Index GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization About Us 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our Businesses 6 DuPont Brands 6, 22 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters Global Locations 6 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and Global Locations 6 names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the topics covered in the report 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form DuPont 2019 Form 10-K 6 102-6 Markets served All Industries 7 102-7 Scale of the organization DuPont 2019 Form 10-K 6 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 44–45; 61–63 102-9 Supply chain 12–13 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain History 6, 12–13, 54 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 19, 24–25 102-12 External initiatives 18–19 102-13 Membership of associations 18–19 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8–9 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Our 2030 Goals 16–17 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 10–11 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics DuPont Code of Conduct 11 102-18 Governance structure DuPont corporate governance 17 DuPont sustainability governance 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18–19 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 6 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16, 18 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 18–19 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16, 18 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 3 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 3, 4, 16 102-47 List of material topics 16 102-48 Restatements of information 3, 16 102-49 Changes in reporting 16 102-50 Reporting period 3 102-51 Date of most recent report 3 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 53 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy GRI Content Index (continued) GRI Disclosure GRI Disclosure Description Information Links Page(s) in this Index 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 4, 19 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3 102-55 GRI content index 53 102-56 External assurance 4, 66 Series 300: Environmental GRI 301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used Sustainability Story Hub 27 — Circular Economy GRI 302: Energy 302-MA 30–31 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 32, 57–58 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 57 302-3 Energy intensity 32, 58 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 31 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Sustainability Story Hub 22–23 — Acting on Climate GRI 305: Emissions 305-MA 30–31 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 32, 59 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 32, 59 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 32, 59 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 31 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant 32, 59 air emissions GRI 306 306-MA 28, 34 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 28, 60 GRI 307 307-1 GRI Disclosure Description “Environmental Compliance” 28, 30, 34 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 12–13 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 12–13 actions taken DuPont 2020 GRI Index 54 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy GRI Content Index (continued) GRI Disclosure GRI Disclosure Description Information Links Page(s) in this Index Series 400: Social GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 48 401-3 Parental leave 47 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-MA 36–41 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 36 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 37–41 403-3 Occupational health services 37–38, 46 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 37–41 occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 38, 46–47 403-6 Promotion of worker health 46–48 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 37–38 impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 36, 39 management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 40, 61 403-10 Work-related ill health 40, 61 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 47, 48 programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 49 career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-MA 43 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 44–45, 61–62 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 11–12 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 12 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-MA 25 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 26 service categories GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-MA 25 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 26 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 55 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy SASB No. Details Information links Page(s) in this index RT-CH-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under 32, 59 emissions-limiting regulations RT-CH-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan 30–31 to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets RT-CH-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOx (excluding 32, 59 N2O), (2) SOx, (3) volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and (4) hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) RT-CH-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) 32, 57 percentage renewable, (4) total self-generated energy RT-CH-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, 35, 60 percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress RT-CH-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with 34 water quality permits, standards, and regulations RT-CH-140a.3 Description of water management risks and discussion of 34 strategies and practices to mitigate those risks RT-CH-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste generated, percentage recycled 28, 60 RT-CH-210a.1 Discussion of engagement processes to manage risks and 50 opportunities associated with community interests RT-CH-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and (2) fatality rate 40, 61 for (a) direct employees and (b) contract employees RT-CH-320a.2 Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce 36, 41 exposure of employees and contract workers to long-term (chronic) health risks RT-CH-410a.1 Revenue from products designed for use-phase resource 63–65 efficiency RT-CH-410b.1 (1) Percentage of products that contain Globally Harmonized DuPont PS&R 26 System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Health and Environmental Hazardous Substances, and (2) percentage of such products that have undergone a hazard assessment RT-CH-410b.2 Discussion of strategy to (1) manage chemicals of concern DuPont PS&R 24, 25 and (2) develop alternatives with reduced human and/or environmental impact RT-CH-530a.1 Discussion of corporate positions related to government DuPont position statements 19 regulations and/or policy proposals that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry RT-CH-410c.1 Percentage of products by revenue that contain genetically 26 modified organisms (GMOs) RT-CH-540a.1 Process Safety Incidents Count (PSIC), Process Safety Total 40, 61 Incident Rate (PSTIR), and Process Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR) RT-CH-540a.2 Number of transport incidents 40, 61 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 56 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy DuPont 2019 Environmental Data Energy GRI 302-1. GRI 302-3. RT-CH-130a.1. Fuels Electricity MMBTU MWH Non-Renewable Fuels MMBTU MWH Co-Generated – Non-Renewable 98,800 13,600 Aviation Gasoline 24,200 7,100 Self-Generated – Renewable 13,900 1,400 Coal 32,200 9,400 Purchased – Non-Renewable 36,360,000 3,636,000 Diesel Fuel 119,000 35,000 Purchased – Renewable 1,069,000 106,900 Distillate Fuel Oil (#1,#2) 348,000 102,000 Total Electricity 37,540,000 3,757,000 Electric 580 170 Hydrogen 3 1 Purchased Energy1 MMBTU MWH Kerosene 17,700 5,200 Electricity 37,530,000 3,756,000 Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 23,000 6,700 Chilled Water 10,000 3,000 Natural Gas 23,570,000 6,908,000 City Heat 20,100 5,900 Petrol/Gasoline 55,000 16,100 Heat Transfer Fluid 25,000 7,300 Propane 19,500 5,700 Steam 12,850,000 3,140,000 Refinery Fuel Gas (RFG) 2,500 700 Total Purchased Energy 50,440,000 6,912,200 Residual Fuel (#4,#5,#6) 102,000 29,900 Waste Gas 39,900 11,700 Waste Liquid 76,000 22,300 Energy Generated for Others2 MMBTU MWH Waste Solid 0 0 Electricity 0 0 Miscellaneous 290 85 Chilled Water 47,569 13,941 Total of Non-Renewable Fuels 24,430,000 7,160,000 City Heat 98,270 28,800 Heat Transfer Fluid 83,977 24,611 Renewable Fuels Steam 1,386,408 406,316 Biodiesel 5 1 Total Energy Generated 1,616,224 473,668 Biogas from Waste Water Treatment 56,0000 164,500 Ethanol 170 50 Energy and emissions intensity by production Landfill Gas 609,000 178,600 Wood 959,000 281,000 Total energy: Energy intensity: 14,220,000 MWh 4.54 MWh/MT Total of Renewable Fuels 2,130,000 624,300 Total emissions: Emissions intensity: 5,380,000 MTCO2e 1.65 MTCO2e/MT Total Fuel Use 26,560,000 7,784,000 (Renewable + Non-Renewable) 1 Purchased energy figures are net of sold energy 2 Non-DuPont Tenants and Adjacent Non-DuPont Sites/Buildings DuPont 2020 GRI Index 57 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy DuPont 2019 Environmental Data (continued) Energy and emissions intensity by production Total energy: Energy intensity: 14,850,000 MWh 6.75 MWh/MT Total emissions: Emissions intensity: 4.54 MWh/MT 1.65 MTCO2e/MT Energy use and % renewable, MWh 8,000,000 6,000,000 4,000,000 2,000,000 MWh Renewable Fuels 7,784,000 8.0% Electricity 3,757,000 2.9% Heat transfer fluid 7,300 City/district head 5,900 Steam 3,140,000 6.4% Chilled water 3,000 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 58 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy DuPont 2019 Environmental Data (continued) Emissions GRI 305-1. GRI 305-2.GRI 305-4. GRI 305-7. RT-CH-110a.1. RT-CH-120a.1. Scope 1 Emissions, in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e)1 Emissions due Process-Related Emissions due Total Direct GHG Direct Energy Emissions to Supplying Energy2 GHG Emissions to mobile fuels Emissions (Scope 1) 1,250,000 72,600 1,726,000 10,400 3,057,000 1 Our Scope 1 calculation includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and PFCs. In 2019, we emitted no PFCs. 2 While we report our total gross Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions as required under various reporting schemes, we set our goals based on the emissions over which we truly have control. In our goals related emissions calculations and self-reported sustainability communication, we exclude emissions that are due to energy generated for third parties, such as non-DuPont tenants or adjacent facilities. Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions 5,380,000 MTCO2e, Biogenic emissions: 151,000 MTCO2e Total Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) 3,057,000 Total Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2 – Location-based) 2,323,000 Other Air Emissions, in metric tons NOx 1,640 SOx 344 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 3,240 Air carcinogens 30 Particulate matters (PM) 300 1 Purchased energy figures are net of sold energy DuPont 2020 GRI Index 59 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy DuPont 2019 Environmental Data (continued) Waste GRI 306-2. RT-CH-150a.1. Beneficial Use of Waste (Avoided Waste), in metric tons (MT) Reuse 24,500 Recycling/Reclamation/Recovery 164,700 Composting 29,000 Land Application 71,000 Energy Recovery 101,700 Other 460 Total Avoided Waste 391,300 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, in metric tons (MT) 80,000 100,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 Hazardous Non-hazardous Incinerated 55,100 19,100 Landfill 11,900 71,800 Other 6,600 18,800 Total Waste by Type 73,600 109,800 Total Waste 183,400 Water GRI 303-3. GRI 303-4. GRI 303-5. RT-CH-140a.1. Total water in million gallons % from waterTotal stressed areas1 Withdrawal 47,400 3.2% Consumption 15,300 9.6% 1 Using the WRI Aqueduct Model for the chemical sector, we identified DuPont sites in areas with “high” or “extremely high” baseline water stress according to Aqueduct’s methodology. To determine those sites that could affect water availability, quality, or accessibility, we are in the process of combining the Aqueduct results with other criteria, including insights learned from the WWF Water Risk Model, stakeholder engagement, plant water surveys, the nature of business activity at these sites and other parameters. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 60 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy DuPont 2019 People Data Employee and Contractor Employee Demographics Health & Safety GRI 102-8. GRI 401-1. GRI 404-1. GRI 405-1. GRI 403-9. GRI 403-10. RT-CH-320a.1. RT-CH-540a.1. RT-CH-540a.2 Employment type2 Employees + Employee Male Female [Not Grand Employees Contractors Contractors gender, total % % Male Female Disclosed] Total DAWC Cases 17 5 22 Regular 71% 29% 24,510 10,048 1 34,559 DAWC Rate 0.049 0.035 0.045 Temporary 58% 42% 325 235 – 560 Total Recordable Cases 99 52 151 Grand Total 24,835 10,283 1 35,119 TRIR 0.288 0.368 0.311 Fatalities 0 0 0 Employee gender, by DAWC – Days Away from Work Case is a work-related case where an employee is employment Male Female [Not Grand unable to work due to a work-related injury or illness. type % % Male Female Disclosed] Total TRC – Total Recordable Cases includes Days Away from Work Cases, Restricted Workday Cases, and Medical Treatment Cases. Full-Time 72% 28% 24,298 9,601 1 33,900 TRIR – Total Recordable Incident Rate (Number of Recordable Cases * 200,000/ Part-Time 32% 68% 212 447 – 659 Number of Exposure Hours) in a given time period. Grand Total 24,510 10,048 1 34,559 Exposure hours All employees, gender2 Employees 68,751,261 Contractors 28,286,637 Process safety 30 71% 73% 83% 25 20 15 10 29% 27% 17% 5 Global Workforce 1 Senior Executives 5 Board of Directors Female Male Process Safety Incidents Count (PSIC)1 Tier 1 3 1 As of December 31, 2019. Excludes expatriates, interns, temporary workers Transportation incidents (Tier 2) 1 and other seasonal and temporary workers Other Tier 2 incidents 23 2 Excludes gender/diversity data for those employees who chose not to disclose data. Process Safety Total Incident Rate (PSTIR) 0.079 3 Age ranges for generations reflect those provided by the U.S. Social Security Administration Process Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR) 0 4 Reflects the minority population in our U.S. population only, as defined by 1 (3 Tier 1 events and 24 Tier 2 events) the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. There are approximately 14,500 total people in our U.S. employee population 5 Senior Executives is defined all employees with SGL 15+ and all direct reports 6 Reflects new hires and voluntary attrition from July – December, 2019 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 61 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy DuPont 2019 People Data (continued) All employees, generation3 All employees, diversity4 8% 20% 34% 33% 67% 34% 75% 77% 62% 59% 46% 33% 25% 23% 4% Global Workforce 1 Senior Executives 5 Board of Directors Global Workforce 1 Senior Executives 5 Board of Directors Generation Z Millennial Generation X Minority White Baby Boomer Traditionalists 1 As of December 31, 2019. Excludes expatriates, interns, temporary workers and other seasonal and temporary workers 2 Excludes gender/diversity data for those employees who chose not to disclose data. 3 Age ranges for generations reflect those provided by the U.S. Social Security Administration 4 Reflects the minority population in our U.S. population only, as defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. There are approximately 14,500 total people in our U.S. employee population 5 Senior Executives is defined all employees with SGL 15+ and all direct reports 6 Reflects new hires and voluntary attrition from July – December, 2019 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 62 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Product Efficiency Data Enabling improved product efficiency RT-CH-410a.1. Many DuPont products enable improved efficiency and reduced negative impacts for our customers and end users. Some examples of products that enable improved resource efficiency during the use phase are as follows: Product Functional benefit LCA reference title and link AXTRA XAP® Improves digestibility which in turn calls for less Assessment of the potential of digestibilityfeed intake, and results in less excretion, reducing improving enzymes to reduce greenhouse gas eutrophication, acidification, and GHG emissions emissions from broiler production. AXTRA PHY® Improves digestibility which in turn calls for less Kebreab, E., Liedke, A., Caro, D., Deimling, S., Binder, feed intake, and results in less excretion, reducing M., Finkbeiner, M. (2016). Environmental impact eutrophication, acidification, and GHG emissions of using specialty feed ingredients in swine and poultry production: A life cycle assessment. Journal of Animal Science, 91(3). 2016. DOI: 10.2527/ jas.2015-9036 Preferenz®210, Heating the water in the washing machine causes A database for the Life Cycle Assessment of Proctor 280,281,282,283 the largest environmental impacts associated with & Gamble Laundry Detergents. doing laundry. Our enzymes enable clothing to be washed at lower temperatures with the same efficacy as standard enzymes, saving energy and reducing GHG emissions Comparative Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of Ariel “Actif à froid” (2006), a laundry detergent that allows to wash at colder wash temperatures, with previous Ariel laundry detergents (1998, 2001). Biorefinery – All FAL enzymes Enzymes throughout the ethanol process improve Argonne GREET® Model (Comparing Ethanol to processing, increase ethanol yields and make the Gasoline on Well to Wheels basis — Enabled by fuel ethanol process viable, translating to both enzymes) environmental impact reductions at the ethanol facility as well as GHG saving when using ethanol blends instead of 100% gasoline in vehicles LAMINEX® MaxFlow 4G Improves filtration yields and improves throughput, Sustainable Brewing Solutions: A Life Cycle look at resulting in lower water use and energy use in DuPont Brewing Enzymes: LAMINEX® MaxFlow 4G: the brewery Reducing Wort Viscosity and Environmental Impacts* ALPHALASE® AP4 Enables brewers to use unmalted barley in lieu Sustainable Brewing Solutions: A Life Cycle look of malt, significantly reducing energy and water at DuPont Brewing Enzymes: ALPHALASE® AP4: needs associated with the malting process An Enzyme Solution to Reduce Water Use through Barley Brewing* HOLDBAC® Protects against mold and bacteria growth, Specialty Food Ingredients — Environmental enabling products to have a longer shelf life Impacts and Opportunities POWERFresh® Provides anti-staling properties in bread, extending Specialty Food Ingredients — Environmental shelf life and reducing food waste; leading to Impacts and Opportunities reduced impacts per loaf of bread Xivia® Xylitol-based sweetener with manufacturing Life cycle assessment of xylitol produced by technology resulting in lower impacts than DuPont Nutrition & Health* alternative xylitol products made from corn cobs DuPont 2020 GRI Index 63 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Product Efficiency Data (continued) Product Functional benefit LCA reference title and link GENENCARE OSMS® BA Osmolyte used in home and personal care products Environmental Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) of (skin care, shampoo). Produced from a food side High-Purity and Technical Grade Betaine across stream with lower impacts of manufacture than Alternative Production Pathways* synthetic alternative SUPRO® Products Provides high protein concentrate source from Specialty Food Ingredients — Environmental soybean which can displace dairy, whey protein, Impacts and Opportunities casein in use; resulting significant GHG, energy, land, and water use savings Sustainable Protein Sources; Part 1: Plant Derived Proteins, Chapter 2: Soy Protein: Impacts, Production and Application* NuVolve® Engineered polysaccharide produced from sugar Life Cycle Assessment for Engineered with multiple potential applications. Impacts Polysaccharide Alpha-1,3-Glucan manufactured of manufacture are very low across key impact by Enzymatic Polymerization* categories/metrics of GHG, energy, land, and water use Sorona® Polymer A portion of the product is bio-based polymer, Life Cycle Assessment Update for Bio-PDOTM and providing reduced manufacturing impacts Sorona® Polymer* relative to Nylon in carpet applications Extruded polystyrene (XPS) Thermal insulation is a strategic product for Mazor, M. H., Mutton, J. D., Russell, D. A. M., and polyisocyanurate (PIR) reducing energy consumption and related Keoleian, G. A. (2011). Life Cycle Greenhouse Gas insulation products offered by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the Emissions Reduction from Rigid Thermal Insulation DuPont Safety & Construction building sector. This study examines from Use in Buildings. Journal of Industrial Ecology, 15(2). a life cycle perspective the changes in GHG https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1530-9290.2010.00325.x emissions resulting from the use of two rigid thermal insulation products manufactured and installed from 1971 to 2025 * Data available upon request DuPont 2020 GRI Index 64 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Note regarding the formation and history of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. DuPont was formed as DowDuPont Inc. (“DowDuPont”) on On April 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the separation of its December 9, 2015 to effectuate an all-stock merger of equals materials science business into a separate and independent public between The Dow Chemical Company (“TDCC”) and E. I. du Pont company by way of a distribution of Dow Inc. (“Dow”) through de Nemours and Company (“EID”) (the “Merger Transaction”). a pro rata dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding On August 31, 2017 the Merger Transaction was consummated shares of Dow’s common stock (the “Dow Distribution”). pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of On June 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the separation of its December 11, 2015, as amended, and each of TDCC and EID agriculture business into a separate and public company by way merged with wholly owned subsidiaries of DowDuPont of a distribution of Corteva, Inc. (“Corteva”) through a pro rata (“Mergers”) and, as a result became subsidiaries of DowDuPont. dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Corteva’s common stock (the “Corteva Distribution”). DowDuPont announced its intent to pursue the separation of the combined company’s agriculture business, specialty products Effective June 1, 2019 DowDuPont changed its name to business and materials science business through a series of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. and continues to hold the specialty tax-efficient transactions (collectively, the “Intended Business products business. Separations”). DowDuPont formed two wholly owned subsidiaries: Dow Inc., to serve as a holding company for its materials science business, and Corteva, Inc., to serve as a holding company for its agriculture business. In furtherance of the Intended Business Separations, DowDuPont engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps (the “Internal Reorganization”) to realign its businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. As part of the Internal Reorganization, the assets and liabilities aligned with the materials science business were transferred or conveyed to legal entities, including TDCC, that ultimately became subsidiaries of Dow Inc. and the assets and liabilities aligned with the agriculture business were transferred or conveyed to legal entities, including EID, that ultimately became subsidiaries of Corteva, Inc. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 65 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy External Assurance Statement August 06, 2020 DuPont Environmental, Health, and Safety Center of Excellence 974 Centre Road (CRP 708/243) Wilmington, DE 19805 USA 2019 Greenhouse Gas Inventory, 2019 Renewable Energy Use, and Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) 2019 Performance Metrics Limited Verification Statement PURPOSE OF THE STATEMENT WSP has conducted an independent third-party review of the 2019 calendar year greenhouse gas (GHG) emission inventory, renewable energy use, and the EH&S annual performance metric of DuPont with the intention of providing limited assurance of its accuracy and completeness. For the greenhouse gas inventory, the scope of the review includes all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission sources and select Scope 3 emissions, specifically upstream fueland energy-related emissions (Category 3). For the Renewable Energy, the scope of the review includes purchased on-site renewable electricity, renewable biofuels, and purchased steam generated from renewable sources. For the EH&S 2019 performance metrics, the scope of the review covered the Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and the Days Away From Work Case (DAWC) rate for both DuPont employees, contractors, and combined contractor and employee rates. The review applies to all owned and leased facilities under DuPont’s operational control. WSP provided separate “Review Findings” reports to DuPont, which lists in detail the specific review tasks completed and areas which were flagged for clarification or improvement. DuPont has addressed all requests for clarification and has completed all necessary corrective actions. The details of the scope of this assurance review can be found in Table 1. TABLE 1: ASSURANCE SCOPE ASSURANCE PARAMETER SPECIFICATION GHG Calculation and Reporting ▪ The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Protocol Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) ▪ The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance ▪ The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard Corporate EH&S Standard ▪ SHE Standard S35G: Managing Occupational Injuries and illnesses Verification Standard ISO 14064-3 Level of Assurance Limited Organizational Boundary Operational control Geography Global operations Review Period January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 WSP USA One Penn Plaza New York, NY 10119 Tel.: +1 212 465-5096 wsp.com DuPont 2020 GRI Index 66 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy External Assurance Statement (continued) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Scope 1 3,057,437.0 metric tons CO2e (all Scope 1 sources) Scope 2 Location-based 2,322,921.5 metric tons CO2e (all Scope 2 sources) Scope 2 Market-based 2,532,756.3 metric tons CO2e (all Scope 2 sources) Scope 3 ▪ Category 3: Upstream Fueland Energy-Related Emissions: 1,207,243 metric tons CO2e ▪ CY19 Inventory Management Plan ▪ CY19 GHG Rollup Data Spreadsheet ▪ CY19 Scope 1 and 2 Emission Factor Update Spreadsheet Supporting Documents Reviewed ▪ CY19 Scope 3 FERA Calculation Spreadsheet ▪ CY19 Scope 3 Factor Calculation Sheets ▪ Interviews with select site personnel ▪ Energy purchasing Invoices for selected sites Date Review Complete July 26th, 2020 RENEWABLE ENERGY CONSUMPTION Purchased Renewable Electricity ▪ 106,899,899 kWh Onsite Renewable Electricity ▪ 1,390,419 kWh *Note that this figure includes purchased renewable energy and renewable energy generated onsite through solar PV and a biomassfueled generator. Non-renewable onsite Renewable Electricity Percentage ▪ 2.9% generation, typically small sources such as emergency generators, is not tracked nor included in this calculation. 2.9% = (Purchased RE+Onsite RE) / Total Purchased Electricity Use ▪ 868,268.5 Thousand SCF Biogas from waste water *Note that the wood fuel was used to produce treatment renewable electricity that is included in the on-site Renewable Biofuels ▪ 609,443.1 MMBtu Landfill renewable electricity total above. Should DuPont Gas develop a total renewable energy value to report, it ▪ 36 Gallons Biodiesel should only include either the wood fuel or the ▪ 49,791 Metric Tons renewable electricity but not both. Biomass (Wood Chips) Purchased Steam from ▪ 201,070,010 kWh Renewable Sources ▪ CY19 Inventory Management Plan ▪ CY19 GHG Rollup Data Spreadsheet Supporting Documents Reviewed ▪ CY19 Scope 1 and 2 Emission Factor Update Spreadsheet ▪ Energy purchasing Invoices for selected sites ▪ Interviews with energy procurement staff Date Review Complete July 26th, 2020 Page 2 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 67 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy External Assurance Statement (continued) EH&S PERFORMANCE METRICS Employee TRIR 0.288 Employee DAWC Rate 0.049 Contractor TRIR 0.368 Contractor DAWC Rate 0.035 Total (Employee + Contractor) 0.311 TRIR Total (Employee + Contractor) 0.045 DAWC Rate Supporting Documents Reviewed ▪ Sample Weekly Incident Summary Reports ▪ Monthly Incident Summary Reports ▪ S35G Corporate Standard ▪ Sample Injury Classification Reports for select sites ▪ Sample Incident Investigation Reports for select sites ▪ Interviews with Corporate EH&S Management Staff Date Review Complete July 26th, 2020 Page 3 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 68 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy External Assurance Statement (continued) VERIFICATION PROCESS AND DOCUMENT REVIEW WSP is issuing this limited assurance following the scope of verification activities which included a site visit to the corporate headquarters of DuPont, in Wilmington, DE, on December 10, 2019, a desktop review of activity data and calculations, and follow-up conversations with management personnel. DuPont has provided all data and requested supporting documentation which includes the following types of materials: — Energy and fuel activity data collection tools — GHG Inventory Management Plan (IMP) — GHG inventory calculation protocols and tools — Selected energy invoices and data tracking systems — EH&S Incident Reports and Standards ASSURANCE FINDING Based on these review processes and procedures, WSP has no evidence that the 2019 GHG inventory, renewable energy use, and EH&S performance metrics of DuPont are not materially correct, are not a fair representation of the corresponding data and information, or have not been prepared in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and S35G Standard. PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT WSP has conducted this limited assurance review in its capacity as an independent third party in accordance with the ISO 14065 International Standard, Greenhouse gases — Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or other forms of recognition. ISO 14065 specifies the principles and requirements employed by WSP to make this assertion. WSP has not contributed to the compilation of the 2019 GHG inventory of DuPont, its renewable energy date, nor its EH&S performance metrics. Members of the WSP Assurance Team are not working with the Dupont in any capacity beyond what is required of this assignment. Sincerely, Matthew Aberant Senior Project Director, Sustainability Energy and Climate Change Page 4 DuPont 2020 GRI Index 69 Our Organization Our Sustainability Our Innovations Our Operations Our People Appendix Strategy Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements Certain of the statements included in this communication, including those regarding our key initiatives, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In this context, forward-looking statements often address expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “see,” “will,” “would,” “target,” and similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words. Forwardlooking statements address matters that are, to varying degrees, uncertain and subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which that are beyond DuPont’s control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forwardlooking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results. For a list of important factors that could cause DuPont’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements please see the section titled “Risk Factors” (Part I, Item 1A) of DuPont’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 8.01 of DuPont’s current report on Form 8-K filed on April 20, 2020 and as updated by DuPont’s subsequent periodic and current reports filed with the SEC. DuPont 2020 GRI Index 70 Updates and Feedback Visit us: dupont.com dupont.com/sustainability Engage with us: We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you might have about this report: dupont.com/contact-us sustainability@dupont.com
