SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT 2019 A DECADE OF CELEO IN CHILE I SS U E 2019 S U S TA I N A BI L I T Y R E PO R T 2019 Company identification (102-1, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5) Legal Name: Celeo Redes Chile Limitada RUT: 76.613.942-6 Address: Av. 4501 Apoquindo ave., suite 1902, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile. Telephone: (+56 2) 3202 24 300 Corporate website: www.celeoredeschile.cl Incorporation: November 10th, 2016 Contact information (102-53) For doubts or comments on this sustainability report please contact Mr. Sebastián Pizarro Contreras, Quality, Environment and Health and Safety (CMASS) Head, to email: sajpizarro@celeoredes.com CHAPTER WELCOME TO OUR 2019 REPORT 8 CHAPTER SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 92 01 • 1.1 Message from the Chairman of the Celeo Concesiones S.L. Management Council • 1.2 Welcome from the General Manager • 1.3 2019 at a glance 11 13 16 04 • 4.1 Our First Concern • 4.2 Female Labor Integration • 4.3 Occupational Safety and Health • 4.4 Training and Development 97 101 104 114 • 1.4 Methodology of our report 20 • 4.5 Our Relationship with Communities 120 • 4.6 Our Suppliers 127 CHAPTER WE ARE CELEO CHILE 28 02 CHAPTER ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 128 • 2.1 We are all Celeo 30 • 2.2 Shareholders • 2.3 10 Years of History • 2.4 We Transmit Energy: Context of our Industry • 2.5 Value Creation Model 39 42 46 50 05 • 5.1 Environmental Management • 5.2 Resource Efficiency • 5.3 Biodiversity • 5.4 Climate Change 131 132 138 146 • 2.6 Strategy 52 • 2.7 Sustainability at Celeo 60 • 2.8 Alliances 65 CHAPTER ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 154 CHAPTER OUR ROADMAP 66 06 • 6.1 Economic Management • 6.2 Finance and Investments • 6.3 Operational Continuity 159 160 164 03 • 3.1 Ownership Structure • 3.2 Our Corporate Governance • 3.3 Executive Management • 3.4 Compliance and Ethics 70 72 82 86 CHAPTER • 6.4 Innovation and Technology ANNEXES 168 170 07 • 7.1 Table of Contents • 7.2 Verification Letter 172 180 01 WELCOME TO OUR 2019 REPORT EFFORT “To tell you the truth, it was a surprise for me, I didn’t know that they would grant me an award like this, but it is always pleasing that one is recognized for the work that one does with so much “effort”. Last year, thanks to Celeo’s support, I had to work and study, and although I left classes late at night and traveled 60 kilometers to get home, the support of my company, and knowing they always believed in me, motivated me to strive and fulfill my commitment, responsibility and work every day.” Juan Olivares Maintenance department Illapa-Cumbre line 2x220 kV. 8 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 1.1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CELEO CONCESIONES S.L. MANAGEMENT COUNCIL (102-14, 102-23) In my capacity as Chairman of the Celeo Council, Financial operations closed during the year are of equal I have the pleasure of presenting you with our 2019 importance; The placement of a 365 million dollars Sustainability Report, a document through which we bond with a 30 years term in Chile, and the financial want to be transparently accountable in environmental, closure of our Serra de Ibiapaba transmission project, economic, social and governance matters. for a 646 million reais amount and a 20 years term, in Brazil. These transactions demonstrate Celeo’s I would like to begin by highlighting the recent financial stability and demonstrate long-term support corporate operation through which APG and for a job well done by the Company. Elecnor expanded their strategic partnership for the development of energy transmission and renewable What better place than this document, where we generation projects. This, by including the solar share our achievements and future challenges, to generation assets Celeo has in Spain, into the LATAM congratulate our employees and collaborators; teams platform. APG’s entry as a partner into the Celeo who, with their dedication and high performance, parent company represents a relevant milestone in maintain our continuous challenge of excellence in an “In 2019 we continued the Company’s history, and the commitment of both industry that is essential for the world of today and to strengthen our partners to jointly invest up to 400 million euros in the the future. commitment to following five years is undoubtedly an additional boost to strengthen our presence in these markets. I would like to finish with a message of optimism. Since sustainability.” early this year, we have been facing a viral outbreak Miguel Morenés Giles During this year, we have continued strengthening that has been described as a pandemic by the World our commitment to sustainability. The excellent Health Organization. The company is taking preventive results obtained in one of the rankings most valued measures to contain the spread of the virus, ensure by investors worldwide, GRESB, are an example of the the health of its employees and secure the electrical above. As a group, we reached the first positions in service, in collaboration with the relevant authorities. the energy transmission infrastructure category, with Once again, our workers are facing this situation with Chile taking first place and Brazil, second. This ranking their characterizing professionalism, and I have no includes an analytical view of environmental, social and doubt that, together, we will overcome this pandemic governance factors in its participants’ performance and emerge strengthened. and, therefore, reflects the intense work we have done around our sustainability strategy, which continues to On behalf of the Counsel, I hereby invite you to learn create positive results. in detail about tasks completed during the period and preventive measures deployed in recent weeks. At the operational level, I should not leave out the entry into commercial operation, by early 2019, of the Diego de Almagro transmission infrastructure in Chile and Please receive my warm greetings, the recent commissioning of our Sao Joao de Piaui Miguel Morenés Giles photovoltaic generation plant, and Serra de Ibiapaba, Chairman of the Management Counsel both in Brazil. These projects were commissioned significantly early with respect to the set delivery dates, which is one more example of the effort and dedication of our company in the fulfillment of commitments made. 10 11 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 1.2 WELCOME FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER (102-14) As Celeo’s General Manager, I am very proud to hereby It is a great honor and satisfaction for our company present the fourth Sustainability Report of our company. to continue being the electrical company with the This document presents our 2019 performance under best work safety rates. This year, we have achieved the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology and our challenging zero accidents goal, the result of a the Global Compact guidelines. preventive safety culture that has permeated all our collaborators and is also transmitted to our contractors. First, I would like to highlight that we have closed year 2019 in a very positive way, achieving important goals In keeping with our commitment to Chile and all its and making significant progress in our five management citizens, we have managed to maintain excellent pillars quality, safety and health, environment, social facility performance, ensuring the electricity supply responsibility and compliance which underpin continuity with an average 99.98% availability level in our Sustainability Policy. The above reflects the our operating projects. “None of our objectives commitment of our shareholders, management team would be reachable without and all collaborators, for the achievement of our On the other hand, this year was also significant for our objectives and promotion of the growth of the company projects under construction portfolio, Mataquito and the effort and commitment in a sustainable fashion, meeting the demands of all Casablanca, as we managed to secure the financial of all of our workers.” stakeholders. resources required for development and construction over the following four years, by placing a 365 million Manuel Sanz Burgoa The last quarter of the year in Chile was marked by the dollars bond over a 30-year term, a structure that social crisis and the citizens’ discontent for not seeing places us at the forefront of financing these types of their expectations fulfilled in essential aspects such as projects in Latin America. At the same time, we have education, health and pensions, among others. We are taken the first steps in the development of these aware of this new context and the difficulties of finding projects, starting their environmental processing and a solution in the short term, but we also believe we subscribing EPC Contracts under a turnkey method. can contribute to the generation of a more sustainable social environment through our investments, job Our company’s firm commitment to transparency and creation and responsibility. Governance best practices is shown by the renewal of our Crime Prevention Model certification and training of None of our objectives would be achievable without all our workers in this matter. We continue working on the effort and commitment of all our workers. They generating a compliance culture in our company, which are the key to the successes reaped in recent years is underpinned by strict compliance programs and zero and I want to take this opportunity to recognize and tolerance for bad practices in ethics, transparency and thank them for their dedication and to require that they integrity matters. maintain their excellence and professionalism levels to meet the challenges we have set for ourselves in the The progress made this year in the field of information coming future. This year, we have strengthened the technologies is remarkable. We have strengthened Human Resources unit, to best serve the concerns of our IT team and important work has been conducted our workers and ensure their professional growth and in order to strengthen our computer security and be development at our company. 12 13 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 better prepared for possible cyber-attacks. We are working along our colleagues in Brazil and Spain to align and deploy a common information security policy which includes the industry’s best practices in this regard. The achievements made are significant, but the challenges we set for the future are even more relevant. Maintaining the level of excellence achieved, successfully developing projects in the portfolio and further promoting a prevention culture in occupational safety and strict compliance with governance, are the basis for achieving sustainable growth and contributing to economic progress and social welfare in Chile. I hope you enjoy reading this Report, noting our progress and future challenges. I thank you for your attention and assure you, on behalf of our entire team, that we will maintain our commitment to continuous improvement, giving the best of ourselves to continue meeting the expectations of all our stakeholders. Manuel Sanz Burgoa Celeo Chile General Manager Ancoa substation, Maule region. 14 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 1.3 2019 AT A GLANCE (102-10) JANUARY MARCH MAY Information Technology (IT) Plan Commissioning of the 2x220 kV Involvement in the Security Illapa Cumbre transmission line Excellence Project (PES) The IT unit began work on the in the Diego de Almagro district, definition, planning and deployment Atacama region. Planning and coordination for the of an Information Technology Plan deployment of the PES began in APRIL which enables the company to JUNE The project was commissioned March. This is a project including control cybersecurity related risks. almost a year prior to the deadlines a collaboration between Celeo, Involvement in the Internal Work Partnership with Escuela Hogar agreed with the authorities, and Elecnor and DuPont, in the field of Accidents Prevention Week (SIPAT) Charrúa (Charrúa Home-School) comprises a 220 kV dual-circuit Occupational Health and Safety. transmission line stretching 52 Celeo Brazil held its 2019 SIPAT Joint work continued with Escuela kilometers (km) in length, with a FEBRUARY The main lines of action relate in the Uberlandia city, in the state Hogar Charrúa (Charrúa Home600 MVA transmission capacity per Strengthening of the Human to critical risk identification and of Minas Gerais, in Brazil, with the School), located in the Cabrero circuit, and two substations, Illapa Resources unit management, individual awareinvolvement of Manuel Núñez (Head district in the Biobío region, where the and Cumbre. ness, the integrated management of SST Maule Zone), Carlos Maureira Company conducts workshops and The Human Resources unit is system, learning capture, pro(Maule Zone Maintenance Manager) activities along with the educational strengthened to enhance employee gressive motivation, and continuand Sergio Concha (Atacama Zone community for environmental development and centralize the ous improvement. Electromechanical Technician). awareness of students. Company’s efforts in People Management. Under the title “Growing Safely”, This project is part of Celeo Chile’s the instance enabled the exchange environmental education plan. The of good practices and the survey of commitment to the school was improvements in health and safety. subscribed in an event held for the entire student community. 16 17 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE SEPTEMBER Obtaining first place in the GRESB AUGUST Ranking1 2019 in the electrical transRecognition of Excellence Managemission infrastructure category ment by Mutual de Seguridad (SafeNOVEMBER ty Mutual) GRESB is an organization in the Renewal of the crime assessment and comparison of funds prevention certificate Celeo Chile received the award and real estate assets and infrasgranted by the Mutual de Seguridad tructure portfolios performance around October The Company’s Crime Prevention (Safety Mutual) of Cámara Chilena the world in the Social, Environmental Model was again certified for a de la Construcción (Chilean and Governance aspects. Results of period of two years, recognizing OCTOBER the soundness of its procedures Chamber of Construction), for the the 2019 ranking placed Celeo Chile November first time. The institution, which as the company with the highest Occupational Health and Safety to identify and classify possible ensures workers’ health and safety, score within the electric transmission Management System Certification. fraud or non-compliance risks that August highlighted the proper operation infrastructure companies category may involve criminal liability of the of the Integrated Management and in the eighth position (out of The Company successfully updated company in its operations. DECEMBER System under the OHSAS 18001 393) in the Infrastructure Company the OHSAS 18001: 2007 standard with Changes to the corporate structure JULY standard, validating the good work General Ranking. the new ISO 45001: 2018, regarding Bond issue for USD 365 million #WeAreAllCeleo practices deployed and shared the Occupational Health and Safety On December 16th, the European among all company members. Cybersecurity Symposium 2019 Management System, on October. The placement of a USD 365 million Commission2 approved the entry Celeo Chile launched its first risk project bond over a 30-year term of APG into the capital share of prevention campaign to promote Award of MATE and CASTE projects Santiago, Chile was the venue for the The ISO 9001: 2015 Quality and Enviis conducted with the purpose of Spanish Holding Celeo Concesiones safety for all employees, which most significant event on the matter, ronmental Management 14001: 2015 financing the construction of the e Inversiones, which then comes defines that behind each worker, Decree 5T, of April 16th, 2019, was taking place on the continent: The certifications were also validated for Mataquito Hualqui and Nuevo Alto under the joint control of APG and there is a family waiting for them published on August 31st, 2019, via Cybersecurity Symposium, an activity a new period in the same instance. Melipilla Agua Santa transmission Elecnor, expanding the investment to return home and we are all “the the Department of Energy, which led by the Organization of American line projects, also including the Diego agreement to non-conventional great Celeo family”. This campaign sets the Exploitation and Execution States (OAS). Construction commencement de Almagro operational project. renewable energy sources (NCRE), reinforces the culture of safety that Rights of New Works in the Zonal of the Maintenance Base for the among others. is lived in the company and is part of System under Decree 418 of 2017. Celeo’s IT and SCADA units were Atacama zone Adherence to the other initiatives conducted with this involved in the meeting that Energy + Women Plan purpose in mind. IV Technical Conference Celeo brought industry experts and leadConstruction works of the Chile Brazil ers together, in addition to invesMaintenance Base for the Atacama In November, the Company was tors, academics, diplomats and zone began in October. The facility involved in the Public-Private Celeo Chile received colleagues government representatives, for will have an approximate built area Roundtable: ‘Energy + Women Plan’ from the Operation & Maintenance an exchange of knowledge, methof 370 m2 and the completion date is along with others in the sector. and Environment & Risk Prevention ods and ideas on cybersecurity. It projected for the first quarter of 2020. The roundtable’s main objective teams of Celeo Brazil, in the context also included a series of lectures is to promote the integration of of the annual conferences, where by different speakers, workshops women into the energy sector. The common operation & maintenance and forums, with the attendance of commitment translates into the and environment & risk prevention over three thousand people, from subscription of an agreement with problems are shared and discussed. 35 countries. the Department of Energy and the Department of Women and Gender Equity, to achieve this goal. 1 For further information on GRESB, please go to: https://gresb.com/ 18 2 To learn more about the European Commission go to the website https://ec.europa.eu/info/about-european-commission_en 19 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 1.4 METHODOLOGY OF OUR REPORT Stages of the Materiality Process (102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56) 1. Identification Secondary materials were reviewed in this stage in order to identify the main topics of the year, The fourth Sustainability Report prepared by Celeo 1.4.1 Materiality process industry and sustainability trends: Chile, accounts for the way in which it manages its (102-21, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47) operations and identifies its economic, environmental Secondary materials review: and social impacts, during the period from January The most relevant contents were defined following the • Identification of the local context and industry, via the review of 25 organizations specializing in 1st to December 31st, 2019. Materiality Process set by GRI, which allowed for the sustainability and the electrical sector. identification and presentation of the most significant • National and international benchmark for 10 companies in the industry. This report has been developed pursuant to the Global sustainability topics both for the company, and • Trends in the electrical industry. Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and principles, its stakeholders. • Industry related domestic and international press. in its GRI Standards version, accessing the essential • Press publications about Celeo Chile. compliance level. Energy Supplement Indexes (2014) • Internal company documentation and previous sustainability reports. are also included, which although have not been Identification updated under the latest GRI version are used to 2. Definition better represent indicators inherent to the industry. Internal and external consultation processes were deployed to define the depth and specificity of each topic, thanks to the identification of industry and sustainability topics. In cases where there is a change in methodology or formulation, it will be indicated in the corresponding The following interviews were conducted along these lines: content with a descriptive note. Definition a) INTERNAL CONSULTATION: • 5 Executives of Celeo Chile Indexes in this report also received external verification, General Manager a review conducted by Deloitte in April 2020. Financial Manager Business Development and Regulatory Advisory Manager Prioritization Operational Manager Head of Legal Department • 1 Celeo Concesiones e Inversiones S.L. Representative Celeo Concesiones e Inversiones S.L. Representative • 1 Celeo Brasil Representative Sustainability Head for Celeo Brazil b) EXTERNAL CONSULTATION: • 7 Collaborators of Celeo Chile Operations and Maintenance Deputy Manager Head of Human Resources Head of IT and Control Center Head of the Environment and Community Unit Head of Quality, Environment, Safety and Health Unit President of the Bipartite Training Committee President of the Santiago Joint Committee Ancoa-Alto Jahuel 2x500 kV line. • 4 interviews with stakeholder representatives Coordinador Eléctrico Nacional (National Electricity Coordinator) (CEN) Financial Entities Associations Labor Unions 20 21 CELEO CHILE 3. Prioritization Subsequently, topics arising both in the secondary material review and in the consultation were listed and grouped. The list included the frequency with which each topic arises, which were matched to those proposed by the GRI Standard. Finally, they were categorized according to relevance for the Company. The priorization of material issues was conducted via a weighted basis which included both the Company and its stakeholders. The result of this exercise was 12 material topics for the reported period. MATERIALITY MATRIX 10 Regulatory compliance and ethics Operational Continuity Local community RELEVANT FOR STAKEHOLDERS relations Health Cybersecurity andSafety Biodiversity Increase in the Climate share of women Change Finances and investments Energy Efficiency Waste Management RELEVANT FOR CELEO REDES CHILE 10 Emerging Topics NOTE: Prioritization does not imply the Training and inherent relevance of the topic as is (if it development is relevant or not), but rather compares its relevance among material topics. Non Innovation and relevant topics are not seen on the chart. technology Juan Alayon, PPC Supervisor, Atacama zone. 23 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 1.4.2 Material topics (102-33, 102-34, 103-1) MATERIAL TOPIC CELEO GI PRIORIZATION SCOPE OF IMPACT OF THE MATERIAL TOPIC CELEO GI PRIORIZATION SCOPE OF IMPACT OF THE PRIORIZATION MATERIAL ISSUE PRIORIZATION MATERIAL ISSUE Safety and health High High At Celeo, the safety and health of our Climate change Low Medium Climate change is one of the biggest workers is paramount. The scope of the challenges on the planet, with a global material topic is handled at the internal impact. The scope is external, via measures collaborators and contractors levels seeking to minimize the emission of and is more critical in operation and greenhouse gases. maintenance tasks. Resource Low Low Resource efficiency improves operational Ethics and regulatory High High Celeo has defined unrestricted compliance efficiency efficiency and contributes to lessen compliance with current regulations for its operations, environmental impact. The company has having models and systems ensuring effecinternal and external scopes, with workers, tiveness. The scope of the matter is internal, contractors and the community. both for executives as well as workers. Training and Emerging Worker training is essential for a highly Operational High High Maintaining operational continuity is development efficient team. The scope of this material continuity crucial to ensure supply to the entire topic is internal at the workers level and population. The scope is internal, but of seeks to improve collaborators’ skills an external impact to all customers and and knowledge. society in general. Innovation and Emerging Innovation is a tool for the organization's Local Medium High Today, more than ever, the future expected technology continuous improvement processes. The community link for our communities is having spaces with scope of this topic is internal and external. opportunities for joint work. The scope of the material topic involves localities near the Company's projects. Cybersecurity Medium Medium Information is an incredibly important value within the company since a cyber-attack can result in both internal and external impacts. At Celeo, this material issue has NOTE: High corresponds an internal scope at the operating systems to a score over 8, medium and workers levels, who could be subject to corresponds to a score between cyber-attacks. 6-8 and low corresponds to a score below 6. Biodiversity Low Medium The negative way in which biodiversity has been affected is a worldwide concern. At Celeo, this material issue becomes Región Comuna significant via the protection and conservation of biodiversity in operation locations. Female Medium Medium ODS labor The share of women in Celeo is low, just integration like in the industry. Along with the energy industry, the Company is committed to diversity and feminine inclusion, extending the internal reach involved for all workers. Finance and Medium Medium The company requires large investments for investments its operation and sustainability over time. The management thereof is internal and a priority for objective achievement. Note 1: Emerging material issues are those arising from internal and external consultation, but which were not prioritized by all interviewees. 24 25 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 1.5 STAKEHOLDERS (102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43) Celeo holds dialog with its stakeholders, following the Sustainability Assurance AA1000 AS3 standard, considering their needs and expectations. This process is conducted through the following stages:s: STAKEHOLDERS Shareholders Identification Regulator Customers Mappings Collaborators Community Suppliers Planning Contractors Financial Entities Monitoring Associations Competition Analysis THERE ARE VARIOUS COMMUNICATION CHANNELS AVAILABLE FOR STAKEHOLDERS: Evaluation • Website www.celeoredeschile.cl. Available to all interest groups. • Email cmas@celeoredes.com for all collaborators. • Transparenciachile@celeoredes.com email address, provided by the Crime Prevention Model for workers and suppliers, in addition to the Website, available to all stakeholders. • Materiality process of the report, in which a consultation is conducted through a third party to various stakeholders, in order to identify the topics with the greatest relevance for them. 3 For further information, please check https://www.normas-iso.com/aa1000-aseguramiento-de-la-sostenibilidad/ 4 https://celeoredeschile.cl/canal-de-transparencia.php 02 WE ARE CELEO CHILE COMMITMENT “Focused on my work and committed to what I do daily, the award I received in the “Commitment” category makes me very satisfied and drives me to improve day by day, overcoming the challenges that may arise.” Brenda Quilarque IT department Hector Mendoza, lineman Atacama zone. 28 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2.1 WE ARE ALL CELEO Prominent figures (102-2; 102-7; 102-9) Energy Industry Presence Line kilometers Number of Substations Celeo Chile manages investments in energy infrastructure, which comprise the development, construction, maintenance and management of energy transmission systems and Transmission 6 regions 506 of lines in operation kms 5 electrical facilities in the Chilean national and zonal transmission systems. 3 in operation 81 Direct No. suppliers in the period 409 167 Number No. of direct of projects collaborators as 2 under development of December Total indirect Assets Equity Profit EBITDA 598.90 MUSD 25.16 MUSD 8.82 MUSD 43.64 MUSD Operational continuity Total CO2 emissions Days without accidents Recycling 99.9% 700 KILOS 403 tonCO2e 867 Members of No. of students in schools Work % of man-hours in Celeo Chile Team. the Celeo Chile with social activities centers safety training family 675 People 146 7 2% Note: Total CO2 emissions cover scopes 1, 2 and 3. Note 2: Members of the Celeo Chile family correspond to the sum of each worker and their reported family group number. Note 3: MUSD = Million dollars. 30 31 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 Stages of Celeo Chile projects Its activity can be divided into five main stages: New investments and bidding • Review of bidding processes issued by Coordinador Eléctrico Nacional (National Electricity Coordinator) (CEN) and private entities. In addition to the Transmission Expansion Plan issued by Comisión Nacional de Energía (National Energy Commission) (CNE). • Development of proposals for tendered projects. • Technical feasibility analysis, environmental and social impact assessments. Financing • Search for financing and investments. Construction • Preparation of contracts and incorporation of a new corporation for the project. • Strategic definitions for financing and cost updates. • Voluntary and early community meetings. • RCA and corresponding permits obtainment. • Construction of the project, roads, structures, line layout and substations. Operation • Powering tests to validate proper project operation. • Operation begins. Maintenance • Maintenance is carried out periodically in order to ensure operational continuity, required by regulations and to maintain safety and quality of service. Charrúa-Ancoa 2x500 kV line. 32 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2.1.1 Regional presence of our projects (102-6) 2x500 kV Ancoa-Alto Jahuel Line (AJTE) • 2x500 kV transmission line IN OPERATION • Ancoa – Alto Jahuel (AJTE) No. of high voltage pylons • Commissioning of the first circuit: September 2015 • 2x500 kV Ancoa-Alto Jahuel Line (AJTE) • Commissioning of the second circuit: January 2016 • 2x500 kV Charrúa-Ancoa Line (CHATE) Nº of substations • 2x220 kV Illapa-Cumbre Line (DATE) METROPOLITAN REGION District SANTIAGO Buin 15 1 2x220 kV Illapa-Cumbre Line (DATE) Paine 60 0 • 2x220 kV Transmission line • Illapa – Cumbre (DATE) • Commissioning: January 2019 LIBERTADOR GENERAL BERNARDO O’HIGGINS REGION RANCAGUA ATACAMA REGION District Mostazal 35 0 District Codegua 30 0 Diego de 146 2 Almagro Machalí 34 0 Requínoa 39 0 COPIAPÓ Rengo 27 0 Malloa 18 0 San Fernando 41 0 Chimbarongo 53 0 MAULE REGION TALCA District Teno 18 0 Romeral 39 0 Curicó 27 0 Molina 20 0 Río Claro 26 0 NO. OF HIGH VOLTAGE PYLONS 146 NO. OF HIGH VOLTAGE PYLONS 584 Pelarco 16 0 NO. OF SUBSTATIONS 2 San Clemente 0 NO. OF SUBSTATIONS 2 74 Colbún 12 1 LINE KILOMETERS 52 kms LINE KILOMETERS 256 kms 34 35 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2x500 kV Charrúa-Ancoa Line (CHATE) PROJECTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT • 2x500 kV transmission line • Charrúa – Ancoa (CHATE) • Commissioning: December 2017 CURICÓ MAULE REGION District TALCA Colbún 54 1 2x220 kV Mataquito-Hualqui (“MATE”) transmission line Linares 43 0 LINARES • 387 line kilometers Longaví 63 0 • 5 new substations Parral 44 0 • Three staged commissioning: TALCA CHILLÁN 2021, 2022, 2023. ÑUBLE REGION CONCEPCIÓN District Ñiquén 20 0 San Carlos 11 0 CHILLÁN Coihueco 72 0 CONCEPCIÓN Pinto 14 0 Pemuco 37 0 El Carmen 57 0 San Ignacio 5 0 BIOBÍO REGION 2x220 kV Nueva Alto Melipilla-Agua Santa transmission line (“CASTE”) VALPARAÍSO District • 111 line kilometers Cabrero 31 1 • 2 new substations • Two staged commissioning: CASA BLANCA 2021 and 2023. NO. OF HIGH VOLTAGE PYLONS 451 NO. OF SUBSTATIONS 2 MELIPILLA LINE KILOMETERS 198 kms 36 37 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2.1.2 Corporate Principles: 2.2 SHAREHOLDERS Mission, Vision and Values (102-16) Elecnor, pioneer in infrastructure development for MISSION STATEMENT electrical transmission Contribute to the economic and technological progress, social ELECNOR S.A. is the parent company of a group comprising almost 80 welfare and sustainability development through investments in safe, companies, located in Spain, and in over 50 countries. reliable and efficient power infrastructure. It is an organization involving over 15,000 professionals. In Spain, both Elecnor and its national subsidiaries operate directly, and abroad, it does VISION STATEMENT so via local subsidiaries, or with export projects carried out directly from the parent company. Become a model Company in the power infrastructure market, committed to excellence, with a solid environmental, social and Its corporate structure is reflected by grouping it into two major governance culture involving all our stakeholders, in the creation business divisions, which are: Infrastructure, oriented to the execution of value. of engineering, construction and service projects; and Concessions, the unit through which ELECNOR makes investments in energy infrastructure assets which allow for the execution of large projects at VALUES origin, generating revenue from their promotion, execution, operation, maintenance and exploitation. 1) Appreciation for life and the environment. 2) Customer and stakeholder oriented. With over 60 years of continuous growth and presence in over 50 countries, 3) Honesty, respect, and transparency. Elecnor has become one of the most outstanding Spanish business groups and a benchmark in the infrastructure, renewable energy, and 4) Commitment, effort and consistency. new technology sectors. Diversification of its activities has been one of the strategic axes throughout its history, which has enabled it to cover various sectors ranging from energy, gas, industrial plants, railways, Safety and health are essential values. We prioritize safety over telecommunications, water, control systems, construction, environment, any other requirement in our activities, executing tasks only under facilities maintenance, and even aerospace engineering. safe conditions. We care for the social and environmental contexts required to achieve a full life. Its strong international vocation has led to a continuous expansion process which has opened doors for new markets throughout the world, We are committed to satisfying our clients and stakeholders, the main ones in America, Africa, Australia, and the Middle East. anticipating their needs, and exceeding their expectations. We strive to provide excellent service, every day. In short, a Group whose technical and financial solvency enables it to promote, develop and build all kinds of infrastructure on the five continents. We promote honesty, respect, and transparency, at all levels of the Company, in order to build ethical and lasting relationships. We believe in commitment, effort, and perseverance, to achieve our goals. 38 39 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 APG, solid Collective and Joint Pension Funds administrators APG is the largest pension organization in the Netherlands, providing services such as executive consulting, asset management, pension management, pension communications and employer services. It carries out these activities on behalf of (pension) funds and employers in sectors of education, government, construction, cleaning and glass cleaning, housing associations, energy and utility companies, sheltered employment, medical specialists, and architecture. APG manages €488 billion (March 2020) in pension assets for its clients in these sectors. APG works for over 22,000 employers, providing pension for one in five families in the Netherlands (over 4.7 million participants). APG’s motto is “Tomorrow is today”. This sends a message saying that APG works hard every day to ensure tomorrow’s pensions. It also underlines that a good investment strategy and good pension management today, are the basis for a good pension in the future. Also, the motto constitutes APG’s guide to corporate social responsibility. The management approach focuses, in part, on creating a livable world for current and future generations. 40 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2.3 10 YEARS OF HISTORY 2009 2011 2013 Awarding of the first Celeo Redes Chile Limitada is Publication of the decree awarding the project, Alto Jahuel. incorporated5. Charrúa project (CHATE). First year of progress of the Alto Jahuel project (AJTE) and 2010 obtainment of financing for construction. Registration, at the Comisión para el Mercado Financiero (Commission for the Financial Market) (formerly SVS), of the Alto Jahuel Transmisora de Energía S.A. (AJTE) 5 By the time of publishing of this report, Celeo Redes Chile corporation. Limitada changes its name from Celeo Redes Chile to Celeo Chile. Assembly of the Ancoa-Alto Jahuel project structure (2013). 2014 2012 The Dutch Pension Fund manager, APG, acquires Awarding of the trunk transmission 49% of Celeo Redes. project titled Charrúa Ancoa 2x500 kV Line: first circuit. The Legal Services unit is created to support business The Business Development Management processes and ensure office is created to strengthen the search regulatory compliance. for new opportunities. The O&M unit is created The Operations Management office is to execute operation and created to oversee the construction of maintenance for the projects. Manuel Sanz and Dirk Hovers on a field visit to the works commissioned to third parties construction of the AncoaAlto Jahuel project (2014). and, subsequently, lead the operation and maintenance thereof. Excavation for concreting in the construction of the Ancoa-Alto Jahuel project (2012). 42 43 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 Equipo de Mantenimiento de CELEO zona Maule (2015). 2015 2017 The Ancoa Alto Jahuel project was Bond issuance in the international and commissioned in September and began domestic markets for an amount of MUSD 600, operating from the control center. achieving the best financing award of the year in Latin America. Implementation of the Integrated The Charrúa Ancoa project was commissioned Quality, Environment and Safety by December. and Health Management System (SIG CMASS). First certification of the Crime Prevention Model. Inauguration of the Charrua-Ancoa 2x500kV line (2018). 2018 2016 Awarding of the Mataquito Hualqui project. Awarding of the Nuevo Alto Melipilla Agua Santa project. Awarding of the Diego de Almagro project (DATE). CMASS SIG certification under ISO 9001: 2015, 14001: 2015 and OHSAS 18001: 2007. Inauguration of the maintenance base in Talca. The first stage of the DATE project is energized in August. Deployment of the Celeo Crime Launch of the Sustainability Policy. Prevention Model. First time involvement in the international GRESB ranking, Incorporation of the new “Celeo Redes Chile raking third in the electrical transmission infrastructure Limitada” corporation, transforming the companies category. previous one into “Celeo Redes Operación Chile S.A.” with the goal of issuing bonds in Chile and the United States. Laying of the conductor on arrival at the Charrua substation. 44 45 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 2.4 WE TRANSMIT ENERGY: WHICH ACTORS ARE INVOLVED IN THE INDUSTRY? CONTEXT OF OUR SECTOR In Chile, transmission companies belong to private capital, while the State plays a regulator, inspector, and planner role in terms of project development and performance standards. These functions are delegated to four fundamental entities for the proper operation of the electrical system: The Energy Department, the Celeo conducts activities in the energy field, specifically in the Comisión Nacional de Energía (National Energy Commission) (CNE), the Superintendencia de Electricidad transmission segment. y Combustibles (Superintendence of Electricity and Fuels) (SEC) and the Coordinador Eléctrico Nacional (National Electricity Coordinator) (CEN). Energy is transported from generation sources to cities, factories, and mining operations via high-voltage transmission lines. Subsequently, it is received at the substations, where it is converted to low voltage for The Department of Energy is the state institution responsible for preparing and coordinating distribution to end users. the various plans, policies and regulations for the development of the country’s energy sector, and thus ensure that the entire country can safely access energy, at reasonable prices. The Sistema Eléctrico Nacional (National Electricity System) (SEN) has three relevant sectors: generation, transmission, and distribution. CNE is a technical body in charge of analyzing prices, tariffs and technical standards to which energy production, generation, transport and distribution companies must adhere, SECTORS OF THE ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY in order to have a sufficient, safe and good quality service, compatible with the most economical operation. In the production of electricity, covering all GENERATION technologies available in the market. CEN is a technical and independent body in charge of coordinating and operating the set of facilities of the Sistema Eléctrico Nacional (National Electricity System) which operate Corresponds to the set of electrical lines and interconnected to each other. It also controls transmission lines expansion planning, the substations which allow for the transportation definition of complementary services and the inclusion of new security technologies into TRANSMISSION of energy, from generation locations to system operations. substation conversion. Is the one in charge of carrying the energy Finally, SEC is the main public agency overseeing the energy market in Chile. DISTRIBUTION from substations to the end customer. Source: Own development. The Department of Environment, for its part, fulfills the role of approving energy projects via the Servicio de Evaluación de Impacto Ambiental (Environmental Impact Assessment Service) (SEIA), which oversees assessing and rating projects. This makes it a key player in 2.4.1 National Electricity System the process of obtaining permits for the development of energy projects. It is also in charge Following the connection between Sistema de Transmisión del Norte Grande of ensuring compliance with environmental commitments acquired by private companies (Norte Grande Transmission System) (SING) and Sistema de Transmisión within the environmental assessment via Superintendencia de Medio Ambiente (Environment Central (Central Transmission System) (SIC) in 2017, the Sistema Eléctrico Superintendence) (SMA). Nacional (National Electricity System), totals 35,375 km of lines from Arica to Chiloé. As of December 2019, it had a 25,206.1 MW installed capacity, with a 77,381.8 GWh annual production and a maximum hourly demand of 10,792.8 MWh, according to statistics from Coordinador Eléctrico Nacional (National Electricity Coordinator) (CEN). 46 47 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 2.4.2 Regulatory framework The regulatory framework for transmission in Chile is governed by the “General Law of Electric Services” (LGSE) DFL No. 1 of 1982, which defines the technical and safety standards governing an electrical installation, regulates generation, transmission and distribution services, considers electrical concessions and easements as well as defines the party in charge of the system coordination and operation. The Department of Energy proposed a set of measures to be adopted based on various scenarios in sustainability matters via its Energy Policy 2050 and Energy Road to 2022. Energy Policy 20506 The Energy Policy proposes a vision of the energy sector for 2050, corresponding to a reliable, sustainable, inclusive, and competitive space. This vision follows a systemic approach to achieve and maintain reliability of the entire system, while meeting sustainability criteria. To achieve this vision, the 2050 Energy Policy published in 2015 is supported on 4 pillars: 1) Supply Safety and Quality, 2) Energy as a Development Engine, 3) Compatibility with the Environment and Efficiency and 4) Energy Education. The various measures and action plans proposed until 2050 should be developed on these foundations. Energy Route 20227 It seeks to address the country’s energy challenges as a complement to Chile’s Energy Policy. The Energy Road is the navigation map of the sector and will allow to meet points of view in the public, private and civil society sectors. It sets 10 commitments to be fulfilled in 2022, in which it is expected to: (1) Draw up an energy vulnerability map of the country, (2) Modernize energy institutions, (3) Reduce environmental processing times, (4) Increase small-scale renewable distributed generation capacity, (5) Increase the number of electric vehicles in circulation, (6) Modernize the regulation of electricity distribution, (7) Regulate solid biofuels such as firewood and its derivatives, (8) Set a regulatory framework for efficiency, (9) Start the Note: To learn more about the Energy history process of decarbonization of the energy matrix, (10) Increase training in in Chile, please visit: http://www.energia2050. cl/es/historia/ management and sustainable use of energy. 6 To learn more about the 2050 energy policy, please go to: http://www.energia.gob.cl/sites/default/files/energia_2050_-_politica_energetica_de_chile.pdf 7 To learn more about the energy road to 2022 please go to: http://www.energia.gob.cl/rutaenergetica2018-2022.pdf Ancoa-Alto Jahuel 2x500 kV line. 48 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2.5 VALUE CREATION CYCLE SUSTAINABILITY Materiality POLICY issue Human and intellectual capital Training and development Human and intellectual capital 9,259 training hours Female labor integration Innovation and technology 81 Collaborators Maintenance Natural Capital Natural Capital Electricity 3,384 ENVIRONMENT kg 93,660 KWh of waste Biodiversity QUALITY 402.9 Fuel ton CO2e Climate change footprint 69,926 liters Operation Cybersecurity Operational continuity Water 1,558 m 3 Manufactured Capital Manufactured Capital Health and safety 167 Suppliers HEALTH 506 Km of lines Resource efficiency AND SAFETY Payment to suppliers Construction 18.27 MUSD Financial Capital Financial Capital COMPLIANCE Equity EBITDA Finance and investments 25.16 MUSD 43.64 MUSD Debt Financing 573.14 MUSD SOCIAL Social and RESPONSIBILITY relational capital Corporate and Relational Capital 16,643 of investments in USD Local community involvement Regulatory compliance and ethics 31 Relations Bidding the community with Communities Involvement GOVERNANCE 50 51 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2.6 STRATEGY Risk Management Framework Celeo’s strategy includes a continuous search for business efficiency and compliance with socioBOARD OF DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT COMMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE improvement in management and sustainability economic and environmental commitments. This practices, reflecting the guidelines defined by its strategy creates value not only for shareholders, but shareholders, Grupo Elecnor and APG. also for our society. MANAGEMENT TEAM COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE In the search for efficiency, it began a review of its In addition to the above, Celeo Chile holds a continuous management practices via the Integrated Management search to manage risks and opportunities in order to System (SGI) certification pursuant to ISO 9001, ISO develop the business and thus maintain its operational 14001 and ISO 45001 standards. continuity and obtain the awarding of new projects. EXECUTIVE DIRECTORATE The adoption of these comprehensive processes shows the Company’s commitment to seeking satisfaction from its various stakeholders, which ensures greater SUSTAINABILITY COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EXTERNAL AUDIT 2.6.1 Risk Management REGULATOR (102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 201-2) Three lines of defense Quality During 2019, Celeo adapted its risk management continuous collaboration with the 1st Line of Defense O&M, IT, model to the Three Lines of Defense (3LD) framework, in the identification and assessment of risks, as well Financial, CELEO Health and Safety Compliance Management based on the recommendations of the Committee as in the deployment of control measures. These Legal, Business development Control of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO). It is a widely units correspond to Quality, Safety and Health, accepted model that clearly assigns responsibilities Environment, and Compliance. The first reports to for risk management and oversight. The model Environment the Sustainability Committee and the second reports includes three lines of defense. to the Compliance Committee. • First line: operational management as risk owners, • Third line: independent internal audit, which 1ST LINE OF responsible for managing and deploying corrective objectively and independently oversees all control 2ND LINE OF DEFENSE 3RD LINE OF DEFENSE DEFENSE actions in the face of process deficiencies or control systems, reporting to the Board. This function is areas. Corresponds to the operations, financial, performed by the Management Team with the support legal, IT and business development units, as well of Celeo’s management teams, defined via the Celeo Risk Management Framework according to COSO Model. Source: Quality, Environment, Safety and Health Unit. as, in general, all employees and middle managers. Corporate Service Agreement. Report to the local Executive Board, control units and Sustainability Committee. To finalize the model, there are external agents, auditors, and regulators, who provide additional • Second line: units in charge of assurance, supervision independent assurance. and risk monitoring tasks, monitoring compliance with control measures on risks and therefore maintaining 52 53 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE Risk assessment b. Risks in processes Emerging Risks: The current Risk Management model includes two assessment and All those risks related to the Given the context lived in Chile during 2019, Celeo Chile has action levels: operation and functioning of the identified three emerging risks: Company, to the facilities and the a. Business Risks fulfillment of the obligations to • Political and social situation experienced in the country, Stakeholders, to the environment could affect economic stability, which is a scenario to and to health and safety. Process be monitored. In view of the situation experienced during The Sustainability Committee leads the identification, analysis and risks are divided into Quality Risks, October, the Sustainability Committee held an emergency assessment of business risks that may impact the fulfillment of the Environmental Risks, Health session to reassess the situation within the business risk organization’s transversal objectives, mission, vision, and values (MVV). and Safety Risks, Social Risks, matrix, verify the performance of controls deployed and define Divided into: Compliance Risks, and IT Risks. new measures to address the situation in the country. In addition to the above, the committee decided on the relaunch Financial Risks: Related to fluctuations in the financial markets 1 and impacts these could have on the immediate results or on The tools used for the of a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, the review and identification, assessment and update of the management procedure to suppliers, while also the future growth of the Company. control measures for process risks seeking an approach towards responsible management with are 6 risk matrices (Quality, Health this group of interest. In this context, the Committee defined Strategic Risks: Related to changes in the energy sector, and Safety, Environmental, Social time flexibility measures for employees who have to travel the environment in which the Company operates, regulatory Risks, Compliance, IT) with validity further to the workplace, transfer buses for those who had no 2 changes or strategic agreements with Stakeholders, as well as and updating duties assigned to means of transportation, among other measures. social (human resources, safety and health and community) and the control units of the second line environmental aspects. of defense. They are prepared by • Cybersecurity may affect proper service operation and each control unit, with the approval availability. Celeo developed a general IT plan, which was Operational Risks: All those related to the service supply, the 3 facilities, and the fulfillment of the obligations to Stakeholders. of the Sustainability Committee shared with its subsidiaries in Chile and Brazil and included new and the Compliance Committee, in policies and procedures in addition to technical improvements the case of the compliance matrix. and training. The deployment of restricted and segmented The management tool used for the identification, assessment and control access controls to the Company’s networks was determined in measures for business risks is the Business Risk Matrix prepared by the Finally, monitoring and reviewing regard to action measures, in addition to monitoring thereof and Sustainability Committee, with the approval of the executive management. risks is a continuous task, as is a training campaign for workers, along with the development of The latter in turn reports to the Management Team. communication and consultation IT unit policy and procedures. with workers. • Climate change, which causally relates to impacts it could have on the company and its development in the future. As a line of action, Celeo confirms its adherence to the United Nations Global Compact, ensuring its commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals and the deployment of ecoefficiency programs. In turn, the identification of a framework for the assessment of risks related to resilience in the face of events that as a result of climate change could affect operations is also included. Pandemic: Given the emergency situation due to COVID-19 in early 2020, measures have been taken at Celeo Chile primarily related to safeguarding the health of workers and ensuring operational continuity of the service. 54 55 CELEO CHILE 2.6.2 Cybersecurity (103-2, 103-3) Cybersecurity Prevention The velocity with which the industry has been including new technologies has left it exposed to new cybersecurity risks. Given the importance of the energy service and its strategic role for the country, Celeo makes the greatest efforts to ensure cybersecurity in its operations. The One of Celeo’s priorities is to promote the above, in order to ensure the operational continuity of existence of a cybersecurity culture to be energy transmission facilities and supply security for prepared against possible threats. strategic services that depend on its facilities. Actions were carried out to achieve this objective, which materialize in diagnosis and training: Santiago office. 1 DIAGNOSIS: A complete internal evaluation was conducted on the dangers that can be counteracted by cybersecurity, technological development in energy generation, for which an Ethical Hacking service was hired8 in order to define the level of maturity of the organization transmission, and distribution. and collaborators in the event of possible computer attacks. Comité Chileno del Consejo Internacional de Grandes To this date, two campaigns have been conducted for Celeo workers, to train them in precautions for Redes Eléctricas (Chilean Commitee for the International these risks and where a great reduction was achieved in the number of people who were phishing victims. In a global world, where everything is instantaneous Council of Large Electrical Systems) (CIGRE) has created and millions of bits of data are processed every day, a technical group comprising 25 industry players such Although improvements have been made, Celeo will continue training and raising awareness, among cybersecurity has become one of the most important as companies, suppliers and institutions, including all collaborators, on cybersecurity risks to which they are exposed in order to ensure that 100% of organizational challenges. Celeo, with the mission of preparing a document with workers manage to face this type of situation adequately. cybersecurity recommendations in critical electrical Cyberattacks were conducted in Chile during 2019, infrastructures, to face this new reality. 2 TRAINING: many of which impacted organizations with portfolios Work was made during 2019, on a training plan to improve knowledge on issues related to computer of thousands of customers and who handle sensitive Similarly, CEN published a campaign aimed at companies security for all collaborators. This resulted in 5 members of the IT team participating in the OAS information. According to data from Policía de in the industry with the goal of having energy companies Cybersecurity Symposium. Also, a group of workers attended the Cybersecurity Diploma of University Investigaciones (Investigations Police) (PDI), computer adopt, as a first step, 13 urgent Cybersecurity measures, of Santiago, to be at the forefront of knowledge in this matter and continue preparing for possible crime has increased by 74% since 2015. on which Celeo is already working. cyber-attacks, acquiring knowledge, tools and techniques that will allow for the identification and protection of systems and networks from unauthorized intrusions. Globally, the energy industry has not been oblivious to this The Company has identified the risks to which its problem. Control systems used for the monitoring and information systems are exposed as an initial step to Additionally, they were all part of the ISO 27001 Leader course, to develop the skills required to operation of electrical systems have also become targets develop an action plan enabling to anticipate and respond deploy and manage an Information Management System (ISMS). of cyberattacks due to the large amount of sensitive to potential threats. information handled as a critical infrastructure, having a direct relationship with supply security for the country. The Information Security Officer (CISO) was appointed for this purpose, and trainings were held for workers who The energy industry is a part of cybersecurity strategies sought to provide risk identification and reporting tools in in various countries, especially those with the greatest this matter. 8 The term ethical hacking or white hat on the Internet refers to an ethical hacker, or a computer security expert, who specializes in access tests and other methodologies to detect vulnerabilities and improve the security of an organization’s communication and information systems. 56 57 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 159 40 8 hours hours hours Diploma in ISO 27001 Lead Ethical Hacking and OAS Cybersecurity Cybersecurity for Implementer Course Pentesting Workshop Symposium data networks with PECB certification Nº of participants 2 3 2 3 Cybersecurity strategy applied to the Chilean power grid system and market 3 Source: Information Security Unit. 8Cybersecurity courses TRAININGS AND TRAINED PEOPLE Source: Information Security Unit. 100% Of people trained in cybersecurity Based on the foregoing, Celeo conducted a cybersecurity training program involving all collaborators, comprised of eight modules as indicated below: 1) Phishing and ransomware. 2) High security Passwords. 3) Safe web browsing. 4) Public web connections. 5) Safe use of mobile devices. 6) Safe use of social networks. 7) Basic GDPR: data information security. 8) Risk of cloud files. Illapa substation, Atacama region. 58 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2.7 SUSTAINABILITY AT CELEO 2.7.1 Celeo Chile Sustainability Policy and Strategy Celeo Chile is committed to sustainable development. This is reflected in its POLICY PILLAR PILLAR DESCRIPTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY sustainability policy, which came into effect in 2018, was updated in 2019, PRINCIPLES AND ACTIONS and contains the best practices in the industry, the concerns of internal and external stakeholders, and takes the Sustainable Development Goals Seeks to be a benchmark company • Customer and stakeholder oriented (SDG) into account. in the energy infrastructure market. • Compliance with requirements Quality For this reason, the commitment to • Continuous improvement quality and continuous improvement It includes five pillars, whose application and compliance are ensured via is a key pillar for our management. the Sustainability Strategy. It prioritizes the safety and health of • Prevention of injury and deterioration Sust. workers, customers, suppliers, supply of health Occupational Health chain, communities, and other stake• Strengthen prevention culture holders above all other requirements. • Consultation and involvement and Safety • Compliance with requirements • Continuous improvement CELEO CHILE • Zero Tolerance SUSTAINABILITY POLICY Fosters initiatives promoting greater • Pollution prevention environmental responsibility, via • Efficiency in the use of resources Environment actions integrated into the strategic and waste plan and decision-making, promoting • Protection of biodiversity and habitats openness and dialogue with our • Disaster resilience and adaptation to stakeholders. climate change • Compliance with requirements Maintains a preventive approach • Continuous improvement including caring for the environment via the assessment, management, and communication of environmental risks. QUALITY Works for a social environment that • Ethical and lasting professional OCCUPATIONAL is based on professional relationships relationships HEALTH AND Social Responsibility under an ethical, transparent, and • Respect for diversity and SAFETY long-term standard. In this fashion, it non-discrimination supports and fosters respect between • Fight against abuse groups of influence and the protection • Well-being and social development of fundamental human rights, • Continuous improvement especially those of vulnerable groups. Promotes compliance with the Law, • Fight against fraud, corruption, COMPLIANCE supporting and promoting corporate conflicts of interest and bribery Compliance integrity in all activities conducted by • Ban on political donations and its companies. contributions • Gift delivery regulation ENVIRONMENT Advocates ethical and transparent • Fiduciary duties compliance behavior of workers, avoiding any • Compliance program conduct that may contravene current • Continuous Improvement regulations or damage the reputation • Zero Tolerance of the organization. SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY 60 61 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 2.7.2 We prioritize our SDGs OUR 5 SDGs Celeo Chile’s commitment to the United Nations (UN) Following this process, it determined that it contributes 2030 Agenda, led it to develop a prioritization process to a total of five SDGs. Thereof, it contributes – thanks to for the Sustainable Development Goals9 to which it is its actions, developed programs and those considered committed for the coming years. to be developed – to some of the 169 goals included in the Agenda. For its preparation, the Company exhaustively reviewed SDG GOALS CELEO CHILE CELEO each of the SDGs in a management workshop held at For the above, the organization is in the process of COMMITMENT CHILE GOAL the Sustainability Committee, defining objectives and setting indicators to identify the contribution to each of 5.5 Ensure the full and effective participation of women and Increase female By 2030, having goals for compliance. these goals on a yearly basis. equal opportunities for leadership at all decision-making involvement in the 30% women in the levels in political, economic, and public life. organization. organization. 8.8 Protect labor rights and promote a safe and secure work Maintain a safe and Zero serious accidents environment for all workers, including migrant workers, healthy environment per year for direct in particular migrant women and people in precarious for collaborators. collaborators and employment. contractors. 11.3 By 2030, increase inclusive and sustainable urbanizaStrengthen the link Deploy 5 projects with tion and capacity for participatory, integrated, and sustainwith the communities communities focused able planning and management of human settlements in near our operations. on adaptation to climate all countries. change or disaster resilience by 2030. 12.2 By 2030, achieve sustainable management and Increase efficiency in Reduce water, energy, efficient use of natural resources. the use of Company and fuel consumption resources. rates by 25% by 2030. 12.5 By 2030, significantly reduce waste generation via prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse activities. Increase recycling Become Zero nonand decrease waste hazardous waste to final generation. disposal by 2030. 13.3 Improve education, awareness and human and Contribute to the Reduce manageable institutional capacity regarding climate change mitigation, reduction of emissions scopes 1, 2 and 3 adaptation, reduction of its effects and early warnings. to mitigate climate emissions by 25% by change. 2030. The SDGs selection was also in line with Celeo Chile’s Sustainability Policy and Sustainability Strategy, in addition to the commitments set for 2030 as an organization. 9 Sustainable Development Goals are a universal call for action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity. To learn more about SDGs, please go to: https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ 62 63 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 2.7.3 2019-2020 Sustainability objectives 2.8 PARTNERSHIPS (102-12, 102-13) Every year, Celeo defines sustainability objectives Regarding the 2019 objectives reported in the The Asociación Chilena de Energías Renovables (Chilean Association for that must be cross-sectionally met by the entire team. previous version of the sustainability report, they Renewable Energy Sources) (Acera) seeks environmental protection and The annual fulfillment of these objectives involves were fully achieved 100%. sustainable development for Chile, via the promotion of renewable energy and the obtainment of a bonus, of a single amount for all energy storage. Celeo Chile has been a part of this association since 2012 and is workers, which is granted in recognition for the effort Regarding the 2020 objectives, these have been actively involved in its activities. and dedication in this matter, by the organization. defined and reported to the organization. The Cámara Oficial Española de Comercio en Chile (Official Spanish 2019 GOALS 2020 GOALS Chamber of Commerce in Chile)(Camacoes) is an institution that facilitates the development of business relations between Chile and Spain, promoting 1. Finish the year with zero accidents. 1. Zero lost time accidents. opportunities and contact networks between members, thus contributing to 2. Reach at least 50% participation of workers in 2. 100% involvement of workers in any socio-environthe country’s economic, social and business developments. Celeo Chile has environmental volunteering activities. mental volunteering activity. been a member since 2012 and chairs its Energy Committee since 2017. 3. Renew the certificates of our Integrated Management 3. Improvement of our results on the GRESB platform, System pursuant to ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015, reaching a 90/100 score or P85 in Global Infrastructure. The Consejo Internacional de Grandes Sistemas Eléctricos (International Council as well as updating our OHSAS 18001:2007 certificate 4. Overcoming ethical hacking by 100% of workers in of Large Electrical Systems) (Cigre) is a global non-profit organization in the field to ISO 45001:2018. nominal operating conditions of our IT system. of high-voltage power. This organization aims to be a technical reference and 4. Renew our Crime Prevention Model certificate. 5. 100% involvement of workers in at least two complia knowledge center for Chile, which allows specialists and companies in the 5. Improve the results obtained on the GRESB platform. ance related training activities. electricity sector to access contact and support networks arising from integration 6. Achieve 100% compliance and development on the 6. Achievement within the deadlines set for the new in a world-class forum. Celeo Chile is involved in this organization since 2015. cybersecurity training plan and improve computer performance evaluation procedure. security indexes. Empresas Eléctricas (Electrical Companies) has the goal of contributing to the progress of the country via the continuous and sustainable development of the electricity sector. Therefore, it has a leading role in the public debate, proposing and supporting energy initiatives. Celeo Chile has been a part of the association since 2015 and is actively involved in its Technical, Regulatory, Legal and Safety Committees. Global Compact Chile Network promotes and spreads the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, in order to mobilize the contribution of the private sector to the 2030 Agenda, with the objective that organizations in Chile are able to integrate SDGs into their strategic guidelines. Celeo Chile is involved in this organization since 2018. GRESB is an organization in the assessment and comparison of funds and real estate assets and infrastructure portfolios performance around the world in the social, environmental and governance aspects. Membership to GRESB has contributed to the search for internal best practices since 2018. Charrúa-Ancoa 2x500 kV line. 64 65 03 OUR ROADMAP RESPECT “In a little over two years at Celeo Chile I have felt part of a great team. This company reflects good professionals, trustworthy people who not only challenge me at the job level, but who have also recognized the value of Respect in me. The most valuable thing is the continuous call of the company to take care of each other, valuing our work and safety, because back home, there is always someone waiting for us.” Cristian Cajas Maintenance department Illapa-Cumbre 2x220 kV line. 66 WE RECOGNIZE OUR VALUES (102-16) Celeo holds 4 values10 which define the actions of the group’s collaborators. Celeo Chile maintains a communication strategy to bring these values closer to each person. The strategy is to disaggregate these values into: Commitment Consistency Transparency Respect Honesty Effort Along with the above, a recognition ceremony was held in the year-end celebration activity for the workers who stood out with respect to the Company’s values. The awarding of outstanding workers was made by the Sustainability Committee, a difficult choice because many workers deserved this recognition. Workers chosen as ambassadors of the values were: Illapa-Cumbre 2x220 kV line. ON THIS OCCASION, THE FOLLOWING PEOPLE WERE ALSO RECOGNIZED: Celeo 2019 ambassadors of values. LORENA MORALES JUAN OLIVARES FERNANDO URRUTIA From the Administration From the Maintenance unit, From the Operations unit, for and Finance unit, for her for showing that, with effort, his permanent contribution and interest and contribution to there is always progress. consistency. transparency at work. CELEO SPIRIT: SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL SPIRIT: PREVENTIVE SPIRIT: Luis Morales from the Ricardo Inostroza, Assistant of Leonardo Lobo, Electromechanical CRISTIÁN CAJAS BRENDA QUILARQUE ÓSCAR ARREDONDO transmission lines team. the Charrúa substation. Technician of the Atacama zone. From the Maintenance unit, for his From the Information Technology From the Administration and contribution to respect for life and unit, for her permanent Finance unit, for his honesty in the environment via the activities commitment to customer and his day to day duties. conducted by the Celeo Chile stakeholder satisfaction. Sports Club. 10 To view these values, please go to section “Corporate Principles: Mission, Vision, and Values” on page 40. 68 69 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 3.1 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE [102-5, 102-45] The Netherlands Spain 100% PASTERZE APG INVESTMENTS ELECNOR HOLDING, B.V. 49% 51% Celeo Concesiones e Inversiones S.L. (Celeo) is a Spanish company in the CELEO CONCESIONES promotion, construction, operation and exploitation of energy infrastructure E INVERSIONES, S.L. projects, with assets in Spain, Chile and Brazil. Celeo’s shareholding structure is divided into 51% owned by Elecnor, S.A. and 100% 100% 100% the remaining 49%, of the Dutch fund APG Management N.V., which is one of the largest pension fund managers in the world and materializes its participation in CELEO REDES CELEO TERMOSOLAR HELIOS INVERSIONES Y Celeo via Pasterze Investments Holding, B.V. S.L.U. S.L.U. PROMOCIÓN SOLAR S.L.U. Celeo has, among its Spanish subsidiaries: Celeo Redes S.L.U., which channels its investments in Chile via Celeo Redes Chile Limitada (CCL) and in Brazil via Celeo Redes Brasil S.A. (CBR). CCL’s ownership is distributed in 99.99% corresponding to Celeo Redes SLU and Subsidiares 0.01% to Celeo. LATAM 100% 99,9% The Celeo Redes SLU Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the heads, attorneys and managers of Celeo Chile. CELEO REDES CELEO REDES BRAZIL S.A. CHILE LTDA. In order to ensure the efficiency and agility of its operations and for the due compliance with the local legislation, Celeo Chile has created subsidiary companies to carry out its projects, playing an important role in the financial structure of the company. Source: Celeo Concesiones. Each awarded project is constituted as a joint-stock corporation with an exclusive line of business that enables it to comply with the requirements of the bidding rules and to better manage, coordinate and guide the operation of the project and its subsequent operation. 70 71 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 3.2 OUR CORPORATE Board of Directors | Elecnor (51%), APG (49%) GOVERNANCE (102-18, 102-22] The Celeo Chile Corporate Governance is comprised of Management Management Committee Committee the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee and the Miguel Miguel Morenés Morenés Audit Committee. The duties of these organizations are Executive Committee Audit Committee Dirk Dirk Hovers Hovers supported by the Management Team. Rafael Rafael Bustamante Bustamante René René Defize Defize Celeo Chile and Celeo Brasil share the same corporate structure since their management teams ensure the proper operation of the business at the Latin American level. Management Management Team Team Compliance Committee Management Team José Ángel Lostao José Ángel Lostao They are responsible for fulfilling both the objectives Jaime Jaime Sáenz Sáenz set by the shareholders, in addition to voluntary and Santiago Santiago Oraá Oraá mandatory commitments the company has made, caring Ángel Ortega Ángel Ortega for their behavior to be framed in its mission, corporate Alberto Alberto Ferrández Fernández values and compliance with current legislation. Celeo Concesiones e Inversiones S.L. (Spain) Celeo Brazil Celeo Chile Sustainability Commitee Executive Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Executive Committee Sustainability Committee Chairman Executive Director Chairman Chairman General Manager Chairman Director of New Businesses Finance and Administration Celeo Concesiones COO Celeo Concesiones COO Finance Manager Business Development and Sustainability Director Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Operations Manager Manager Members Operations Director Legal Corporate Director Fiscal Attorney Business Development Members Sustainability officer Legal-Corporate Director Members Members Manager Sustainability, quality and Environment officer Director of New Businesses and Executive Director General Manager Fiscal Attorney S&S officer S&S officer Sustainability Celeo Concesiones CLO Celeo Concesiones CLO Environment officer Quality officer General Manager Executive Director Finance Manager Legal-Corporate Director Operations Manager Operations Director Business Development Finance and Administration Operations, Legal and Manager Director Operations, Legal and Business Units Business Units 72 73 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 3.2.1 Board of Directors (102-23, 102-26, 102-31, 102-32) The Company celebrated a very relevant milestone In 2019, the Celeo Redes S.L.U. Board of Directors Company’s objectives and strategy, both long and short The Board of Directors of Celeo Concesiones e in 2019, since by the end of the year, APG and was composed of four male directors, representing term, in addition to the proposal for approval of new Inversiones S.L. was created by early 2020, and Celeo Elecnor consolidated their strategic partnership the company shareholders, two representing Celeo investments and corporate operations. Redes S.L.U.’s was dissolved by that time. The new with the inclusion of the Dutch pension fund into the Concesiones e Inversiones S.L. and two representing board is comprised of six male advisers. shareholding of the Celeo parent company, in order APG Infrastructure Pool. The board ordinarily met on three occasions, to both place their trust on its electricity generation unanimously approving all resolutions raised therein. The function of the board of directors of Celeo assets in Spain. • D. Joaquín Gómez de Olea y Mendaro (Chairman). Concesiones e Inversiones S.L., according to the • D. José Ángel Lostao Unzu (Secretary). shareholders’ agreement, is to determine the Company’s Celeo’s governing bodies have adapted to APG’s • D. Dirk Hovers. strategic lines and supervise its management. recent entry-level corporate transaction as a partner • D. René Defize Quiroga. APG Elecnor in the parent company. Therefore, in 2019, a Board of Directors other than that which began during 2020 was Among the main functions of the Celeo Redes S.L.U. • Ronaldus Boots • Miguel Morenés Giles in operation. Board of Directors we find the establishment of the • Dirk Hovers • Joaquín Gómez de Olea Mendaro • Rene Defize • Rafael Martin de Bustamante Vega Illapa-Cumbre 2x220 kV line . 74 75 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE Nomination and selection criteria for the Board of Directors (102-24) 3.2.3 Executive Committee The appointment and selection decision for directors is entirely up to The Executive Committee has been assigned the duty of analyzing the the shareholders, who will define the members for each company: three progress of the Company’s business in line with the strategic lines representatives for the Elecnor Group and three representatives for APG. approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors does not have executive directors, nor The Executive Committee is composed, as of February 2020, by: independent directors. • D. Miguel Morenés Giles (Chairman). The members of the Celeo Concesiones e Inversiones S.L. Board of • D. Dirk Hovers (Vice Chairman). Directors do not receive remuneration, although compensation is included • D. Rafael Martín de Bustamante Vega. for reasonable travel expenses in the exercise of their duties, which in no • D. René Defize Quiroga. case involve significant amounts of money. All members of the Board of Directors have the required and remarkable knowledge and experience in 3.2.4 Compliance Committee the field of sustainable investments and infrastructure for the exercise of their duties. The Compliance Committee is one of the governance bodies whose objective is to develop the Compliance System with the instructions of the Celeo Board of Directors. It also handles complaints received 3.2.2 Audit Committee by the reporting channel, responding to possible non-compliance and receives and assesses annual reports submitted by the Compliance The Audit Committee has the following powers: Officer, in each country. It also oversees compliance committees at the subsidiary level. Designation, compensation, retention and supervision of It has a compliance dissemination policy, which is coordinated within the 1 the audit firms for the company and its subsidiaries. Group, and is concerned with the development of training for employees on this matter. Setting procedures for the handling of accounting or 2 auditing controversies. 3.2.5 Management Team 3 Involving the advisers required to support the audit work. The Management Team provides advice and support to the Board of Directors, regarding the overall strategy of the Company and its subsidiaries and is responsible for implementing the decisions of the The Audit Committee is composed, as of February 2020, by: Board of Directors in addition to the daily operation of the Company. • D. Joaquín Gómez de Olea y Mendaro (Chairman). Among the main functions of this team, there is the development of • D. Miguel Morenés Giles. environmental, social, governance and compliance policies applying to • D. Dirk Hovers. the Company and its subsidiaries, the preparation of the objectives to be • D. René Defize Quiroga. achieved, and the annual reports, coordinating external audit activities in the formulation of reports. To this end, they make periodic reports to the Board of Directors and maintain direct contact with the rest of the governing bodies of the subsidiaries, Sustainability Committees, Compliance Committees and Executive Management Teams. 76 77 CELEO CHILE MANAGEMENT TEAM With a background in Industrial Engineering, started in Elecnor in 1983 in the Substations Engineering CEO. Jose Department. Later on, he was responsible for the Exterior Substations and in 1993 was appointed as Director for Ángel Lostao the Energy Transformation business, later called Energy and Railways business. In 2009, José Angel became CEO, managing all assets within Celeo. Studied Business & Administration and joined Elecnor in 1999 to work in its Management Accounting department. When Elecnor acquired Ehisa Riesgos in 2001, Santiago started with the implementation of the CFO. Santiago corporate management systems. In 2003 he became Oraa Administration manager of the Environment business unit before returning to the Management Accounting department for Elecnor in 2005. In 2009, Santiago was appointed CFO of Celeo. Holds a Bachelor`s Degree in Electromechanical Engineering, a Master`s Degree in Industrial Engineering from the Comillas Pontifical University of Madrid, and an Executive M.B.A from the IESE Business School. In COO. Jaime 2019, he concluded a Compliance Programme from CEU Institute for Advanced Management Business School. Sáenz Jaime worked as an electrical engineer for HV in Unión Fenosa, and joined Elecnor in 1997, assuming several roles until 2009, including business development, project manager, and managing director for large industrial plants business unit. In 2009, he joined Celeo as COO. MBA (Instituto de Empresa) and MSc in Civil Engineering (Polytechnic University of Madrid), started his career in the infrastructure sector in 2001. Until 2007, he worked for Dragados (ACS Group) and San José Construction, CIO. Ángel taking several positions during this period, from project Ortega engineer to construction manager. In 2007, he joined Globalvia as Investment Director for PPPs in Europe and Americas, leaving it in 2011 to become part of the management team at Celeo and accelerate further growth of investment in energy sectors. Bachelor’s Degree in Law (UCM) and PDD (IESE), he worked in the law firms Davies Arnold Cooper and Allen & Overy since 1990, before joining Elecnor’s legal department in 1998. During his career he gained national and international expertise in corporate and General Counsel commercial matters, M&A and project financing. In Alberto 2009, Alberto became Head of the Legal Department Ferrández at Celeo. He’s also the non-director Secretary of the board of directors of Celeo. In 2019, he concluded a Compliance Programme from CEU Institute for Advanced Management Business School. Illapa-Cumbre 2x220 kV line. 79 CELEO IN BRAZIL Brazilian operations have a significant participation in the local market, with a presence in 13 Brazilian states. Its portfolio consists of 4,757 kilometers of transmission lines, 56 substations and 16 Special Purpose Companies (SPE). Subsidiaries in Chile and Brazil collaborate permanently, sharing their best practices and aligning strategies and work procedures. The fluent communications between the two companies have enabled us to move forward in a coordinated fashion towards meeting corporate goals, consolidating the Celeo brand presence in the region and projecting it as one of the leading companies in the electrical transmission sector. Technical Workshops for the exchange of knowledge are held annually as a part of the coordination activities, a formal instance to account for how the teams have developed strategies to face various operational challenges. The complete work has been poured into aligning actions and strategies in sustainability in its entire scope. From risk management, measurement and control of impacts on the environment, health and safety, social sphere, to human resources, among others. Celeo Brazil team. 80 81 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 3.3 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The Executive Management Team is responsible for exercising the administration, management and organization of the Company in its daily operations, making periodic reports to the Management Team and the Board of Directors. EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT General Manager, Manuel Sanz Burgoa Mining Engineer, Energy and Fuel Specialist. He started his career in 2005 on the field of renewable energy, participating on the development, construction, commissioning and operation of solar PV, Cogeneration and Biomass projects working for several companies such as Enerpal, OTSI, Renovalia, and Conergy. He joined Celeo Redes in 2010 as Operations Engineer, becoming General Manager at Celeo Redes Chile in 2013. Since 2017 Manuel has been Director of the Spanish Chamber of Commerce, being its Energy Comitee President. Finance and Administration Manager, Eduardo Jofré Pérez BS in finance and economics. Post graduate in Finance. 15 years experience in financial and business operations of local and multinational corporations. He has held senior management positions both in the corporate banking and project finance industries. Eduardo joined Celeo Redes in 2010 for the start up of the Alto Jahuel project, where he had a key role to establish first operations and a business structure. Other achievements were to set up a financial plan to secure funding for the Alto Jahuel Project, and building a platform to support future needs of administrative and financial services among the SPV’s and holding company. Operations Manager, David Zamora Mesias Electrical Engineer with a Bachelor’s degree in Business Controlling. 11 years experience in Operations and Maintenance of power transmission equipment of local corporations. David joined Celeo Redes Chile on June 2014, where he played a key role in the organization of maintenance and operations teams, defining staffing structures, budgets, tools and instruments requirement, control room implementation among others. On January 2017 he assumed as Operational Manager. Business Development and Regulatory Affairs Manager, Claudio Tabilo Berríos Electrical Engineer with an MBA, started his career in 2002 in the Customer Area at Endesa Chile, the main electrical company in the country, assuming several positions until 2012, including Head of Customer Area, being responsible of PPA negotiations, and Deputy Commercial Manager at Pehuenche, a hydro electrical company, subsidiary of Endesa Chile. In 2012 he joined Celeo Redes Chile as Business Development Manager. Head of Legal Department , Cristián de la Cruz Bauerle Senior Counsel with a LLM on Business Law, ten years of experience in energy projects, starting his career at Sonacol S.A., Ibsa Group and Celeo Redes since 2013, responsible of corporate matters, trials and procedures monitoring, due diligence on financing energy and infrastructure projects, transactions, project agreements (EPC/O&M), and the implementation of the company´s compliance program. Nota 1: Claudio Tabilo held the Business Development Manager position until his departure from the Company in February 2020. Celeo Chile is currently looking for candidates for his replacement. Nota 2: Currently, the bonus policy for achievement of goals applied to executives in Brazil and Chile covers the requirement of alignment of salary for the achievement of goals and risk tolerance defined by the company. Substation Cumbre, Atacama region. 82 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 3.3.1 Sustainability Committee 3.3.2 Compliance Committee (102-19, 102-20) The Compliance Committee’s main duty is to develop The Sustainability Committee is composed of the prevention policies and provide supervision for the proper members of the Executive Management team in addition application of the Crime Prevention model. Similarly, to those responsible for the Sustainability, Quality, it acts as a collegiate body in the exercise of the duties Environment, and Health and Safety units. inherent to the compliance body, pursuant to its statutes and current Law, in addition to resolving, pursuant to The main duties of the Committee are the local the Crime Prevention Model and the Company’s Internal development of the parent company’s principles of Order, Health and Safety Regulations, any penalties for sustainable action, incorporating these principles into the non-compliance or irregularities committed by Celeo company’s environmental, social and governance policies, employees and workers. in addition to supervising their proper deployment. As of December 31st, the Compliance Committee consisted Ensuring the validity and maintenance of the Certified of four people. Training processes, internal audits, surveys System for Quality, Environment and Health and Safety and various other activities have been conducted during at Work Management, which is approved by the highest the 2019 financial year and under the supervision of the collegiate body, is part of its duties. Prevention Officer, prior to submitting the compliance system to a new certification process. This process was Similarly, it is the responsibility of the Sustainability completed by November 2019 with the renewal of the Committee to maintain a relationship program with prevention model compliance certificate, which will remain Stakeholders, defining and activating specific plans for in force until 2021. All the above was timely reported to the this purpose. Annually reporting on the activity of the Compliance Committee. Company in matters of sustainability via the GRESB platform and sustainability reports. Similarly, the Committee has met three times throughout the year and the Prevention Officer has given a direct It also ensures the fulfillment of commitments to the response to 31 queries received via the Transparency United Nations Global Compact, proposing changes, Channel during 2019. No complaints or conduct that could improvements and modifications to sustainability plans affect the company’s criminal liability were reported during and policies; implementing activities, supervising the the same period, nor events that could contravene Celeo’s spread and communication processes of sustainability internal regulations. policies along with their corrective actions. The Compliance Committee is composed of 4 members: During 2019, the Sustainability Committees of both countries have promoted the development of a joint • Manuel Sanz Burgoa corporate tool for managing ESG indexes (Corporate • Cristián de la Cruz Management Tool COMAT), which will streamline • Jaime Sáenz management in these fields and allow for a comprehensive • Alberto Ferrández view of the group. 84 85 CELEO CHILE 3.4 COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS 3.4.1 Crime (103-2, 103-3) Prevention Model (205-1, 205-2, 102-17, 102-25) Regulatory compliance seeks to avoid infringing behaviors, the timely and The Celeo Chile Crime Prevention Model is based on Crimes included in 2019, pursuant to Law No. rapid detection of any deviation or non-compliance, with the consequent Law No. 20,393, regarding criminal liability of legal 20,393, are the following: reporting to the authorities for investigation. It is in this way that it seeks persons and internal regulations. Its objective is to to reduce and reverse the damage caused to the company. drive and set a conduct based on the principles of its Incompatible negotiation Code of Ethics, which ensure compliance with the law Corruption between private parties Celeo is in a market that is regulated under various regulations. In its and prevention of criminal actions conducted by any years of existence, it has included the best practices and highest standards member of the organization. Misappropriation in ethics and compliance matters. Unfair management One of the most relevant milestones of the year It has a compliance system based on the Governance pillar of its was the renewal of the Crime Prevention Model Sustainability Policy. Along with the above, it is governed by the guidelines certificate. This process is a result of the strength These are added to the crimes previously included in of the Elecnor Group Code of Ethics and its Crime Prevention Model, of the organization and includes four new types of the same law: bribery of national and foreign public generating transparent and trustworthy ties with its stakeholders. crimes applicable to Celeo, which translated into officials, money laundering, terrorist financing and training, spread and courses for employees within the stolen goods handling. organization, so that they include this new knowledge, areas and criteria into their practices. The renewal of this certificate is valid for two years. Leonardo Lobo, Electromechanic, Atacama zone. 86 87 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CRIME PREVENTION MODEL CODE OF ETHICS CRIME Corporate document PREVENTION SYSTEM setting the principles Control procedures and and values guiding our activities for the prevention, collaborators’ conduct. detection and response to crimes indicated in Law No. 20,393. CRIME PREVENTION HEAD TRANSPARENCY CHANNEL COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Confidential mechanism available Instance overseeing the for collaborators and third parties, compliance and application of through which behaviors or facts rules and policies from Celeo that mayt involve breaches to Chile and monitors eventual the Celeo Chile crime prevention new regulations. model can be reported. Illapa-Cumbre 2x220 kV line . 88 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE All Celeo collaborators and suppliers are aware of the Crime Prevention Model 100% MAIN EXECUTIVES a Code of Ethics11 c Transparency and through the corresponding agreements, AND COLLABORATORS (102-16) Compliance Channel and are also aware of its communication WERE INFORMED ABOUT (205-3, 206-1, 307-1, 419-1) channels, via which they can make Celeo Chile adheres to the Elecnor Group Code of Ethics, AND TRAINED IN ANTIinquiries, complaints or claims. which ensures that all group companies share the same CORRUPTION PROCEDURES. Collaborators have access to the Transparency Channel ethic guidelines and comply with the Group’s values. via email address: transparenciachile@celeoredes.com, Today, the person in charge of the Crime This document includes the declaration of the Charter All business units were as well as via an anonymous and confidential complaint Prevention Model is the Fiscal Attorney. of Values, ensuring that the fulfillment of goals is the analyzed for risks related line available on the website. To this date, no complaints result of ethical, responsible and transparent processes. to corruption and given the have been received for events breaching the company’s recertification process of the ethical standards, prevention model, or regulations, nor There were no breaches of Crime Prevention Model, the have there been confirmed corruption cases or legal laws nor regulations within risk matrix was duly analyzed proceedings related to unfair competition, monopolistic the social and economic and updated. practices or other against free competition. fields during the year. b Training and Information Similarly, 28 unauthorized Questions received via the channel have mainly been pruning situations were related to conflicts of interest, the purpose of which corrected, conducted by The Prevention Model has mechanisms, guidelines was to prevent and / or avoid situations in this matter. the contractor (grouped and guides to be followed by collaborators, in order to into seven districts in the prevent any inappropriate behaviors. country) corresponding to the construction process of In the event of a crime, the Model ensures that these the Ancoa Alto Jahuel line situations will be properly handled, confidentially if d Compliance Committee (occurred in 2015). required, by the Crime Prevention Officer. The Compliance Committee is responsible for monitoring The payment of fines In 2019, Celeo Chile trained its workers, conducting and following up on cases registered in the Crime amounted to a total of USD inductions and spread about its compliance system. Prevention Model. 48,232, re-invoiced to the In addition to the above, 100% of the workers took an contractor company in charge online course during the year, with specially designed of the construction, as set modules, in order to deepen the concepts developed forth by the contractual in the Celeo Prevention Model. relations with the company. These processes correspond 11 For further information on the Elecnor Code of Ethics, please go to: https://www.elecnor.com/resources/files/1/Responsabilidad_Corporativa/codigo_etico_es.pdf to corrective plans and include the reforestation of the affected surface areas, carried out in other years and which were continued in this one. 90 91 04 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE TRANSPARENCY “Rewarding the performance of our workers is important. So, it was very exciting for me to receive recognition on the value of Transparency, which I daily put into practice in my relationship with suppliers, payment processes, among other duties. I am very happy to be a part of the Celeo team in Chile, I am very fortunate since it has been a pleasant experience that has enabled me to develop my knowledge and learn about new tools.” Lorena Morales Administration & Finance department Birdwatching club activity at Huilquío school. 92 THE FOOTPRINT OF THE COLLAS During the construction of the Diego de Almagro The trail was interrupted by anthropogenic causes project, in the Atacama region, the Company had a such as vehicle tracks or mining facilities, while direct relationship with an original Colla Community. other parts were erased by water courses or floods that affect the location from time to time. The community requested a review of the trails Despite the above, it showed that it was used by near transmission lines, since it was possible the inhabitants of the area in ancient times, mainly these trails had a cultural heritage related to the for the conduction of mining activities. Colla Indigenous Community, a native people in northern Chile. This review contributed to the geographical knowledge of the location of these indigenous Celeo hired the services of an anthropologist people. Results were presented at the Manuel and a sociologist to conduct such verification, Magalhaes Medling school, in Diego de Almagro, who walked the trails in search of the presence to various members of the community, in a of heritage elements. This work was conducted beautiful ceremony with the presence of students in close coordination between the Celeo Chile and representatives of the Colla Geoxcultuxial staff and the Chairman of the Colla Community, community, who were very satisfied and grateful for who provided the historical context of the trails’ the work done between Celeo and the community. geographical location. The work involved an exhaustive analysis of over seven kilometers of trails. The conclusion was that, although the trail headed almost in a straight line towards the Inca de Oro locality, it had no indications of having been used by the ancestors of the Colla Community. Illapa-Cumbre 2x220 kV line. 94 CELEO CHILE 4.1 OUR FIRST CONCERN For Celeo, people are the most important part, and this is reflected in its Sustainability Policy, the pillars of health and safety at work and social responsibility. The work conducted by the Company involves risks and therefore, we reinforce a prevention culture in terms of health and safety, by virtue of which it is strictly forbidden to carry out any activity under an uncontrolled risk situation. This measure applies not only to Celeo workers, but also to contractors, suppliers, customers, communities, and any other entity with which it holds relations. The company understands that the damages caused by a possible accident are not only suffered by the person involved, but also by their family, and tries to spread this message among collaborators. Safety awareness is achieved via continuous education, training, campaigns, workshop and periodic meeting instances, which address security related aspects. Celeo favors environments based on trust and transparency relationships for the development of its activities, contributing to the development of the communities where it is present. This involves maintaining a permanent link to the communities, continuously reporting in advance regarding activities to be conducted which may impact them. Currently, Celeo Chile holds relationships with 31 communities, among which social organizations, educational centers, neighbors, etc. stand out, located in the seven regions where it operates: Atacama, Metropolitana, Valparaíso, O’Higgins, Maule, Ñuble and Biobío. Hector Mendez, lineman Atacama zone. 97 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 4.1.1 Our Workers ZONE GENERAL MANAGERS HEADS SUPERVISORS PERSONNEL TOTAL % (102-8, 202-1, 401-1, G4-EU17) MANAGER North 0 0 1 2 4 7 9% Center 1 4 9 8 20 42 71% As of December, the Company reached a total of 81 direct workers, South 0 0 1 7 24 32 40% including operation and maintenance workers; and during the year, Total 1 4 10 18 48 81 100% totaled 409 workers from contractor companies. During the year, it maintained an average staff of 75 internal workers. Source: Human Resources Unit. Comparison of gross salary against COLLABORATORS PER YEAR the country’s COMPARISON IN CHILE MINIMUM 81 minimum wage PERCENTAGE WAGE 2019 64 Administrative 269% $301,000 54 49 Operators 338% $301,000 42 Source: Human Resources Unit. 20 15 8 Employee turnover by gender WOMEN MEN TOTAL 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total hires 2019 4 16 20 Total departures 2019 1 2 3 Collaborators in 2019 are distributed in: Turnover rate 11.1% 3.03% 4% AGE GENDER GENERAL MANAGERS HEADS SUPERVIPERSONNEL TOTAL % PER TOTAL RANGE MANAGER SORS CATEGORY % Source: Human Resources Unit. YounMale 0 0 1 7 22 30 83% 44% Note: The turnover rate calculation was done with the number of departures divided by the average staff. ger than Female 0 0 2 1 3 6 17% 35 35-50 Male 1 3 8 8 18 38 90% 52% Female 0 0 0 0 4 4 10% Older Male 0 1 0 1 1 3 100% 4% than 50 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0% Total Male 1 4 9 16 41 71 88% 100% Female 0 0 2 1 7 10 12% Total 1 4 11 17 48 81 % of women 0% 0% 18% 6% 15% 12.3% Maintenance works Maule zone. Source: Human Resources Unit. 98 99 99 4.2 FEMALE LABOR INTEGRATION (103-2, 103-3) This is why Celeo actively seeks to increase the share of women in the companies to decrease the gender gap in the professional world. In 2019, Celeo Chile promised to promote measures to increase the share of female involvement in the organization, assuming a commitment with many companies in the energy industry, through their adherence to the Energy + Women Plan, a campaign promoted by the Department of Energy and the Department of Women and Gender Equality in Chile. As established by the Elecnor Code of Ethics, there is no gender discrimination within the selection processes of Part of the female team from the Santiago office. Celeo Chile. However, there is still a long way to go, both within the company and in the industry, where one of the biggest challenges is to include women in Gender equality is one of the most significant leadership levels. sustainability issues directly involving companies. It consists of fairly and equitably distributing existing job Along with the above, Celeo has a pillar of social opportunities between men and women. This measure responsibility, which sets the principle of respect for arises because the female gender has historically had diversity, which ensures equal treatment for women in a lower participation in the labor market, which is no the company. strange fact for the electrical industry, where there is a low female involvement in the relevant organizations. When companies actively promote diversity and equality at work, they create significant benefits both for the organization itself and for workers. These benefits are also transferred to society in general since greater equality fosters social stability and greatly supports the economic development of the country. Our co-worker Frandimar Belisario, recognized as an Outstanding Woman for the plan “Energía+Mujer” (Power + Woman). 100 101 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 4.2.1 Gender equality (102-35, 405-1, 405-2) At Celeo Chile, 12% of employees are women, below the 23% average Wages at Celeo Chile are paid according to market salary differences, thus demonstrating fairness in of the energy sector in Chile . Since its inception, the company has prices. These are defined using studies focused on income. Headship positions show a 4% difference progressively increased female involvement in its staff, which is generic and specific items prepared by external in monthly remuneration in favor of women, while reflected in 2019 by a 1% increase over 2018. However, there is still consultants. Also, the service of an expert consultant in managerial positions, this difference drops to 2% a long way to go to bridge the labor involvement gap. in compensation matters was hired to conduct in favor of men. internal comparative studies with industries of All women of the organization work at the central offices, either in characteristics similar to our company’s. The great future challenge for Celeo is to continue Santiago or Talca, and three of them have head positions, which with the commitment to progressively integrate more corresponds to 3 times over than 2017, showing progress in this matter. An exercise was conducted between comparable women into the organization, both in strategic areas of positions within the organization to determine the business and in positions of greater responsibility. Distribution of men and women in Celeo as of December 2018 2019 We subscribed Energy + Women WOMAN 11% 12% Celeo Chile ascribed to the Energy + Women Plan in 2019, a public-private roundtable promotMEN 89% 88% ing the integration of women into the electricity sector, the reduction of wage gaps, and the Source: Human Resources Unit. increase of female presence in strategic positions. Celeo pledged to go deeper into the matter, integrating equality and non-discrimination concepts into the Company’s existing documents, inclusive language, developing training, workshops and attending seminars on gender bias, promoting proactive selection processes with WOMEN MEN Percentage distribution of female candidates, among other commitments. workers by gender Nº % Nº % All these measures have been communicated to the organization accordingly. SITE 0 0% 34 42% OFFICES (SANTIAGO AND TALCA) 10 12% 30 37% EXECUTIVES 0 0% 7 9% TOTAL 10 12% 71 88% Source: Human Resources Unit. How are salaries defined at Celeo Chile? (102-36) Currently, there is no remuneration policy at Celeo Chile. However, during 2019, the organization developed a market study regarding sector salaries in order to make the corresponding adjustments, if necessary. Signing of Power + Women. 12 Diagnosis of the Situation of Insertion of Women into the Electricity Sector. Department of Energy, Chile. 102 103103 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 4.3 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (103-2, 103-3) Healthy and safe working conditions are recognized as a human right and are included in numerous intergovernmental instruments, such as those of the International Labor Organization (ILO), the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the World Health Organization (WHO). Along with the above, this matter corresponds to target 8.8 of the Sustainable Development Goals the United Nations Organization (UN) adopted as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Healthy and safe working conditions involve both the prevention of physical and mental damage and the promotion of the health and safety of workers. In line with the above, Celeo Chile promotes the involvement of its workers in the development and application of procedures and performance evaluations in occupational health and safety, as well as in the reporting of incidents and opportunities for improvement. 281,480 hours worked without accidents 700 days without accidents 0 accidents Anti-climbing system being installed by Maule maintenance team. Maintenance activities Maule zone. 104 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 4.3.1 Our reference framework (403-1) The Company’s Sustainability Policy sets forth principles The ISO 45001:2018 standard requires the and commitments in which its most important pillar is conduction of an analysis of the context in which the Occupational Safety and Health. Occupational Health and Safety Management System will be developed for deployment, including internal Among the annual objectives of 2019 we find the renewal and external environments, risk assessments and of the Integrated Management System certification for identifying opportunities related to their deployment. Quality, Environment, Occupational Safety and Health (CMASS SIG), related to quality standards ISO 9001:2015, This standard aims to achieve that the Board of Environment ISO 14001:2015 and migration to the new Directors, General Management and main governing management standard in Occupational Health and Safety bodies commit to the deployment of an Occupational (OSH), ISO 45001:2018. This new standard, published in Health and Safety Management System, exercising March 2018, replaces the old OHSAS 18001:2007, which their leadership and promoting the involvement of will lose validity in December 2021. workers and their representatives. CMASS SIG includes the health and safety of workers at all stages of their projects, from construction, up to the operation and maintenance of their own facilities and third parties. Do you know what the ISO 45001: 2018 standard is? The ISO 45001:2018 standard requires the (403-8) conduction of an analysis of the context in Celeo Chile certified its Integrated Management which the Occupational Health and Safety System in 2019, including migration to the ISO Management System will be developed 45001:2018 standard in Occupational Health and for deployment, including internal and Safety. The foregoing encompassed the full scope of external environments, risk assessments the Company, including its 81 workers and its Cenand identifying opportunities related to tral Offices, Maintenance Base in Talca and its five their deployment. substations across the country. The sustainability policy is available at: www.celeoredeschile.cl Maintenance activities Maule zone. 106 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 4.3.2 Deployment of new ISO 45001:2018 JOINT COMMITTEE ON HYGIENE (403-4, 403-5, 403-6) AND SAFETY (CPHS) To conduct the migration process to ISO 45001:2018, Celeo developed a consultation and participation stage for workers, to achieve success for the management system. SANTIAGO Celeo Chile has two Joint Health and Safety Committees (CPHS), one for its office in Santiago No. of collaborators % of company collaborators No. of participant No. of directive and the other for its Maintenance Base in the Maule represented on the represented on the committee collaborators participants committee region. Each of these Committees is composed of 42 3 3 three representatives of the employer and three representatives of the workers. 51.9% The Company has methodologies and instances to detect deviations in the processes and opportunities for improvement, which is a key tool to identify and manage findings that may lead to non-compliance incidents. This information is available to all MAULE ZONE collaborators, is monitored by the CMASS unit and is spread on a monthly basis in safety meetings held at all Celeo establishments. No. of collaborators % of all company No. of participant No. of directive represented on the collaborators represented on collaborators participants committee the committee Although Celeo does not have unions, the two joint 32 3 3 committees meet on a monthly basis to discuss occupational health and safety issues. These 39.5% committees represent 91.4% of Celeo Chile workers. The remaining 8.6% corresponds to seven workers from the Atacama unit who are in the process of Source: Quality, Environment, Occupational Health and Safety Unit. forming their own joint committee. The Company conducts training, workshops and campaigns on health and safety matters, permanently. During 2019, there were 6,111 hours of awareness-raising on these matters, which corresponds to 2% of the hours worked. Inspection activities Atacama zone. 108 109 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 4.3.3 Assessment and protection (403-2, 403-3, 403-7) Risky situations during operations Celeo Chile has audits assessing the performance Numerous compliance indexes are monitored during the (G4-EU16) All collaborators working in risk situations must have the of objectives defined for occupational health and year to help manage eventual deviations in this area. following skills and information: safety matters. Knowing the Sustainability Policy Any collaborator can directly report on findings and An internal audit was conducted in 2019, pursuant to improvements via email to cmas@celeoredes.com. Knowing the SST ISO 45001:2018 Management System the requirements of ISO 45001, for a total of 5 days. Identifying all risks related to their corresponding processes If necessary, reporting collaborators may request that Learning the Internal Regulation of Order, Health and Safety 100% With regard to external audits, two were conducted: one by Mutual de Seguridad (Safety Mutual), and the information be treated confidentially. Also, in 2019, the company activated an anonymous channel to Detecting emergency response procedures the other by the AENOR certification house (seven report these types of events via a form on its website. days in total for both), with satisfactory results Handle the use of fire extinguishers and three minor non-conformities, which were Knowing first aid measures satisfactorily corrected. (403-9) (403-10) Thanks to the efforts of all Celeo collaborators At the same time, it has an annual health and safety and their contractors, there were no accidents THE HEALTH AND The Company has identified 5 critical risks related to its operations: SAFETY MANAGEMENT plan, which sets management tools enabling the in their activities during 2019. SYSTEM PROTECTS 100% verification and ensuring of control measures to be Driving: crash, collision, overturning, run over OF OUR WORKERS. applied during the various tasks to be conducted by As of December 31st, 2019, the company Hoisting work: Crushing by the motion of a suspended load the Company. Said plan includes risk control analysis, accumulated 700 days without accidents and has equipment, instruments, personal protection met its main objective of the year: achieving Zero Work at heights: falling from various levels elements and vehicles verification, in addition to Accidents in its activities. Injury rate was zero. Work with electrical risks: electrocution and burns activity reports. Forest cutting, pruning and rubbing: exposure to noise, vibrations and / or cuts 80% During 2019, Celeo Chile published its first health and safety campaign called #WeAreAllCeleo. This sought to reflect the importance of self-care, teamwork and strengthen our prevention safety culture, understanding that when a collaborator goes out to their job, all their colleagues and family go with them. COLLABORATORS ARE EXPOSED TO CRITICAL RISKS. Certification audit ISO 45001:2018. 110 111 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 4.3.4 We promote health In regard to health, the Company makes a supplementary health insurance available to all workers, which grants a range of health care and reimbursement benefits, applicable from the moment they are admitted. It also has a voluntary agreement, which covers hospital and outpatient treatment at the FALP Oncology Institute. In turn, it carries out annual vaccination campaigns against influenza and, in case the worker must travel abroad, manages the procedures required to enter the corresponding country. Finally, Celeo subscribed an agreement in 2019 with one of the largest gym chains in Chile, in order for any worker to be able to join, regardless of the geographical location in which they are located. By virtue of this affiliation, the company and the worker share the cost of the monthly fees. Additionally, diagnoses were made regarding the degree of exposure of workers to occupational diseases according to their various jobs. The diagnosis included all collaborators, according to applicability, in ergonomic, psychosocial, auditory and / or skin related diseases. Reports on the assessments made on workstations and / or activities conducted by each collaborator showed that there are no workers exposed to a considerable risk of contracting an occupational disease at Celeo. However, chainsaw operators are a case to watch, given their exposure to noise, but which, with the proper activity protection elements, workers are protected. Football team Celeo Maule zone. 112 4.4 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (103-2, 103-3) (404-3) The Human Resources unit was strengthened during 2019. The objective of this unit is to structure, deploy and enhance the People and Organizational Development (DPO) pillar in its most relevant blocks for Celeo, such as: talent detection and attraction, career plans, Celeo Chile has a human team whose professionalism internal promotion, seeking to first empower its performance evaluations, training plans and compensation policies. seeks to consolidate the presence of the company employees. Furthermore, the goal of this Policy is in the domestic energy industry, contributing to the to ensure that positions are filled by those with Aligned to corporate values and putting the well-being and development of the country with an organizational the required experience and knowledge to ensure development of its workers among its priorities, human resource culture oriented to operational excellence. that Celeo Chile remains at the forefront of the management ensures that relationships of respect and transparency national industry. are maintained at work. During the reporting period, the focus of For the Company, the development of its this unit’s work was on the creation of job descriptions, the design collaborators is an essential part required to of performance evaluations and career plans, in addition to the achieve corporate objectives. This is why the work measurement of the work environment. teams are constantly learning and developing technical and soft skills, which translates into the On the other hand, the bipartite training committee was created as deployment of best practices within the company. responsible for defining the organization’s training needs and training The Staff Recruitment and Selection Policy favors plan, along with the human resources unit and collaborators. 114 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 4.4.1 Collaborator training TRAINING FOR CELEO CHILE COLABORATORS (404-1) The technical and professional skills of the collaborators play an essential role in achieving corporate objectives. Nº OF % OF BENEFICIARIES This is why the company has a training plan, providing workers with the knowledge required to fulfill their duties BENEFICIARIES OVER TOTAL in the best possible way. TRAINING HOURS 2017 2018 2019 CELEO SCHOLARSHIP FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES 7 9% TOTAL TRAINING HOURS 2,525 3,176 9,259 CELEO SCHOLARSHIP FOR POSTGRADUATE STUDIES 6 8% TRAINING HOURS 46.9 49.6 114.31 PER PERSON 393 Any person took an average TECHNICAL 5.24 Source: Human Resources Unit. SKILLS TRAINING (distributed in 22 courses) courses 168 Any person took an average 2.24 MANAGEMENT SKILLS TRAINING (distributed in 10 courses) courses 442 Any person took an average of TRAINING IN INSTITUTIONAL PILLARS / CULTURE AND INTERNAL TRAINING (distributed in internal crosscourses) 5.9 trainings Celeo has a corporate goal regarding health and safety training. 2% of hours worked must be allocated to training, awareness and improvement instances in this matter. Training & Development. 117 CELEO CHILE 4.4.2 Organizational climate and benefits (404-2) Celeo Chile fosters a good work environment, where respect, commitment and teamwork prevail, in addition to encouraging a good work climate. The first Annual Work Climate Survey was carried out in 2019, which accounted for spaces for dialogue as well as existing opportunities for improvement for the future. The survey showed 89% satisfaction, which translates into outstanding levels of satisfaction, where: 99% 98% 97% WORK IN A TEAM HAVE GOOD PERSONAL ARE PROUD TO RELATIONSHIPS WITH BELONG TO CELEO THEIR COLLEAGUES There are still improvement opportunities in the compensations field, which reach 69% defined as “regular”. For this reason, the company took measures to align benefits and compensations offered to workers via a market study. By 2020, the Climate Survey will include variables measuring discrimination based on gender, sexual orientation, among others. 119 4.5 OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH COMMUNITIES (103-2, 103-3) Companies have a preponderant role in the well-being of the communities where they conduct their activities. For Celeo, the relationship established with the communities in the area of influence of its operations is key to achieving its corporate objectives and contributing to local development. For this reason, it seeks to create spaces for dialogue which enable for the joint development of activities with social benefits and highlight the programs through which it is openly and transparently linked. Among aspects to be considered in the Sustainability Policy, there is the relationship with communities based on transparency, ethics and permanent dialogue, which, given territorial proximity, could be operationally impacted. (G4-EU22) It should be noted that Celeo Chile has not physically displaced communities, nor has it seen the need to compensate people for the development of projects already in operation, nor under construction, despite electric easement agreements. The company conducts community outreach projects focused on socio-environmental education aiming to raise children’s awareness of the importance and care of the environment. Volunteer activities at Corel School, Maule region. 120 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 4.5.1 Local communities 4.5.2 Building relationships with the community (203-1) (413-1, 413-2, G4-EU19) The communities with which Celeo Chile is related are those close to the Company’s facilities, with which specific actions are designed: The Celeo Chile’s relationship with the community varies at each stage of a project. COMMUNITIES In 2019, the company had ties to communities where the facilities of newly awarded projects would be located, Mataquito Hualqui and Casablanca, whose development, construction and commissioning will Property owners span the next four years. Municipalities Neighborhood committees This relationship was based on the Early Citizen Participation Processes (PACA) where the main characteristics of the projects, their design and planning were made known to the communities. In that Rural schools instance, doubts raised by neighbors and local authorities were resolved and their comments were collected Local communication media in order to minimize the impacts from the projects on their territory. The first years of the Company’s life have served to identify the diversity of communities with which it relates. By understanding the social context of the operations and the needs of the communities, it has been possible to plan What is early citizen participation? and undertake activities which create real impact on the community. Citizen Participation was set forth in Law 19,300 on Environmental Bases of 1994 as an important Its operations have the potential to impact various stakeholders and that part of the Environmental Assessment Process. Citizens who feel to be affected by the possible is why Celeo’s relationship strategy has favored close, permanent and development of a given project, have the right to be formally informed of the project and ask all transparent interaction with the communities. questions deemed relevant to the proposing company, within the established deadlines. On the other hand, the latest social events in Chile show that the social Early Citizen Participation seeks that the company and the community conduct prior contacts before situation may impact the operation of the Company’s assets. formally entering the Environmental Assessment System process. In this fashion, communities can be informed in advance via the same company executives about projects, creating channels of USD 16,643 were invested13 in the communities during 2019, which went to: continuous dialogue and thus balancing expectations of both entities. • Biodiversity protection project at the Corel school • Participatory environmental improvement project at the Hogar Escuela Charrúa (Charrúa Home-School) People from 16 localities were involved in the MATE project process, • Birdwatching club at six schools while there were from 6 localities close to the project in CASTE : Lomas • Archeology workshop at the Liceo Manuel Magalhaes Medling de Manso, Huechún, Lagunillas and Placilla. In total, there were 461 (Manuel Magalhaes Medling School) in Diego de Almagro attendees at the meetings, which had a predominantly dialogue modality • Infrastructure improvement of the Colbún Fire Department towards the community. • Volunteer work conducted by the Celeo Sports Club at Hogar Maile (Maile Home) 13 The investment was CLP $ 14,626,576. 122 123 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE Community involvement in new projects Region Province District BIOBIO Ñuble 1 Tomé 1 2 REGION 2 Penco 3 4 PROJECTS DISTRICTS ATTENDANCE 3 Concepción 5 4 Chiguayante MATE 20 districts 392 5 Hualqui CASTE 6 districts 69 Region Province District MAULE Curicó 1 Molina REGION 3 2 Sagrada Familia 9 2 3 Hualañé Linares 4 Retiro 10 7 1 5 Parral 8 6 6 San Javier Talca 7 Pencahue A baseline human environment diagnosis was developed for the awarded projects among the activities conducted 11 4 by the Company, the result of which did not show significant impacts for the CASTE project. While the MATE project 8 Empedrado is soon expecting the results of the report. 9 Curepto 10 Constitución 5 In 2019, 3 projects were carried out with the community: Cauquenes 11 Cauquenes Region Province District ÑUBLE Ñuble 1 Quirihue REGION 2 Participatory environmental improvement at 2 Cobquecura 1 Escuela Hogar Charrúa (Charrúa Home-School) 3 Treguaco 3 4 Coelemu The project includes actions aimed at environmental improvement via 4 workshops and activities co-designed with the educational community. These activities were born out of a need for both the school and Celeo workers, who, in a participatory manner, jointly came to a project to protect biodiversity and improve the environmental performance of the school and educate their children. A work commitment was signed in 2019 with Escuela Hogar Charrúa (Charrúa Home-School), which marked a relevant milestone in the relationship. 124 125 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 4.6 OUR SUPPLIERS (102-9) Bird Watchers Club Suppliers play an essential role for the development of In 2019, Celeo had a relationship with a total of 167 Celeo processes. A large part thereof are specialists suppliers, among which we find consulting and auditing This project, which began in 2017, seeks to promote birds learning and conservation, in the field of energy and / or with a presence in the companies, financial and banking entities, law firms, promoting understanding of the local environment, via workshops aimed at students energy market, both domestic and international. technical service agencies, software suppliers and between five and 18 years old. Each participant receives an observation kit and a bird remote industrial processes, mobile phone companies, guide that includes 30 typical species from the area. Supplier selection includes their distances to the transportation, electrical products for maintenance facilities and service supply availability, always processes, fuel, electrical distribution, health services, The workshop was scheduled in two stages, one theoretical and another practical. prioritizing the supplier’s domestic location. IT, design, cleaning services, among others. The first stage addressed content such as the main characteristics of birds, their evolutionary history, distribution in Chile, recognition techniques and alternatives for conservation in the school and its surroundings. Celeo classifies its suppliers into three groups: The second stage began with the supply of an observation kit (compass, binoculars, Celeo’s main contractor is Elecnor Chile S.A., whistle, flashlight, credential and bird guide) and focused on teaching the use of these General: any company or natural a company in the engineering, development elements, while applying the knowledge acquired during the theoretical workshop. person providing goods or services. and construction of infrastructure, renewable The intention is that students can recognize species through their physical features. energy and new technology projects. This partnership is strategic as it is the construction Strategic: those designated as company for the company’s transmission lines. strategic by senior management or the parent company. For line maintenance, Celeo has internal and Corel School biodiversity protection project local personnel. Critical: anyone who, if upon failure Participatory work focused on the needs and problems of the locality was made to comply with their commitments, in 2019, along with the Corel School. Accordingly, environmental workshops could generate a significant impact presenting impact measurement and recommendations for the conservation and on the operation of the area or interaction with the local flora and fauna were held. operation of the Company. The workshop was theoretical and practical, including a “What do birds eat?” module, to highlight the interaction between birds and plants, with special importance in feeding resources, conservation and protection thereof. The Monetary value of payment practical workshop consisted of the supply of indigenous plants to beautify the to suppliers for the supply of goods and services 2019 viewpoint, which in turn fulfill the role of natural bird feeders, a theme connecting the content of the theoretical workshop and where children can directly observe what they have learned. SUPPLIERS MUSD 18.27 Source: Finance and Management Unit. Note: MUSD = Million dollars. In addition to the above, the Company conducted two corporate volunteering activities, one organized by the workers of the Talca Maintenance Center, in which 17 collaborators were involved and consisted of carrying out a Christmas activity, and an electrical maintenance activity for a children’s home in Talca. The other was organized by the workers of the Santiago Corporate Office, with the attendance of 19 collaborators and which consisted of a recycling workshop for 53 children, conducted along with the Manos y Naturaleza Corporation. 126 127 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE PERSEVERANCE “I was the first engineer hired for the Control Center. I have been in the company since the beginning, 5 years ago. During that time, I have experienced many changes on a personal and professional level, changes which have strengthened my adaptability and flexibility to various scenarios. This context has enhanced the value of perseverance in me, persevering and being consistent, regardless of whether situations change, always the most important thing is to achieve a job well done, according to our way of working: with tolerance, teamwork and above all, a willingness to change.” Fernando Urrutia Operations department Charrúa-Ancoa 2x500 kV line. 128 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE Talca Native Garden 5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Environmental management at Celeo has a Environmental management is monitored via the preventive approach that includes caring for the Integrated Management System (CMASS SIG), environment in all procedures conducted and also periodically reporting on the associated compliance promotes the responsibility of both workers and indexes, ensuring compliance with environmental other stakeholders. regulations and commitments made to the authorities in the Environmental Qualification Resolutions (RCA) In the framework of the Sustainability Policy, the of each project. environment pillar focuses both on protecting the environment and its biodiversity and reducing In order to reduce impacts from each of the stages, pollution. For this reason, the Company drives Celeo works in coordination with its contractor various initiatives promoting greater environmental companies and in permanent dialogue with the responsibility, including the efficient use of community and sector authorities, responding to resources, reuse of materials and recycling, their requirements in an agile and efficient manner. protection of biodiversity, its habitat and assessment of risks related to climate change. Talca native garden. Early initiatives to project process: This native garden has the purpose of serving as an educational tool, mainly for linemen who, with this garden, Planning Stage: Efficient layout design that is respectful to the biological can recognize the vegetation and trees they will find in the wealth of ecosystems. Pedestrian Visual Inspections to transmission lines. The garden has the following species: There is the native garden built by Celeo in the Construction Stage: Environmental Support Programs to Elecnor. Due Maintenance Base located in the Talca district, which • Espino • Ruil compliance with the local regulations and values of the organization are tracked shows visitors the various flora species located in the • Boldo • Hualo under these programs. vicinity of transmission lines. • Canelo • Chilco • Ciprés de • Peumo The linemen’s job is to inspect transmission lines, la cordillera • Arrayán Operation and Maintenance Stage: This involves continuous conduct the corresponding maintenance and ensure • Lun • Lilén environmental management, overseeing both actions conducted by our own that the conditions around them do not alter operational • Copihue • Roble workers and contractors. Professionals in the Maintenance unit, being the continuity, with a special emphasis on the vegetation • Maitén • Queule ones who spend most of their time in the operation areas, receive training in that may be found at the security strip. For this, they • Olivillo environmental management, and are able to monitor, develop preventive actions must visit remarkably diverse places with a great flora and report events that may be harmful to the environment. and fauna diversity. These species are in appropriate conditions for their development, present in the geographical area To adequately fulfill these duties, they must know which of the transmission lines, so their presence in the is the endemic vegetation of the place and which are maintenance base is a highly valued contribution by all the protected species, in order not to intervene while the personnel who enjoy and learn from the species conducting their maintenance activities. belonging to the country. 130 131 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 5.2 RESOURCE Electric energy consumption mainly comes from two sources: corporate offices and maintenance bases, Did you know? EFFICIENCY while fossil fuel consumption relates to vehicles used (103-2, 103-3) for line maintenance. Energy efficiency is proposed as one of the policies to stop climate change and the The increase recorded in electricity consumption was achievement of sustainable societies, along the result of the increase in the number of employees with the development of renewable energies at Central Office and Maintenance Base. In turn, the and a transport policy that is less harmful Celeo is committed to mitigating the environmental greater fuel consumption for this year corresponded to the environment. It is about obtaining the impact of its operations. For this purpose, in addition to the use of vans due to the start of the operational same energy goods and services using fewer to complying with applicable regulations, it encourages phase of the DATE project. resources, improving processes, recycling, the efficient consumption of resources among its using fewer polluting products and smart collaborators in all processes and activities conducted. Energy efficiency campaigns are conducted to consumption. promote reductions on energy consumption, seeking The focus of action is to promote energy efficiency and to commit all employees to corporate objectives in reductions in water consumption, the use of supplies this matter, and have had positive results. and encourage waste recycling. Energy saving stickers are placed on all switches at the facilities, as a campaign to optimize electricity consumption. Also, 5.2.1 Energy consumption the resource efficiency and recycling (302-1, 302-4) procedure was disseminated. Celeo mainly consumes electrical energy for its operations and also uses energy derived from fossil fuels. Based on its environmental commitment, the company seeks to reduce its impacts by reducing energy consumption and applying efficient processes. ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2018 2019 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION 91,745 93,660 IN KWH FUEL CONSUMPTION 59,815 69,926 IN LITERS Source: Environment Unit. Note: The data refers to the central office in Santiago, Chile and the Maintenance Base. Waste container for recycling. 132 133 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 5.2.2 Water consumption (303-1, 303-5) WATER Water is a vital element for the existence of life on the planet. In Chile, CONSUMPTION a serious shortage of water resources has been observed as a result of IN M3 2018 2019 the drought, giving a wake-up call for both individuals and companies to reduce their consumption and be efficient in its use. WATER CONSUMPTION 1,460 1,558 Celeo creates initiatives for its efficient use at the facilities, such as Source: Environment Unit. Note 1: Only drinking water consumption in the Company is included. awareness campaigns for workers to reduce impacts on the environment. The manageable consumption of drinking water comes from administrative tasks at each workplace. The 2019 increase is mainly the result of the increase Did you know? in the number of collaborators, over last year. Water is key to human well-being and only works as a On the other hand, there is an unmanageable consumption renewable resource if it is professionally managed. More of low conductivity insulating demineralized water, which than 1.7 billion people live in over-exploited river basins comes exclusively from the preventive maintenance and by 2025, two-thirds of the world’s population could live activities of insulation washing, in the assets of the in countries facing water scarcity. Therefore, steps must be Atacama zone. The resource is provided by a third taken to reverse this picture. party and the total amounts used were 33.33 m3 and 468.6 m3, for years 2018 and 2019, respectively. The increase was due to the fact that, only one substation was washed, and one set of transmission lines were sectioned in 2018, while last year this activity was conducted for all facilities in the area. 5.2.3 Waste (306-2, 306-4) Waste management encompasses all activities related Proper waste management has a regulatory and to the life cycle, and includes the collection, transport preventive aspect seeking to reduce consumption and and treatment of waste, in line with a circular economy promote reuse and recycling. It also includes deploying in the efficient use of resources. educational actions for collaborators and other stakeholders, in addition to a materials traceability In recent years, both the Government and nonsystem. governmental organizations have worked to promote the Producer Responsibility Law (REP) and Clean Production Agreements (APL), seeking for companies to integrate waste management into their operations. 134 135 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE For the second consecutive year, the company worked waste management and recycling, 1 general training around the Celeo Recycle program, an initiative that session in waste management and recycling, 2 general Do you know what the REP law is? Do you know what an APL is? encourages materials’ reduction, reuse and recycling. training sessions in the management and handling of This campaign was extended by conducting 8 training hazardous waste. The foregoing includes a total of 45 It is an economic waste management inIt is a voluntary agreement between a sessions to encourage and engage collaborators, trained collaborators. Similarly, in 2019; 680.37 more strument requiring manufacturers of cercompany and the competent public bodies which were distributed in 5 induction sessions for kilos of waste were recycled over last year. tain products to organize and fund the in environmental, health care, occupational management of waste derived from their health and safety, energy and water efficiency products. and productive promotion, whose objective is to apply Clean Production via specific goals WASTE 2018 2019 RECYCLING These products are: and actions within a certain time frame, for RECYCLED ORGANIZATION the achievement of what was agreed. • Lubricant oils Paper 155 568.5 Fundación San José, Rembre & others • Electrical and electronic devices • Battery packs Plastic 25.7 246.6 Rembre & others • Batteries • Packaging and Packages Metals 2 17 Rembre • Tires Other recyclables 4 35 Rembre Total 186.8 867.2 The main waste generated by the company is domestic. Source: Environment Unit. Maintenance activities create a low percentage of Note: The other recyclables category corresponds to cardboard, glass and tetra pack. Note 2: Recycling began in October 2018. hazardous waste that comes specifically from substations, which are transferred to specialized companies for treatment and final disposal. These mainly correspond to oils, lubricants, paints, solvents and personal protection elements contaminated with any of these elements. (308-2) The greatest amount of waste is generated in the construction stage and, therefore, it is in this WASTE IN stage that the greatest efforts are required. KILOGRAMS 2018 2019 To address waste treatment in a coordinated fashion, the same actions designed for the operation and maintenance stages will be replicated in the construction of the projects, thus NON-HAZARDOUS 3,097 3,078 achieving recycling and reducing the impact on the environment. HAZARDOUS 405.7 305.3 By 2020, Celeo Chile will work together with its contractors on a pilot plan to manage waste at the construction stage, emphasizing waste segregation and encouraging recycling. Source: Environment Unit. Note: non-hazardous waste only includes household waste, not that destined for recycling. 136 137 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 5.3 BIODIVERSITY 5.3.1 We maintain a (103-2, 103-3) preventive approach (102-11) Chile shows a great diversity of different ecosystems ensuring business continuity in the long run, as stated (forests, desert, highlands, etc.) and climates. in the Sustainability Policy. One of the main concerns today is the impact human flora and fauna threatened species, found in the The Corporación Nacional Forestal (National Forestry The Company has developed a preventive approach, activity is having on biodiversity, that is, on the wide Sistema Nacional de Áreas Silvestres Protegidas del Corporation) (CONAF), which reports to the Department seeking to characterize and monitor the biodiversity of variety of species on the planet and the natural Estado (State Protected Wild Areas National System) of Agriculture in Chile, developed a report on the state the areas of operation in order to detect possible impacts patterns that make it up. (SNASPE), in other sites of high ecological value and of conservation of flora called the Red Book of the originating from its activities, and in turn minimize and / in sectors linked to forestry. Terrestrial Flora of Chile. It sets the conservation status or mitigate them in the best possible way. Chile has a great variety of ecosystems with of plants distributed in the continental and insular numerous endemic species. The Programa para At Celeo Chile, the concern for biodiversity is worked parts, according to the categories described by the Celeo has created an Environmental Risk Management la Conservación de la Flora y Fauna Silvestre on both flora and fauna, having an awareness of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Plan that covers the entire life cycle of its projects. Amenazada (Endangered Wild Flora and Fauna importance of the intervention of physical spaces, of In addition to the above, the company adheres to the Conservation Program) in Chile, created in 1999 the native vegetation that runs across transmission Protecting the biodiversity and natural habitat of precautionary principle of the Rio Declaration on by CONAF, aims to contribute to the conservation lines, which must be relocated, in addition to the care Celeo’s areas of influence is a key condition for Environment and Development of the United Nations. of biological diversity, with an emphasis on native of birds that can cross this space. Do you know about the UICN? The International Union for the Conservation of Nature is an international organization in the conservation of natural resources. It was founded in October 1948, within the framework of an international conference held in Fontainebleau, France. If you want to learn more about the UICN, please visit the website: https://www.iucn.org/es SEIA Every time a new project is developed, it must be submitted to the Environmental Impact Assessment System (SEIA13), a procedure that allows assessing, mitigating and compensating for the environmental impacts generated by the project, ensuring the applicable regulations and the best options for the environment and communities. An Environmental Qualification Resolution (RCA) is obtained once the assessment process is completed, which contains the commitments and obligations adopted by the company at each of the project phases, or other corresponding actions. Environment and Community Relationship department. Companies commit to develop concrete actions and measures aiming to correct, mitigate, modify or compensate for environmental impacts, in each RCA. In some cases, these actions commit reforestation and vegetation enrichment in the territories or other actions committed in the studies. 13 For further information on SEIA, please go to website: https://www.sea.gob.cl/ 138 139 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 5.3.2 Flora and Fauna In the areas where the Ancoa Alto Jahuel (AJTE) has strengthened training for employees in protection (304-1, 304-4) and Charrúa Ancoa (CHATE) lines operations are and biodiversity conservation matters. Details are located, there are species listed on the Red List of the shown below: International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Given that transmission line projects are emplaced in territories with various environmental and in National conservation lists, so the company and social characteristics, activities caring for the biodiversity are specific to each area, and include regulatory compliance, in addition to commitments to easement owners and local communities. IUCN LIST OF PROTECTED SPECIES TYPE OF DANGER NUMBER OF SPECIES NAME OF SPECIES PROJECT AJTE Vulnerable 3 Citronella mucronata; Porlieria AJTE & CHATE chilensis, Neoporteria castanea Covers three regions of the country (Metropolitana, Almost endangered 1 Nothofagus glauca AJTE & CHATE O’Higgins and Maule) which are characterized by mainly having agricultural areas and by the presence of native Minor concern 1 Austrocedrus chilensis CHATE forests, going across 18 districts, in a 256 km area. Source: Environment and Community Unit. 18 Districts In an area of 256 Km CONSERVED AREAS AND PROTECTED SPECIES CHATE CONSERVED MAIN PROTECTED BIODIVERSITY It is located in three regions of the country (Maule, AREAS SPECIES IN THE AREA IMPROVEMENT WORK Ñuble and Biobío), predominantly forest areas, both Quillaja saponaria; Lithraea caustica; Cerros de Huilquio plantations and native, going across 12 districts, with Conventional reforestation Cryptocarya alba; Peumus boldus an extension of 198 km. Cora N˚4 Reserve, Quillaja saponaria y Aristotelia chilensis Conventional reforestation 12 Santa Isabel plot Districts In an area of 198 Km Vacada de Huelquén Sclerophyllous forest Forestry management Vacada de Huelquén Quillaja saponaria; Lithraea caustica; Core reforestation Cryptocarya alba; Peumus boldus DATE Vacada de Huelquén Persea lingue, Crinodendron patagua, It is located in the Atacama region, in the Diego de Conventional reforestation Quillaja saponaria and Cryptocarya alba Almagro district, a desert area, with a 52 km extension. Source: Environment Unit. In an area of 52 Km 140 141 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 5.3.3 Biodiversity impacts management For the case of fauna (304-2, 304-3, G4-EU13) There are flight deviators for the protection of bird fauna, which prevent them from colliding with the transmission lines. REFORESTATION AND COMPENSATION MEASURES The cutting of vegetation or forests for the creation of access roads, security strips or the installation of structures for the Celeo operations are repaired with forest management plans (PMF) via native and / or exotic forest plantation, in addition to environmental compensation measures defined for each project. The commitment made by Celeo for the AJTE and CHATE projects was to reforest and compensate for 938 hectares. By 2019; 92% compliance had been reached and it is expected to reach all areas required by 2020. To finalize the required PMFs, they must meet certain parameters set forth in the current legislation. These are: 1. PMF native forest: According to Chilean Law No. 20,283 on the recovery of native forests and forestry development, the reforestation commitment is fulfilled when it is verified, on the ground, that the reforested species have a survival equal to or greater than 75% of the number of individuals committed in the corresponding plans. This is determined upon two years of life, from planting or natural regeneration. 2. PMF exotic plantation: In the case of exotic plantations, and complying with the same principle, completion is determined when the species has reached a height of 1 meter in arid or semi-arid conditions, or 2 meters in more favorable circumstances. Flight deviators. 3. Environmental compensations: As stated in Chilean Law 19,300, compensation measures must be set during the environmental impact assessment processes regarding significant impacts created. Given the nature of Celeo projects, compensation measures relate to the vegetation component, with work timelines of 5 to 11 years. 142 143 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE REFORESTED AND COMPENSATED AREA IN HECTARES NATIVE EXOTIC COMPENSATIONS REFORESTATION REFORESTATION Planted area 2019 39.5 26.0 0 Cumulative planted area 198.0 580.5 82 Source: Environment Unit. Note: A completed surface area is that where the reforestation / compensation commitment was fulfilled. Celeo currently maintains environmental compensation hectares tied to the AJTE project, Training which have forest establishment monitoring. All workers conducting pedestrian visual These areas were planted in 2014 and in some inspections generate reports that strengthen cases their completion period will end by 2024. environmental management. They are trained The original habitat assessment has therefore not in technical and practical aspects, reinforcing yet been conducted by the Company. their responsibility in the face of pruning remains and protection of fuel used in machines However, it constantly monitors and assesses and trucks during field activities, in order to reforestation and compensation processes in prevent forest fires. order to ensure the effectiveness of the measures taken, issuing periodic reports to detect possible In view of the above, field training is continuous, changes to biodiversity. and the contents include both the environmental management approach, including environmental For this purpose, the company has created “heat restrictions on pruning and cutting vegetation, maps” regarding the density and / or height of the current environmental regulations, in addition vegetation, to inspect the surface areas subject to to hazardous waste management. reforestation / compensation. During the year 3 trainings were WITH A TOTAL OF 46 Participants conducted Reforestation site. 144 145 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 5.4 CLIMATE CHANGE (103-2, 103-3) Climate change is one of the greatest challenges worldwide. One of its main causes is global warming, a phenomenon related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In the face of this situation, the private sector has been called to provide concrete solutions, through innovation and long-term sustainable investments, in order to reduce emissions and thereby prevent the planet’s temperature from continuing to rise. During 2019, Chile via the Department of the Environment (MMA) and the Office of Climate Change worked on the development of a Draft Framework Law on Climate Change, which includes a multi-sector participatory process, with the aim of including the vision and experience of the various key players in this matter. Celeo Chile is committed to the care and protection of the planet, based on three lines of action: 1. Control, monitoring and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 2. Inclusion of adaptation criteria for its operations, preparing contingency plans for climate emergencies and resilience to catastrophes. 3. Compensation for environmental impact, via reforestation and forest maintenance, among other measures. Charrúa-Ancoa 2x500 kV line. 146 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 5.4.2 WE MEASURE: Carbon footprint MODEL TO FACE (305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5) CLIMATE CHANGE The carbon footprint is defined as the set of GHG emissions, produced directly or indirectly WE MEASURE by people, organizations, products, events or geographic regions, in terms of CO2e. Its measurement is mainly used so that companies can communicate their performance against climate change and set reduction, mitigation and compensation strategies. Due to the above, the Company measures emissions of gases into the atmosphere since 2017, calculating its carbon footprint in order to learn about and manage the magnitude of the impact of its operations. WE REDUCE WE ADAPT EMISSIONS IN METRIC TONS OF EQUIVALENT CO2 2017 2018 2019 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) 146.26 178.41 221.62 5.4.1 International Context Indirect GHG emissions when generating energy (scope 2) 28.60 39.94 37.99 A United Nations Framework Convention on Climate (NDC) worldwide and the reduction of GHG, which will be Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) 136.48 102.64 143.30 Change was subscribed in the 2015 Paris Agreement15, determined at COP26. which took place at COP21: a document that sets forth concrete measures to reduce GHG emissions, via the In this context, the “Carbon Footprint” is an index TOTAL 311.33 320.98 402.90 mitigation, adaptation and resilience of ecosystems to enabling to quantify greenhouse gas emissions, as a Source: Environment Unit. Note: Values do not include losses in the transmission line. the effects of global warming. result of the operations conducted by organizations and their members. In December 2019, Spain hosted the Conference of the Ton Eq CO2 environmental impact results Parties (COP25), which sought to establish a reference framework for the deployment of mitigation measures Water Fuel Power 0.27% 55.01% 9.43% Waste Transportation Hazardous waste 0.4% 34.75% 0.15% 15 To learn more about the Paris Agreement and COP21, please visit https://unfccc.int/ Source: Environment Unit. 148 149 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE The challenge for 2020 will be to obtain the footprint detailed by establishments, as to identify in greater Let us learn something! detail what actions should be included to achieve a smaller impact. • Scope 1: corresponds to Direct GHG Emissions, a result of the use of fuel used by own vehicles or those controlled by the organization, in addition to the emergency generator set available at the Santiago offices. • Scope 2: These are Indirect GHG Emissions, which correspond to the global electricity consumption Other polluting emissions into the atmosphere at the company’s work centers. (305-7) • Scope 3: includes other Indirect GHG Emissions, such as daily transfer of personnel to substations, offices or business trips. Additionally, there are other emissions16 from fixed and mobile sources impacting the environment, and that like the carbon footprint only include facilities’ operation and maintenance, leaving out the construction process operated by Elecnor. 5.4.3 WE REDUCE: EMISSIONS TYPES OF EMISSIONS GENERATED BY CELEO CHILE IN KG The figures between 2018 and 2019 show differences, (SEN). Finally, the increase in scope 3, between 2018 which in the case of scope 1, are explained by the and 2019, is the result of the increase in the number of increase in the consumption of vehicle fuels used for workers who entered the company during this period, 2018 2019 line maintenance. related to the transfer to and from the workplace. In the case of scope 2, the decrease relates to the The environmental impact index, according to NOX 819.4 1,165.2 variation in the GHG emission factor of the Sistema the size of the company’s operations, reflects the Eléctrico Nacional (National Electricity System) following results: SOX 48.9 64.8 MP10 89.6 106.7 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS MP25 0.1 0.789 (305-4) CO 5,775 14,511.7 2017 2018 2019 Source: Environment Unit. Carbon footprint (CO2e ton) 311.33 320.98 402.90 The increase in emissions generated was the result of the commissioning Operation size (total line kms) 454 506 506 of the operational phase of the DATE project, which involved the use of two generator sets, trucks and diesel consumption. Environmental impact according to size of the operation 0.685 0.634 0.796 Source: Environment Unit. Note: The environmental impact corresponds to CO2 ton values divided by total line kms. Note 2: 2019 was the first year of the Diego de Almagro line in full operation, which implied an increase in the 16 The methodology used for quantification is the one described in Supreme Decree DS No. 138-2005, use of vehicles for line maintenance. prepared by the Department of Health of the Government of Chile. 150 151 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE What is a river defense? Preparation for climate diversity Did you know what the green tax is? (G4-EU5) Corresponds to the construction of Celeo Chile proactively works to anticipate protection works seeking to provide stability possible contingencies arising at each The green tax was set in the Chilean tax reform (2014) applicable from 2017. It assigns a charge to the towers against possible river floods. season of the year. to companies emitting particulate matter (PM), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and These control measures are reported to carbon dioxide (CO2) produced by 50 MWt boiler or turbine operations, into the air. the community within the environmental This is conducted with a counter-season processing framework of the project. approach, which means that, prevention Due to the green tax, Celeo did not have to pay an associated amount since it did not generate work for the winter months begins in the emissions higher than allowed. These measures have been deployed in summer and vice versa, such as removing the Alto Jahuel and Charrúa projects, plant material from under the facilities, specifically in structures located at the which could turn into fuel and could Tinguiririca, Lontué and Longaví rivers. potentially cause a forest fire, affecting operations and the surrounding biodiversity. On the other hand, in the Diego de Almagro project, there is a river defense in the riverbed at the “La Angostura” gorge. 5.4.4 WE ADAPT: Resilience (201-2) Climate change can put the Additionally, the Operation and Maintenance area facilities and operations of various developed a series of measures to address various industries at risk. This is why contingencies that could arise within the operation. Celeo has adopted a preventive Among them are events such as: rain and snowstorms, approach that enables it to fires near the transmission line, earthquakes or floods. face possible natural disasters or any type of climate impact, strengthening its infrastructure and developing action protocols in the face of such events. Celeo Chile’s operations have been adapting to the challenges As an example, an emergency kit for of climate change. For example, floods was deployed at the Illapa and in areas where towers are near Cumbre substations, which includes: a river and may be affected by a evacuation routes to safe areas, adequate flood, elements of river defense clothing for these events and food and Forest fire passing by line have been included. Actions like hydration to be used in case of isolation 2x500 kV Ancoa-Alto Jahuel. this allow us to respond to the situations due to road cut-offs. effects of climate change. 152 153 06 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE HONESTY “When I received this recognition, I felt very happy and calm, because receiving “Honesty” is just the result of the trust Celeo Chile has in me, daily. It is a way of endorsing that the work is being done well. Our daily concern at Celeo is caring for our company and each other, because by doing things honestly, we can all have a choice to be recognized.” Óscar Arredondo Administration and Finance department Tomás Tozo, from the Management Control team at the Santiago office. 154 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE FIRST IN GRESB 2019 TRANSMISSION INFRASTRUCTURE CATEGORY 6.1 ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT GRESB is an organization that assesses the sustainability performance of real asset sector portfolios and assets around the world in issues relating to the environment, social and governance. Therefore, the Company’s evaluation in this ranking makes it possible to measure the improvement in performance obtained in these areas and Celeo is constantly seeking to continue growing Celeo’s activities were focused on three objectives: provides a valuable comparison with other companies in the infrastructure sector. through innovation, the inclusion of new technologies and the search for new business, and this is why it • Providing financing formulas and resources to prepare In its first participation in 2018, the two companies of the group obtained recognition must maintain financial solidity providing a good basis technical-economic proposals in bids for new projects. in the category of infrastructure companies and in the electricity transmission to address expansion opportunities. • Maintaining financial balance for the group, sector, Celeo Brazil obtained the second position in the transmission companies including compliance with reporting obligations, category, while Celeo Chile held the third position. Energy transmission is an activity that heavily relies on continuous improvement and automation of the organization’s ability to conduct effective economic administrative-financial processes. In 2019 and after a year of hard work and effort by the entire organization, Celeo and financial management in a sustainable manner. • Securing financing for projects awarded in 2018. Chile managed to obtain first place in the ranking, positioning itself as the best A proper administration of existing assets is achieved company in the electricity transmission sector. In turn, Celeo Brazil again obtained via this management, and the required financing is The company looked for new forms of financing in the the second position, which represents a great achievement for the group’s obtained to execute new investments and ensure the market in 2019, in order to execute the construction of sustainability management. financial stability of the company, with a long-term the CASTE and MATE projects. By the end of the year, perspective. The financing strategy includes the Celeo subscribed 30-year financing for an amount of The ranking also presented growth opportunities for Celeo Chile, which provides a involvement of all company units, providing valuable USD 365 million, whose structure has been novel and valuable tool to achieve continuous improvement in sustainability. These aspects pieces of information and their vision of the business. a benchmark for the market. were reviewed and incorporated in the annual management, to continue making progress in the environmental, social and governance fields, aiming to be a leading Celeo’s business model includes obtaining financing company in the industry in these matters. forms that enable the project construction stage to be carried out and ensure a debt repayment period that is as long as possible, in line with the assets’ useful life cycle. CELEO CHILE 2018 2019 Ranking position Electricity Electricity 3rd transmission 1st transmission 2018 sector 2019 sector 87 2019 General infraestructure ranking position Points 101st Place 101 of a 8th Place 8th of a 63 2018 total of 208 total of 393 2018 2019 156 157 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED IN MUSD 2018 2019 6.2 FINANCE Economic value generated 51.65 55.86 AND INVESTMENTS AJTE transmission toll revenue 32.02 31.69 (103-2, 103-3) CHATE Transmission Toll Revenue 17.87 18.31 DATE Transmission Toll Revenue 0 5.62 Other income 1.77 243 Achieving favorable economic results is essential for the conduction of the sustainability strategy Economic value distributed 39.42 52.2 of any company, and at the same time, ensuring Operational expenses 6.65 8.63 the continuity of a business in the long term. The evaluation of the economic performance of the Payment to suppliers 8.63 company is a basic mechanism that ensures the Amount invested in communities creation of value for the various stakeholders. Amount invested in the environment Celeo successfully executes its business plan, Donations investing in assets maintenance and developing new projects that are the key to continuity and projection Salary and benefits to collaborators 1.59 3.52 in the market. Capital providers (financial cost) 27.15 27.91 It also seeks investments and new business Payments to the State (taxes) 4.04 5.96 development to continue providing the country Withheld value 12.28 9.85 with a quality transmission service. Each project demonstrates fulfillment of the responsibilities Note: MUSD = Million dollars. towards shareholders, who place their trust in the potential growth of the company. This is why work is being done to expand its presence in the country and 6.2.2 Expanding our business consolidate itself in the national electricity market. As this is a highly regulated industry, the main On their part, the teams from the Legal, Occupational source for the development of new business is via the Health and Safety, and Environment and Communities involvement in Public Tenders of Coordinador Eléctrico units, make observations on the proposal in terms of the Nacional (National Electricity Coordinator). For this impacts that the development of the project would have, reason, Celeo seeks new opportunities which enable and opportunities to generate value. 6.2.1 Our results it to expand the project portfolio via both tenders and (201-1) operation for third parties. This has resulted in the awarding of five projects in Celeo’s history, three already in operation and two awarded in Collaboration between the various teams of the Company 2018 and already under development. Celeo’s income comes from two sources. The main in preparing proposals has been a great advantage in source is the State-regulated charge for the use of these processes. Each tender is carefully studied by the Another line of business that will continue to be electrical transmission systems (VATT). On the othBusiness Development and Regulatory Affairs unit, which strengthened is the operation with third parties that er hand, income is also received from services procoordinates the preparation of the proposal through a is conducted via the Control Center. This is possible vided to its customers. specific team and has the support of the Administration thanks to the team that is highly trained for these duties. and Finance Management Office, in addition to the Operates other transmission lines and renewable energy technical oversight of the operations management office. generation plants, always maintaining the supply security These synergies are key to correctly and competitively and quality. developing a project cost budget. 158 159 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE CONTROL CENTER CUSTOMERS The financial pillar of the business is truly relevant for Celeo, which is why steps are taken to create and strengthen long-term relationships of trust with institutional investors and financial institutions in general. NAME TYPE These business agreements are based on principles of transparency, First solar Photovoltaic professionalism and mutual benefit, which has been a differentiating element of the Company within the industry and has also been a Santiago solar Photovoltaic significant contribution to support the expansion that its activity has had in recent years. Transchile Transmission line 6.2.3 Solid finances In order to execute the projects, various sources of external financing are required to cover a significant part of the total investment. The financing strategy, therefore, is a critical aspect of the business, since the success of the efforts leading to sustainable development depends on it. The financing required by Celeo is highly structured and includes various conditions and specifications that support the Company in remaining competitive against the competition and can generate bids in tenders that are beneficial for the development of the country. Issue of a 30-year bond In December 2019, Celeo, through its subsidiary CRC Transmission SpA, completed the issuance of a 30-year private bond for a sum of USD 365 million, in the international market. 2019 BOND Currency Issue Placement Term amount date (maturity) USD 365,000,000 06-12-2019 30-11-2049 Main control center in Santiago. 160 161 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 6.3 OPERATIONAL 6.3.1 We seek a reliable electrical supply CONTINUITY (G4-EU4, G4-EU21) (103-2, 103-3) Celeo maintains a total length of 506 kilometers17 of 220 kV to 500 kV Operational continuity mainly focuses on the proper operation of the overhead power lines, which represents a challenge to ensure that the systems, to provide a reliable and safe electricity supply for society. infrastructure enables the delivery of a continuous electricity supply and be a contribution to the development of the country. The success of a transmission company is in its ability to adequately satisfy and serve the requirements of CEN, which is why it is crucial to ensure the proper operation of its assets, so that eventual failures in its systems do not the availability and reliability of the electrical supply. This implies that the infrastructure must be robust enough to be prepared What is supply continuity? (G4-EU28, G4-EU29) for eventualities, and to include risks that may affect the company’s transmission facilities and the systems that keep them in operation. It is a service quality factor relative to the number and duration of service interruptions. These can be unforeseen That is why technical and professional teams are aware of their great or scheduled to allow planned work on the network. responsibility, since they know that their work directly impacts the quality of life and development opportunities of millions of people. Chile’s new energy policy indicates that, by 2035, the Given the above, the Company stands out in the efficiency and safety unavailability of the average electricity supply, without of its facilities, having processes and operations with strict and including force majeure cases, should not exceed four rigorous control systems and procedures. hours per year in any locality of the country, a goal challenging all companies in the generation, transmission and distribution to improve their quality of service. The Operation and Maintenance area is in charge of also contingency plans in the event of catastrophes or generating procedures and instructions to achieve socio-environmental impacts. a continuous availability of the facilities and thus allow energy to be transported across the lines Additionally, training was provided for workers without interruptions. on: new methodologies for checking lines, cuts, scheduled pruning and strip cleaning to maintain the An identification of risks that could affect the facilities condition thereof and prevent fires. For this purpose, was carried out for this purpose, and an action USD 154,441 were invested in activities conducted plan was prepared in relation to the probability of with third parties, (includes felling, removal of plant occurrence. The unit maintains preventive plans material and chipping) which do not include activities pursuant to the best practices in the industry and conducted by their own personnel. 17 AJTE: 256 KM, CHATE: 198 KM, DATE: 52 KM. 162 163 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 Why should the vegetation near the transmission lines be intervened? (G4-EU6) Vegetation near transmission lines poses a threat to the conservation of the areas where they are located, since interaction with electricity that goes through the lines can create a fire, affecting the habitat and biodiversity of the flora and fauna found in location, even being able to extend to nearby populated areas. The activity of removing vegetation or material near the lines allows for a reliable electrical supply. In a fire season, plant material near the lines can cause power cuts, because smoke can cause insulator failure. During 2019, Celeo used a crushing machine for its cutting, rubbing and pruning activities, in order to improve the management of plant waste. All maintenance management materializes in the availability index, which was 99.98% during 2019. These indexes show the great management conducted by the Operation and Maintenance unit, which has maintained the service 99.98% of the time with only 12 hours of forced disconnections per year. OPERATIONAL CONTINUITY (%) TOTAL FAILURE HOURS INSTALLATION 2017 2018 2019 INSTALLATION 2017 2018 2019 AJTE 3 99.80 99.99 99.99 AJTE 3 17.63 0.58 0.40 AJTE 4 98.61 100.00 99.94 AJTE 3 121.98 0.00 5.40 Scheduled losses of power CHATE 100,00 100,00 99.97 AJTE 4 0.00 0.00 2.30 G4-EU12 DATE 99.99 CHATE 4.13 Losses in transmission lines are defined by Coordinador Eléctrico Nacional (National AVERAGE 99.47 100.00 99.98 TOTAL 139.61 0.58 12.23 Electricity Coordinator) (CEN), body in charge of determining and coordinating the operation of the set of facilities of the Sistema Eléctrico Source: Operation and Maintenance Unit. Nacional (National Electricity System). Note: Operational continuity is measured per circuit. In the case of AJTE 3, AJTE 4 and CHATE, each one has one circuit, while in the case of DATE, it was averaged for its eight circuits (two 52-kilometer circuits and six 1-kilometer circuits, which correspond to segments of existing circuit sections) resulting in 99.99% availability for its 4.13 failure hours. Charrúa-Ancoa 2x500 kV line. 164 165 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 6.4 INNOVATION Also, Celeo was the first company in Chile to put the remote protection reading system (SLRP) required by AND TECHNOLOGY CEN into operation. (103-2, 103-3) The development of current societies involves new challenges whose solution The Remote Protection Reading System requires new technology and innovation for sustainable development. (SLRP) project arises as a regulatory requirement from the Technical Standard Celeo, due to its category, must apply technology for the proper operation for Safety and Quality of Service (NTSyCS), of its processes. Similarly, the Information Technology (IT) unit is constantly which is mandatory for all coordinated looking for improvements that may optimize operating processes. entities with facilities larger than 200 kV and aims to provide Coordinador Eléctrico Nacional (National Electricity Coordinator) with the required information that allows for the monitoring and verification of the performance of the electrical system in a better fashion. The project was awarded to the SEIS S.A. company and consists of the installation of specialized Hardware at the substation, for 6.4.1 Technology in our processes the collection of oscillographies and events (G4-EU8) reported by the electrical protection system and a Software module that allows for a friendly user interface. The installation and The Company works in the continuous improvement of its processes by including configuration work was carried out jointly by technology and innovation to maintain the supply availability in an efficient fashion. specialist personnel from Celeo and SEIS S.A. Work was done during 2019 on a fault location system for high-voltage lines, the iQ+ The SLRP enables having all records master station software, which adds greater precision in identifying fault locations, in generated by the protections, as well as such a way as to reduce response times for service restoration. having traceability of adjustment changes made to each relay. It is an important tool Linemen were trained in drone management for their use in daily inspections of the for performing system scans during failure facilities, which have a license issued by Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil (Civil events in near real time. Aviation General Directorate) (DGAC) for the operation of the drones. This technological addition helps in the observation of areas with difficult access and improves the safety of workers dedicated to this task. Were trained 4 Linemen in this sense Cumbre substation, Atacama region. 166 07 ANNEXES 170 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE 7.1 TABLE OF CODE NAME PAGE CONTENTS 102-20 Executive level responsibility for EAS issues 84 (102-55) 102-21 Consultation from interest groups on economic, environmental and social issues 20 and 26 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 72 102-23 Chairman of the highest governance body 11 and 74 NOMENCLATURES 102-24 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 76 N/A Not applicable for Celeo Chile 102-25 Conflicts of interest 87 N/I No information 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in the selection of objectives, values and strategy 74 NMT Index corresponding to a non-material topic for Celeo 102-27 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body S/I 102-28 Performance evaluation of the highest governance body Not performed 102-29 Identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts 52 GRI Content New standards 102-30 Efficacy of risk management processes 52 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social issues 74 CODE NAME PAGE 102-32 Role of the highest governance body in preparing sustainability reports 74 102-33 Communication of critical concerns 24 Profile 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 24 Organization Profile 102-35 Remuneration policies 102 102-1 Name of the organization 4 102-36 Process to define remunerations 103 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 30 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remunerations S/I 102-3 Facility location 4 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio S/I 102-4 Operations locations 4 102-39 Percentage increase ratio in total annual compensation S/I 102-5 Property and legal form 4 and 70 Available to all stakeholders 102-6 Markets served 34 102-40 List of stakeholders 26 102-7 Organization size 30 102-41 Collective negotiation agreements Does not 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 98 have unions 102-9 Supply chain 127 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 26 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 16 102-43 Approach for the involvement of stakeholders 20 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 139 102-44 Key issues and concerns mentioned 20 and 26 102-12 External initiatives 65 Practices for the preparation of reports 102-13 Membership on associations 65 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 70 Strategy 102-46 Definition of the contents of the reports and topic coverage 20 102-14 Statement from top executives in charge of decision making 11-12 102-47 List of materials topics 20 102-15 Main impacts, risks and opportunities 52 102-48 Information reexpression 20 Ethics and integrity 102-49 Changes to report preparation 20 102-16 Values, principles, standards and rules of conduct 38, 68 and 90 102-50 Report period 20 102-17 Advisory Mechanism and Ethical Concerns 87 102-51 Date of last report 20 Governance 102-52 Reporting preparation cycle 20 102-18 Governance structure 72 102-53 Point of contact for questions about the report 4 102-19 Delegation of authority 84 102-54 Report preparation statement, pursuant to GRI standards 20 172 173 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE CODE NAME PAGE CODE NAME PAGE 102-55 GRI Table of Contents 172 GRI 303: Water 2018 102-56 External verification 20 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 134 Management Approach 303-2 Management of impacts related to water discharges N/A 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its coverage 24-25 303-3 Water extraction N/A 103-2 Management approach and its components See each 303-4 Water discharges N/A material topic 103-3 Assessment of the management approach 303-5 Water consumption 134 Theme standards GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 GRI 201: 2016 Business performance 304-1 Operations centers located within or near protected areas 140 201-1 Generated and distributed direct economic value 158 304-2 Significant impacts from activities on biodiversity 143 201-2 Financial implications and other risks derived from climate change 52 and 152 304-3 Protected or restored habitats 143 201-3 Defined benefit plan and other retirement plans obligations TNM 304-4 Species listed on the UINC Red List 140 201-4 Financial assistance received from the government N/A GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 202: Market presence 2016 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) 149 202-1 Ratio of standard entry-level salary to local minimum wage 98 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions when generating energy (scope 2) 149 202-2 Share of senior executives recruited from the local community N/A 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) 149 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 150 203-1 Investments in infrastructure and supported services 122 305-5 GHG emissions reduction 149 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts N/A 305-6 Emissions of ozone layer depleting substances (ODS) N/A GRI 204: Acquisition practices 2016 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (Nox), sulfur oxides (Sox) and other emissions 151 204-1 Local suppliers spending share TNM GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 306-1 Water discharge in terms of quality and final destination N/A 205-1 Operations assessed for corruption related risks 87 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 135 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 87 306-3 Significant spills N/A 205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures taken 91 306-4 Hazardous waste transportation 135 GRI 206: Unfair competition 2016 306-5 Bodies of water affected by water spills and / or slags N/A 206-1 Legal proceedings related to unfair competition and monopolistic practices and against 91 GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 free competition 307-1 Breach of environmental legislation and regulations 91 GRI 301: Material 2016 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume NMT 308-1 Suppliers who have passed assessment and selection checks pursuant to environmental criteria TNM 301-2 Recycled supplies NMT 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 137 301-3 Reused products and packaging materials NMT GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 302: Energy 2016 401-1 New employee hires and staff turnover 98 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 132 401-2 Employee benefits TNM 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization N/A 401-3 Parental leave TNM 302-3 Energy intensity Not reported GRI 402: Worker company relations 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 132 402-1 Minimum notice periods for operational changes TNM 302-5 Reduction of energy requirements for products and services S/I 174 175 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE CODE NAME PAGE CODE NAME PROFILE GRI 403: Work health and safety 2018 GRI 413: Local communities 2016 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system. 106 413-1 Operations with local community involvement 123 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation 111 413-2 Operations with significant negative impacts on local communities 123 403-3 Occupational health services. 111 GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 2016 403-4 Worker involvement, consultation and communication on SYS. 108 414-1 New suppliers who have passed assessment and selection checks pursuant to social criteria TNM 403-5 Training of workers on occupational health and safety. 108 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and measures taken TNM 403-6 Promotion of workers' health 108 GRI 415: Public policy 2016 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of impacts on workers’ health and safety. 111 415-1 Contributions to political parties and / or representatives N/A 403-8 Workers covered by a health and safety management system. 106 GRI 416: Customer health and safety 2016 403-9 Work-related injuries. 111 416-1 Assessment of health and safety impacts from products and services N/A 403-10 Occupational ailments and diseases 111 416-2 Non-compliance cases related to health and safety impacts from products and services N/A GRI 404: Training and teaching 2016 GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 2016 404-1 Average training hours per year per employee 116 417-1 Requirements for products and services’ information and labeling N/A 404-2 Programs to improve employee skills and promote transitioning 119 417-2 Cases of non-compliance related to products and services’ information and labeling N/A 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving performance reviews 115 417-3 Cases of non-compliance related to marketing communications N/A GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 GRI 418: Customer privacy 2016 405-1 Diversity in government bodies and employees 102 418-1 Substantiated claims regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data N/A 405-2 Base salary and women vs men remuneration ratios 102 GRI 419: Socio-economical compliance 2016 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 419-1 Breach of laws and regulations in social and economic matters 91 406-1 Discrimination cases and corrective actions taken There were none GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective negotiations 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers whose right to freedom of association and collective negotiations could TNM be at risk GRI 408: Child labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers with a significant risk of child labor cases TNM GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers with a significant risk of forced or compulsory labor cases TNM GRI 410: Security practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights TNM GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples 2016 411-1 Cases of violations of indigenous peoples’ rights N/A GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations reviewed or assessed on human rights TNM 412-2 Human rights training for employees TNM 412-3 Investment agreements and contracts with human rights clauses TNM 176 177 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 CELEO CHILE GRI G4 contents Energy sector supplement CODE NAME PAGE CODE NAME PAGE Organization Profile GR4-DMA Policies and requirements regarding the health and safety of employees and contractors 110 EUSD EC G4-EU1 Installed capacity N/A (formerly G4-EU2 Net energy production N/A G4-EU16) GR4-EU3 Number of consumption units N/A G4-EU17 Days worked by subcontracted workers S/I G4-EU4 Extension of overhead and underground transmission and distribution lines 163 G4-EU18 Percentage of subcontracted workers receiving relevant health and safety training S/I G4-EU5 Allocation of emission rights (subsidies) for CO2e emissions 152 Social Society Category Economic Category Local communities Reliability and availability GR4-DMA Involvement of stakeholders in energy planning processes for infrastructure development. 123 EUSD EC G4-DMA Management approach to ensure the availability and reliability of the energy supply 164 (formerly EUSD EC G4-EU19) (formerly G4-EU6) GR4-DMA Displacement impacts management approach N/A EUSD EC G4-EU10 Planned capacity over projected long-term energy demand N/A (formerly G4-EU20) Demand management G4-EU22 Number of physically and economically displaced persons and compensation 120 GR4-DMA Demand side management program N/A EUSD EC Emergency and disaster planning and response (formerly G4-EU7) G4-EU21 Contingency planning measures, management plan and disaster / emergency training programs, 163 in addition to recovery / restoration plans Research and development Social Product responsibility category G4-EU8 Activities and expenses related to research and development for energy supply reliability Customer health and safety Plant dismantling G4-EU25 Number of service users’ accidents and deaths N/A GR4-DMA Provision for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants N/A EUSD EC Access (formerly G4-DMA Programs to improve or maintain access to electricity N/A G4-EU9) EUSD PR Efficiency system (formerly G4-EU23) G4-EU11 Thermoelectric plant average generation efficiency N/A G4-EU26 Population not served in areas with a regulated distribution or service. N/A G4-EU12 Transmission and distribution losses 165 G4-EU27 Number of residential disconnections due to non-payment N/A Environmental Category G4-EU28 Equivalent frequency of interruption per consumer (FEC) 163 Biodiversity G4-EU29 Average duration of equivalent frequency of interruption per consumer (FEC) 163 G4-EU13 Replacement habitat biodiversity compared to biodiversity on affected areas 143 G4-EU30 Average plant availability factor N/A Social Category Labor practices and decent work Supply of information Employment G4-DMA Practices for dealing with barriers to access to electricity and customer services, as well as its N/A GR4-DMA Programs and processes ensuring labor availability TNM EUSD PR safe use EUSD EC (formerly (formerly G4-EU24) G4-EU14) G4-EU15 Percentage of employees entitled to retirement in the following 5 and 10 years TNM 178 179 √ √ S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 √ CELEO CHILE √ 7.2 VERIFICATION LETTER Conclusions √ The assurance process was based on the indicators established in the materiality process carried out by Celeo. Once those indicators were identified, prioritized, and validated, they were included in the report. The reported and verified indicators appear in the following table: Deloitte Advisory SpA Rosario Norte 407 Las Condes, Santiago Chile 102-1 102-2 102-3 102-4 102-5 102-6 102-7 Fono: (56) 227 297 000 102-8 102-9 102-10 102-11 102-12 102-13 102-14 Fax: (56) 223 749 177 102-15 102-16 102-17 102-18 102-19 102-20 102-21 deloittechile@deloitte.com www.deloitte.cl 102-22 102-23 102-24 102-25 102-26 102-28 102-29 102-30 102-31 102-32 102-33 102-34 102-35 102-36 102-40 102-41 102-42 102-43 102-44 102-45 102-46 102-47 102-48 102-49 102-50 102-51 102-52 102-53 102-54 102-55 102-56 103-1 103-2 103-3 201-1 201-2 202-1 203-1 205-1 205-2 205-3 206-1 302-1 302-4 303-1 303-5 304-1 304-2 304-3 304-4 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-4 305-5 305-7 306-2 306-4 307-1 308-2 401-1 403-1 403-2 INDEPENDENT REVISION REPORT OF CELEO 403-3 403-4 403-5 403-6 403-7 403-8 403-9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 403-10 404-1 404-2 404-3 405-1 405-2 406-1 413-1 413-2 419-1 Sirs Celeo: √ Regarding the verified indicators, we can say that no aspect has arisen to lead us to believe that the 2019 Present. Sustainability Report of Celeo has not been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards in those areas Please find here in the outcomes of the revision of the 2019 Sustainability Report of Celeo according to the identified in the scope. following aspects: Scope Celeo Management and Deloitte Responsibilities Limited assurance engagement of the adherence of the contents and indicators included in the 2019 The drafting of the 2019 Sustainability Report, as well as its contents are under Celeo responsibility, Sustainability Report to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, regarding the organization’s profile which is in charge of the definition, adaptation, and maintenance of the management and internal and material indicators arising from the materiality process that the Company carried out following said control systems from who the information is obtained. Standards related to the economic, social, and environmental dimensions. Our responsibility is to issue an independent report based on the procedures applied in our review. This report has been prepared exclusively by Celeo’s request, in accordance with the terms established in the Engagement Letter. Standards and Assurance Process We have developed our work according to the standards of Independence established in the Code of Ethics of the IFAC. We have carried out our task in accordance with the guidelines of the International Standard on Assurance The conclusions of the verification made by Deloitte apply to the latest version of the Celeo Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) issued by the Sustainability Report received on May 05, 2020. International Auditing and Assurance Standard Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants The scope of a limited assurance engagement is essentially inferior to a reasonable assurance (IFAC). engagement, thus, we are not hereby providing opinion about the 2019 Celeo Sustainability Report. Our review has consisted in an inquiry process involving different Celeo units and management areas, involved in the process of developing the Sustainability Report, as well as in the application of analytic procedures and verification tests, which are described in the following items: √ Meeting with Sustainability management. √ Requirements and review of evidence with the areas participating in the preparation of the 2019 Sustainability Report. √ Analysis of the adherence of the contents of the 2019 Sustainability Report to the GRI Standards: Core option, and review of the indicators included in the report in order to verify that they are aligned with the Fernando Gaziano protocols established in the Standards, and whether the fact that some indicators are not applicable or Partner not material is justified. √ Verification, through tests of quantitative and qualitative information corresponding to the GRI Standards indicators included in the 2019 Sustainability Report, and its adequate gathering from the data provided May 8, 2020 by Celeo information sources. 180 √ 181 CONTENT DEVELOPMENT: KELLUN DESIGN: MANDARINA S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 SUSTA I NA B I LI T Y RE PORT 2019
