Doosan Infracore 2019 Integrated Report Doosan Group & Doosan Infracore Doosan Infracore 2019 Integrated Report MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS CEO Message . 02 Our Business Model . 04 Performance Review & Outlook . 06 OUR APPROACH Global Megatrend . 13 Industry Impact . 14 Materiality Analysis . 15 Material Issues . 16 Doosan Infracore Sustainable Value Framework . 18 OUR STRATEGY Growth & Soundness . 22 Product & Market . 36 Innovation & Digitalization . 50 OUR RESPONSIBILITY About This Report CSR Structure . 62 Reporting Purpose Doosan Infracore strives to Governance . 65 embody corporate social responsibility (CSR) in its overall corporate management. To this end, the Integrity & Risk Management . 69 company publishes an integrated report to disclose Reporting Method its financial and non-financial performance results Environment, Health & Safety . 74 generated through the interaction of diverse CSR Suppliers . 84 factors, based on which corporate values are created. External Assurance This report has been assured by This is Doosan Infracore’s eighth Integrated Report, Samjong KPMG, an independent assurance service Printed Material Product Quality & Stewardship . 89 and continued discussions and improvements are provider, to ensure the propriety and integrity of This report is published in Employees . 94 taking place for more effective and transparent the reporting processes as well as the accuracy and Korean, English and Chinese to disclosure of information. credibility of its contents. The Independent Assurance communicate better with Communities . 103 Report is attached in the Appendix section. our global stakeholders Reporting Process 26 departments related to the APPENDIX company’s strategy, R&D, production, sales, investor Disclaimer This report contains details of some relations, and communications have participated future activities, events and situations based on the in the planning of this Integrated Report in order company’s plans and estimations of future financial PDF to enable comprehensive reporting on Doosan outcomes, which may turn out to be inaccurate in the This report is available in PDF format Financial Performance Infracore’s financial and non-financial performance event of changes in the global business landscape. which can be downloaded at as well as social and environmental values, with a The plans and estimations draw upon the best www.doosaninfracore.com Consolidated Financial Statements . 108 particular focus on 2019 performance results and information available at the time of completion of future plans of the company. this report, with due consideration given to future Non-Financial Performance business environments as well as the company’s Contact Us CSR Facts & Figures . 112 Reporting Period This report presents quantitative elaborate business strategies. Doosan Infracore, Doosan Infracore Communication data about the company’s performance during therefore, would like to remind its stakeholders that CSR/Shared Growth Team CSR part Independent Assurance Report . 118 the 2019 calendar year. However, the company’s this report contains some predictions that may be 23rd Fl. Doosan Tower Building, qualitative activities mentioned in the report, affected significantly due to the risks, uncertainties 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Junggu, Global Network . 120 including the composition of the BOD, include and other factors involved in the company’s global Seoul (04563), Korea developments recorded until the end of April 2020. operations. E-mail: csr.di@doosan.com Doosan Group Doosan, Our Name Doosan – a combined word of “doo (a measuring unit of grains)” and “san (mountain)” – means “little grains of sand Doosan Infracore Company Profile Doosan Group & Doosan Infracore Doosan Infracore was founded in 1937 as Chosun Machine Works, that together make a mountain.” Doosan now aims to achieve higher the first large-scale machine manufacturing factory in Korea. Through goals based on its 124-year management philosophy and business continuous growth for more than 80 years, it has become the credo. nation’s top machine manufacturing company. Its product line-up The oldest and one of A world-leading company in the fastest growing in Korea Doosan Fulfills Basic Human Needs Doosan came into being as infrastructure solutions based on includes construction equipment, engines, a variety of attachments, and utility equipment. Based on its world-class competitiveness, Doosan Infracore 2019 Integrated Report MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS a front runner of its times in 1896 when the founding Chairman world-class competitiveness Doosan Infracore is moving forward to grow into a global leader in CEO Message . 02 Seung-Jik Park opened Korea’s first Western-style shop, soon the infrastructure solutions. followed by another first, locally-produced cosmetics. In the 1950s, Our Business Model . 04 2019 Financial Highlights 2019 Financial Highlights Company Name Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Doosan engaged in international trade and established OB Beer, 2019 Financial Highlights (Unit: KRW million; (Unit: KRWFinancial 2019 million; Highlights Performance Review & Outlook . 06 emerging as a business group. In the 1960s, it entered construction, Year Founded 1937 based on consolidated financial statements) based on consolidated financial statements) food and beverage, machinery, media, and culture business. In CEO Sohn, Dong Youn 18,535,738 8,185,840 the following decades, Doosan further expanded into the business OUR APPROACH Main Business Areas Production and sales of of offering clean water, energy, infrastructure, buildings and other construction equipment and engines things that are essential to daily life and progress. Sales Sales Employees 4,603 (Including overseas worksites; as of December 31, 2019) Global Megatrend . 13 Doosan Has No Fear of Change In the year that marked the 100th anniversary of its founding, Doosan incorporated multiple subsidiaries Industry Impact . 14 into the holding company and implemented advanced processes Business Overview Materiality Analysis . 15 1,261,860 840,397 and systems as a second launch of its journey to the next 100 years. Construction Equipment Thereafter, through a series of mergers and acquisitions, Doosan Material Issues . 16 The Construction Equipment Business Area has supplied high quality has transformed into a global company competitive in infrastructure Operating Income medium and large heavy equipment to industrial sites since 1977, Doosan Infracore Sustainable Value Framework . 18 Operating Income support business. contributing to the development of the global infrastructure industry. The Construction Equipment Business Area has prestigious global OUR STRATEGY Doosan Expands Its Global Footprint Doosan competes and thrives brands, such as Doosan, Bobcat, and Geith, with product line-up both at home and abroad. From power plants supplying electricity in ranging from compact to medium and large construction equipment. 29,169,747 11,338,593 India to desalination plants piping fresh water into millions of people It has production bases in Korea, North America, China, and Europe. in the Middle East; as well as from construction equipment building It provides world-class products in construction equipment and Growth & Soundness . 22 bases for life to fuel cells and energy storage devices soaring in attachments, portable air compressors, lighting systems, and Total Assets Total Assets Product & Market . 36 demand, Doosan is improving the quality of human life through portable power equipment. technology. Innovation & Digitalization . 50 Excavator Wheel Loader Doosan Prepares for the Future Doosan will stay focused on ADT Attachment Total Equity 6,819,539 developing such core technologies as collaborative robots, portable fuel cells, and unmanned automation for construction equipment, thus improving business fundamentals. From clean water and Total Equity 4,267,552 Engine Special Equipment OUR RESPONSIBILITY electricity to cutting-edge solutions to turning great ideas into a Established in 1958, the Engine Business Area produced the first CSR Structure . 62 reality, Doosan aims to create a world of opportunity where all diesel engine in Korea and has continued to expand its business Governance . 65 peoples unlock their full potential. That is the idea we have when we portfolio. It supplies diesel and gas engines for buses and trucks, say we are building your tomorrow today. Integrity & Risk Management . 69 power generators and ships, as well as various industrial engines Doosan Credo – Our Aspirations and Core Values across the world. Based on its product line-up that meets increasingly Environment, Health & Safety . 74 The Doosan Credo is what has inherited, refined and stipulated Doosan’s Aspiration stringent world-wide environmental regulations, the Engine Business Suppliers . 84 management philosophy and business creed for more than 120 years. Doosan aims to become a “Proud Global Doosan.” “Proud Doosan” means Area is emerging fast as the world’s top-tier engine manufacturer. The Doosan Credo consists of nine core values that form the basis for all that all stakeholders feel proud of being engaged with Doosan. To employees, It has been enhancing its global competitiveness by attracting new Product Quality & Stewardship . 89 decisions made and actions taken at Doosan, and through which Doosan it means being member of Doosan that instills pride in them; to customers, customers for existing products and exploring new markets and new Employees . 94 achieves its ultimate goal. The Doosan Credo is accomplished through being proud consumers of Doosan that offers high-quality products and business opportunities. Communities . 103 Doosan’s aspiration and core values. services; and to shareholders, being investors of Doosan that delivers just Generator Engine Off-Highway Engine and high returns. Core Values On-Highway (Automotive) Engine Marine Diesel Engine APPENDIX All of us at Doosan practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo every Affiliates Parts & Service day. To create “Proud Global Doosan,” Doosan employees around the world Doosan is making efforts to improve the foundation for life. Doosan can practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo in all places where they be found in various fields, ranging from the entire infrastructure support operate. These values guide the way we do business, the way we treat each business that includes industrial facilities, machinery, equipment and Brand Financial Performance other, and the way we work with all of our partners. The nine core values of construction, to the consumer goods business. Doosan Infracore’s brand represents Doosan’s proud history and Consolidated Financial Statements . 108 the Doosan Credo are as follows: remarkable growth, and receives worldwide recognition. Integrity and Non-Financial Performance People Cultivating People Transparency Doosan Auxiliary Infrastructure Consumer & Service CSR Facts & Figures . 112 World-class Technology Corporation Organizations Support Business Business Inhwa Customers and Innovation Independent Assurance Report . 118 Safety and Profit Social Responsibility Environment Global Network . 120 For more information on Doosan Infracore’s brand, More information on the Doosan Credo and our core values More information on the subsidiaries of Doosan Group visit our website at www.doosaninfracore.com or is available at https://www.doosan.com/en/intro/credo is available at https://www.doosan.com/en/intro/affiliates scan this QR code with a smartphone 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 02 03 Management Analysis CEO Message CEO Message The year 2020 looks to be a year of extreme uncertainty as the confluence of the continuing global economic downturn and the COVID-19 pandemic more likely spawn unprecedented variables. The more uncertain looks the path ahead the greater focuses on fundamentals. Doosan Infracore will therefore implement three key strategies – strengthening fundamentals, diversifying product and regional portfolios, and developing future growth drivers – in order to continue our innovation drive and seize on new opportunities. Strengthening fundamentals We will improve upon fundamentals to stay competitive and profitable even in the event of drastic market fluctuations. We will sharpen our competitive edge in pricing, product quality, and customer service by optimizing resource allocations, curtailing costs, and improving other components of our value chain, in the process delivering a higher level of customer value. Also, by harnessing massive amounts of data and information being generated as a byproduct, we will create the basis for big data-based decision making and apply it to our business activities. Diversifying product and regional portfolios We will expand our construction equipment product line-up, restructure distribution channels, and strengthen sales in the global market. We will increase our overseas market share by equipping wheel loaders and new products with Stage V engines, In North American and emerging markets, we will channel resources into sales of large-sized equipment and development of large-scale dealers. In China, we will maintain our market position with introduction of special equipment, low-end wheel and crawler excavators, against local competition. In developing new markets, we will leverage our digital platform with the aim of providing total solutions to customers. As for engine business, we will pursue stable revenue growth by ramping up after-sale services and solution business while increasing external sales through expansion of the new product line-up and improvement of cost competitiveness. Developing future growth drivers Unmanned and automation technologies are the key concept of futuristic technologies Doosan Infracore is developing. In November 2019, we successfully demonstrated Concept-X, an all-purpose control solution packed with unmanned and automation technologies. In May 2020, we launched XiteCloud, a smart solution that significantly increases productivity at construction sites. XiteCloud is considered a prelude to commercialization of Concept-X. It processes and analyzes such various data as those from floor plans as well as generated by drones and other devices, thus enabling the establishment of optimal plans and the execution of efficient construction. Going forward, we will continue to maintain the growth momentum we have built over the years by improving and I thank you sincerely for your interest and encouragement. commercializing technological advances of ours, and securing electric excavator, hybrid powertrain, and other ecofriendly technologies. As a member of the global community, Doosan Infracore is faithfully carrying out our roles and responsibilities. We are growing as a proud global company with the ardent support of customers, shareholders, suppliers, Making relentless efforts to improve social sustainability employees, local communities, and other stakeholders. In addition to improving product quality and cost competitiveness, Doosan Infracore faithfully practices ethical management and actively promotes transparent and continuous dialogues with our stakeholders under strong The driving force of this growth is clearly stated in the corporate motto, “Powered by Innovation.” The motto corporate governance and sound risk management. We are also building a win-win partnership with suppliers to grow captures the importance of the innovation drive we have been pushing forward, signifies our resolution to sow together. We are supporting future generations and local communities, while taking an active part in responding to the seeds of innovation across the field of operations, and emphasizes our determination to nurture business climate change and preserving the environment. Through these and other efforts, Doosan Infracore is taking the lead possibilities based on the driving force stemming from our tireless pursuit of innovation. We make continuous in increasing the sustainability of our society and ushering in a better future for all stakeholders. efforts to improve how we work and what we produce to provide customers with optimal solutions, we move forward towards our vision, “Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions.” I ask for your continued interest and support for Doosan Infracore, as we advance into a global company of which all stakeholders are proud in a world where we help realize the dreams of humankind. Outlook and Plans for 2020 In 2019, despite a global economic downturn, Doosan Infracore posted sales of KRW 8,185.8 billion, a 5.9% Sohn, Dong Youn increase year-on-year, and an operating income of KRW 840.4 billion, that shows a stable performance relative to Chief Executive Officer the performance of 2018. Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 04 05 Management Analysis Our Business Model Our Business Model Doosan Infracore strives to maximize its corporate value by effectively investing its financial and non-financial resources in its value chain. We actively address social and environmental issues related to our business operations, while pursuing our vision of becoming a “Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions” as a means to ensure sustainable growth and contribute to social development. Capital Input Value Chain Key Performance In 2019 Funds that are generated Sales KRW 8,185.8 billion Operating income KRW 840.4 billion through management, Increased by 5.9% year-on-year mainly attributable Achieved a stable performance, relative to 2018, to the growth in advanced markets and some when we posted the highest figure ever, thanks investments or financing, Financial Financial1) emerging markets, as well as sales increase in to our efforts to increase sales and improve and that can be used by engines for Doosan Bobcat and generators profitability an organization to produce products or provide Debt ratio 165.7% services Decreased by 23%p year-on-year as a result of increased profits which in turn led to capital expansion Manufactured articles, Production facility LTIR2) 1.17 Manufactured such as facilities and investments KRW 170.2 billion buildings that can be Product Development OIFR3) 0.315 Manufactured Investments to increase production capacity used by an organization Develop products, that meet and improve the plant environment to produce products or customer requirements and provide services next-generation emissions Production regulations, and unmanned Excavators and wheel loaders 24,612 and automation technologies based on such market trends 01 Engines 105,916 as customer requirements, An organization’s eco-friendly fuel and ICT knowledge-based Intellectual Domestic and overseas Percentage of R&D on unmanned and intangible assets, such intellectual property rights4) automation technologies among Intellectual as patents, copyrights, Applications 3,914 R&D projects of the company 28.3% software rights, and (including 2,524 patents) licenses 02 05 Registrations 2,871 (including 1,648 patents) Procurement In-use Build a healthy ecosystem Conduct field surveys and operate the Members’ capabilities for win-win growth by Customer Support Center and other channels Employee turnover rate 1.05% Training expenses providing programs to to communicate with diverse customers Human and experiences that per person KRW 750,000 drive innovation and strengthen supplier Launch a Mobile Parts Book aimed at Human competencies, including Training hours per person 40.6 hours allow the understanding, development, and execution the Leading Suppliers 03 04 increasing customer convenience including easier access to parts information of an organization’s program and benefit sharing system Social/Network strategies Involved in UN Global Compact since 2013 Leading Suppliers (cumulative) 32 Operated programs designed to help our suppliers improve their own capabilities and secure CCI investment KRW 8.64 billion fundamental competitiveness Social/Network Stakeholder relations and trust, and other intangible assets related to brands Manufacturing and reputation developed Maximize production efficiency and Energy consumption5) 2,142 TJ Greenhouse gas improve manufacturing competitiveness Improved by 7.5% compared to the energy emissions5) 112,186 tCO2eq by an organization Natural through the Global Manufacturing intensity in 2017 by making continuous efforts to identify tasks to reduce energy consumption and Execution System (GMES) Sales & Service implement them Build a systematic product line-up to increase customer satisfaction, optimize parts supply processes, and strengthen All environmental 1) Based on consolidated financial statements customer services, such as DoosanCARE resources, both renewable 2) LTIR (Lost Time Incidents Rate): Number of incidents involving more than one-day closure of workday per 100 Natural and non-renewable, that Develop DoosanCONNECT™-based service workers, Total number of lost time cases/Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 3) OIFR (Occupational Illness Frequency Rate): Number of workers who have occupational illness and other can be used to provide solution products and increase untact related illness/Total workers (Application of calculation formula of the Korea Occupational Safety and Health products or services sales through a digital platform Agency, Unit: %) 4) Based on consolidated entities as of 2019 year-end 5) Based on business sites in Korea 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 06 07 Management Analysis Performance Review & Outlook Performance Review & Outlook 2019 Performance Summary Performance Overview Financial Performance Since 2016, the global construction machinery market has been 1. Business Performance growing with global economic recovery and increasing demands Despite uncertainties shrouding the global economy, the sales for repurchases. The market growth in 2019 can be attributed to performance of Doosan Infracore in 2019 increased 5.9% year-onrobust commercial real estate and public construction sectors in year to KRW 8,185.8 billion, surpassing the KRW 8 trillion mark for North America, increased housing and infrastructure investments the first time, based on the current business portfolio (including in Europe, and a government-led expansion of infrastructure construction equipment and engines, excluding machine tools investment in China. The market expects solutions business to included in 2011 when the company posted record high sales). play a bigger role as a response to diverse, segmented customers’ The record performance is attributable to the robust growth of all Successful demonstration 1.7-ton mini excavator 87.3% trends. Accelerated digitalization across global construction sites advanced and some emerging markets and to increased sales of of Concept-X Winner of the 2020 Red Dot Design Award Percentage of premium eco-friendly encourages the opportunity to expand new digital-based business. Doosan Bobcat and generator engine operations. Operating income Boryeong Proving Ground in 2019 in the product design category or ecO-friendly products Meanwhile, the global engine market also has grown since 2016 on decreased by KRW 7.7 billion to KRW 840.4 billion, while net income the back of China’s booming construction equipment market and increased by KRW 1.5 billion to KRW 395.7 billion. on a stable demand for gas engines from the oil & gas market fueled by a recovering oil price. Going forward, the market is expected to Sales Records (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) grow further on the account of such positive factors as market entry opportunities that are expected to increase as the exhaust emission 2017 2018 2019 standards of many nations are set to transition into a higher phase; Sales 6,567,897 7,730,108 8,185,840 strong growth momentum in the high-power large-size engine Cost of sales 5,024,999 5,936,246 6,273,219 sector; and rising demands for engines in Southeast Asia and other 1,542,898 1,793,862 1,912,621 Gross profit Doosan Sustainable 9 consecutive years 2019 National Sharing emerging markets. Selling and Value Framework Agreed on collective Grand Awards administrative 882,129 945,734 1,072,224 Amid such market developments, Doosan Infracore had its business expenses Established integrated midto long-term bargaining agreements Received the Prime Minister’s without dispute base re-established in 2015 and 2016 in a bid to improve business Operating income 660,769 848,127 840,397 financial and non-financial goals Commendation in the donation category growth potential and stability, and has made continuous efforts Other non-operating 64,153 36,084 13,936 to solidify its business base by reorganizing its channel structure, income improving product competitiveness, and enhancing service capacity Other and quality. The company also sought to diversify business by non-operating 72,932 63,697 63,837 acquiring business rights to sell heavy equipment in advanced expenses markets, preparing new product lines, developing large-order Net income before 489,627 616,426 603,009 income tax customers, launching D20 Capital, and conducting other forwardlooking business. Moreover, Doosan Infracore achieved sales Income tax 192,984 222,257 207,311 expense increase by launching DoosanCONNECT™, “Concept-X,” electric Net income 296,643 394,170 395,698 excavator development and other next-generation projects, and by 10 consecutive years A 2018 Integrated Report continuing other efforts to make a new leap forward. Listed in the machine and Rated Class A in the ESG Evaluation Received Honors at Sales electric equipment categories of by the Korea Corporate the 2019 ARC Awards In addition to financial performance, Doosan Infracore is enhancing 5.9% (Unit: KRW billion; based on consolidated financial statements) DJSI Korea Governance Service value for both stakeholders and society. The company sets the direction for CSR activities to conduct based on its CSR strategy, and 2019 8,185.8 with the CSR Committee taking a central role, it shares the directives company-wide, and builds up its collective ability to execute them 2018 7,730.1 accordingly. It also aligns its activities as a company with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to ensure a Net income Sales Operating Income Net Income 0.4% sustainable future for society and the company. Moreover, in order to measure the social value of business activities it conducts, Doosan 8,185.8 840.4 395.7 Infracore makes proactive efforts, such as analyzing the social 2019 395.7 value of Concept-X, a new solution to productivity improvement at 2018 394.2 construction sites based on the KPMG’s “True Value” methodology. KRW billion KRW billion KRW billion 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 08 09 Management Analysis Performance Review & Outlook 2. Financial Status 6. Intellectual Assets Engine As of the end of 2019, Doosan Infracore’s total assets amounted Parts Book to help its customers better maintain their equipment (Unit: KRW million) Doosan Infracore is expanding R&D investment with the aim of to KRW 11,338.6 billion, up KRW 309.4 billion increase from the using genuine Doosan parts, and in November 2019, demonstrated 2017 2018 2019 securing product competitiveness and laying a solid foundation previous year, total liabilities to KRW 7,071.0 billion, KRW 137.3 Concept-X, a comprehensive next-generation construction site 501,792 532,350 578,143 for long-term growth. Doosan Infracore’s R&D Division consists Sales billion decrease, and total equity to KRW 4,267.6 billion, KRW 446.7 control solution, at the Boryeong Proving Ground to customers and of three units – heavy product development, which undertakes Operating income 75,837 105,660 82,353 billion increase. other stakeholders. research into the company’s key products, such as excavators and wheel loaders; engine product development, which focuses on Financial Conditions In 2019, despite declining demands following US-China trade meeting emissions and fuel efficiency regulations; and the Institute (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) disputes, the Construction Equipment BG maintained its sales 4. Cash Flow & Solvency of Technology, which is in charge of product design, high-strength 2017 2018 2019 performance at KRW 3,148.4 billion, a 3.3% year-on-year decrease, Cash flows from operating activities in 2019 amounted to KRW 567.4 metal development, and virtual verification/analysis for improved Current assets 3,767,434 4,426,822 4,304,912 and KRW 281.0 billion in operating income, comparable to 2018’s billion, KRW 270.4 billion decrease from the previous year, while hardness. All these R&D activities are aimed to create a distinct Non-current assets 6,508,656 6,602,345 7,033,681 figure. The stable income performance can be attributable to the cash and cash equivalents decreased by KRW 296.8 billion from technological advantage for the company, and to establish an Total assets 10,276,090 11,029,167 11,338,593 steady growth of advanced markets and some emerging markets. KRW 1,053.0 at the beginning of the year to KRW 756.2 billion at the advanced engineering process. 3,695,646 3,778,574 4,484,420 end of the year. Current liabilities Construction Equipment Based on non-consolidated financial statements, Doosan Infracore’s Non-current 3,407,283 3,429,778 2,586,621 (Unit: KRW million) liabilities Liquidity risk rises in the event where the counterparty of a payment R&D expenses in 2019 increased KRW 14.2 billion year-on-year 2017 2018 2019 agreement forgoes its contractual obligation due to a liquidity issue, and reached KRW 149.3 billion, equivalent to 4.8% of total sales. Total liabilities 7,102,929 7,208,352 7,071,041 Sales 2,683,478 3,254,939 3,148,433 or where the company becomes unable to raise funds for normal As of the end of 2019, the number of intellectual property rights Total equity 3,173,161 3,820,815 4,267,552 Operating income 190,417 283,417 281,029 operations. Doosan Infracore establishes three-month and annual applications made in Korea and overseas by consolidated entities Total assets fund balance plans to predict the balance of funds related to sales, had reached 3,914, and the number registered totaled 2,871. (Unit: KRW million) investment and other financial activities, and secures and maintains 2.8% 3.2 Engine The year 2019 was marked by escalating global trade conflicts and weakening investment sentiments, which in turn an adequate level of liquidity in advance against unexpected Total liabilities Total equity liquidity risks. Non-Financial Performance combined to suppress commodity prices, to heighten FX volatility, 2019 7,071,041 4,267,552 11,338,593 to increase labor costs, and to add weight to other burdens on Cash Flow 1. Social Performance (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) corporations. Also, business competition further intensified as 1.1. Customers Doosan Infracore makes continuous efforts to improve ▽137,311 ▲446,737 Chinese companies continued their growth and aggressive pricing 2017 2018 2019 customer satisfaction. To this end, the company is developing 2018 7,208,352 3,820,815 11,029,167 strategies. Cash flows specialty equipment, operating Customization Plants that assemble Cash flows from 665,691 837,778 567,418 machinery to custom orders; expanding the line-up of genuine and Faced with these and other business challenges, Doosan Infracore’s operating activities economy parts; optimizing global parts supply networks centered 3. Performance by Business Engine BG implemented the strategy of increasing the proportion Cash flows from around Parts Distribution Centers (PDCs); and developing and mass(256,289) (312,848) (339,375) of external sales for more stable profit flows and made noteworthy investing activities 3.1. Construction Equipment In 2019, the global construction producing European Stage V and other engines to next-generation machinery market grew from 2018. North America, the second achievements – it discovered new customers for Stage V engines, Cash flows from 32,267 (422,558) (549,790) emission specifications. It is also bolstering market competitiveness financing activities largest global market, continued to grow despite a slowing housing which meet the new European exhaust emissions standards; by accelerating the pace of our technological innovation and construction sector, spurred by healthy non-housing and public extended a gas engine supply contract with PSI, a top-tier gas Cash and cash equivalents improving fundamental quality. In addition, it has expanded the construction sectors as well as by steady energy demands. In generator in North America; and completed the construction of DoosanCONNECT™ service internationally, which enables global Cash and cash Europe, while Brexit uncertainties sapped the UK market, rising production facilities of Lovol Doosan Engine Company Joint Venture 538,578 943,481 1,053,016 customers to better manage their construction projects by keeping equivalents, housing demands and growing infrastructure investments in (LDEC JV) in China. It also successfully developed and launched beginning of the year them updated on the location and status of their equipment, Eastern and Southern Europe pushed the continental market engines that meet strict emissions standards by focusing on Cash and cash including engines and parts. up. The Chinese market also grew on a state-fueled increase in electronic engines and post-processing equipment in response equivalents, 943,481 1,053,016 756,173 end of the year infrastructure investments and on rising demands for equipment to tougher exhaust emission and other standards in North To support customers’ convenient and efficient equipment replacements following tightening environmental regulations. In America, Europe, China, Asia and Middle East. In preparation for operations, the company has developed and launched “Smart contrast, emerging markets decreased in size in most regions except an expansion of the alternative fuel market, it set up additional 5. Production Assets Maintenance,” a preemptive maintenance service made possible by the CIS and South America, due to a contraction of trade caused by gas engine production lines, and in response to future powertrain Facilities and equipment in the consolidated financial statement the information of equipment operational status collected through US-China trade disputes and incessant unrests in the Middle East. technologies, launched a 48V mild hybrid powertrain prototype. include land, buildings, structures, machinery and assets under DoosanCONNECT™. Doosan Infracore improves customer value by With these developments, it aims to satisfy the needs of its diverse construction. As of the end of 2019, the company’s book value of providing product information, educating customers on equipment In 2019, Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment BG improved customer segments in the mid to long run. facilities and equipment stood at KRW 1,871.5 billion, an increase of maintenance and other types of customer support content through its profitability on the strength of progressing efforts at securing cost KRW 88.8 billion from the previous year. In 2019, newly accumulated social media and other digital platforms as well as by operating competitiveness, and increasing sales of high value-added parts In 2019, Doosan Infracore’s Engine BG posted sales of KRW 578.1 acquisitions and capital expenditures stood at KRW 266.1 billion, customer communication channels. and special equipment. In addition to financial results, it launched billion, a year-on-year increase of 8.6%, attributable to the growth and accumulated depreciation at KRW 146.8 billion. “Smart Maintenance,” a service solution product, to boost dealers’ of small construction equipment markets across the globe and service competitiveness and thus to increase customer value, and an increase in the production of generator engines. Its operating continued quality innovation activities to enhance the customer income, however, decreased by 22.1% to KRW 82.4 billion due to a perception of its products and services. It also published the Mobile one-time cost increase and product mix changes. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 10 11 Management Analysis Performance Review & Outlook Outlook 2020 1. Financial Outlook 2. Non-Financial Outlook 1.2 Employees Doosan Infracore implements human rights risk 1.4 Local Communities As a global corporate citizen, Doosan management systems to protect the human rights of employees and Infracore is engaged in various social contribution activities for local 1.1 Construction Equipment As the global economic slowdown At the 2020 Davos Forum held in Switzerland, leaders of the other stakeholders. Its wide-ranging activities include distributing communities. Since 2012, it has been running the “Dream School” and COVID-19 are expected to dampen the demand for construction world shared their ideas and opinions on topics including climate manuals on prevention of human rights risks, operating a human program that helps youth develop confidence in their career and equipment, Doosan Infracore aims to achieve business growth change, the environment, and sustainable and comprehensive rights protection center, educating employees on human rights future prospects. The Dream School offers activities related to and stability with market-specific strategies in 2020. In advanced business models under the theme, “Stakeholders for a Cohesive issues, and instituting the Women’s Council. It also conducts career exploration and self-development to young adults under the markets, it plans to increase its market share by expanding the and Sustainable World.” As the forum theme implies, stakeholders online surveys and addresses human rights issues in and around guidance of employee volunteers and professional youth coaches. big-volume customer dealer base, and to expand its business will be connected faster and in more complicated patterns as trends its operations in order to increase human rights awareness among In addition, through the “Junior Engineering Class,” which has by focusing on regions and products with higher possibility of of the Fourth Industrial Revolution unfold, which will make how employees. In 2019, the company carried out activities designed been in operation since 2008, employee volunteers nurture young market entry. In the Chinese market, it will continue such efforts companies communicate and cooperate with stakeholders even to improve corporate culture and other issues identified through future scientists of local communities by sharing their own R&D as conducting profit-focused sales, improving the soundness of more important. human rights awareness surveys, and provided a human rights experience. account receivables, launching new products, expanding the special education to all employees on gender equality, treatment of people equipment line-up, and strengthening channel competitiveness, Doosan Infracore conducts annual materiality analysis and external with disabilities, and prevention of harassments. For these and other social contributions, Doosan Infracore received aimed at managing risks associated with the market’s ESG evaluations to identify stakeholder interests and needs, and the Prime Minister's Commendation in donation category at the characteristics. In emerging markets, with a focus on improving based on their findings, the company devises annual CSR tasks and 1.3 Suppliers Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers enhance their 2019 National Sharing Grand Awards. Doosan Infracore will continue profitability and stabilizing account receivables, it will strengthen implements appropriate measures in an effective manner through competitiveness by running a variety of programs centered on its community activities based on its enduring interest as a member channel competitiveness and bolster sales of large-sized models in collaboration among relevant departments. Doosan Infracore has technology development, product quality management, and financial of communities where its business has prospered. areas with higher growth potential in response to the prospects of launched eight new tasks as the strategic CSR tasks for 2020. The support. The programs, including Doosan Supplier Excellence weakening demands. tasks include establishing management systems and strengthening Program (DSEP) and Leading Supplier program, are aimed at helping monitoring to raise employee awareness of human rights, focusing the suppliers strengthen their fundamental competitiveness. In 2. Environmental Performance In addition, Doosan Infracore will strengthen fundamentals and on decarbonization and developing alternative fuel products, and addition, Doosan Infracore has implemented a multi-party benefit Doosan Infracore has been complying with the laws governing thus generate a stable profit even in a volatile market situation. helping leading suppliers bolster their competitiveness by building sharing system through which its firstand second-tier suppliers carbon emissions trading since its participation in trading system To this end, it will sharpen the competitive edge of costs, change smart factories. work together to create and share excellence. As human rights, in 2015. Prior to the participation, its Incheon plant was designated the way of working, and maximize work efficiency through digital environment, employee safety, and other CSR issues emerged as a workplace with greenhouse gas and energy target management transformation of the whole business process across the internal Keen on the close correlation between corporate and social values, as significant subjects, the company encourages suppliers’ CSR system by the government in 2010. and external value chains. It will pursue growth through expansion Doosan Infracore has been measuring and disclosing social values activities through systematic management. To this end, the company of product line-ups and diversification of parts and other business, generated in the course of operations in its Integrated Report by is sharing CSR guidelines with suppliers and establishing a process In its efforts to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse while channeling resources and energy into the foundation of its using the KPMG’s “True Value” methodology since 2017. This year, of defining and managing suppliers at high CSR risk. In 2019, it gas emissions, in 2018 the company launched the GHG/Energy market presence in advanced markets. To develop future growth the company analyzed the social values of Concept-X, an unmanned identified high CSR-risk suppliers and carried out programs to help Reduction Council that takes a central role in operating the Energy drivers, the company will further upgrade such core technologies as automated control system of equipment at construction sites, which them improve their CSR activities. Management System (EMS) and managing its performance; those related to the unmanned operation of construction equipment was successfully demonstrated in 2019. (P. 54-55) Going forward, establishing a midto long-term road map in preparation for the that it developed last year through the Concept-X project, thus Doosan Infracore seeks to fully internalize CSR by reviewing the The company conducted activities assessing their safety standards coming enforcement of the carbon trading system; and setting taking a step further toward securing a competitive edge. progress of all CSR activities, offering support for proper operation, and supporting their implementation of additional measures emissions reduction targets and drawing up action plans for the and conducting performance management, with the aim of achieving to improve the safety management performance of suppliers. goals, all as part of its detailed response to climate change. In 2019, 1.2 Engine The Engine BG will maintain its growth momentum, sustainable growth. Doosan Infracore aims to prevent occupational accidents through the company’s greenhouse gas emissions stood at 112,186 tCO2, a despite market uncertainties in 2020, by attracting large-order dense partnership with suppliers by offering them a Safety and 3.6% increase over the previous year. customers for Stage V engines, launching LDEC JV’s production Health Symbiotic Cooperation Program. The program consists of in China, and expanding the line-up of large electric engines for various sessions in regards to safety training, risk assessment, risk ships and generators. In addition, it will further enhance customer management, and technological assistance. Under this program, it satisfaction by strengthening the parts business and service assists suppliers in identifying, evaluating, and improving risk factors networks; boost price competitiveness by improving productivities and supports them to adopt higher safety standards via safety and optimizing the cost structure; and increase sales and build a banners and EHS safety guidelines. virtuous cycle structure in the mid-to-long run by seizing on new business opportunities in the upstream and downstream of its value chains. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 12 13 Our Approach Global Megatrend MATERIALITY SUSTAINABILITY GLOBAL MEGATREND Increasing uncertainty in the global economy Growing AI and IoT-based OUR Asia becoming connectivity more competitive Accelerating Expanding scope digital transformation of APPROACH of company stakeholders manufacturing Poli-economic Technological Doosan Infracore has assessed megatrends of the coming decade from poli-economic, technological, social, and environmental perspectives in order to identify critical sustainability issues. Social Environmental Decreasing working age Growing signs of populations due to aging climate change society and falling birth rates Increasing threats Increasing urbanization to sustainability of and mega cities resource use Emerging millennials and Generation Z 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 14 15 Our Approach Industry Impact · Materiality Analysis Industry Impact Materiality Analysis MATERIALITY SUSTAINABILITY Global Megatrend Industry Impact Materiality Analysis Process ISSUE POOL SELECTION PRIORITIZATION REVIEW AND FEEDBACK POLI-ECONOMIC STEP 01 STEP 02 STEP 03 · Regularly diagnose all departments · Prioritize the CSR issues selected from · The CSR Committee, consisting of top Increasing regional Construction equipment market conditions are increasingly regional Increasing uncertainty volatility of the construction with growing uncertainties in the global economy; hence, business and related to CSR at domestic and overseas its CSR pool by relevancy, business executives, reviews the relation between in the global economy equipment market product diversification is required to achieve stable growth. business sites using Doosan Group’s CSR importance1), value chain influence2) and top priority issues and business activities, diagnosis model in a bid to assess its CSR stakeholder interest and approves the validity of selected core competencies, identify areas to improve, issues and CSR strategic tasks for each and select internal CSR issues respective year China’s growing construction China’s protection of its own industry and increasing competition are Asia becoming market and intensifying fueling uncertainties in the local market, in contrast to the robust growth · Identify types of CSR issues and the degree · All material issues are discussed and more competitive competition in the market of emerging markets, including Vietnam and Indonesia. of the stakeholders and international managed by the Committee year around communities’ interest by analyzing the in view of the progress of respective CSR media coverage as well as CSR-related strategic tasks, with other issues managed Growing business influences Quantitative assessment is gaining traction not only of construction Expanding of stakeholders, including equipment’s financial costs and benefits, but also of its social and international standards and guidelines by relevant business units in connection scope of company customers, employees, local environmental impacts, with growing business influences of customers, with those of industry peers and relevant stakeholders · Compose a pool of issues by collecting communities and suppliers employees, local communities, and other stakeholders. social changes internal and stakeholders’ opinions on CSR issues, and benchmark industry peers to identify global responses TECHNOLOGICAL Growing AI Growing use of unmanned Technological innovation transforms the future of construction 1) Business importance: The company assess the importance of each issue in terms of profit, costs, reputation and compliance in the course of business against the backdrop of its midand IoT-based automated construction sites and redefines the business from equipment manufacturing to to long-term strategies and business plans and major industry trends. connectivity equipment 2) construction solution provision. Value chain influence: The company assess each issue in term of socio-economic and environmental impacts on its value chains and of relative importance. Results of Materiality Assessment Accelerating Work efficiency improvement Digital tech-based operational innovations improve work efficiency digital transformation through digital tech-based and increase customer contact points, and contribute to sales through Out of 17 material issues selected in line of megatrends and their industry impact, seven material issues that are relatively high in of manufacturing operational innovations digital marketing even in special circumstances such as COVID-19. stakeholder interest and business impact are detailed in the Material Issues section (P. 16-17). Also reported are key information on business strategies, products and technologies in the Our Strategy section as well as information on activities and achievements related to CSR strategic tasks in the Our Responsibility and CSR Facts & Figures sections. SOCIAL MATERIAL ISSUES Decreasing working Construction business is faced with issues of aging and decreasing 1 Long-term growth and stability Interest of stakeholders age populations due to Decreasing skilled skilled workers along with shrinking working age populations; hence, aging society and labor populations technology-based solution becomes more significant. 2 Global market strategy and product portfolio falling birth rates enhancement Long-term growth and stability 3 Digital transformation and technological innovation As the speed at which emerging countries are urbanized is expected Increasing Increasing growth potentials to further accelerate, the demand will be also likely to grow for Changes in work processes and operational urbanization and 4 of emerging markets infrastructure investment, particularly in large road construction 1 competitiveness mega cities and social overhead capital (SOC). Digital transformation 5 Product stewardship and customer satisfaction and technological innovation 2 6 ESG evaluation and disclosure Increasing awareness of The emerging paradigm shift in consumption value requires the Stakeholder cooperation Emerging millennials for sustainable 3 Global market 7 Eco-friendly products product contributions to construction equipment industry to produce more products that and Generation Z development ESG evaluation strategy and social value creation enhance social values and to disclose relevant information. and disclosure product portfolio 8 Corporate governance Contributions to 12 enhancement local communities 9 9 Stakeholder cooperation for sustainable development Changes in work 6 4 processes and operational competitiveness 10 Value chain win-win cooperation and risk management ENVIRONMENTAL Resource 16 13 Eco-friendly 7 5 Product stewardship and 11 Workplace health & safety efficiency products customer satisfaction Climate change 8 12 Contributions to local communities Product-related environmental standards are increasingly stringent and energy Corporate governance 17 11 Growing signs of Stringency in product to counter climate change, such as EU Stage V and China’s Stage IV 10 Value chain win-win cooperation 13 Climate change and energy Workplace climate change emissions standards (non-road emissions regulation); in response, engine makers are Management Human rights and risk management focusing more on R&D. of wastewater and labor 15 health & safety 14 Ethical management and compliance and waste practices 14 15 Human rights and labor practices Ethical management and compliance Social demands for highly efficient, low CO2 emitted eco-friendly 16 Resource efficiency Increasing threats Growing demands for products are growing in the construction-related industry, and to sustainability of eco-friendly products eco-friendly products are gaining importance in the construction Importance to business 17 Management of wastewater and waste resource use equipment industry. * Each circle represents an issue, and the size of each circle represents the issue’s level of influence in value chain. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 16 17 Our Approach Material Issues Material Issues MATERIALITY SUSTAINABILITY In detailing the seven material issues found to be high in business impact and stakeholder interest, Doosan Infracore examines each issue’s potential risks and opportunities associated with afore-mentioned external factors such as megatrends and industry impacts, and discloses the strategic tasks it has implemented as a response and subsequent outcomes. Issues Potential risks & opportunities 2019 performance Future directions Page 1 A company must ceaselessly rebalance the business · Global industry is expected to suffer and the economy · Sales in North American, European and other advanced markets Doosan Infracore plans to focus on diversifying P. 22-35 portfolio to external changes and secure new growth drivers to stagnate due to COVID-19 and other effects grew by 6.9% year-on-year in proportion to total sales product portfolios in existing markets and OUR STRATEGY Long-term growth in order to maintain a business foundation stable enough breaking into new markets with great potential, and stability · The construction market may grow at lower rates · Diversified product portfolios to include special equipment and Growth and Soundness even in times of high uncertainty. as investment and development slow down others, and secured largely scaled line-up of engines while striving to minimize the chance of incurring a drop in sales due to business fluctu· Over-reliance on specific markets or product lines · Launched D20 Capital, a venture capital firm, in Silicon Valley in ations. It continues to bolster its presence in may lead to weaken financial performance the U.S. regions with high growth potential in emerging · Opened the company’s third Part Distribution Center (PDC) in markets and advanced markets, such as North Seattle, the U.S., strengthening the parts distribution network America and Europe. 2 For a global manufacturing company to increase · Attempts to develop products, increase investment · Implemented a value-selling strategy focusing on offering Doosan Infracore will secure fundamental P. 36-49 the ability to influence markets, it is required to produce and improve service quality, in order to satisfy diverse products together with consulting and services corporate competitiveness, ranging from OUR STRATEGY Global market products that can satisfy each market’s regulatory market expectations, lead to strengthen fundamental product quality to channels and services, with strategy and · Completed the construction of the Boryeong Proving Ground, Product & Market standards and demand, to offer high quality services, and business competitiveness Korea’s largest proving ground, for testing the durability of the goal of maximizing customer value and product portfolio to have efficient channels. increasing its presence. construction equipment enhancement · Launched the Mobile Parts Book, an app that contains information of all Doosan Infracore equipment parts 3 Innovative technologies of the Industry 4.0 are changing · The construction equipment industry’s adoption of · Announced the company’s new slogan, “Powered by Innovation” Doosan Infracore plans to commercialize P. 50-59 the future of the construction equipment industry. innovative technologies has created the opportunity · Successfully demonstrated the Concept-X, an integrated Concept-X, an integrated construction site OUR STRATEGY Digital AI enables automated cognitive and decision-making to go beyond a manufacturer and become a provider control solution that includes unmanned transformation construction site control solution Innovation & abilities, while 5G and IoT have increased connectivity and of integrated construction site solutions automated equipment, by 2025. By leveraging and technological · DoosanCONNECT™ named “Innovative Solution of the Year” Digitalization mobility. These technological innovations will markedly · Unmanned automated construction equipment its leading technological advantages, it will innovation improve the construction industry’s productivity and safety. by BuiltWorlds, a professional North American infrastructure change its business model from manufacturing increases efficiency of manufacturing process and construction community and creates social values related to safety and the to providing comprehensive construction site environment · Introduced Concept-X at CES 2020 solutions. 4 As the growth of the economically active global population · Prepare for the era of labor shortage and develop the · Formed strategic partnership with Palantir, a big data company Doosan Infracore is strengthening the ability P. 50-59 is forecast to turn downward in 2022, labor shortage is operational agility to respond to change by increasing of the U.S., and moved forward with digital-based operation and in managing and using data across all of its OUR STRATEGY Changes in work to be a common concern for all industries. In response, operational efficiency through data-based decisiondecision-making optimization (opened DI360) operations, to secure innovative technology-based processes and Innovation & Digitalization global companies are moving forward with AI and making and operational innovation · Established the Global Manufacturing Execution System (GMES) operational excellence, based on which, it seeks operational data-based operation innovation to improve productivity. to maximize productivity and efficiency, and to · Contribute to enhancing customer value through platform, strengthening operations and data collection competitiveness internalize innovativeness as part of its DNA. digital-based marketing and sales 5 Strict quality management, proactive service and reflection · Use digital technology to create innovative · Registered data in the statistical process control system for Doosan Infracore provides distinctive customer P. 36-49 of customer opinions are the basis for continued customer opportunities for enhancing customer experiences managing 332 inspection items of 86 suppliers to strengthen value in a way to develop a driving force that OUR STRATEGY Product value innovation. Providing distinctive customer value · Overcome geographical limits and thus increase quality management will solidify its sustainable growth in the global stewardship is integral to establishing a sound market presence and market. It will continue to innovate customer Product & Market and customer customer satisfaction by preempting potential issues · Began to provide Smart Maintenance service using reputation. through remote monitoring of the status of products DoosanCONNECT™, and strengthened remote monitoring of experiences and to provide responsible satisfaction customer service. equipment status and preventive maintenance 6 In the midto long run, a company should enhance its · A company can communicate with investors and · Listed in the machine and electric equipment categories of DJSI Korea Starting from the 2017 Integrated Report, P. 60-106 corporate value in the direction of satisfying various consumers on its non-financial corporate value and · Rated Class A in the ESG Evaluation by the Korea Corporate Doosan Infracore has been measuring and OUR RESPONSIBILITY ESG evaluation stakeholder needs. In addition, it should engage in ESG status by disclosing information of the social/ Governance Service disclosing the monetary value of the social and and disclosure business activities that increase social and environmental environmental impacts of its business and other environmental value of its operations. It will value, and transparently disclose outcomes as well as activities · 2018 Integrated Report received Honors at the 2019 ARC Awards expand the scope of information disclosures, future opportunities and risks. · A company’s ESG capability contributes to its · 2018 Integrated Report ranked fourth in the top 100 list at measure social value by product, and share resilience to change in the business environment the 2019 Spotlight Awards organized by the League of it as the key value of products with potential American Communications Professionals (LACP) consumers. 7 Newly emerging consumer classes are highly sensitive · Emission regulations are increasingly stringent · Launched the DX350LC-7, a 36-ton excavator which satisfies Doosan Infracore seeks to strengthen its P. 18-19 to product environmental impacts due to the public’s across the globe, making it all the more important to the Stage V, the latest in European emissions standards market position by proactively investing in and Doosan Infracore Eco-friendly increasing interest in climate change and a paradigm shift invest in new technologies and products that meet · Launched a G2 engine which complies with the Stage V securing eco-friendly technologies as a new products Sustainable Value in consumer behavior. Thus, a company should strive to the regulations approach from a market perspective to respond · Unveiled a “Hybrid Powertrain” with an electric motor and Framework reduce the environmental impact of its products right from to climate change risks and to comply with the development phase of the product life cycle. battery attached, at POWERGEN International 2019 emissions standards. This will contribute to the · Unveiled a proto-type electric excavator at CONEXPO 2020 P. 50-59 spread of business activities that add social value to the financial value. OUR STRATEGY Innovation & Digitalization 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 18 19 Our Approach Doosan Infracore Sustainable Value Framework Doosan Infracore SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable Value Framework UN SDGs In conducting business, Doosan Infracore pursues sustainable The Sustainable Value Framework will be managed as a key O LU T I O N growth that generates not only financial but also social performance index in accordance with the midto long-term strategic Employee Employee C T S SE health development DU RV Production Supply chain and environmental values. In 2019, the company launched tasks. Believing that the integrated management of midto long-term O I safety ESG “Sustainable Value Framework,” describing its midto financial and non-financial performance will contribute to the basis of PR CE 01 Suppliers 03 long-term ESG strategies and objectives, as a way to manage sustainable growth, Doosan Infracore will continue to disclose such Talent Customer capacity Innovation for value retention Response to Governance financial and non-financial performance in an integrated performance results through 2025. building automation enhancement climate change transparency manner. Based on Doosan Credo and UN Sustainable Corporate Development Goals (SDGs), it analyzed major external indices citizenship and donations Product 02 Portfolio CE SS stewardship resilience O 1) of corporate sustainability, including SASB Standards1), MSCI SASB Standards: Industry-specific material issue and standard reporting index established by the US Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) to promote a comprehensive PR ESG Ratings2) and SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment understanding of the sustainability of corporations PEOPLE Decarbonization and alternative fuel (CSA)3), and results of materiality assessments of the past 2) MSCI ESG Ratings: Index established by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) for products evaluating corporate performance in the environmental, social and governance (ESG) areas three years. Based on subsequent findings, the company 3) SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment: Corporate sustainability assessment methodology derived a framework consisting of 3 areas and 14 indices, used by S&P Global and SAM to assess corporations’ economic, environmental and social Doosan Credo risks and opportunities, and related strategies which has been approved by the CSR Committee which comprises top executives. Index 2025 Goal Baseline(2018) 2019 Performance Commitment Page UN SDGs Employee Reduce occupational injury and illness incidence rates, and take Promote employee health and welfare through continuous occupational illness OIFR1) 0.147 0.315 P. 82 01 PEOPLE health preventive actions on an ongoing basis management Activities that Employee Annual training hours and expenses Conduct efficient training activities for employee competency 31.7 hours 40.6 hours Promote organizational and individual growth by supporting employees’ P. 96-99 provide clean development per employee development (KRW 663,000) (KRW 750,000) development and nurturing their job skills environment, Suppliers Cumulative No. of Doosan Supplier Increase the number of DSEP participants to 93% more than Establish the basis for joint growth by providing training and consulting for technology and capacity building Excellence Program (DSEP)2) participants 27 companies 32 companies P. 85-86 the 2018 figure by 2025 supplier competency development capability to stakeholders Talent retention Turnover rate Retain more talent with a focus on turnover-rate retention 1.29% 1.05% Offer quality jobs to local talent and great workplace to employees P. 94 Corporate CCI investment and Conduct responsible and sustainable community support activities KRW 7.73 billion KRW 8.64 billion Contribute to establishing a sustainable local community through partnership and citizenship P. 103-106 and donations CCI investment per sales on an ongoing basis (0.25 %) (0.28%) support as a responsible corporate citizen Innovation for Ratio of projects related to unmanned· Continually develop and advance unmanned automation technologies Lead industrial innovation by enhancing construction industry site efficiency and 16.4% 28.3% P. 52-56 02 PRODUCT automation automation technology to all research projects that will lead the innovation of the construction equipment sector safety using unmanned automated technologies SOLUTION Customer value Increase the managed operation hours of smart maintenance Increase the customer base of smart maintenance services helping customers Smart Maintenance Managed Hours3) 201,862 hours 201,862 hours P. 47-48 SERVICE enhancement equipment to 20 times of the 2019 figures by 2025 efficiently and stably use Doosan products Activities that Portfolio Secure sustainable growth drivers through open innovation, Contribute to the industry’s sustainable development through open innovation, New business-related activities N/A N/A P. 35, p.56 resilience investment, new business development, and partnership M&A, strategic alliance, new business development and partnership innovate products, solutions and Product Increase remanufactured parts sales to 200% of the 2018 figure Contribute to responsible production and consumption by applying sustainability services for Sales of remanufactured parts KRW 490 million KRW 770 million P. 89 stewardship by 2025 standards to the production, sales, consumption and discard phases sustainable Continually increase research for carbon emission reduction growth Decarbonization No. of CO2 reduction research projects technology 33 projects 45 projects Contribute to easing climate change impacts by securing carbon emission P. 39-40, and alternative fuel products Increase electro-hydraulic application models to 36%p higher than reduction technologies and leading the development of relevant products P. 56-57 Rate of electro-hydraulic applied models4) 3.8% 5.8% the 2018 figure by 2025 Production Promote employee health and welfare at industrial sites through active accident LTIR5) Reduce the accident rate to about 50% of the 2019 figure by 2025 0.97 1.17 P. 80-82 03 PROCESS safety management Activities that Supply chain No. of companies subject to supplier Support suppliers in strengthening ESG capabilities to prevent relevant risks and Continually increase ESG evaluation for suppliers 116 companies P. 86 increase positive ESG ESG evaluation6) build the foundation for sustainable joint growth impacts within the value chain Response to Reduce total GHG emissions to 11% and improve emission intensity to 108,244 tCO2eq 112,186 tCO2eq Contribute to easing climate change impacts by integrating carbon emission Reduce carbon emissions in production7) P. 77-78 climate change 33% more than the 2018 figure by 2025 0.035 tCO2eq/KRW million 0.036 tCO2eq/KRW million target management into company strategies and plans for sustainable development 4/7 persons (57.1%) Governance Ratio of outside directors and Maintain BOD independence above legal requirements and actively 4/7 persons (57.1%) Enhance long-term corporate and shareholder value by building a basis for sound P. 67-68 transparency BOD attendance rate operate the BOD 85.7% 92.9% and transparent governance 1) 4) OIFR (Occupational Illness Frequency Rate): Number of workers who have occupational illness and other related illness/Total workers (Application of calculation formula of the Korea Total number of models is based on mass-produced models as of the end of each year (including domestic and overseas, and derived models). The application criteria may be adjusted to future Occupational Safety and Health Agency, Unit: %) changes in the model calculation method. The disclosed goal has the number of mass produced models in 2018 as the parameter. Annual performance in the future will have the respective year’s 2) Doosan Infracore’s supplier support program mass-produced models as the parameter. 5) 3) Refer to cumulative operation hours of equipment within the smart maintenance contract period. The 2019 performance includes the performance of emerging markets and Europe. Future service LTIR (Lost Time Incidents Rate): Number of incidents involving more than one-day closure of workday per 100 workers, Total number of lost time cases/Total number of hours worked by product development and expansion may lead to a change in calculation criteria (program was launched in 2019 and therefore the 2019 performance is set as the baseline). employees * 200,000 6) Supplier ESG inspection is conducted every other year. Thus, the Year 2024 goal is reflected as the Year 2025 goal. 7) Regarding reducing carbon emissions and improving emission intensity during production, some figures are subject to change, as defined goals are to undergo an additional review. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 20 21 Our Strategy In 2019, Doosan Infracore expedited its innovation drive under the new slogan, “Powered by Innovation.” We focused on nurturing sustainable growth drivers by balancing growth and stability, diversifying markets through product differentiation, and implementing digital transformations and innovations. As a result, we were able to take a step closer to achieving our vision, “Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions.” O U R ST R AT EGY 22 Growth & Soundness 36 Product & Market 50 Innovation & Digitalization 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 22 23 Our Strategy Growth & Soundness GROWTH & SOUNDNESS Expanding Strengthening Doosan Infracore is striving to build stable, long-term growth Customers and Product Portfolio momentum by accurately assessing the confluence of Markets external environments and making measured preparations for change to stay ahead of the curve. 01 02 Diversifying Business Portfolio 03 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 24 25 Our Strategy Growth & Soundness Growing Competitive in Advanced Markets The construction equipment industry is unique in that it undergoes the cycle of ups and downs in a regular interval, and remains vulnerable to the global economy, government policy, infrastructure investment, and other macro factors. Even amid such factors of volatility, North American and European construction equipment markets have grown on the back of rising energy demands and increasing infrastructure investments. However, with the spread of a COVID-19 which triggered slowdown in the economies, the markets are faced with growing uncertainties. Doosan Infracore focuses on securing diverse sales sources to establish a stable revenue generation foundation, while steadily increasing its presence in advanced markets which are relatively more stable. As part of this effort, on January 1, 2018, it took over the construction equipment operations of Doosan Bobcat in advanced markets and has since been managing the business. The company has adopted a proactive business strategy in order to enhance market competitiveness, and is also strengthening the sales network by developing midto large-sized dealers and improving market coverage, thus enhancing channel capabilities. In North America, it is strengthening sales competitiveness by expanding its dealer base, implementing customer-tailored programs, and improving service responsiveness. In Europe, it is improving customer responsiveness by helping new dealers keep their business stable and allocating more authority to sales departments. In addition, in order to respond to customers’ needs, the company operates Customization Plants that assemble customized, semi-finished products sourced from Korea; and to improve customer satisfaction, it is optimizing parts distributions through the Parts Distribution Center (PDC). Thanks to increasing construction equipment demands in advanced markets and a subsequent rise in European market share, Doosan Infracore continued its robust sales performance in 2019, recording a year-on-year increase of 6.9% to KRW 812.4 billion in advanced markets. In 2019, Doosan Infracore strived to strengthen sales channels, the Expanding most important factor in ensuring market competitiveness. To this end, it engaged in key account marketing and secured large outperformed dealers based on DoosanCONNECT™, a digital solution for advanced Customers and construction equipment management. In particular, the authority of European sales departments was expanded, and a system was put in Markets place that enables an internal analysis of performance and profitability, and thus helps sales managers make decisions more promptly and efficiently. As a result of implementing such field-centered sales strategies, a record sales performance was achieved since the establishment of the European subsidiary as contracts were secured to supply 100 wheel loaders and 80 excavators to CEMEX and Beauloc, respectively. In addition, 14-ton excavators and wheel excavators, the company’s main products, are increasing their market presence 01 in major European markets, including the UK, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxemburg and Northern Europe, both competing for the top two spots in their respective market. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 26 27 Our Strategy Growth & Soundness Expanding AM Business Doosan Infracore has been expanding its after market (AM) business the Miami PDC covers Latin America. As such, Doosan Infracore on parts order from dealers. In order to analyze a mounting data PDC Network with an aim to build a revenue structure that can stay stable in (As of December 2019) makes continuous efforts to improve its PDC operation efficiency of parts consumption and to more accurately and quickly forecast the face of a slowing market. In 2019, it focused on such tasks and responsiveness to parts demands, and thus increases customer parts demands, it is using a big data visualization program that Seattle, U.S. Atlanta, U.S. as optimizing the global parts distribution network through the satisfaction. Going forward, it will continue to expand and operate enables an accurate analysis of the movements, locations, end-user (2019) (2018) PDC; strengthening AM sales capabilities by fostering dealers in its global PDC network in an efficient manner with the goal of getting consumption of parts on a real-time basis. The adoption of global AM service; developing solutions based on the lifetime cycle of customers the right parts anytime and anywhere across the globe. planning and MMI, leveraging retail sales information, in 2019 had equipment; and expanding online communication channels to reflect the effect of increasing the parts supply rate by 2.6% and reducing more customer voices on customer service. As a result, 2019 sales For more systematic and effective parts distributions, Doosan inventory costs by KRW 9 billion, both compared to the 2017 figures. improved by 2% year-on-year to KRW 246.3 billion (excluding special Infracore integrated its Service Parts Planning (SPP), a system in Going forward, Doosan Infracore will expand the MMI operations equipment and attachment performance). which each region’s PDC individually anticipates parts demands by steadily building the environment for MMI at dealers across the and separately manages parts inventory, into a global planning globe, and through training aimed at strengthening skills for efficient Cardiff, U.K. (1996) In order to enhance its parts distribution capabilities, the company system where headquarters centralizes planning and managing operations. operates ten PDCs in eight countries – Korea, China, the U.S., the inventory. In addition to making continuous efforts to strengthen UK, Germany, Singapore, Brazil, and United Arab Emirates – keeping parts distribution capabilities, the company is implementing various Consistent collaboration with dealers is crucial to increasing AM Americana, Brazil (2012) in stock a total of over 400,000 parts. The Seattle PDC, opened measures to improve parts demand management. For example, sales and profits and to improving customer service. Based on Miami, U.S. in April 2019 as an addition to the first two PDCs in Atlanta and the company operates Manufacturer Managed Inventory (MMI) Doosan Infracore’s unique training approach, the company provides (2017) Miami in the U.S., has some 12,000 parts available in its 5,300m2 through which headquarters anticipates parts demands based on Parts & Service Sales Representatives (PSSRs) with training on AM Yantai, China Ansan, Korea warehouse, covering the western part of the U.S. and Canada, while dealers’ actual sales data. MMI then recommends relevant parts to sales and service, including effective sales skills, the features of (1996) (1994) the Atlanta PDC serves the East coast and the Midwest regions, and respective dealers instead of using previous demand analysis based genuine parts and the benefits of using them, guidance on operation of DoosanCONNECT™, and equipment maintenance. The company also practices strategy by applying it to sales operation. PSSRs are Doosan Infracore’s AM experts and consultants who generate parts and service sales, and play an important role in cultivating sales Halle, Germany opportunities by keeping customers well informed of all issues, (2017) including parts replacement cycles. Dubai, UAE (2013) Singapore (2012) Manufacturer Managed Inventory Operation Model Analyze dealers’ actual sales data and anticipate parts demands Increase parts supply rate SPOTFIRE by 2.6% Dealer Doosan Infracore Reduce Data visualization inventory costs Anticipation analysis by KRW 9 billion Real-time movements analysis Location and streaming analysis Recommend relevant parts to respective dealers 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 28 29 Our Strategy Growth & Soundness Doosan Infracore is focusing on service solutions and e-commerce in order to further generate market opportunities for parts and services. As part of this effort, the company launched the “Smart Maintenance,” a solution offering parts and maintenance services based on DoosanCONNECT™ in 2019. In addition, it plans to expand sales of out-of-warranty parts by offering more advanced services that center on analyzing equipment lifetime cycles and by proactively providing parts and services that are required in each cycle. The company also develops the foundation for e-commerce by adding a “cart” function. This newly added function allows customers to inquire dealers about parts estimates through “Mobile Parts Book” app. The app helps end-users access to information on Doosan Parts – Doosan Infracore, therefore, expands its e-commerce operation by increasing the parts sales. In addition to production and sales of finished vehicles, Doosan Infracore strives to diversify its business by offering top-quality parts and customer-tailored solutions based on its global network. This will enable the company to steadily increase sales and build a midto long-term virtuous cycle in the face of uncertainties in the construction equipment market. Increasing External Sales of Engines Recently, the global engine market has been growing on increasing sales of construction equipment owing to a recovering construction business in North America and Europe, on a growing shale gas industry, and on increasing demands for power generator engines fueled by rising electricity consumptions mainly in emerging countries. Reflective of this market growth, total sales of Doosan Infracore’s engine business grew by 8.4% year-on-year to KRW 1,156.1 Doosan Infracore had signed a contract with Germany’s KION in June Having established LDEC in November 2017 with Lovol, a China’s In October 2019, Doosan Infracore successfully extended a contract billion, powered mostly by robust sales of generator engines. 2017 which stipulates supply of 67,000 compact G2 engines by 2028, largest agricultural machinery company, Doosan Infracore broke to supply generator natural gas engines with Power Solutions and three more contracts with global companies, including China’s ground in March 2018 for a production plant in China. The joint International (PSI), the US-based manufacturer specializing in power Doosan Infracore is seeking to diversify its customer base in order to Baoli and Italy’s ARBOS, in 2018 involving supply of a total of 43,000 venture will complement Doosan Infracore’s market development generator engines that Doosan Infracore had been doing business better respond to change in the global engine market and to ensure engines. Accordingly, Doosan Infracore will supply to Baoli, a leading and diversification strategies, allowing it to target both advanced and with since 2008. In accordance with the contract, Doosan Infracore stable sales even in a slowing market. The company increases forklift company in China, some 13,000 compact G2 Stage V engines emerging markets with high-quality engines produced in Korea and will supply 8.1-liter to 22-liter generator natural gas engines through external sales through business expansion into automobile, ship, by 2025, which will be used to power the buyer’s main export affordable products manufactured in China. Also, sourcing and other 2023. After tuning the Doosan Infracore’s engines to the emissions and power generation sectors, and it engages in business diversimodels. Doosan Infracore has signed a letter of intent (LOI) with synergetic opportunities, now made available thanks to Lovol’s local standards of the North American engine market, PSI offers them fication and development of technologies relevant to upstream ARBOS, a tractor manufacturer in Italy, and will develop and supply business networks, are expected to further enhance the competitive mostly to major power generator companies as well as oil and gas and downstream engine, hybrid powertrain, electrification and approximately 27,000 units of 1.8to 3.4-liter G2 diesel engines for advantages of its engine business. Scheduled to be completed in businesses. The extension of the supply contract with the US engine other business responses to future changes. In particular, it is agricultural machinery in the course of six years starting in 2020. The June 2020, the LDEC engine plant will comprise research facilities, leader is a solid endorsement of the outstanding quality of Doosan developing new products, such as a compact G2 Stage V-standard signing of the LOI has given Doosan Infracore an opportunity to add including a prototype shop and a lab for measuring the quality of Infracore’s engines as well as a boost to its commitment to growing engine, that meet next-generation emissions standards in a bid to an agricultural engine line to its engine line-up as well as to expand parts, and production facilities, such as engine block processing together with partners through creation of win-win synergies. secure long-term supply contracts. The company is also focusing its market presence in Europe. By increasing a strategic partnership and engine assembly lines, that reflect Doosan Infracore’s engine on attracting large captive customers such as Lovol Doosan Engine with global brands, Doosan Infracore is steadily strengthening its production know-how. Its annual production capacity will be Company Joint Venture (LDEC JV). presence in the engine market and stably increasing external sales. expanded to 100,000 units. The engines to be produced include G2 engines (D18, D24, D34) optimized to the characteristics of the local market, and will be equipped to Lovol’s agricultural machinery and construction equipment. The D34-class engine, in particular, will reach China’s Stage IV emissions standards. Doosan Infracore will continue its proactive support for LDEC seeking to enter emerging markets as well as the Chinese market for industrial and generator engines and to achieve the optimal business performance. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 30 31 Our Strategy Growth & Soundness Launching Region-specific Equipment The compact equipment market thrives when construction The DX17Z-5 excels in excavation power, rotation speed and increases in urban areas and other places with limited space. In operation angle, making itself optimal for projects in confined particular, the Korean market for mini excavators of 5-ton or less spaces or indoors. Its minimum width, with the track contracted, grew at an annual average of 15% from 2014 to 2018. In 2019, some is a mere 950 mm (the smallest in its class), making it very useful 3,000 units of such excavators were sold, accounting for 29% of the in places with limited space. The track can be expanded up to excavator market. In July, Doosan Infracore launched the DX17Z-5, 1,360 mm (the largest-in-class) which gives it a firm footing for jobs an excavator developed specifically for the 1.7-ton market, which Strengthening requiring stability. The DX17Z-5 is equipped with front LED lamps, accounts for over 40% of the domestic mini excavator market and is cylinder protection covers surrounding the operating compartment, expected to grow further. thereby enhancing its sense appeal. A footrest useful for working Product Portfolio downward, a detachable two-pole-supported canopy, and other standard features increase work convenience. In addition to the DX35Z-5, a 3.5-ton excavator unveiled in 2017, and the DX17Z-5, successfully launched in 2019, Doosan Infracore will steadily develop products to various needs of Korean customers and strengthen its position in the mini excavator market. Also, it will further improve the responsiveness of its customer service 02 and expand its share of the mini excavator market, which was dominated by imports, by leveraging its service network, the largest in Korea, with 37 branches and more than 100 service personnel across the nation. China’s construction equipment market began to show signs of In addition to new models, Doosan Infracore focuses on product recovery in the second half of 2016, and continues its growth improvements by reflecting voices of customers (VOC). In response pace on the strength of increasing demands for excavators and to customer opinions that work radius should be expanded for the mine developments fueled by increasing state-led infrastructure DX130LC-9C, which is used mainly for farming village construction/ investments and rising commodity prices. In response to market development or fish farm management, the company extended demands for large-sized equipment, Doosan Infracore released the boom length. It has also improved its key-product DX215-9C’s three new models as a follow-up to the previous four models – boom speed, in consideration of customers that mainly engage DX380LC-9C, DX420LC-9C and DX500/520-9C. The DX360LC-9C, in 90-degree rotation loading work at construction sites, and thus with improved fuel efficiency, is ideal for rental customers with shortened working time. The bucket size of the DX230LC-9C and large-scale engineering construction or for rocky mountain projects. DX260LC-9C models has increased in line with demand for higher The DX450LC-9C was developed to 50-ton breaker market demands; productivity at smallto mid-sized engineering construction sites. and the DX490LC-9C, a well-balanced performer in productivity, fuel efficiency and price, is designed to reduce entry barriers for 50-ton equipment renters. In response to growing midto large-sized Increasing Customized Special Equipment equipment renters, Doosan Infracore released the DX200-9C Doosan Infracore is developing new markets with a wide array of in January 2020, of which high fuel efficiency makes it ideal for special equipment solutions customized to various challenging businesses specialized in rental construction equipment, thereby conditions as well as usage needs at worksites with the goal of responding to increasingly segmented customer applications in the improving work productivity and creating a safer work environment. midto large-sized market. Based on findings of its ongoing, thorough analysis of customer needs, the company has introduced a variety of special equipment product lines, including material handler, amphibious excavator, demolition and log loader, thus diversifying its product portfolio. As a result, special equipment sales rose by 10% year-on-year to KRW 82.1 billion in 2019. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 32 33 Our Strategy Growth & Soundness In addition, Doosan Infracore uses a modular design method environments as lakes, streams, marshes and other areas whose that involves configuring and assembling diverse fronts, cabins, ground surfaces would be too wet or weak to support the weight attachments, and other modules in accordance with the characterof ordinary excavators. For these and other reasons, the company istics of the work environment, on the base part of excavators, has sold its amphibious excavators mostly to Southeast Asia and High-performance, in order to reflect customer needs faster and better. As the base South American regions high in rainfall. As climate change is closely eco-friendly engine machine serves as the basis for modular design, the method can related to rising levels of rainfall so are market interests increasing maximize the usefulness of the basic equipment, enable an easy in amphibious excavators. In 2019, the Department of Public Works conversion or expansion of any parts of the equipment to diverse & Highways (DPWH) of the Philippine government purchased some Produce 20% more customer requests, and make equipment repair and maintenance 10 amphibious excavators of Doosan Infracore as part of its effort power than the existing easy. Moreover, the module assembly method enables customers to clean up the Manila Bay, which has been suffering from serious mechanical-type to purchase special equipment at a relatively affordable price in a industrial pollutions, and used the special equipment to preparatory engine of the same class timely manner. work such as dredging the polluted beaches. The best-in-class fuel and oil efficiency Doosan Infracore’s special equipment can be seen in diverse Based on its wide-ranging special equipment portfolio that environments, including work sites where environmental improvereflects diverse customer needs, Doosan Infracore continues to ments are needed. Its material handler is developed for transporting grow, offering solutions to various challenges at construction or loading materials in such areas as landfills and barges for which sites and pursuing market diversification. It is also strengthening Generator Engine a conventional excavator is not be suitable, and is ideal for handling scrap metal, industrial waste, and recyclables. The amphibious excavator differs from the conventional one in that its lower frame the region-specific product line-up, including improving material handlers, which have high scalability, and developing new products, such as pile drivers and rotary drill rigs, popular in the Chinese DX22 is made of air tank structure, which enables it to work afloat in such market. Modular Design Method for Special Equipment Securing Large Engine Line-up Doosan Infracore is building a complete line-up of generator gain value recognitions and market trust as a result of its ongoing engines, ranging from mechanical to the latest electronic engines, efforts to improve quality and customer relations. In March 2020, Special Cabin Module Special Front Module Attachment Module Special in line with the steady growth of the diesel and gas generator engine the company released the DX12, a 11-liter Euro 6 electronic engine Application market. Based on the extensive line-up, it meets market demands designed for commercial vehicles, in Korea, and Tata Daewoo not only in the Middle East but also in North America, Europe, and Commercial Vehicle Company rolled out its “PRIMA” trucks installed other leading markets, while also discovering new customers. After with the new engine. This high-performance, eco-friendly engine unveiling a pilot product of the DX22, a 22-liter electronic generator has a capacity of 11.1 liters and a maximum power output of 460 engine, in 2018, Doosan Infracore showcased the mass-production horsepower, and satisfies the Euro 6 even without the exhaust model at international exhibitions, including the Middle East gas recirculation (EGR) system. It is equipped with the common Buckets Electricity (MEE) in March 2019 and POWERGEN International in rail system, an electronic system that sprays diesel fuel at a high Super Long Reach November 2019. The DX22 is more powerful than competitors’ pressure, and the high-efficiency selective catalytic reduction (SCR)1) models of the same class, and it is high-performance, eco-friendly system that cuts the discharge of hazardous emissions. It also Cabin Raiser engine that can produce 20% more power than the DV22, its has best-in-class ratings in fuel efficiency and durability. The DX12 Crusher mechanical-type predecessor of the same class. In addition, the will be equipped to 25 truck models soon to be introduced by Tata DX22 boats best-in-class energy efficiency, and the improved Daewoo Commercial Vehicle. compatibility and extended parts replacement cycles of the DX22 have led to higher customer satisfaction. With the launch of the Doosan Infracore will steadily extend its sales reach into the Module Unit Material Handling DX22 as a start, Doosan Infracore is making all-out preparations to commercial vehicle market of major emerging countries by enter the large electric generator engine market. developing the DX12, with world’s leading product competitiveness Elevating Cabin Clamshell Bucket in such areas as fuel efficiency, durability, and post-processing High Reach In the automotive engine sector, Doosan Infracore supplies engines technology, as a spearhead. Demolition in compliance with the emissions standards of each of its markets, with the 6/8-liter Euro 6 diesel engines as the flagship product, released in 2017. Doosan Infracore’s engines are equipped to 1) SCR: An advanced active emissions control technology system that injects a liquid reductant through a special catalyst into the exhaust stream of a diesel engine. Equipped with the commercial vehicles across the world, including buses and trucks, system, the DX12 electronic engine has a NOx reduction rate of 98%. Tilting Cabin Demolition Grapples 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 34 35 Our Strategy Growth & Soundness Strengthening Post-processing Solutions Post-processing solutions are becoming more advanced with in meeting Stage V emissions standards, which have significantly growing needs for exhaust gas treatment devices that can meet strengthened regulation on particulate matter (PM), in 2017 Doosan toughening emissions standards across the globe. Doosan Infracore Infracore completed the development of SCR on DPF (SDPF)1), a has been working on new exhaust gas post-processing systems, technology based on the integration of SCR and DPF, in response thus successfully developing the “No-DPF Tier 4 Solution.” The to Euro 6 vehicle emissions standards. SDPF is an exhaust gas No-DPF solution is based on “Ultra Low Particle Combustion (ULPC),” post-processing technology that has never been applied to the Doosan’s unique combustion technology for which an international mass production of non-road engines. In developing SDPF, Doosan patent has been obtained, and meets Tier 4 emissions standards Infracore first derived the concept of an SDPF, that could be installed without the need of a diesel particulate filter (DPF), and enables within the pre-existing engine configuration and still satisfy Stage development of high-efficiency engines. The solution also lowers V standards, by applying its own concept design process including costs associated with the regenerative operation of incinerating and catalyst simulation. And the company verified the feasibility of regular cleaning of the soot accumulating in and around the DPF, as mass production through a swift evaluation and analysis of major Diversifying well as concerns over DPF-related quality issues. In addition, it can be applied to equipment of diverse uses, as it delivers outstanding post-processing performance Indices. It prepares to release highly efficient SDPF products by the time when global leading companies Business Portfolio power output and fuel efficiency and renders engines compact compared to other engines in the same class. It also delivers high release their products. durability and reliability for it is designed to withstand extreme Doosan Infracore identifies market trends in order to better respond Moreover, the company is looking into ways of cooperating with operating conditions. As DPF application has become a requirement to next-generation emissions standards. It has also established various overseas start-ups, including those in Silicon Valley. A the development strategy for ultra-high efficiency post-processing particular focus is placed on discovering start-ups with digital technology in accordance with product development plans, based on technologies that can complement Doosan Infracore’s projects, which it is preparing for the release of post-processing solutions and including autonomous driving and industrial Internet of Things engines that maximize the value of final products. (IoT). It is also exploring various modes of cooperation, such as 03 partnership and equity investment. To expedite the development of new business, in April 2019 Doosan Infracore established “D20 Identifying New Business Capital,” a venture investment company, in Silicon Valley. In the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, solution development is essential to generating new business opportunities in machinery “Clue Insights,” the first start-up established by Doosan Infracore, manufacturing. Construction equipment business also is going participated in CES 2020, the world’s largest home appliance beyond equipment sales and service, expanding in the direction of exhibition held in Las Vegas in January 2020, and accomplished the offering diverse solutions to productivity challenges and enhancing winning of the Honoree distinction in the “Tech for a Better World” customer value. category. Clue Insights is a spin-off of a new business launched in the form of in-house venture. It is specialized in supporting efficient Doosan Infracore is expanding into new business areas, going equipment operations by analyzing construction equipment’s beyond equipment manufacturing and sales. With an eye on the telematics information using the application “CLUE.” future of construction sites, it is focusing especially on unmanned construction solutions (unmanned equipment and control systems) With the vision of becoming a “Global Leader in Infrastructure as well as on solutions based on electrification and telematics that Solutions,” Doosan Infracore will continue to grow on its global increase productivity and reduce accidents at construction sites, competitive advantages. At the same time, it will actively make and to relieve manpower shortages in an aging society. To this inroads into new markets leveraging its cutting-edge technologies end, the company is developing new technologies and business in in order to secure new revenue sources and growth drivers, and thus cooperation with internal and external experts in different areas, advance into a “Total Solution Provider.” and is striving to secure competitiveness for future growth. 1) SDPF: A technology that considerably reduces the total volume of the catalyst by coating SCR catalyst in the DPF 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 36 37 Our Strategy Product & Market PRODUCT & MARKET Strengthening Innovating and Doosan Infracore is not only solidifying its relationships with existing customers Product Diversifying Sales but also attracting new customers by making continuous efforts to improve Competitiveness Channels its products and services, and to expand its communications channels for both customers and sales. 01 02 Enhancing Service Competitiveness 03 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 38 39 Our Strategy Product & Market Strengthening Advancing Product Development Capabilities Developing Products to Respond to Emissions Regulations Product Doosan Infracore is improving the competitiveness of its products In accordance with its midto long-term product development and building a foundation for sustainable growth by focusing on new roadmap, Doosan Infracore is expanding its engine line-up to include Competitiveness technologies and advanced product development. It has established a midto long-term roadmap for product development which reflects new products which meet all the latest emissions standards. This is also enabling the company to attract new global customers. market trends, including customer requirements, eco-friendly fuels and ICT, based on durability and convenience. The company has then Doosan Infracore responded to the scheduled enforcement of EU connected this roadmap to its technology and product development Stage V 2) emissions standards by developing the compact G2 Stage V and its business strategies. In addition, it put the DI Product pilot engine in January 2017 based on the latest combustion tech01 Management System (PMS) in place to ensure the integration of customer opinions and trends in markets and technology into product development. nologies. Mass production began at the end of 2019 after a series of thorough durability and quality tests. The compact G2 Stage V engine uses ultra-low fuel-consumption combustion (ULFC) 3) technology, an upgraded version of the technology used in the earlier In addition to developing its own technology, Doosan Infracore model of G2 engines, resulting in improved power and the lowest innovates in many other ways, including collaboration with external fuel consumption in its class. In addition, Doosan Infracore has organizations, investments in start-ups and industry-academia applied SCR on DPF (SDPF), a technology based on the integration cooperation. It is also increasing the competitiveness of its products of selective catalytic reduction (SCR) and diesel particulate filter by reflecting changes in customer, social, environmental, and (DPF), as Stage V emissions standards are significantly stricter on technological requirements. For example, the company developed particulate matter (PM). SDPF was developed in-house by Doosan electric excavators in line with the toughening regulations mainly in Infracore, and used the company’s unique concept design process, advanced markets. including catalyst simulation, to enable the installation of the engine in the space allowed by the equipment, while still meeting all Stage V In its engine business, Doosan Infracore is focusing on performance, regulations. It also extended the filter replacement cycle that lasts for fuel efficiency, durability and reliability, while developing products 1,000 hours, as well as offering a range of other options for increased based on alternative fuels and engine electrification technology. The customer convenience. company is enhancing its technological capability in combustion and post-processing in order to better respond to the next-generation emissions standards, and is also expanding the scope of its alternative fuel technology to include CNG and LNG. Moreover, it builds the engines of the future by developing technologies in engine electrification, 1) Hybrid powertrain: The main components for delivering different forms of power to equipment, such as a hybrid powertrain. Doosan Infracore is becoming a “Total including power generated by engines and power from batteries and motor drives Powertrain Solution Provider” by developing advanced 48V full 2) Stage V: Exhaust gas regulations put into effect by the EU in 2019 to restrict PM emissions by diesel engines to a level at least 40% lower than previously industrial hybrid powertrain1), and by researching the electrification of 3) U LFC: An innovative technology, patented by Doosan Infracore, that optimizes fuel mechanical parts and the E-Powerpack. combustion while increasing power Doosan Infracore’s History of Engine Development 2010s 1970s 2000s •  011: Euro 5 2  012-2013: Tier 3, Tier 4, Euro 6 CNG 2 – 1980s • • D  eveloped engines that •  016: Euro 6 Diesel 2 meet Euro 2, 3, 4 emission •  019: Stage V Diesel/LPG 2 1958 • O  perated the most • standards D  eveloped tier 2 and modernized engine plant 3 engines in Asia • B  ecame the first engine • D  eveloped an engine based manufacturer in Korea on in-house technology 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 40 41 Our Strategy Product & Market In addition to making these performance improvements, Doosan no CO2, and therefore they can be used for many purposes in regions Developing Flexible Local Production Capabilities Infracore undertook a range of targeted sales activities for the around the world. Applying eco-friendly fuel combustion technologies Doosan Infracore operates Customization Plants, its customized The Customization Plants have enabled Doosan Infracore to change compact G2 Stage V engine, including setting up an exclusive to diesel engines increases compatibility with those engines, while assembly centers, in Europe and North America in order to better its previous “make-to-order” system to “make-to-stock” based on customer team to provide distinctive services. As a result, it successstill benefitting from the unique strength, durability and reliability respond to customer requirements and to increase efficiency at its demand forecasting for popular models, and resulted in reducing fully signed supply contracts with global companies such as KION in of diesel engines, so that they can be used for a long time without production facilities. Before establishing the Customization Plants, lead times substantially. The company will build an integrated global Germany, Baoli in China, and ARBOS in Italy. The G2 Stage V engine minor breakdowns. In addition, Doosan Infracore is developing CNG Doosan Infracore supplied 100% of its products as finished vehicles plant dashboard in 2020, through which it will assess production matches the products of the most advanced companies in North stoichiometric air-fuel ratio technology, thereby increasing its competfrom Korea which placed limitations on changes to specifications. and inventory in all regions, and thus establish a supply system America and Europe, enabling Doosan Infracore to make inroads itiveness in eco-friendly alternative fuel solutions, in response to If existing product did not match the specifications ordered by a which responds quickly to customer needs, through better supply of into major markets based on the excellence of its products. Going growing interest of global OEMs in this technology after the implemencustomer, the company had to produce a new product at its Korean finished vehicles and parts. Doosan Infracore will supply products forward, the company will participate in engine dealer conferences in tation of Euro 6 – Europe’s latest emissions regulations for vehicles. plant and then ship it to the customer, resulting in long lead times faster than before and thus get closer to customers by forecasting North America and Europe as a way to share its sales strategies and Even stricter NOx/CH4 regulations and new CO2 emissions regulations and a restricted ability to reflect the needs of customers and dealers. demand by region and by month, and then preemptively acquiring plans to develop innovative, technologically advanced new products are expected in Euro 7, while customers are still demanding that CNG the base machines, front kits, complete knock-down (CKD) materials and services. engines deliver as much power as diesel engines. This is why Doosan In order to overcome these limitations and generate greater customer and attachments. Infracore is developing new stoichiometric air-fuel ratio engine value, Doosan Infracore established its first Customization Plant, Doosan Infracore has also applied its highly efficient combustion technologies, including the optimization of combustion, reducing the Europe Customization Plant (EuCup), in 2016 in Rotterdam, the Enhancing Product Quality technology to LPG and CNG gas engines. These eco-friendly alternative heat loads, improved high temperature materials, and multi-fuel Netherlands. Production at EuCup is based on the “semi knock-down Strengthening PDCA5)-based Process Operations In 2018, Doosan fuels emit 90% less PMs compared to diesel engines and almost with injection and EGR ratio optimization. (SKD)” partial assembly method, which involves importing the main Infracore created the Quality Management Team, dedicated to body and the front parts, such as arms and booms, then assembling diagnosing and verifying the Quality Management System (QMS) them to produce finished products which match the exact customer at the corporate level in its construction equipment and engine specifications. EuCup has significantly reduced lead times, from 16 businesses. QMS covers strategies for quality and key performance D34 Stage V Engine weeks to five weeks, and has also improved sales forecasting and indicators, organizational management and quality awareness, inventory management, leading to increased competitiveness in the and was previously based on ISO 9001:2008. The company has European market. added various factors to its existing QMS, including the findings of its reviews of internal and external changes; improvements it has Comply with Stage V exhaust gas Based on the success of EuCup, Doosan Infracore opened the North made by evaluating potential issues in the QMS; and the need to No need for regular valve emission regulations clearance inspections America Customization Plant (NaCup) in Savannah, Georgia in the expand to areas besides production, purchase and quality. This has thanks to the application of • S  atisfy PN2) standards with DPF installation U.S. in January 2020. Alongside the establishment of NaCup, the substantially upgraded the QMS and operational management at the a hydraulic valve clearance company undertook a detailed analysis of potential sales and an company. The new QMS reflects the latest ISO 9001:2015 standards, adjustment device •  ighly efficient Cu-Zeolite SCR H Remove EGR1) device (95% or more) ≥ 56kW in-depth market survey, resulting in more accurate sales forecasting. including taking into account the requirements of a wider group of through high-efficiency • E  xclude EGR by applying SDPF technology It also calculated demand for options on each model to work out stakeholders and more advanced risk management, and it consists SDPF technology an appropriate level of inventory. As with EuCup, NaCup involves of common diagnosis items of organizations and specific diagnosis the main body being shipped as a half-finished product from Korea items on work areas by organization. Improve performance and to NaCup, where attachments are assembled according to specific fuel efficiency customer requirements. After the launch of NaCup, the lead time • Improve combustion rate by applying the ULFC from order to shipment was reduced from 100 days to 4-6 weeks. technology that has optimized the piston ball, injector nozzle, etc. NaCup can assemble 35 different models, and its annual production Achieve high power, high fuel • Improve air management by optimizing valve goal is more than 1,000 units. It plans to secure sufficient inventory efficiency through ULFC, an timing and turbocharger matching for popular models to be delivered within ten days, which will enable innovative technology patented • Improve performance and reduce fuel stronger and more reliable sales throughout the North American by Doosan Infracore consumption market. Increase customer convenience and decrease TCO3) • H LA4): No need for the maintenance for Reduce exchange costs for such valve clearance consumables as fuel filter, engine • A utomatic tensioning belt operation system No need for regular valve oil and oil filter, thanks to the • 1,000-hour oil change interval clearance inspections 1,000-hour oil change cycle which thanks to the application is two times longer than the of an automatic belt previous one 1) EGR: Exhaust gas recirculation device tension adjustment device 2) PN: Particle number 3) TCO: Total cost of ownership 4) HLA: Hydraulic lash adjustment method 5) PDCA: A technique to achieve a goal by repeatedly executing a cycle of plan-do-check-act 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 42 43 Our Strategy Product & Market Doosan Infracore built the foundations for upgrading its QMS in 2019. Construction equipment is used in deserts, plateaus, wetlands In 2020, it will enhance the execution of its quality management and other harsh environments. Doosan Infracore conducts annual processes in order to meet customer expectations concerning assessment to test durability in extreme cold temperature for its quality, and will thus enhance its fundamental competitiveness. To construction equipment, including excavators and wheel loaders, this end, the company will expand its targets for QMS and focus on at the coldest time of year and in the coldest regions to check process-based business, including by improving the resolution of performance in extremely low temperatures in addition to testing issues between front and back offices, and ensuring preemptive risk them in its cold chamber. In 2014, Doosan Infracore became the first management even in an uncertain business environment. Korean construction equipment company that undertakes extreme cold testing, and it continues to conduct such testing every year. The company also runs vehicle performance tests in China at altitudes of Improving Preventive Quality and Basic Quality Doosan Infracore at least 5,000m in order to ensure reliable performance even on high continues to make rapid, innovative improvements in quality which plateaus. increase customer value by “observing the basics of quality,” with a focus on its plants and suppliers. As we move into the Fourth Moreover, in October 2019 Doosan Infracore completed the construcIndustrial Revolution, in 2020 Doosan Infracore will use big data tion of the Boryeong Proving Ground at 300,000m2, the largest of to forecast potential quality issues caused by customers’ working its kind in Korea with the goal of implementing more systematic environment and operating capacities (e.g. operating hours) of their verification of the durability and performance of its advanced equipment. It can then undertake preventative inspections and also construction equipment. The Boryeong Proving Ground consists use telematics system for remote diagnosis, thereby implementing of three proving grounds which are identical to actual working activities to strengthen preventive quality so that no quality issues environments for construction equipment, as well as a mountain arise with customer equipment. driving road, which enables the simultaneous testing of up to 20 units of construction equipment. In addition, “accelerated durability Doosan Infracore is focusing on quality improvement, and is building specialization testing” is available so that the durability testing period a working environment which adheres to the basic and standards can be accelerated. This facility includes various other proving grounds, in order to substantially improve its basic quality level. Every such as driving, salvage and traction power, and noise testing, as well year, the company identifies the most urgent quality issues to be as a dome. In addition to regulatory testing, construction equipment In 2019, Doosan Infracore conducted a regular annual QMS diagnosis QMS Operation Process addressed, aimed at increasing customer value. In 2019, it formed a is evaluated in environments that are as similar to actual work sites of its production/purchase/quality, R&D, sales and service units of cross-functional team to improve the 5-ton hoses, and then improved as possible. The Boryeong Proving Ground improves the performance its construction equipment and engine businesses. It has also built • T arget: Construction equipment and assembly processes and undertook regular audits at each plant, and durability of Doosan Infracore’s construction equipment, and is a corporate-wide QMS diagnosis management system which has engine businesses constantly focusing on whether standards were being observed in thus significantly enhancing product competitiveness. The Boryeong created a virtuous cycle of identifying tasks based on the diagnosis, • S cope: Production/purchase/quality, order to make improvements in basic quality. As a result, issues in Proving Grounds will be Doosan Infracore’s “smart construction R&D, sales, services monitoring task execution, and verifying the improvements basic quality fell by 10%. equipment research complex,” demonstrating its cutting-edge made. Progress monitoring is conducted every quarter, in order to QMS Diagnosis technologies to ensure environmental and customer safety. strengthen execution capability, and reports are made to the CEO Verifying Equipment Performance and Durability Doosan Infracore as a way to support the management of takes at the company level. undertakes reliability tests and evaluations on all its products, Doosan Infracore will ensure that all departments implement its new including excavators and engines, to ensure their performance with systematic business processes and comply with QMS standards, and full specifications and in any environment, throughout their lifespan. also that they use PDCA for further improvements. The Incheon Reliability Evaluation Center is equipped with the latest in testing facilities and equipment, including an environmental Amid rapidly changing business environment, Doosan Infracore has QMS Operation tolerance laboratory, a large anechoic chamber, a vibration test Verify Define Tasks an advanced risk management system in place, aimed at preempProcess laboratory, a structure test laboratory, and a hydraulic test laboratory. improvements tively managing potential risks while also promptly and efficiently • D  iscuss QMS The Center also tests and evaluates product durability and structural responding to emerging risks from an integrated perspective • Verify improvements diagnosis findings safety in a wide range of working environments. through site audit, etc. throughout its value chain. In 2019, the company identified the key • E  stablish plans to • Document execute tasks risks for each function within its construction equipment and engine the improvement businesses, set out response strategies, and undertook preemptive measures risk management in relation to these strategies. It also focused on ensuring corporate-wide responses, including quarterly monitoring Manage Tasks of risk prevention activities and reports to the CEO. • R  eview progress by task • R  eport issues in making progress to management 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 44 45 Our Strategy Product & Market Expanding Value-selling Price competition in the construction equipment market continues to be intensified especially in emerging markets. Doosan Infracore avoids sales strategies based on low prices, but rather focuses on the distinctive value of its products. Its value-selling strategy offers such solutions as product consulting and other services, based on an in-depth understanding of customer requirements, and with a focus on delivering product value. This strategy has been successful in establishing strong relationships with customers, including attracting new customers and signing highly-profitable fleet deals. In order to implement its value-selling strategy, the company provides field training to its dealers’ sales personnel, as well as various tools to increase their understanding of the equipment. Doosan Infracore also provides them education on matters that are of great interest to customers, and trains them on a wide range of product solutions which can be offered to customers. In 2019, Doosan Infracore developed marketing materials to explain the particular advantages of Doosan Infracore products from the perspective of total cost of ownership (TCO) and productivity, increased the number of customer visits, and expanded its training of sales personnel, all in its efforts to implement its value-selling strategy. In addition, the company developed the “Doosan Equipment Sales” app to integrate data which had previously been dispersed among different sales channels. This app enables dealers to undertake value-focused sales, and thus to deliver value to customers. It also helps to imprint the expertise and quality of Doosan Infracore in the minds of customers at its sales sites. This app has already been used to present the strengths of Doosan Infracore’s products to customers in emerging markets, and also to compare their productivity and TCO, which in turn has resulted in winning contracts. Doosan Infracore has further improved customer satisfaction through its “Smart Maintenance” service solution which uses DoosanCONNECT™ to provide remote monitoring to check the status of equipment and other preventative maintenance services. This led to the signing of a contract to supply nine large excavators to Dangote Cement, an affiliate of the Dangote Group, the largest conglomerate in West Africa. Innovating and In 2020, Doosan Infracore will focus on attracting key accounts by selecting potential key accounts in each region and implementing a Diversifying Sales wide range of marketing programs. The company will increase both sales and profitability by leveraging its unique value-selling strategy Channels and expanding it to more sales sites, thereby striking the right balance between stable growth and strong profitability. 02 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 46 47 Our Strategy Product & Market Providing a TMS-based Lifetime Care Program Even in Korea, where traditional offline sales remain dominant, online and mobile purchases are increasing steadily. Doosan Infracore is Enhancing Service Telematics system (TMS) combines wireless communications with therefore overhauling its customer services and establishing new marketing channels. The company is developing a smartphoneCompetitiveness the global positioning system (GPS) that enables the real-time collection and analysis of information such as the location and based customer support and product system to integrate across operational status of equipment. This in turn allows users to the entire value chain, including sales, after-sales services, parts remotely monitor equipment on their IT devices, including where dealers, equipment buyers and users, and other customers. The the equipment is, how much work has been completed, how it is system will be linked to social media to improve its value and access operating, and the status of consumables and parts, including if to customers. In addition to customer-centered services, such as any of them need to be replaced, thereby enabling efficient work location-based assistance, improved equipment maintenance, and management and support. Doosan Infracore began its telematics the sharing of product information, the system will also offer new services in China in 2005, which was followed by the release of functionality, including dealer purchasing and technical support and DoosanCONNECT™ in 2015. DoosanCONNECT™ is a TMS developed 03 repair connections. This will enable the company to establish the in-house by Doosan Infracore, and the company will apply TMS to foundations for e-commerce. all models released from 2021. As of the end of 2019, TMS had been Mobile Parts Book Application applied to around 71,600 units of equipment, such as excavators, In August 2019, Doosan Infracore released its “Mobile Parts Book” wheel loaders and ADTs, enabling dealers to determine if there are application to enable customers to have full access to product manuals and information on parts. Part book contains plans, parts numbers and other data for a product. Until now, Doosan Infracore Digital Marketing provided the book, which is an average of 600 pages long for each Doosan Infracore runs a range of digital platforms to facilitate piece of equipment, in paper form, which was inconvenient for customer communications and strengthen its untact1) sales ability. portability and storage, for sharing and communicating, and for The company has been advancing into the huge Chinese market updating information. Doosan IInfracore, therefore, developed the since 2016 by using WeChat, the largest mobile messenger service Mobile Parts Book app with a focus on user convenience, rapid in China, as well as other online media to provide news about information updates and continued follow-up. The user interface was products, send information on used products and parts, share other made as simple as possible, and access to parts information was information to help customers manage their equipment, and to improved even in places without an internet connection, thereby identify customer demand for products and thus make actual sales. maximizing usability. Updates are possible in real time, enabling The company currently has around 140,000 followers on WeChat, and customers to check the latest information on parts and compatibility this number continues to grow. Doosan Infracore began parts sales immediately. With just an equipment certification number, anyone through WeChat in 2019, recording sales of at least KRW 10 billion, can become a member and install the Mobile Parts Book app for free, with more than 1,200 units sold through online marketing, including provided in eight languages. Doosan Infracore recently adopted a WeChat. Beginning in February 2020, the company uses social media system through which users can ask for parts estimates and make platform marketing through TikTok and Kwai to publicize its finished inventory inquiries through the Mobile Parts Book app, and is also products and parts, and to provide customer support including building an online platform which allows the parts order placement. technical education about equipment maintenance through live The company will continue to improve the Mobile Parts Book app broadcasting. During an hour-long live broadcast in March, the from a customer perspective, and help dealers and customers to company received many customer inquiries about its products, and more effectively use its new online platform. a live broadcast about equipment management was seen by 7,300 viewers. With customers responding increasingly favorably to digital content, Doosan Infracore will leverage its social media channels as a Digital marketing promotes continued interest in the company’s useful tool through which it can share new product releases and products and services, and enables the company to deliver value promotions, and deliver greater customer value. without the restrictions of time and space. Doosan Infracore will, therefore, build up its digital infrastructure so that it can continue to offer its customers total solutions through data-based digital platforms. 1) Untact: A trend terminology that is a compound word, consisting of contact and “un” which means negation. It refers to marketing where digital technology is used to provide information and sell products based on a non-face-to-face method 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 49 Our Strategy Product & Market Expanding the DoosanCARE Program As part of its customer-tailored support services, and to build also increasing the number of lecturers who have received intermeits relationships with customers, Doosan Infracore offers the diate-level certificates by providing more opportunities for dealer DoosanCARE program whereby service experts visit customers, service personnel to receive trainings. irrespective of whether they have on-going issues with products or warranties, to offer consulting and training on equipment Doosan Infracore strives to increase training opportunities and management. In addition to DoosanCARE, offered by headquarters improve accessibility, as well as to carry out systematic and in Korea, in 2018 Doosan Infracore began DealerCARE in emerging continuous service training. To this end, it established Service markets such as Indonesia and Colombia, whereby dealers provide Training Centers in Colombia in 2018, and in Mexico, Singapore and customers with quality service as high as that of DoosanCARE. Ghana in 2019. The level of previous training methodology, through which trainers visited individual dealers, differ according to the In 2019, the company headquarters, in partnership with dealers, level of trainers. Also, compared to the resources invested, such ran the DoosanCARE program for some 900 units of equipment as training personnel and budget, training quality and efficiency in both emerging and advanced markets. Doosan Infracore has were unreliable. Doosan Infracore, therefore, established its Service improved customer value by preventing breakdowns through training Training Centers in major global bases, and on the back of significant programs for users about the characteristics and maintenance of support from headquarters, the Training Centers were set up with the their equipment. In 2020, the company will further facilitate the equipment, training tools and materials needed to enable them to DoosanCARE program through cooperation with dealers worldwide, hold comprehensive “Hands-on Training.” After the opening of the and upgrade its marketing activities. Colombia Training Center, the company provided an engine service training program to dealer service personnel from South America The DoosanCARE program also enables the company to listen directly in July 2019. The trainees learned about the fundamentals of the to customer opinions, and thus to increase efficiency in equipment engines, and received practical training on skills such as removing, operations by quickly identifying any inconveniences. Doosan repairing and re-installing broken engine parts. any faults in the equipment, assess what parts are needed, and thus “Smart Maintenance” is a distinctive service program which Infracore aims to resolve customer complaints about its products, provide services in advance. The company can analyze information provides preemptive maintenance services to customers based and is continually striving to find new ways to maximize customer In July 2019, Doosan Infracore held the global final of the Doosan collected through telematics, including the location and operational on the operational data collected through DoosanCONNECT™. satisfaction by improving the DoosanCARE program. Service Contest, also known as “Doosan’s Got Talent.” First held in status of equipment, as well as the status of major parts, and then Doosan Infracore released the Smart Maintenance program in five 2014 to motivate service personnel, Doosan’s Got Talent 2019 was reflect this information in production. Moreover, it can use the countries – the Philippines, Myanmar, Cambodia, Malaysia and the second such event. Service technicians from dealers across the collected information for big data analysis. Nigeria – in 2019, and will expand it to other countries. The program Improving Dealer Services globe took part in the contest, competing to display their service consists of three sub-products – Light, Standard and Premium. Doosan Infracore makes continuous efforts to strengthen service skills and sharing experiences. Preliminary contests were held locally Doosan Infracore is providing TMS-based services to help customers The main differences between the sub-products are the degree to skills of its dealers in order to increase customer satisfaction and in 2018, with participation by 120 service personnel affiliated with check and manage the operational status of their equipment with which detailed program contents can be adjusted for the market thus sharpen a competitive edge. In particular, it runs the Doosan dealers from 30 emerging markets, including China. The final was ease. “Fleet Management Report” is an analysis of data collected environment, and the ability of the dealer to put the program into Partners Academy (DPA), an online training program for dealers, held at headquarters in Korea, with participants tested on their through the telematics service such as equipment operation and practice. Doosan Infracore will develop a set of Smart Maintenance aimed at helping dealer service personnel to improve their expertise. professional knowledge and their ability to inspect equipment and work rates, real-time fuel efficiency, and error codes. It has enabled service solutions which reflect the needs and strategic direction of The company also provides quality training based on its standardundertake performance checks. They also had to demonstrate their the easy analysis of the status of products being operated by each region. In addition, the company is developing lifetime care ized education and training systems, including “Hands-on Training” skills in the “Troubleshooting Test” during which they were required customers through the data comparison between equipment or solutions for a wide range of customer equipment with the goal of through which experts from headquarters use equipment that is to diagnose the cause of a problem that had been randomly created among equipment groups. In 2019, Doosan Infracore introduced maximizing capture of customers outside warrantee services and used at actual worksites to train dealer service personnel on how by the judges on an actual piece of equipment, and then to resolve additional operating guides and consulting services in connection securing secure machine lifetime visibility. In 2020, the company will to identify and deal with the most common causes of customer it. Doosan’s Got Talent has given participants the opportunity to with the Fleet Management Report function. establish a roadmap for “Machine Lifetime Care” and implement it in complaints. increase their service skills and to share know-how with professional connection with the Smart Maintenance. technicians from around the world, and is helping the company In 2019, Doosan Infracore expanded its dealer service evaluation by training service experts in each region to maximize customer and training systems to ensure that customer service is at the same satisfaction. Special features of Smart Maintenance high level around the world. The company analyzed its best dealers across the globe, used them to define dealer service capabilities, and thus set out operational standards and evaluation criteria for dealers. In addition, the company has established systems for global dealer service training and directions for personnel development with the goal of expanding the base for stable services. As part of this effort, Doosan Infracore is fostering officially certified lecturers Maximized Sustainable Reduced Improved by the company through the Train the Trainer (TTT) program, and is productivity product lifecycle maintenance costs convenience 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 50 51 Our Strategy Innovation & Digitalization INNOVATION & DIGITALIZATION Securing Future Technologies Operational Innovation based on Digital Doosan Infracore is focused on diverse products and innovative solutions Transformation that will bring about fundamental changes to the global construction industry in the Fourth Industrial Revolution era. We are also moving forward with a digital transformation not only how to work but also how to think of. 01 02 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 52 53 Our Strategy Innovation & Digitalization control the excavator as if the worker was at the actual worksite. Also the company introduced 3D machine guidance which precisely Surrounding environment • Dump truck perception perception sensors • Local topography perception measures movements of the excavator in three-dimensional data (SVC, Radar, USS, LiDAR, MCS) • Obstacle perception using attached sensors and sends the data to the station; leveling which requires advanced work skills; and machine control such as Perception System E-fence, a safety function that stops the equipment from moving outside the pre-defined work area. • Work object perception Based on its long years of experiences in developing future tech• Dump truck perception nologies, Doosan Infracore successfully demonstrated the Concept-X, • Obstacle perception Unmanned Excavators Planning System a solution to address challenges of an unmanned automated • C  reation of local work Perception System sequence plan construction site, in November 2019 at the Boryeong Proving Ground. • C  reation of motion trajectory The Concept-X demonstration event was attended by around 200 • C  reation of driving path people, including politicians as well as staff members of companies, organizations and academia related to the development of Concept-X, Control System who were able to glimpse the future of construction sites. The • M  G sensor Autonomous Control X-center, a control center of the Concept-X, creates a 3D map of the Unmanned Wheel Loaders • C  ontrol logic worksite based on measurements sent by a drone flying over the • Integrated plan worksite, and sends operation commends to excavators or wheel • Autonomous driving • Autonomous work loaders installed with unmanned operation technologies. The X-center monitors and manages measurement data and work progress of the unmanned equipment. There had been cases where unmanned Vehicle Control operations of equipment were featured. However, Doosan Infracore • Engine control is the first to demonstrate the entire process, from worksite survey to • Mission control equipment operations, using unmanned automation technologies. • Hydraulic control By using the digital data of construction sites, the Concept-X 1) improves productivity based on digital data generated by the unmanned operations of equipment and the remote management of unmanned construction sites; 2) prevents accidents using a sensorDoosan Infracore Concept-X based perception system; 3) minimizes equipment breakdowns through preemptive response based on AI-generated prognostics. The X-center, a brain of Concept-X, is a comprehensive control system that enables the integrated monitoring and management of worksites, including creating digital data of the worksite, establishing Doosan Infracore makes continuous efforts to develop and commerinevitable wait time and idle time. For the construction industry to a plan based on analysis results, and delivering operation commands cialize future technologies, such as unmanned operation, automation, grow at a steady pace, it is essential to increase productivity, improve to the equipment. After scanning the worksite and measuring the Securing Future and electrification. To publicize its vision of future technologies, the company participated in CES 2020, its first participation in the safety, and develop eco-friendly technology. In order to tackle these challenges at construction sites around the world and to add new topography of the worksite by using a drone, the system creates a 3D topographical map, establishes a work plan based on 3D building Technologies International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) held in Las Vegas, the U.S. in January 2020. It showcased new technologies and business value, Doosan Infracore has been carrying out “Concept-X,” a project that combines IT and AI technologies to create technologies for the information modeling (BIM) comparisons, analyzes the worksite data, and then sends operation commands to unmanned automation models in an era where boundaries are fast disappearing between construction site of the future, since 2017. technology-equipped machinery. The development of the X-center manufacturing and IT. has enabled Doosan Infracore to secure technological capabilities Doosan Infracore unveiled its tele operation technology and related not only to the operation of individual unmanned equipment successfully demonstrated the industry’s first 5G1)-based system of but also to solutions of the comprehensive control of unmanned Concept-X, Solution to the Future of Construction Sites remote-controlling machinery across borders at the Bauma China construction sites. The global construction industry accounts for at least 10% of global 2018 and Bauma Germany 2019. At the Bauma Germany in particular, 01 GDP, growing every year on the strength of the steady growth of the company succeeded in operating an excavator located 8,537 housing and infrastructure construction. Despite such growth, the km away, using a remote-control station displaying video images of industry is low in productivity and high in accident rate relative to the job site, taken by cameras installed on the excavator, and live1) 5G: A network service that can transmit up to 100 times more data and 20 times faster than LTE, enabling hyper-connected, ultra-high-speed and ultralow-latency services other industries mainly because of the nature of its business which streamed through an ultra-low latency2) network. This tele operation 2) Ultra-low latency: Terminology for an extremely short end-to-end delivery time in machine-type requires a great number of equipment and skilled workers as well as enabled the worker to remotely look at the real-time videos and communication 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 54 55 Our Strategy Innovation & Digitalization In the Concept-X demonstration, Doosan Infracore showcased Total economic, social and environmental value operations representative of types of work expected of excavators and before/after Concept-X wheel loaders equipped with unmanned automation technologies. The unmanned excavator in the demonstration carried out leveling, Value of Concept-X at Concept-X includes the X-center technology that controls unmanned equipment, such as excavators and wheel loaders, at an unmanned In social aspects, it has been found that the adoption of Concept-X creates meaningful value in improving safety issues. This impact is trenching and loading of excavated soil, while the unmanned wheel loader loaded the soil onto a nearby dump truck or transported the Future Construction Sites worksite. To determine the social value of adopting Concept-X, Doosan Infracore has devised indices, including reduction of work drawn by the forecast or detected breakdowns of equipment through PHM; unmanned equipment improves work efficiency in dangerous soil quite distant from the worksite. As the operations of excavators hours, reduction in worksite environmental impact, equipment and areas; and the fewer personnel at construction sites, the lower the and wheel loaders depend on the worksite, the company will continue Doosan Infracore conducted research on changes personnel allocation, and safety and fuel efficiency improvements. The accident rate will be. to research possible functionalities of unmanned equipment. hypothetical construction environment where Concept-X was applied and value that it could bring to future construction Improved safety is another important consideration in the application is found to be 36% higher in terms of economic, social, environmental Environmentally, the leading anticipated effect is reduced fuel sites after successfully completing the Concept-X of unmanned automation technologies. Doosan Infracore, therefore, benefit relative to conventional construction sites. Doosan Infracore consumption and greenhouse gas emissions as a result of improved is focusing on developing technology related to control algorithms demonstration in 2019. Using KPMG’s “True Value” will continually measure, manage and publicize the true total cost fuel efficiency, as well as noise reductions from shorter construction that enable real-time monitoring of the operation areas of unmanned methodology, the company calculated and analyzed of ownership (TCO) of Concept-X solutions following technological periods. In addition, the total estimated construction hours saved equipment, including those along the paths of travel, for detection the effects of improvements in economic, social, improvements, and lead the social value creation of Doosan Infracore will have a positive effect on reducing environmental pollution, of unexpected intrusions of other equipment or personnel into the and environmental value that will result from the business. such as air pollutants, fine dust and damage to forests in areas near areas, and an immediate cessation of the operation of the equipment adoption of solutions to the unmanned automation construction sites. whenever necessary. In terms of economic value, the X-center solution, including droneof construction sites, and would like to share its based 3D mapping and measurement technology, reduces construction More detailed information on the benefits of Concept-X adoptions can findings with stakeholders. time and costs by up to around 20% with an increased consistency in be found in a separately-issued report titled, “Concept-X True Value measurement. Moreover, unmanned automated construction sites Report.” require two-thirds fewer onsite personnel, such as work supervisors and construction equipment operators. Total construction time also decreases by 32.9%, contributing to reduce construction costs. Report on “Concept-X True Value Report” Economic Social Environmental Total 36% increase in total economic, social and environmental benefits compared to the existing levels of benefits Reduction of Increase in Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Economic, social, design and productivity of safety of CO2 of CH4 of NO2 of fine dust of noise in forest environmental measurement accidents (carbon (methane) (nitrogen damage added value from costs dioxide) dioxide) using Concept-X 1) As for a hypothetical construction environment in which it could evaluate the potential benefits of Concept-X, Doosan Infracore chose a specific construction project, among recent large-scale construction projects in Korea, of which costs and environmental impact data were possible to calculate. The company then calculated the value that the adoption of the Concept-X would generate in such environment in comparison with the existing construction site. 2) Concept-X solutions, following the November 2019 initial demonstration, are undergoing the process of refinement toward the goal of commercialization by 2025. The performance capability and specifications of individual equipment lines are being continually upgraded. In cases where any of the economic, social and environmental value of Concept-X solutions cannot be determined, the company used figures defined in the following order: 1) latest measurements of value, 2) estimates of value upon commercialization of solutions, 3) effects of unmanned construction equipment solutions researched by outside parties, and in cases of multiple data, the most conservative figures to be used. 3) The monetization of social and environmental value reflects the amount of quantitative input data generated by equipment and construction sites, multiplied by the monetary value of each data assigned to the latest global research materials, in accordance with the KPMG True Value methodology. The monetary values are set according to the rate of price fluctuation of the base country at the time of the research, using exchange rates at the end of 2019. 4) Calculation results are not complete but explicit data derived to establish the direction for social impact management and value creation based on several assumptions. Also, as the monetary values, which reflect the current approach, can be additionally supplemented or adjusted to findings of new research in the future, impact valuation figures for the same years may change going forward. Therefore, this information may not be considered as part of financial disclosure. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 56 57 Our Strategy Innovation & Digitalization Unexpected equipment breakdowns at unmanned construction sites, Electrification where fleet operations will become the norm, can lead to economic Electric Excavators At the CONEXPO 2020, held in Las Vegas in Having found the potential of “48V mild hybrid powertrain,” Doosan reduce air pollutant emissions. However, the D24 engine does not losses and other risks. Prognostics and health management (PHM) is a the U.S. in March 2020, Doosan Infracore unveiled a pilot product Infracore commenced a full-scale technological development in require such a solution. Going forward, Doosan Infracore will apply a solution to such potential problems – it enables unmanned automated of DX17Z-5, a 1.7-ton mini electric excavator. The DX17Z-5 electric July 2018. The mild hybrid powertrain is a combination of internal hybrid powertrain technology for midto large-sized equipment that equipment to self-diagnose its status and to identify potential sources excavator is powered exclusively by a battery pack stored within, and combustion and electrification systems in which a 48V electric motor integrates the same eDrive module (eMotor, inverter, HCU, battery) of breakdowns, thereby ensuring seamless operation. The PHM the battery supplies power to an electric motor that activates the is attached to an engine as an auxiliary power source. The electric to its D34 engine, in order to secure a 4-liter line-up. Combining a technology uses big data analysis, deep learning and AI technology, hydraulic systems. DX17Z-5 is the first electric excavator developed motor is used in low-efficiency sections, thereby increasing energy 25-horsepower electric motor with a 135-horsepower, D34 engine based on the history of equipment usage data. Doosan Infracore’s in response to the opinions of customers who operate an excavator efficiency and power while reducing CO2 emissions. As a result of will evolve into a 160-horsepower powertrain. In addition, it enables future unmanned automated equipment can self-diagnose its for hours in a confined space. DX17Z-5 is eco-friendly for it does not establishing such a unique powertrain concept and improving the engine downsizing for it does not need the selective catalyst reduction operating status and detect signs of a potential breakdown in time for emit harmful gases, such as exhaust gas, and is suitable for working specifications, the company has developed a “Doosan Intelligent (SCR), a pollutant reducing device, while the use of an electric motor maintenance to take place, and thus minimizes downtime, offering a indoors (closed space) or in an urban area where eco-friendly Hybrid Powertrain,” the company’s first mild hybrid powertrain that helps reduce fuel consumption and improve acceleration. longer guarantee of equipment soundness, which in turn leads to the operation is required. The company plans to commercialize DX17Z-5 has an electric motor directly connected to the engine, and successincreased worksite efficiency and productivity. in 2022. fully started up a prototype in August 2019. With the Doosan Intelligent Hybrid Powertrain as a start, Doosan Infracore will secure optimal engine and motor control technoloDoosan Infracore plans to unveil solutions by phase prior to commerHybrid Powertrain As a result of stricter GHG emissions standards Doosan Intelligent Hybrid Powertrain is a technology that combines gies, and develop vehicles and equipment on which the mild hybrid cialization of Concept-X. As a first step for commercialization, it across the global automotive market, “de-dieselization” is gaining an electric motor, hybrid control unit (HCU), inverter and 48V battery powertrain can be installed, thereby improving the business value of released XiteCloud1) in May 2020. XiteCloud is a smart solution momentum. The progress of electric engines in the automotive pack with the G2 engine for higher performance and efficiency. the powertrain. In addition, through R&D of hybrid powertrains and to earthwork management at construction site, and it connects industry is also being accelerated, and the development of hybrid The company’s first hybrid powertrain is a combination of a 2-liter electrification of mechanical parts, the company will grow into a total 3D drone measurements, earthwork amount calculations and engines for industrial uses is at full speed. Doosan Infracore has been 75-horsepower D24 engine and a 25-horsepower electric motor, power solution provider offering not only first-rate engines but the construction layouts to an exclusive cloud platform2) through which looking into developing various types of hybrid powertrains since which is equivalent to a 3-liter 100-horsepower engine. Unlike latest in hybrid and electrification technology as well. it devises work plans for optimal efficiency at the worksite. Bringing 2017. A hybrid powertrain has an internal combustion engine and an 2-liter engines, 3-liter engines are required to use a urea solution to together diverse and dispersed types of work, such as measurement, electric motor powered by a battery pack installed on the machine or topography analysis, equipment operations and construction equipment. The electric motor is used when a little energy is needed management, and managing them on a single platform can reduce (discharging), and an internal combustion engine is used when a lot costs and work time while also improving work accuracy, which leads of energy is required (charging). Major Elements and Functions of the Doosan Intelligent Hybrid Powertrain to improved productivity at the construction site. XiteCloud enables a precision analysis of mounting amounts of data being generated in each stage of construction, and can reduce time needed for construction measurement and calculation of earthwork amounts from a traditional two-week period to a day or two. Going forward, G2 engine Hybrid Control Unit (HCU) Doosan Infracore will extend the usage of XiteCloud to large-scale Generate power by Recognize the equipment activation construction equipment operations by leveraging 5G technology and combusting fuel to move signal and calculate how much the the equipment when engine and electric motor should be telematics, and it will steadily advance into overseas markets. the HCU sends a signal run in consideration of the battery to the ECU situation, and send a driving signal to the ECU and inverter Doosan Infracore pursued open innovation through internal and external collaboration, industry-academia cooperation and start-up Fuel Power efficiency Eco-friendliness investment, aimed to secure a distinctive competitive edge. The company as a total solution provider will continue to combine Inverter various internal and external ideas, and generate the marketability Receive signals from the HCU and profitability of advanced technologies accumulated through and run the eDrive (motor) Concept-X, and thus will create innovative, distinctive customer value. with electricity In addition, it will present a new future for the construction industry by enhancing worksite productivity, safety and eco-friendliness. Management Volume 48V lithium-ion battery costs Supply electricity to the inverter eDrive (Motor) Generate power, together with the engine, to move the equipment 1) XiteCloud: www.xitecloud.io 2) Cloud platform: A system that allows real-time processing and analysis of large amounts of data through an Internet-connected server 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 58 59 Our Strategy Innovation & Digitalization Effects of DI360 obtaining facility visibility, and real-time process controls. Beginning with the 2019 GMES application to the Incheon construction equipment plant, Doosan Infracore plans to apply GMES to the G2 engine and Gunsan construction equipment plants in 2020, and Data Data Data Collaboration to extend the application to midto large-sized engine plants and integration management analysis Data analysis Integrated data Data-based Improved work knowledge overseas worksites by 2021. Its goals are to maximize production management decision-making efficiency thanks and know-how operation efficiency using GMES, to enhance its manufacturing within a single system built to the construction systemized to abilities to a global top-tier level by reducing production defects and platform through acrossof a platform be shared by all board application enabling large users slashing costs, raising quality and innovating customer service, and Operational of uniform data search and to build smart, intelligent factories. standards and analysis the gaining of Innovation integrated data In its efforts to expedite digital transformation, Doosan Infracore visibility formed a strategic partnership in April 2019 with Palantir, a US-based based on Digital unicorn start-up1) offering a big data platform for use in diverse fields, including government, finance and manufacturing, and providing and product shipment, by developing sea and land cargo tracking systems; 2) devising ways of optimizing logistics infrastructure to Transformation support for corporate productivity and quality enhancement as well as risk management. evolving purchase strategies, production of new models, and midto long-term changes in production lines; 3) building an integrated procurement and transport system to lessen internal congestion and Together with Palantir, Doosan Infracore built “DI360,” a data-based achieve on-time delivery, and reducing logistics costs; 4) improving collaboration platform, in February 2020. The establishment of DI360 work productivity by adopting a digital technology-based picking has enabled Doosan Infracore to obtain data visibility throughout method and enhancing logistics quality by preventing input error-base 02 the value chain and to strengthen inter-department communicanon-operation. In accordance with these tasks, Doosan Infracore has tions, which resulted in increased management efficiencies. As a established a master plan and is implementing it by phase. big data-based collaboration platform that organically connects and analyzes the data of numerous business systems, DI360 has signifiFor operation automation and innovation in how work is done, in 2019 Digital technology is spreading rapidly through all industries, setting materials on a single platform by integrating production and process cantly reduced inefficiencies in searching for and collecting data from Doosan Infracore applied a trial basis robotics process automation off innovation. Riding the wave of digital technology, companies plans and execution data. The system is an integrated solution each system by production, sales, quality, and other categories. For (RPA), a technology for automating repetitive and standardized are responding to external changes by moving forward with a applicable to all Doosan Infracore’s worksites around the world, for it example, when an equipment model is searched through the DI360 procedures, to 12 business processes, such as application for certifidigital transformation of their own centered on new value creation can integrate not only key functions of manufacturing and production search window, information on diverse subjects pops up, such as cates of origin, supply list handling, and vendor account registration. and operation efficiency enhancement through expansion of data but specialized functions of all plants as well. The establishment basic equipment, production volume, quality, major sales regions and The pilot operation of RPA is expected to reduce work hours involving collection, strengthening of data connection and analysis, and of GMES is significant that it has enabled diverse production dealers, and sales history by period. In addition, quick data-based the 12 processes by up to 10,060 hours a year, which will not only improving of data visibility. Having sought to improve operating innovations, such as gaining production visibility categorized by decision-making can be done through creation and analysis of translate into a substantial increase in employee efficiency but efficiency through the adoption of diverse IT systems, Doosan business and region, optimizing production scheduling, digitalizing individual analysis reports on specific data. Doosan Infracore plans also improve employees’ work-life balance. The company will build Infracore is implementing a midto long-term digital transformation work orders and inspections, developing the Real-time Location to add new fields, such as R&D and AM, into the DI360 in addition a digital work environment that is converged with diverse digital by strengthening collection and connection as well as increasing System (RTLS), efficient responses non-operation/error messages, to supply chain management (SCM) and field claim & quality technologies, such as RPA and AI Chatbot, in order to further increase visibility of all data being generated throughout the whole value management (FCQM), which are currently in operation, while also work productivity and the flexibility of employment conditions, ease chain, from R&D, production, quality control, sales, post-sales and Direction for Operational Innovation expanding the scope of its usage to include overseas subsidiaries and the increased workload caused by time constrictions, and pursue AM parts business to customer service. In particular, it aims to Based on Digital Transformation the engine business by 2024. On the strengths of the DI360 platform, other work innovation. In addition, Doosan Infracore adopted “Office become a more efficient company through operational innovation, complex data integration and management have become easier, 365,” a public cloud-based work platform, in 2018 to improve office and thus is focusing on carrying out operation management and making employees have more time to focus on high value-adding productivity and support employee communication collaborations. data collection (Base Process & System), gaining data visibility and Operation automation work, It also gave rise to expectations that a data-based work culture The adoption has contributed to changing the way of internal and (AI, robotics) and building a data-based collaboration platform (End-to-end Visibility), Efficient & Easy Way innovation in how work will take root and generate greater additional value across the value external collaboration, adopting the 52-hour workweek system, and of Working is done (corporate facilitating remote working and telecommuting that are proven crucial optimizing data analysis-based operations (Optimal & Flexible chain. culture) to its ability to conduct business undisturbed through the COVID-19 Operation), and changing the work process (Efficient & Easy Way of Working) across all of its business. Doosan Infracore is implementing diverse operational innovations in pandemic in 2020. Optimal & Flexible Optimizing data Operation analysis-based operations the areas of logistics, parts supply, field claim and SCM with the goal Doosan Infracore recently developed the Global Manufacturing of achieving operational efficiency and optimization based on data Going forward, Doosan Infracore will transform into an innovative Gaining operation/data Execution System (GMES), a project launched in 2018, and applied visibility and building analysis. To this end, the company has been focusing on corporatecompany that applies digital technology across the whole value chain, End-to-end Visibility it to the Incheon construction equipment plant in August 2019, in a data-based collaboration wide logistics innovation since 2019, with the goal of securing thereby creating new value for stakeholders and markets and seizing platform order to enhance production efficiency through establishment of an overall visibility and optimizing logistics operations from suppliers to business opportunities, based on its midto long-term business plan. up-to-date operation system and data collection. GMES enables use Operation management dealers. Corporate-wide logistics innovation and improvement tasks Base Process & System and data collection of information related to the logistics flow and quality of production include: 1) obtaining logistics visibility, such as material procurement 1) Unicorn start-up: A start-up assessed to have the corporate value of at least USD 1 billion 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 60 61 Our Responsibility Doosan Infracore fulfills our corporate social responsibility (CSR) so as to ensure the sustainable development of the company and local communities. CSR is an integral part of our management activities for sustainable growth. Therefore, we are moving towards achieving the goal of “Global CSR Leading Company” based on our CSR system, consistent strategy, and the commitment of all employees. O U R R ESP O N SI B I L I T Y 62 89 CSR Structure Product Quality & Stewardship 65 94 Governance Employees 69 103 Integrity & Risk Management Communities 74 Environment, Health & Safety 84 Suppliers 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 62 63 Our Responsibility CSR Structure CSR Management System CSR Promotion System CSR Strategies and Strategic Tasks Doosan Infracore conducts its corporate social responsibility (CSR) Doosan Group is striving to internalize CSR in its corporate manageDoosan Group CSR Value Structure activities, in cooperation with its business sites around the world, led ment, meet its stakeholders’ requirements, and grow into a Global by the CSR Part and CSR Committee at its headquarters in Korea. The CSR Leading Company. Annually, Doosan Infracore integrates the Doosan CSR Part, as a coordinator responsible for promoting the company’s outcomes of the materiality test and external ESG evaluation and Aspiration Proud Global Doosan overall CSR initiatives, is in charge of establishing CSR strategies, company-wide CSR diagnosis to derive and identify our CSR strategic identifying stakeholder issues and needs, diagnosing CSR levels at tasks. domestic and overseas business sites, identifying strategic CSR tasks, CSR Goal Top 100 Global CSR Leading Company1) by 2025 monitoring CSR activities, and responding to external evaluations. In 2019, the company upgrades its existing CSR strategic tasks while also identifying a series of new tasks, including the establishment The CSR Committee is the top decision-making body, not only leading of a sustainable value framework and indicators; the demonstration CSR Mission the company’s sustainable growth and socially responsible activities, of Concept-X and the development of a new business model; and Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth but also having responsibilities to find out risks and opportunities in the development of prerequisite technologies for hybrid powertrain. line with ongoing changes in CSR issues, make decisions about CSR With the CSR Committee taking the lead, all relevant departments of Respect Reliable Responsibility CSR Value strategies and policies, identify CSR tasks and review progress. Doosan the company worked in unison to execute the tasks. At the first CSR for People Operating in Engagement Creation CSR Pillars Infracore runs one CSR Committee at the company headquarters in Committee held in 2020, eight tasks were selected as the strategic Korea and another in China. The headquarters’ CSR Committee, under CSR tasks for 2020: focusing on decarbonization and developing 1) Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) the direct control of the CEO, comprises five subcommittees – Human alternative fuel products, improving preventive quality and Rights and Labor Practices, Environment, Fair Operations, Customer strengthening global governance, helping leading suppliers bolster Values and Local Communities subcommittees – and is held three their competitiveness by building smart factories, and setting CSR times per year. Led by BG (Business Group) heads and division heads, directions and increasing employee awareness. CSR Strategic Tasks by Year the subcommittees are flexibly organized and operated according to strategic CSR tasks, thereby improving efficiency in decision-making Doosan Infracore has developed a sustainable value framework 2018 2019 2020 and administrative processes. Once the CSR Committee makes composed of 14 indicators based on its sustainability issues, social decisions about major issues, including identification, operation value, corporate competitiveness and strategic tasks, to link the CSR Governance •  rovide support to disclose CSR P • E stablish a Sustainable Value • S et CSR directions and increase and process of CSR strategic tasks, the CSR Working Group, draws company’s midto long-term strategies with its CSR directions, and information of overseas worksites Framework and identify indicators employee awareness up and implements specific action plans. Established in 2017, the then set targets and management plans for each index by 2025. The Human Rights/ •  uild a management system and B • E stablish management system and • E stablish management system and CSR Committee in China is led by the regional director, who serves company will continue to establish the direction and manage its Labor strengthen monitoring system to strengthen a monitoring system to strengthen a monitoring system to as its chairperson, with the sector leaders serving as heads of its five performance based on the sustainable value framework with the goal enhance the human rights mindset: promote human rights: Conduct promote human rights: Strengthen Develop a due diligence tool for advanced human rights education human rights management system subcommittees. The committee is held three times per year to discuss of achieving sustainable growth. The details of Doosan Infracore the monitoring of human rights for relevant departments and CSR tasks, process review and approval, and performance managesustainable value framework are provided on pages 18-19. risks provide human rights consultation ment, among other matters. for each organization Environment •  stablish a GHG emissions reduction E • R educe GHG emissions • E stablish a midto long-term roadmap target and an action plan for the reduction of GHG emissions CSR Organization Fair Operations • S  trengthen CSR management • S trengthen CSR management • H elp leading suppliers bolster their system of supply chain: Define core system of supply chain: Identify competitiveness by building smart CSR Committee suppliers and identify suppliers with suppliers with high CSR risks, and factories CEO high CSR risks, and establish support improvement activities Chairperson a management process Coordinator 10 persons including CFO, BG heads, executives in charge, and directors Composition CSR Part Customer Value •  espond to REACH/RoHS 2 and set R • E xpand service solutions: Diversify • F ocus on decarbonization and up an operation system service products, customize local develop alternative fuel products services, and increase the number Subcommittees under CSR Committee •  ne task relating to next-generation O • D evelop Unmanned automation of countries where the services are emission control regulations technology Subcommittee Human Rights/ available Labor Practices Environment Fair Operations Customer Values Local Communities •  ne task relating to develop new O • D evelop the 48V mild hybrid • I nnovation: Demonstrate the Major technologies to secure future powertrain Human rights Worksite safety and health Suppliers Customers Community engagement Concept-X and develop a new Indicators competitiveness Labor practices Environment and pollutants ethical management Product and technology Community development business model • I mprove preventive quality and On-site energy Green partnership innovation • O  ne task relating to improve strengthen global governance • C reate prerequisite technologies Green operation Green business and product the quality of products and services for hybrid powertrain • M anage the pre-qualification of CSR Working Group new products: Enhance quality Teams in HRM1), HRD2), Technology HR, management ahead of the EHS3), Facility Management Shared Growth, Audit, Purchasing mass-production of new products Charge Labor-management Cooperation that meet EU Stage V and China’s Marketing, Technology Institution, CSR Part, General Affairs Finance, Strategy, Corporate Culture Stage IV emissions standards Product/Quality 1) HRM: Human Resource Management, 2) HRD: Human Resource Development, 3) EHS: Environment, Health & Safety 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 64 65 Our Responsibility CSR Structure · Governance Stakeholder Engagement Governance Definition of Stakeholders Doosan Infracore discloses our key management issues, performance results and future directions through our integrated reports, disclosure materials, websites, annual general meeting (AGM) and BOD meetings, while continuing to collect and listen to stakeholder opinions through a wide range of communication channels. For more systematic stakeholder engagement and communication, Doosan Infracore defines our major stakeholders, identifies and addresses their interests and issues, and discloses our activities and outcomes through various communication channels. OUR APPROACH Communication Channels and Responses for Stakeholders Doosan Infracore strives to enhance Doosan Infracore has built a healthy and transparent Communication Channels Major Issues Responses governance structure by ensuring the independence and transparency in its decision-making expertise of its Board of Directors (BOD), centered on Shareholders/ • A nnual general meeting (AGM) • P rofitability and a dividend policy • S hare the company’s midto long-term business process and protect the rights of independent outside directors, and by establishing an Investors D isclosure materials S trengthen disclosures directions shareholders and various other • • M ake earnings announcements and internal decision-making system led by the committees • I nvestor relations (IR) information • S ound corporate governance • provide IR materials within the BOD. We transparently disclose a variety of on the company website • B usiness opportunity and risk management H old analyst meetings stakeholders. To this end, the company • C onferences • information related to corporate governance, including the • I R meetings has developed an independent composition of the BOD and the Board’s major resolutions, Customers • F ield surveys • P rompt customer complaint handling and • P roduct presentation through exhibitions governance structure under the principle through our website and a series of corporate reports. V oice of Customers (VOCs) feedback and dealer meetings of checks and balance. • • C all centers • M ake improvement to product quality, • T asks aiming for eco-friendly products • J oint workshops performance, safety, and convenience • I ncorporate VOCs into products through • I ntegrated customer • S trict customer data privacy policy the New Product Development (NPD) process SUSTAINABLE VALUE FRAMEWORK management systems • R &D investment and the improvement of • E nhance customer accessibility by providing technological capabilities dealers with online information and strengthening dealer management system Progress | Governance transparency • Differentiated customer service • D evelop eco-friendly, high efficiency • I ncrease customer satisfaction through Doosan Infracore maintains our BOD composition above legal products the Happy Call and dealer service training Percentage of outside directors (Unit: %) standards and is in active in the Board operations, to build a foundation for a healthy and transparent governance structure L abor-Management Council F air evaluation and compensation I mplement the Doosan Credo 57.1 57.1 Employees • • • and to increase our corporate value as well as shareholder value. • G rievance handling system • E ducation and competence development • H uman resources development based on the Functional Competency (FC) system To this end, the company is managing the number of outside N/A • I ntranet • W ork-life balance • Doosan  Credo surveys • P ositive labor relations • O perate the Women’s Council directors in composing its BOD and their attendance at the Board 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 • D ialogue with the executives • A ctive communication within the company • P ublish a human rights risk prevention manual meeting. and provide education on human rights BOD meeting attendance rate of outside directors (Unit: %) Suppliers • S upplier Council • S hare more information with suppliers • F oster Leading Suppliers • S upplier education • E xpand support to improve suppliers’ • F inancial support for suppliers • C onsulting, technical support for suppliers capabilities through financial, technology, education, environment, and ethical management support • • O S  perate the Shared Growth Hotline  hare CSR guidelines with suppliers 85.7 92.9 N/A • S trengthen fair trade 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 Local Communities • M eetings with residents • E co-friendly products and production • O perate Dream School (the environment, • W orkshops for working-level staff processes • T he Doosan Day of Community Service NGOs, etc.) in charge of corporate community I mprove worksite and surrounding • • C onduct CCI activities for local communities involvement (CCI) environments, and prevent pollution • S isterhood relationship with • E stablish environmental management island regions system • C ommunicate with local communities • F acilitate economic development of local communities Central/Local • P articipate in national projects • Comply with laws and regulations • R egulatory monitoring and internal compliance Governments • O perate joint programs • P ublic-private partnership • S uggest improvement measures through participation in related organizations’ activities • P articipate in the government’s public policy projects Media • P ress releases • P rompt and accurate information sharing • I ssue press releases in a timely manner • P ress conferences • P ress reporters’ news coverage • R egular meetings • F ind feature items and provide them to the media • B usiness site visits (field trips) 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 66 67 Our Responsibility Governance Operation of an Independent BOD Corporate Governance Composition and Operations of the BOD The Board of Directors, as BOD’s expertise. Outside directors are appointed in consideration the company’s highest decision-making body, has been delegated of their ownership of the company’s shares, potential conflicts of the right to make decisions related to corporate management from interest, careers with the company’s competitors, diversity and shareholders in accordance with the relevant laws and the company’s stakeholder representativeness. As of the end of December 2019, the Articles of incorporation. It is also in charge of checks and balances average tenure of the Board members is 3.46 years. for the company's transparent management through its independent Composition of Shareholders and Equity Shareholder and Investor Communication decision-making practices regarding the company’s long-term There are three committees under the BOD which are entirely Doosan Infracore is one of major affiliates of Doosan Group, with 35 Communication Channels Doosan Infracore actively seeks out the growth and major management issues. The BOD of Doosan Infracore composed of outside directors – the Audit Committee, which is consolidated subsidiaries (based on business reports) being operated expectations and demands of its shareholders, investors, customers, is composed of three internal and five outside directors who were responsible for guaranteeing the transparency and independence across the globe. As of the end of 2019, the number of shares issued and other stakeholders when making key decisions. The company transparently appointed through an AGM held in March 24, 2020. of audit procedures; the Internal Transaction Committee, which is stood at 208,161,279, of which the largest shareholder, Doosan Heavy strives to attract investments in the global market by earning recognition (three internal and four outside directors before March 24, 2020) designed to improve the transparency of corporate management Industries & Construction, owned a 36.27% stake. for its genuine values in terms of growth potential and technological The Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Committee through the establishment of CP; and the Outside Director Candidates prowess. Therefore we establish an investor-friendly investor relations recommends outside director candidates who are suitable for Recommendation Committee, which has the authority to recommend (IR) strategy and carry out shareholder-friendly communication. establishing a transparent governance structure and enhancing the outside directors. Ownership Structure In addition, the company holds company briefings and securities (As of December 31, 2019; Based on number of shares issued) investment conferences, and also invites institutional investors to its Intra-organizational Decision-making System worksites to offer them diverse and reliable information. 16.59% BOD Protection of Minority Shareholders Doosan Infracore has adopted Foreigners and operates a paper ballot, an electronic voting system, and an electronic proxy solicitation system to protect the voting rights of Committee Audit Committee Internal Transaction Committee Outside Director Candidates its minority shareholders. When sending out notices of its annual (5 outside directors) (3 outside directors) Recommendation Committee 11.28% general meeting (AGM), the company encloses paper ballots so that Roles & Accounting audits, management performance Review and approval of large-scale internal (3 outside directors) Institutions audits and inspection of internal accounting transactions (more than KRW 5 billion per case Recommendation of shareholders can exercise their voting rights if absent. Their votes Responsibilities system operations or per quarter) and audits of internal transaction outside director candidates 36.27% are valid under the condition that they arrive at the company one day prior to the date of an AGM. Doosan Heavy Industries & Composition of BOD Construction Disclosure of Corporate Information (As of March 24, 2020) Doosan Infracore complies with all applicable legal disclosure requirePosition Name Expertise Roles Major career Date of appointment Reappointment ments. The company also strives to disclose information in a balanced Internal Park, Management, Chairman of the BOD Chairman of the BOD of Doosan Infracore, Mar. 27, 2019 1 0.03% manner, concerning its financial and non-financial activities, through Director Yong Maan policy Overseeing the general management Chairman of the Korea Chamber of Commerce (Initial appointment: 35.83% Persons specially the voluntary disclosure of the company’s compliance program (CP) of the company and Industry (Current) Chairman of Doosan Group (Former) 2016) Individuals related with the status and CSR activities. largest shareholder Internal Sohn, Technology, Overseeing the general management President and CEO of Doosan Infracore (Current) Mar. 28, 2018 1 Directors Dong Youn industry of the company Head of the Technology Division, (Initial appointment: (CEO) Doosan Infracore (Former) 2015) Status of Disclosure Activities Go, Finance, Overseeing the financial affairs CFO of Doosan Infracore (Current) Mar. 28, 2018 Seok Bum accounting of the company Treasurer of Doosan Infracore (Former) Shareholders with 5% or More Shares • Financial Disclosure of provisional statistics on sales Outside Han, Policy, Chair of the Outside Director Candidates Chairman of the Yuhan Foundation (Current) Mar. 28, 2018 1 (As of December 31, 2019) performance; Quarterly and biannual reports and Directors Seung Soo economy Recommendation Committee, Prime Minister (Former) (Initial appointment: Member of the Audit Committee 2015) statements of affairs; Disclosures relevant to AGM Shareholder Ownership (%) and special shareholder meetings; Disclosure Yoon, Finance, Chair of the Audit Committee, Director of the Yoon Economic Research Institute Mar. 28, 2018 1 Jeung Hyun policy Member of the Internal Transaction (Current) (Initial appointment: Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 36.27 of changes in the shareholding structure; and Committee, 2nd Minister of Strategy and Finance (Former) 2015) Disclosure on the Online Provision of Enterprises Member of the Outside Director National Pension Service 6.21 Candidates Recommendation Committee Information (OPNI) system operated by the Korea BlackRock Fund Advisors 5.00 Fair Trade Commission, etc. Yoon, Finance, Member of the Audit Committee, Professor of Korea University Business School Mar. 28, 2018 Sung Soo accounting Member of the Internal Transaction (Current) • Non-financial Status of CP operations; Disclosure of CSR activities Committee Assistant Professor of Graduate School of including integrated reports; and Disclosure of Business, UCLA (Former) information through company presentations, etc. Lim, Economy, Member of the Audit Committee, Chairman of Dasol Tax Accounting Corp. (Current) Mar. 24, 2020 Sung Kyoon tax Member of the Outside Director Director of Gwangju Regional Tax Office (Former) Candidates Recommendation Lee, Law, policy Member of the Audit Committee, Representative Lawyer of Law Firm Dambak Mar. 24, 2020 Deuk Hong Member of the Internal Transaction (Current) Committee Chief Prosecutor of the Seoul High Prosecutors’ Office (Former) * The tenure of a director is by the end of AGM for the third fiscal year after his/her appointment. * Outside Director Jung Byung Moon was resigned on March 24, 2020 upon the expiration of a term; and Lim Sung Kyoon and Lee Deuk Hong were newly appointed as outside directors on March 24, 2020. * As of March 24, 2020, the BOD of Doosan Infracore is composed of three internal and five outside directors. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 68 69 Our Responsibility Governance · Integrity & Risk Management BOD Activities in 2019 All directors are allowed to participate bonus based on the management performance of their respective Integrity & remotely in the BOD meetings via telecommunication devices capable of transmitting audio and video data. Directors shall not delegate their organization and their basic annual salaries are determined by their job position. The outside directors’ performance evaluation Risk Management authority to a proxy. Directors with a vested interest in a particular is based on their attendance at the BOD and committee meetings, agenda item are prohibited from voting on it so as to maintain industry expertise, level of contribution and performance at the Board transparency in the decision-making process. In 2019, the BOD held meetings. To ensure their independence from the management and eight meetings during which deliberations and resolutions were made controlling shareholders, members of the Audit Committee receive on a total of 27 agenda items, including the company’s business remuneration only as directors and are prohibited from receiving any performance, an inspection of internal accounting system operations, other types of compensation. and the operation of CP and plans for 2019, and donation approvals. OUR APPROACH The average attendance rate of the directors in 2019 was 92.9%. The total amount of approved pay for directors and auditors in 2019 was KRW 15 billion, of which KRW 6,175 million was actually paid, with Doosan Infracore has set the Code of Doosan Infracore practices transparency in its BOD Evaluation and Remuneration The remuneration of internal the average compensation per person standing at KRW 882 million. management through various and immediate disclosure and outside directors is determined within the limits approved The actual payment amount was calculated based on the pay for three Conduct for all our employees to follow of company information to its stakeholders. It goes by the AGM. The internal directors are paid according to a perforregistered directors and four members of the Audit Committee who so that we can enhance our corporate beyond simple compliance to implement truly ethical mance-based compensation system that links their compensation were paid from January to December 2019. competitiveness and fulfill our corporate management as the basis for all decisions taken within to their management performance. Directors receive performance the organization. A strict system of internal controls social responsibilities through “Inhwa,” enables the company to run the business transparently, meaning harmony between people, while it secures the safety of management environment Board Meetings Held in 2019 a customer-centric management through preemptive risk management. Order Date Agenda items Approval Number of attendees philosophy, transparency, and innovation. Internal directors Outside directors (3 in total) (4 in total) Report on the operation status of the internal accounting system in 2018 Report on the CP operation performance in 2018 and operation plan for 2019 1 Feb. 12 Report on the 2018 business performance – 1 3 Communicating and Promoting Ethical Management Approval of 2018 financial statements and business report Passed Ethical Management We disclose the Code of Conduct on our website and operate a Approval of 2019 management plan Passed cyber reporting center that can be accessed easily by our internal Report on the inspection of internal accounting system operations in 2018 – and external stakeholders. To prevent recurrence of Code of Conduct Report on the 2018 audit – violations, the company clearly identifies the process and cause 2 Mar. 08 3 4 Approval of convening of the 19th AGM and purpose of the meeting Passed of issues that arise during the work process, and shares a white Matters on adopting the electronic voting system Passed Ethical Management Policies paper. Moreover, to maintain a transparent ethical management All employees at Doosan Infracore are required to adhere to the system, Doosan Infracore urges new employees to sign a written Matters on the appointment of the chairman of the BOD and the convening authority holder Passed Code of Conduct, and third parties such as suppliers are strongly oath pledging their compliance with the Code of Conduct. We also Matters on the appointment of compliance officer and a self-compliance manager for fair trade Passed 3 Mar. 27 3 4 recommended to comply with the guide of principles. Doosan require new suppliers to submit a written oath pledging not to Matters on the partial amendment of the operating regulations of the Audit Committee Passed Infracore’s employees are responsible for ensuring that they have engage in unethical business practices. The company requires each Matters on the partial amendment of internal accounting management regulations Passed a full understanding of all related laws and internal regulations, of team leaders, part leaders, and higher level managers, as well as Approval of the signing of a contract for the transfer of shares of DVC Co., Ltd. and its executives to write and submit a statement of interests form on Passed including the Code of Conduct. It has also connected the company4 Apr. 15 the provision of DVC shares as collateral 3 4 wide operation system with the ERP, e-procurement, evaluation of an annual basis, with an aim to remind them of the strict compliance Approval of the establishment of a new subsidiary in the U.S. Passed internal control, and fair trade compliance systems to improve the standards. In 2019, all respondents required to submit the statement Report on the business performance for the first quarter of 2019 – 5 Apr. 24 3 4 transparency and efficiency of its business activities. The Audit Team complied with the obligation. In addition, to encourage our suppliers Approval of transaction with the affiliate Passed to practice ethical management, the CEO sends a letter, while the is in charge of auditing ethical management of the company, while Report on the business performance for the first half of 2019 – company conducts ethical education for them at general supplier the Internal Control Team develops the internal control system and 6 Jul. 22 Approval of the establishment of a new overseas subsidiary Passed 3 4 evaluates its operations. meetings. Approval of delegating the debenture issue to the CEO Passed Report on the business performance for the third quarter of 2019 – Completion rate of ethical management training in 2019 Training on the Code of Conduct is designed to raise employees’ 7 Oct. 30 Matters on the issuance of foreign guarantee bonds Passed 3 4 awareness of ethical business practices and control the ethical risks 95% 100% Matters on the GDR delisting Passed involved in their business transactions in advance. Doosan Infracore Korea China Matters on delegating the debenture issue to the CEO Passed provides the training to all employees, and notifies them of major Approval of self-dealing transaction with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Passed ethical management issues by posting the details on the bulletin 8 Dec. 10 2 4 Approval of self-dealing transaction with Doosan Engineering & Construction Passed board of each business site. The company expanded the scope of its Approval of donations for 2020 Passed online training to include managers of its Chinese subsidiary in 2017 in addition to managers at its domestic business sites, and has been continuing to do so. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 70 71 Our Responsibility Integrity & Risk Management Establishment of Fair Trade Practices Doosan Infracore adopted the Compliance Program (CP) in 2002 Internal Controls its contents, and it also prohibits any measures being taken against the person making a report in good faith. Matters being reported are information assets and devices, information system security, facility security, audit security, security incident response, and cloud security. to ensure transparent business operations and fair competition. processed rapidly, and the whistleblower is notified of the results and It shares all its information security policies on the company portal. To build a culture of fair trade and horizontal transactions meeting the measures to be taken, with these measures also shared within All employees must also attend annual information security training, global standards, the company discloses the CEO’s declaration on Audit and Monitoring the company to improve awareness of the importance of ethics. which covers email security, the prevention of leaks of information compliance and four major pledges1) the website. In line with the increased scope of the company’s management and after retirement or changing jobs, managing trade secrets, managing responsibility with the expansion of its overseas business and the Information Security PCs, and personal information management. The company has upgraded “Sanctions Process for Employee adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), With the rapid development of information and communication, the Violations of Fair Trade Laws and Regulations” by revising the Doosan Infracore has been operating an independent audit team importance of information security is increasing substantially as Doosan Infracore has appointed a Chief Information Security Officer regulations concerning the fair trade compliance program. We have in China for audit and monitoring since 2012. The Audit Team at its security threats related to personal and corporate information rise (CISO) to define the roles and responsibilities of the key personnel also developed STDM (Subcontracting partners Technical Data headquarters in Korea is working to increase overseas subsidiaries’ exponentially. Doosan Infracore has responded to potential issues within the company’s information security systems. In the event of request Management System), an integrated data management accounting and management transparency based on respect for around information security and cyber terrorism by strengthening its an issue arising with information security, all employees involved are system protecting suppliers’ technical data, meeting legal requiresubsidiaries’ responsible business management. IT security systems, identifying potential risk factors, and increasing required to report it to their department head and to the Information ments about subcontract (requests for technical data, data employee awareness of the risks and appropriate responses. Security Department in accordance with the company’s security management system, etc.) and improving user convenience. STDM Internal Controls Evaluation System incident response guidelines. The Department will then take is an integrated system which enables one-stop processing, from Doosan Infracore established the Doosan Internal Control Assessment Doosan Infracore operates an integrated and advanced IT system action, according to the type of incident involved. As a result of our the preparation of technical data requests by suppliers to internal System (DICAS), an internal controls evaluation system, in 2006 to strengthen our information security, with the Doosan Group Data continuous efforts to strengthen information security, there have been approvals and the handling of technical data. With STDM, Doosan and since then it has been carrying out regular evaluations for the Center obtaining Information Security Management System (ISMS) no material cases of information leakage over the past three years. Infracore has been able to prevent the occurrence of any problems entire business areas, ranging from finance to sales, purchasing, and certification every year since first being certified in 2013. The company related to subcontracting caused by unpublished or incomplete production. The results of the evaluations are reported to the Audit also conducts business continuity planning (BCP) drills so that it issuance. In addition, the company continuously monitors the Committee and the BOD, as well as at the annual general meeting (AGM), can be prepared to respond to any attacks on the business promptly compliance with subcontracting laws in areas such as the imposition of price cuts and cancellations, and also ensures the compliance following the reports to CFO and CEO under the “Act on the External Auditing of Corporations.” In 2014, the company began applying the and effectively. In addition, the company’s Information Security Part conducts regular in-depth risk assessments on the information Risk Management with work processes related to technical data. Moreover, it regularly same internal controls evaluation system to the subsidiaries in China. protection management systems to identify vulnerabilities and make undertakes employee training on subcontracting law to prevent improvements. Doosan Infracore is also subject to annual security violations of laws and regulations related to fair trade, and deal Corruption Risk Assessment checks by governmental organizations, including the Ministry of Trade, Integrated Risk Management with any violations promptly. In 2019, the company operated seven Korean companies are required to design and operate internal Industry and Energy, as a major company that holds technologies Risk Management Organization Doosan Infracore identifies potential training courses, including the basics of subcontracting (in the first controls based on an internal accounting management system, which are core to the Korean economy. risks and countermeasures against such risks, and discusses half ), obligations concerning the cancellation of subcontracting under the Act on External Audit of Stock Companies. Corruption risk risk prevention at the monthly management meetings and at CSR orders and the inspection (5 times), and basic R&D subcontracting assessment is an internal control system through which a company In 2015, the company fully upgraded the information security Committee meetings with participation from senior management. (in the second half ). It also offered company-wide training on identifies potential corruption risks and manages the changes policy, that had been originally established in 2013, by dividing it In the monthly management meeting, the CEO and key executives purchasing, quality, and materials. required in response to actual risks. Doosan Infracore conducts into general security regulations and detailed guidelines covering discuss several issues such as financial, non-financial, and emerging corruption risk assessments on 31 items, including unfair financial personnel security, protecting trade secrets, security management for risks, and establish appropriate countermeasures. Compliance with the Anti-graft Law reporting, asset misappropriation, and corruption. We reflect the In Korea, the “Improper Solicitation and Graft Act,” also known as results of these assessments in our internal accounting management Risk Management Process the anti-graft law, went into effect on September 28, 2016. Intended system, and in the implementation of annual internal audit plan, Communication with stakeholders to prevent public officials’ corruption, the Act applies to employees thereby managing related risks. Relevant internal and external stakeholders are informed of the risks that have occurred and the results of and their spouses of all public institutions, including constitutional the company’s response to the risks according to its risk management procedures. Doosan Infracore continuously agencies, central administrative agencies, and local governments, Internal and External Reporting Systems communicates with our stakeholders through quarterly earnings results and annual integrated reports. schools, and media outlets. The Act forbids improper solicitations to Doosan Infracore has a number of internal and external reporting public officials and other relevant persons, and prohibits them from channels which enable the reporting of any unethical acts or behavior, accepting financial or other advantages. Doosan Infracore has been including the receipt of money and bribes, involvement in unfair PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 carrying out various activities to raise awareness among employees, business practices, corruption, and any violations of related laws and Establish a Foundation Recognize Risks Identify Risks Evaluate Risks Respond to Risks such as providing education on the prohibition of solicitation to internal regulations such as the Doosan Credo and the Code of Conduct. for Risk Management all its employees in Korea and expatriate employees in China. The These channels include the website, the Cyber Reporting Center2), Establish strategies, Build a risk pool by Identify potential Rate the identified risks Categorize required company also has a relevant organization in place to conduct regular postal mail, telephone, fax, and in-person visits. The Cyber Reporting organizations and risk defining all uncertain risk factors and according to the degree responses into companymonitoring and offer necessary legal advice. Center is available in Korean, English, and Chinese languages, and management systems, in risk elements that might categorize them into of danger involved, in wide or by functional consideration of overall affect future management appropriate areas consideration of their measures depending the company employees or any external stakeholder can file a report intensity and frequency on the risk and mitigate business environments environments Doosan Infracore prevents fair trade laws and relevant regulations under their real name, or anonymously. The company guarantees the and industry before analyzing the the degree of danger by characteristics to manage required control level and distributing risk-specific by setting fair trading orders based on building prior business confidentiality of the identity of the person making the report and risks efficiently determining necessary manuals and providing consultations and post business diagnosis systems, providing management priority education on risk consistent education programs, etc. As a full participant of a free and prevention fair market, also, we keep fostering a corporate culture of compliance. 1) Responsible contracts for win-win cooperation between large companies and SMEs, fair selection and management of suppliers, establishment and operation of the Internal Review Council, and desirable paperwork and its retention in subcontracting transactions PHASE 6 Monitor Control risks by continuously monitoring for any changes in the level of risk and report on a regular basis 2) Doosan Cyber Reporting Center: ethicshelpline.doosan.com 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 72 73 Our Responsibility Integrity & Risk Management Meanwhile, in CSR Committee, held three times a year, the committee To prevent liquidity risk arising from a lack of liquidity or difficulties To avoid risks due to pollutant discharge and environmental As required by the Group-level business continuity management members identify mid-to-long-term non-financial and emerging risks in financing due to abnormal operations, the company establishes accidents, Doosan Infracore uses resources more efficiently, reduces (BCM), Doosan Infracore has established response manuals and against our company and minimize the impacts of potential risks by three-month and annual funding plans to predict the funding required the environmental footprint of its business sites, and strengthens its emergency notification systems for 20 essential items of infrastrucsetting countermeasures based on our CSR strategic tasks. related to sales, investments, and financial activities, and to secure systems for preventing environmental accidents based on the EHS ture in each area. This enables the company to respond promptly to and maintain the required liquidity in advance. management systems. threats to employee safety. Risk Management Process Doosan Infracore has established a risk management process which are designed to enable its executives Capital risk management involves the maintenance of an optimum Doosan Infracore minimizes safety risks and increases employee Emerging Risk With society changing faster than ever before, new and working-level employees to detect potential risks threatening capital structure to ensure the company’s capabilities to provide its awareness of health and safety by focusing on preventative action and and diverse economic, environmental, and social risks continue to corporate value and profits, and to take prompt actions. The risk shareholders and other stakeholders with corporate profits while offering extensive health and safety training. emerge. Doosan Infracore, therefore, analyzes the trends shaping management processes ensure effective risk controls through reducing capital expenditure. Doosan Infracore maintains its capital the global economy and consumer sentiment, as well as changes various elements, such as identification of risk factors, assessment in alignment with its debt ratio. It also manages capital risks by We expanded our health and safety management systems to include in culture and institutions. Based on the results of its analysis, the of the potential impacts of risks on the company, establishment of adjusting its dividend paid to shareholders, repaying share capital, our suppliers and outsourcing companies, thereby strengthening the company identifies emerging risks, that are relevant to the company, countermeasures, monitoring of changes in risk levels, and constant and issuing new shares and selling assets to reduce debts. monitoring system of safety accident. We have also made it mandatory and implements countermeasures in its business operations. reporting based on a coherent reporting system. for all visitors to our business sites to watch safety training videos. Non-financial Risk Non-financial risks are categorized into product, Scope of Risk Management ethics and compliance, the environment, safety, and disaster risks, Financial Risk Doosan Infracore has classified our financial risks into and the company has established a preemptive risk response system Emerging Risk four types – market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, and capital risk – for each. and monitors and manages them by risk type. Risk type Details Responsive measures Doosan Infracore improves customer safety and satisfaction through • Promote entry into new markets so as to diversify We monitor the market risks based on foreign exchange and interest a range of activities aimed at improving product quality in cooperation the company’s global portfolio (Strengthen with its suppliers. • Demand in the construction equipment and engine industries is rates. Foreign exchange risks are related to future transactions, performance in advanced markets for construction Global affected by energy, front-end industries like automobiles, economic existing assets and liabilities, and investments in overseas equipment business, and enter the Indonesian economic trends, and national SOC investment policies The company makes ethical management the basis of decisionmarket for engine business) operations. We undertake hedge trading to reduce volatility in slowdown • COVID-19, which emerged in 2020, is likely to hit global industries and making by establishing the Code of Conduct and conducting • Review and respond to market, credit, liquidity, and profitability due to the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates. cause a global economic downturn activities to promote CP. In addition, we undertake preemptive risk capital structure risks through monthly management Interest rate risks are related to adjustable rate deposits and loans. meetings We minimize external loans through our reserve funds, reduce management based on transparent management, thereby ensuring high interest rate loans, improve the borrowing structure, monitor the safety of our management environment. • Establish company-wide goals for developing and changes in interest rates, and establish countermeasures. applying eco-friendly technologies and expanding •  Enforcement of emissions regulations for commercial goods and related research Stricter vehicles by country and continent product • Monitor the trends of strengthening emissions Credit risk arises from transactions or investment activities when •  The accelerating introduction cycle of new emissions regulations not environmental regulations by country and continent, and develop customers or business partners do not follow the conditions of the Risk type Responsive measures regulations only in advanced markets but also in China and emerging markets, new engine products, such as engines that meet EU relevant business agreements. It may also arise from cash, cashable with the level of standard increasing Establish a quality management system; manage Stage V and China’s Stage IV emissions standards assets, derivatives, and deposits in financial institutions. Doosan Product quality quality indicators; and strengthen supplier quality • Develop hybrid powertrains Infracore manages our credit risks with the goal of minimizing losses management under its credit policies. For credits in which default is anticipated at Establish ethical standards; operate reporting • Conduct a risk assessment of the information Ethics and compliance channels for violations of the Code of Conduct or CP; •  Increasing security threats related to personal and corporate information protection management system, led by the the end of the fiscal year, the company properly assesses the risks Personal conduct audits; and provide employee ethics training information following the development of information and communication Information Security Part, to identify vulnerabilities and addresses the results in its consolidated statements of financial protection and technologies and hacking and smishing techniques and take prompt actions; provide information position. Establish an environmental management system; information Discharge of •  Increasing risks of human rights violations if the personal information, security training for employees; and obtain the obtain ISO 14001, an international standard for security pollutants, complaints, that a company collects, handles and stores, is leaked Information Security Management System (ISMS) environmental management system; and manage and environmental environmental pollutants and disclose relevant certification accidents Risk type Responsive measures information •  Increasing frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, such as Manage exchange rate fluctuations, interest rates, and Engage in risk factor self-management activities; Market risks heavy rain/snowfall, typhoons, and heat and cold waves, due to climate Establish a climate change response system, price risks •  enhance fire safety management (operation of the Workplace fire and Disaster Prevention Center); provide safety training; change including the GHG/Energy Reduction Council, EMS Manage credit risks and minimize losses through safety accident Credit risks operation and performance management, and the safeguard measures in bonds and run programs to boost safety management of Worsening •  Increasing limit on business operations and logistics due to extreme suppliers climate weather events establishment of a midto long-term roadmap for Liquidity risks Establish quarterly and annual financial balance plans change •  More strict regulations related to energy and greenhouse gases, the emissions trading system Natural disasters and Capital risks Reduce capital costs and manage liabilities Build the BCM and run BCM drills Set a midto long-term greenhouse gas reduction man-made hazards such as the energy target management system and the emissions •  trading system in line with climate change emerging as a major global target and monitor the relevant performance agenda item 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 74 75 Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Environment, Health & EHS Management System Integrated EHS Safety Management Doosan Infracore has been enhancing the level of its EHS management by systematizing relevant organizations under the EHS Policy and strategies, operating an EHS management system at its global business sites, obtaining international certifications, reviewing the status of implementation and managing performance, and operating an EHS IT system. EHS Management Strategies The company makes continuous efforts to better respond to changes in In 1995, Doosan Infracore established the EHS Management Policy the internal and external environment, such as stricter EHS regulations OUR APPROACH in order to share key elements of its environmental management in Korea, increased demand for corporate social responsibility, the strategies both internally and externally. The company amended the upward trend in the rate of safety accidents, and more focus on on-site At Doosan Infracore, Doosan Infracore is striving to use resources more efficiently and to minimize its Policy for 10 times to set the current one which consists of five specific inspections by external organizations. To this end, Doosan Infracore environmental footprints by reducing pollutant discharge based on its companyprinciples, including the operation of the EHS management system, set its EHS directions for 2019 as the enhancement of on-site EHS environmental values wide integrated Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management system. The through which the company promotes company-wide participation in capability, efficient improvement of the EHS system, and preemptive and safety culture are company also participates in global efforts to respond to climate change by making EHS management. In addition, we declared our EHS management vision investment. Based on the directions, the company focused on non-negotiable principles to continuous improvements to energy efficiency and managing greenhouse gas of becoming a “Global Leading Green Company,” and established and developing an EHS IT system, strengthening the education system, (GHG) emissions. Moreover, we have been establishing a safer work environment implemented five strategic tasks in our efforts to achieve sustainable enhancing the crisis management capabilities, and responding to achieve sustainable growth. growth. the GHG emissions trading system. In 2020, we will strengthen our by raising the safety awareness of all employees and rigorously controlling risk factors at all worksites. sustainable fundamentals that can endure internal and external changes in the business environment, and build an EHS culture that enables employees to protect their own safety by focusing on CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2019 compliance, preemptive regulatory response, risk management, Reduce GHG emissions enhanced leadership and EHS capabilities of executives, and the Doosan Infracore strives to effectively respond to the second Established and operated the GHG/Energy Reduction Council; establishment of the emergency response system.  ctivities and A phase of the national emissions trading scheme from 2018 to Achievements established and implemented the investment plan for GHG reduction, and submitted opinions to the government by forming 5 Strategic Tasks for EHS Management 2020, thereby securing a stable and sustainable base for the a busines council scheme. To this end, the company carried out a series of GHG emission reduction activities, led by the GHG/Energy Reduction Establish GHG emission forecasting and responsive measures, Plans and discover investment items related to GHG reduction and Global Leading Green Company Council, with the participation of all relevant departments. energy conservation SUSTAINABLE VALUE FRAMEWORK Operate the EHS Grow together Respond to Expand eco-friendly Expand communication People | Employee health Progress | Response to climate change Management System with suppliers climate change products with society Doosan Infracore aims to reduce the occupational illness frequency Doosan Infracore will contribute to the climate change response • Conduct evaluation on Leading • Achieve win-win growth in EHS • Strive to reduce GHG emissions • Develop eco-friendly products • Disclose environmental EHS Management indicators with suppliers and in-house • Spread a culture of GHG • Expand the production of management information rate (OIFR) and improve the health and wellbeing of its employees by integrating our carbon emissions target management into our contractors • Obtain certification of EHS reduction eco-friendly products • Strengthen social contribution by implementing active illness management. corporate strategies and plans. management systems at activities related to EHS overseas business sites • Strengthen EHS competencies OIFR (Unit: %) Reduction of CO2 emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) in the production processes 0.147 0.315 N/A 108,244 112,186 96,404 EHS Policy 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 Operation of Compliance Development of Realization of Zero Communication the EHS System with EHS Regulations Eco-friendly Technology to Occupational Accident with Stakeholders Progress | Production safety Boost Customer Safety We establish, operate, We adhere to national We create a pleasant and We expand communication CO2 emission intensity (Unit: tCO2eq/KRW million) Doosan Infracore actively reduces the lost time incidents rate and continue to develop and international We develop eco-friendly safe people-centered work with our stakeholders and in the production processes (LTIR) at its worksites and improves the health and welfare of its a system designed to EHS regulations and technologies that place environment, improve the disclose EHS performance employees by implementing active incident management. 0.035 0.036 0.024 improve EHS impacts of our products, activities, agreements, establish strict internal management top priority on our customers’ health and health and quality of the lives of all our employees transparently to continue to grow as a trusted and and services. standards, and faithfully safety, and then preserve and suppliers, and thus respected company (Unit: %) 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 LTIR implement them. resources and energy achieve a zero-accident that fulfills its social to actively contribute to workplace. In addition, responsibilities. 0.97 1.17 0.54 sustainable environmental conservation and fight we focus on minimizing our environmental against global warming. impact and carrying out 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 pollution prevention activities to contribute to environmental conservation. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 76 77 Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Self-evaluation of Global EHS EHS Organization In response to the expansion of our overseas business sites and the increasing concerns over global environmental To further advance our EHS management and strengthen EHS EHS Performance Management Doosan Infracore has developed company-wide EHS management evaluation indicators and applied Energy Management issues, the EHS units at overseas business sites of Doosan Infracore work in unison for systematic and effective EHS management, with fundamentals, Doosan Infracore conducts Doosan EHS Rating System (DSRS)1) evaluations as well as evaluations on compliance with EHS them to our business sites in Korea and China. We also manage them through an annual performance analysis in a bid to continuously and Responses to central roles performed by the EHS Team at the Incheon Plant, which is the company’s head office. Also, the company established a global laws and regulations. Developed on the basis of global standards and in consideration of business characteristics, the DSRS is a basis improve and develop our EHS performance. In addition, we strive to improve the execution capability of our EHS management system Climate Change EHS governance in 2017, and has been strengthening the EHS support to build an advanced EHS system and create an EHS culture shared and raise the standards including by reflecting the EHS management and management by building a company-wide EHS risk management by staff. evaluation to the performance indicators of the executives of related Global warming and climate change caused by an increase in GHG system, sharing its EHS policies, and establishing a joint response departments. We will further strengthen our execution capabilities by emissions is influencing the ecosystem as well as all areas related to system for global issues related to REACH and climate change. In 2019, Each year, we conduct EHS compliance evaluations for all our strengthening required competencies based on clear EHS standards humankind, including industrial activities. To preemptively respond the company expanded the regular EHS Committee to include DICC, its business sites to prepare them for external assessments and and systems linked to our value chains, such as purchasing and to climate change risks and opportunities, Doosan Infracore forecasts Chinese affiliate, to form the EHS Committee for Overseas Manufacturing inspections, while ensuring that they always comply with relevant production, and by applying EHS management to all business GHG emissions based on our annual production plan, and makes Subsidiaries, and shared EHS issues and implementation tasks through laws and regulations. The evaluation is carried out through field operations. investment in improving energy efficiency and carries out activities to such channels as video workshops. In 2020, the company plans to guidance to review the proper use and management of dangerous achieve the target. The company is also expanding the development build an EHS governance system for the global production corporations machines, equipment, and chemicals, as well as the status of safety EHS IT System Doosan Infracore has established an EHS IT system and sales of highly energy-efficient, low-carbon products, including including ones in DIN, thereby sharing EHS data and conducting Doosan training progress. Evaluation results are linked to the management for more systematic EHS management. Leveraging the system, the electric excavators. The quantitative data on the company’s energy EHS Rating system (DSRS) evaluations. by objectives (MBO) of relevant executives and the integrated company manages EHS information in real time and analyzes them consumption and GHG emissions over the past three years is found in reward system by duty type, which in turn is increasing employee comprehensively to respond to areas which need to be strengthened the “CSR Facts & Figures” section (pages 113-114) of this report. Doosan Infracore also holds monthly EHS steering meetings to awareness and identifying areas where improvement is needed, or improved. discuss EHS issues and share the progress of EHS goals. The CSR thereby leading to actual improvements. Doosan Infracore has Improving Energy Efficiency Committee, composed of the CEO and the BG heads, makes decisions been conducting two EHS compliance evaluations per year at the In 2019, we complemented our existing EHS IT system by adding Doosan Infracore has identified and implemented energy conservaon EHS-related policies, plans, and activities. In November 2019, the business sites in Korea and China, and of the in-house suppliers such functions as laws/standards, chemicals, laboratory safety, tion tasks, established an energy intensity management system, and first “EHS Session” was held with the CEO and executives in charge of since 2018. In particular, one of the two evaluations is carried firefighting facility management, and employee health checkup upgraded the energy monitoring systems to reduce energy consumption production in attendance to check the progress of the company’s EHS out through the self-assessment to improve worksite execution history management, and thus developed the “DooGreen” system, and improve energy efficiency at our business sites. In addition, we targets and to further raise leaders’ interest. Agenda items discussed capability in complying with laws and regulations. In 2020, the with the goal of supporting on-site EHS activities. In 2020, we will upgraded the Energy Management System (EMS) to lay the groundwork at the session include the anticipated legislative amendments related company plans to conduct an autonomous safety diagnosis and further upgrade the system by stabilizing the DooGreen system for energy-related information reporting that would enable us to monitor to safety and environment in 2020 and the key implementation plans, evaluation under the supervision of the team leaders and site through standard maintenance, offering user training, conducting the energy consumption and costs, monthly energy consumption along with the current EHS status by Business Group. Starting from managers so as to make a compliance culture to take root at its VOC survey, and making improvements. trends by energy source, and energy intensity performance in relation 2020, there will be two EHS Sessions per year – at the company level worksites. We will also conduct compliance assessments including to production. We also built an energy measurement equipment in the 1st half and at the Doosan Group level in the 2nd half – where our suppliers. In order to secure business continuity by responding to the increasmonitoring system, thereby enhancing our EMS data credibility. The EHS issues, strategic directions, and implementation plans will be ingly strict environmental regulations and preventing environmental company’s energy conservation efforts in 2019 include the distribution shared and discussed. accidents, the company will establish an integrated IoT-based of boilers to minimize heat dissipation and energy loss; investments in Environmental Management Certified Worksites monitoring system to reduce environmental risks while increasing air compressor load control facilities; replacement of old boiler burners Managing the EHS Management System Doosan Infracore has the operational efficiency. In April 2020, it launched an IoT-based at the Gunsan Plant, installation of high-efficiency lighting lamps; and put an EHS management system in place based on international standards, and examines the operation of its EHS management Korea (Incheon, Gunsan, Ansan), China ISO 14001 integrated monitoring system that focuses on the establishment of real-time environmental facility management software and use of high-efficiency low-temperature oxidation catalysts in its paint shops. Moreover, in line with the digital transformation strategy, the system and the level of compliance with relevant laws and regula(Yantai) an integrated management platform; the integration of existing company has installed environmental sensors in its medium-sized tions by conducting internal and external inspections every year. environmental monitoring systems; and real-time IoT-based engine plant to build an air-conditioning and illumination control The global business sites of Doosan Infracore continue to put monitoring aimed at managing the operational status of air and system, in addition to the construction of a wireless monitoring efforts in minimizing environmental pollution and damage that Safety and Health Management System Certified Worksites water pollution prevention facilities and preventing environmental system for gas sensors used in boilers and pipe plants. As a result of can arise from corporate activities by earning such international accidents. such investments and improvements, the energy intensity of Doosan standards as ISO 14001 Environmental Management Certification and the Occupational Health and Safety Management System Korea (Incheon, Gunsan, Ansan), China OHSAS 18001 Infracore has improved by 7.5% as of 2019 year-end compared to the 2017 figure. (OHSAS 18001/KOSHA 18001) Certifications, and thorough safety (Yantai) inspections on hazardous machines and equipment and the KOSHA 18001 process safety management (PSM) system. They also remove Energy Consumption in 2019 (Korea) Korea (Unit: TJ) industrial accident risk factors. In 2019, the company’s business (Incheon, Gunsan) sites in Korea received surveillance audits for their ISO 14001, Electricity Fuel OHSAS 18001, and KOSHA 18001 certifications to ensure that they 1,701 441 are continuing to comply with those standards. 1) DSRS: The EHS evaluation system developed by Doosan Group to evaluate the EHS level 2,142 TJ of its worksites quantitatively and to encourage them to ma ke improvements; Doosan Group has made adjustments to the ISRS applied by global leading companies to suit its own circumstances. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 78 79 Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Responsible Response to Climate Change GHG Emissions Management In managing GHG emissions at Improving Resource Reuse and Recycling of Waste To ensure the efficient use of limited The Incheon Plant conducted an external diagnosis on its processes resources, Doosan Infracore pursues design optimization, checks our that generate odors to contribute to improving air quality in the business sites in Korea, their energy consumption (electricity, LNG, etc.) is gauged by plant and production line, and the data is analyzed Efficiency and Reducing plant facilities, and maintains them in the optimal operational state, metropolitan area and enhancing residents’ quality of life nearby thereby conserving resources in our daily operations. In Korea, we the Plant. Based on the outcome, it established an improvement through the integrated EHS IT system to identify monthly emissions amount. Given the characteristics of the company’s assembly Environmental Impact have been implementing the resource recycling policy, enabling us plan together with the respective local government, and continues processes, indirect emissions from purchased electricity account for to reuse 95% of the waste in 2019. Doosan Infracore plans to further to expand facility investments. In addition, it has been carrying out about 73.7% of its total GHG emissions. In 2019, the company’s total Doosan Infracore explores better ways of using limited resources increase our resourcization rate by improving additional recycling more systematic monitoring along the worksite border and nearby GHG emissions rose by around 3.6% to 112,186 tCO2eq. more efficiently while striving to minimize the impact of its business plans and waste disposal methods such as diversification of recycling areas since 2017. activities on the environment and local communities. To this end, the methods and segmentation of waste by type. Response to Emissions Trading Doosan Infracore was designated as company has adopted various ways of promoting the eco-friendly Management of Soil Contamination In 2010, Doosan Infracore subject to the Korean government’s GHG & Energy Target Management use of resources and conducts activities to reduce the discharge Management of Environmental Pollutants conducted a voluntary soil contamination survey of the areas where System in 2010, and fulfilled all the legal obligations by 2014. During of pollutants. In 2020, the company will conduct an environmental Water Quality Management All wastewater generated from production facilities that cause soil contamination were operating in the Incheon the first phase of the emissions trading scheme from 2015 to 2017, impact assessment based on the material balance for each process processes goes through a series of treatment process at the wastePlant, and completed soil remediation in those areas over the following the company kept its total GHG emissions at around 68% of the quota to improve efficiency in using resources in the production process, in water treatment facility, and is purified before final discharge. The three years. In 2013, the company extended the survey scope to the allocated by the government, recording 313,383 tCO2eq. Only the addition to registering important environmental impacts and setting company operates non-point pollution source reduction facilities to areas surrounding all its worksites. There has been additional voluntary Incheon Plant is subject to the second phase from 2018 to 2020, and goals for each department in terms of resources. remove the environmental risk of polluting nearby ocean waters with soil remediation work since 2014 and completed it in August 2018, the plant is now managing its emission allowances. rainwater that may have deposited at plant sites and carry pollutants. receiving confirmation from the municipal government. Doosan Infracore manages the emissions of pollutants more strictly Clean rain water is discharged after going through a vortex device and a fiber-type filter. Also there are extra water gates on general drains, Strengthening Environmental Disaster Response System In 2019, GHG emissions of the Incheon Plant amounted to 93,197 than required by laws in all relevant areas. The quantitative data on tCO2eq or 49.8% of the quota allocated by the government. In 2020, the company’s resource use and discharge over the past three years is thereby building a system that blocks the spread of pollution at the Doosan Infracore has established an emergency response system the company will establish a midto long-term roadmap for GHG found in the “CSR Facts & Figures” section (pages 113-115) of this report. source even in the event of an unexpected leakage of hazardous against environmental spills, including a pollutant leakage block emissions to identify opportunities based on the strategy aimed at substances. The Incheon Plant made improvements in the amount of system at the Incheon Plant and spill monitoring system. The company securing GHG emission allowances. Thereby, it will forecast future Improving Efficiency in Resource Use chemicals used for wastewater treatment and blocked the infiltration increased the number of floodgates to six to minimize the risks of demand for GHG emission allowances for each internal and external Water Consumption As extreme weather, such as drought and heavy of non-degradable wastewater at source by conducting a technical pollutant leakage by rainwater. We also further strengthened our scenario; form the portfolio of carbon assets (purchase, internal/ rainfall, becomes more frequent, the importance of managing water diagnosis of its wastewater treatment practices in 2018. As it was infrastructure to respond to the risks by installing pollutant detection external reduction, etc.); and set directions for the response to climate resources has been increasing. The Incheon plant, as part of its efforts able to measure the concentration of influent wastewater through the sensors and building automatic water gate shutdown systems along change in connection with its business models. The company will to reduce water consumption, changed its way of allowing water to installation of a COD for measuring raw water from wastewater, the with the replacement of old wastewater pipes. In 2019, we actively also prepare for the third phase of the emissions trading scheme from flow constantly to prevent pipes from bursting due to freezing weather plant made operational improvements in its raw water concentration, prevented and responded to environmental accidents by preparing for 2021 to 2025, responding to the quota allocated by the government, conditions, and now does so only when burst pipes are anticipated thereby reducing discharge of water pollutants. The Gunsan Plant the enactment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. In and trade its emission allowances by swapping remaining allowances. through daily patrols. The Plant has been also operating a wastewater improved the sludge filter press facility at its wastewater treatment particular, we expanded the existing infrastructure for spill incident, recycling system designed to recycle the effluent discharged from plant to manage the wastewater treatment sludge water content. It and thus completed the establishment of an IoT-based integrated Doosan Infracore is striving to lay a foundation for the operation of the its wastewater treatment facility and reuse it for the manufacturing has also increased the efficiency by installing intermediate wasteenvironmental monitoring system in April 2020. The system enables emissions trading system and set the direction for responding to the processes, and has continued to expand the use of recycled effluent. It water collection tanks, thus preventing the inflow of malignant optimal operation of facilities that prevent pollutants from leaking into system from the midto long-term perspectives, such as preemptive reused 44% of its wastewater for manufacturing processes and others in wastewater. the air and water systems, and also prevents spill incidents before they trading. To this end, the company has been taking actions to reduce 2019, thereby saving KRW 87 million on its water bills. It also established happen. Thanks to these efforts, there was neither spills to outside its GHG emissions and to respond to the emissions trading system a wastewater reclamation and reuse system that enabled it to reuse 5,197 More than 44% of the wastewater at the Incheon Plant goes through company nor serious environmental accidents in 2019. In 2020, in a phased manner, as part of its strategic CSR tasks, every year tons of water in 2019. In addition, a separate rainwater-harvesting system in-house treatment and is reused for its manufacturing processes, Doosan Infracore plans to sign a joint response agreement with external since 2017. In 2019, the company set “reduction of GHG emissions” was built to reuse 867 tons of rainwater for landscaping and coolants. resulting in minimized outside discharge of pollutants. Wastewater of the organizations such as the Korea Coast Guard, local government, nearby as one of its CSR strategic tasks, based on which it established and Gunsan Plant is purified at a legitimate wastewater treatment facility which businesses and residents’ groups in a bid to strengthen our emergency implemented the investment plan for GHG reduction to secure the then flows into each respective local government’s sewage treatment response capabilities. There will be efforts to ensure the stable Wastewater Reuse (Incheon Plant) emission allowances during the second phase of the GHG emissions plant for retreatment. Doosan Infracore also set an internal standard on operation of the wastewater treatment plants by optimizing wastewater trading scheme and to better respond to the scheme; established discharging water pollutants at around 40% of the legal requirement, as treatment processes, developing operation standards, and installing and operated the GHG/Energy Reduction Council; and enhanced its part of the efforts to comply with environmental laws and regulations. facilities to block malignant wastewater. negotiating power with the government and submitted opinions to the Management of Air Pollutants and Odors Air pollutants, such as NOx, Reducing Environmental Impact on Local Communities government by forming a business council. SOx, dust, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), are from electric Doosan Infracore has intensified its efforts to minimize environmental Production Process Wastewater furnaces and painting process. To minimize damage to local communities impacts on local communities, and thus making continued improveGHG Emissions in 2019 (Korea) (Unit: tCO2eq) and reduce environmental hazards, Doosan Infracore sets up dust ments for a clean living environment. In 2015, the company set up a 112,186 tCO2eq collectors, new painting facilities, and concentration catalytic oxidation facilities at each worksite unit, while also investing in the replacement digital signboard to display information on air pollutants in the Incheon area with three other companies in the area. The company fulfills of old boilers. In addition, the company conducts strict measurements, the obligations as a corporate citizen by engaging in precautionary 93,197 Incheon 16,340 Gunsan 1,725 Ansan Parts 591 Seoul 147 Leased Office 186 Boryeong 44 % 87 KRW million more than the self-pollutant measurement cycle that is legally required, and monitors pollutants. It set a standard so that pollutants are emitted management of factors that may cause resident complaints, such as foul odors, as well as making continuous investments in local communities, Plant Plant Distribution Office Building Proving at less than 40% of the legal requirement. including the Hwasu wharf improvement project near the Incheon Plant. Center (Icheon) Ground Reuse Cost savings 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 80 81 Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Enhancing Worksite Safety such as team leaders, part leaders, and senior technicians; and customized training programs for different processes and job titles. Response to Process Safety Report Evaluation Worksites with large hazardous, dangerous facilities have risks of fatal industrial accidents, In 2020, Doosan Infracore aims to improve the safety management system of its suppliers to the standard of its own. To this end, it will Risk Management Worksite Hazard Management Doosan Infracore implements a so that they are required to operate the Process Safety Management (PSM) system. Accordingly, they create a report on comprehensive, provide specialized risk assessment training and self-management support through the Symbiotic Cooperation Programs; form a council discussion-based risk factor identification process with its workers scientific prevention activities, such as process risk assessment and attended by all its internal suppliers; and help its suppliers make to encourage them to manage risk factors by themselves in the first establishment of a safe operation and emergency plan, and submit to improvements to any unsafe practices or behaviors. place by observing and improving potentially hazardous behaviors. the government, after which the government examines and reviews the With the amendment of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, It implemented self-management activities for risk factors in the first report and has the respective worksite implement preventive activities Safety Management for Outsourced Projects Doosan Infracore is effective as of January 16, 2020, the responsibilities of employers half of 2019, and conducted a risk factor self-management evaluation to prevent fatal industrial accidents. Doosan Infracore carried out an further strengthening safety management to prevent supplier safety have been increased so that they are subject to a shutdown and/or in the second half. It also ran monthly EHS meetings held by each internal audit on the PSM of its Incheon Plant and Gunsan Plant, and accidents during outsourced projects at its worksites. The company suspension of business in the event of an industrial accident in any of business unit, and asked each technical staff to identify more than based on the results of the internal audit, the company identified operates a daily on-site patrol to check on-site safety status and their workplaces including those of their suppliers. Operating losses two items or activities, that need safety improvements, and took improvement measures, such as increasing supplier safety training, reports the results to the management. It also runs the “Safety Walk” may be incurred as the scope of the contractor’s liability has been corrective actions. As a result, a total of 5,362 risk factors (2,874 in expanding the scope of job safety analysis (JSA), and revising safe work program every month in which executives, production managers, and extended to all business sites, and the operations of an entire site Korea and 2,488 in China) were identified, and necessary corrective permissions, and continues to inspect the implementation status. EHS officers carry out a safety patrol and come up with improvements, may be suspended in the event of a serious disaster. To achieve zero actions have been taken in 2019. thereby managing potential safety risks. accident in the workplace, Doosan Infracore has established such Expansion of Safety Management Culture midto long-term goals as the establishment of a disaster prevention Acquisition of Safety Zone Certification Doosan Infracore’s business Doosan Infracore believes that the safety awareness of its employees In 2019, a serious accident occurred at the Incheon Plant when a worker system, internalization of self-management activities for risk factors, sites in Korea are all certified by the government in terms of disaster is the most important factor in preventing safety accidents, along of an external contractor fell. Although the company’s suspension and facilitation of compliance monitoring and evaluation. Accordingly, safety with the Incheon and Gunsan Plants’ acquisition of the Safety with efforts to improve facilities. The company, therefore, actively was cleared, irrespective of its legal liability, it has enhanced its safety the company has been making concentrated efforts to further improve Zone Certification in December 2014 and November 2015, respectively. implements programs and operates systems in which both its management for the safety of all its suppliers and visitors. In 2019, its safety devices so as to prevent serious disasters; promote a safety Awarded by Safety Zone-CERTI® and supervised by the National Fire employees and those of the suppliers participate so as to strengthen the company also strengthened its safety management process for culture based on close cooperation between labor and management Agency, the Safety Zone Certification is the only voluntary corporate the safety culture. outsourced projects by establishing work plans for high-risk work, such as well as with suppliers; and strengthen relevant organizations and safety evaluation system in Korea and entails a comprehensive as high-place operation, and running a committee; monitoring risks workforce. evaluation of building design, construction, and maintenance. In 2017, Building a Culture of Safety Doosan Infracore continues to promote based on JSA; and providing trainings aimed at helping a construction Doosan Infracore received a detailed evaluation on six safety areas, compliance with the “EHS 3-3-3 Basic Rules” and engage in safety manager increase his/her capacity. In 2020, it will make continuous Prevention-focused Worksite Safety Management including the safety management system, firefighting, building/fire culture activities, including improvements in the field of safety, to efforts to strengthen its safety management process while also Safety Training Doosan Infracore provides safety education aimed proof, dangerous goods, machine/electricity/gas, and evacuation/ achieve zero accidents. Each month, the heads of Business Groups focusing on managing outsourced construction projects throughout the at encouraging voluntary participation and capacity building of natural disaster, from experts in the field of disaster and safety. The provide safety reports to employees. The company has designated year, and thus achieve zero safety accident. its employees. To this end, it runs training programs designed to company actively made improvements for matters that were pointed April as Health and Safety Month during which it strives to improve promote EHS leadership, increase awareness, cultivate knowledge, out, and obtained the Safety Zone Certification for the second safety and raise safety awareness through education sessions, Emergency Prevention System and encourage self-development by job title. In 2019, the company consecutive time in December 2017 following 2014. The Certification promotional campaigns, and inspections. Visitors to its worksites Fire Prevention System As the number of fires related to electricity, expanded its supervisor training from 16 hours of online training to is valid for three years. Investments in safety and firefighting are not are required to watch a video on safety precautions first to raise their overheating, and dust increases, Doosan Infracore has been upgrading 8 hours of online training and 16 hours of offline training to promote expenses but a must to protect its employees. The company therefore safety awareness. its firefighting facilities and improving its firefighting capabilities. voluntary participation and capacity building through strengthened will further spread awareness of the importance of fire and disaster In December 2019, the Incheon Plant, having been chosen as the EHS leadership and increased awareness. In 2020, the company plans prevention and systematically and efficiently manage safety facilities Support for Suppliers’ Safety Management Capabilities Doosan Infracore representative workplace within the jurisdiction of the Incheon Central to offer various EHS training courses, such as training programs for based on the Safety Zone Certification. has been implementing “Symbiotic Cooperation Programs” since 2012 Fire Department, conducted a “Self-Defense Forces Firefighting Training the CEO and executives; intensive training programs for supervisors, to help its suppliers boost their safety management capabilities under Assessment” involving a total of 500 employees. The assessment is one of its EHS principles – “We aim to create a pleasant and safe peoplea fire drill led by Incheon Metropolitan City to strengthen the initial oriented working environment, improve the health and quality of life of response and firefighting capability in the event of a fire. The Incheon Acquisition of the Safety Zone Certifications all employees, including those of our suppliers, prevent losses, and thus Plant conducted evacuation, fire suppression, and emergency drills ultimately realize a zero-accident workplace.” Launched by the Ministry following a hypothetical firefighting scenario in which its R&D center Six categories of Employment and Labor in 2011, the Symbiotic Cooperation Program is hit by an earthquake. Following the fire drill, it had trainings on the is designed to urge large companies to help improving the health and risks of smoke inhalation, an air mat experience, how to operate a fire safety capabilities of their suppliers to prevent industrial accidents extinguisher, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Safety management Firefighting Building/Fire Dangerous Machine/ Evacuation/ through continuous cooperation. In March 2019, the company held system proof goods Electricity/Gas Natural disaster a ceremony to launch a team devoted to the implementation of the In 2020, to minimize losses in the event of a fire, the company will “2019 Health and Safety Symbiotic Cooperation Program,” and then install oil mist detectors and fire extinguishers in the painting process, supported its suppliers in the areas of risk factor assessment and thereby establishing an initial fire suppression system. It also plans improvement, health and safety training, distribution of guidelines, to upgrade its fire prevention system by identifying and removing and supply of the related goods. In particular, it focused on promoting fire hazards in advance through the installation of motion-detection the Safety Observation System (risk factors self-control), a scheme for CCTVs in blind spots such as underground machinery rooms, as well 2 consecutive times Period of validity: 3 years removing potential risks based on concentrated daily monitoring by not only field supervisors but also working-level employees, so that suppliers themselves can identify risk factors and work on them. as installing proper firefighting facilities when building new buildings and expanding facilities. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 82 83 Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Upgrading Emergency Response Training Doosan Infracore aims to minimize human and material damages by responding promptly in Enhancing Employee Health In response to the COVID-19 pandemic that has swept the world in 2020, the company has provided masks to its employees and those Moreover, Doosan Infracore runs a “healing program” for teams. In 2019, the company conducted a “Psychological Health Test” for all the event of an emergency such as a fire. In 2020, it will upgrade its drills to better handle fire suppression, fire truck entry, and lifesaving, Management of its internal suppliers, disinfected business sites, and made hand sanitizers and thermometers available for any employee. of its employees to diagnose their stress level, including job stress, and provided support for employees with a high level of stress. The with a particular focus on such processes with a high probability supportive measures include a total of 1,134 cases of counseling of a fire as painting and commissioning. It will also strengthen its It has also followed the guidelines issued by the Korea Centers services through its in-house counseling center and an outside prevention system so that it can respond quickly and efficiently by for Disease Control and Prevention, and established its response counseling center, a healing program, visiting counseling services to developing an emergency response scenario for each department. Improving Employee Health Management guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including countermeaDoosan Tower, and relevant education programs. In 2020, the company Occupational Disease Prevention Doosan Infracore strives to prevent sures (working hours, domestic/overseas business trips, preventive will continue conducting employee surveys (job stress index, etc.) and Industrial Accident Rate Management occupational diseases such as noise-induced deafness and musculoactivities, etc.) by stages, as well as reporting system and employee analyses while providing training and conducting assessments aimed The traditional method used to calculate the industrial accident rate skeletal disorders, and to strengthen implementation capabilities at behavior standards in the event of an emergency. The company strives at protecting the psychological health of emotional workers. It will also does not faithfully reflect the incidence of minor accidents. Doosan its worksites. To this end, the company holds a monthly meeting of to keep its working environment safe by strictly obeying all the relevant offer professional training as part of its Employee Assistance Program Infracore, therefore, began to use the LTIR1), TRIR2), and LWSR3) the Musculoskeletal Disorder Improvement Working Council, which is rules and guidelines. (EAP), and expand the operation of “DOOHUG,” a job stress prevention indicators in 2018, which allowed the company to identify minor composed of labor union officials, worksite managers, and employees program. accidents that resulted in lost time as well as those who received in charge of EHS and production, to discuss physical load risks and IT System for Health Checkup History Management In 2019, Doosan treatment at the company or its suppliers. By doing so, the company identify ways of making improvements. It also arranges for medical Infracore developed and launched “DooGreen,” an integrated Certified as Excellent Worksite in Employee Health aims to prevent minor accidents from repeating and becoming a major professionals to visit its worksites regularly as part of its efforts to EHS IT system that includes an employee health checkup history Promotion accident, and to further strengthen supplier’s safety management. improve employees’ health and boost their morale. As the number management function. The system enables the management of In October 2019, the Incheon Plant was re-certified by the Korean Accident rate indicators are managed as a major key performance of workers suffering from hearing problems, such as noise-induced company-wide health checkups and the related training schedules to Ministry of Employment and Labor and the Korea Occupational Safety indicator (KPI) of respective executives, based on which Doosan deafness, has been increasing, Doosan Infracore has set a strategic prevent employees from inadvertently skipping their regular medical and Health Agency for its excellence in promoting employees’ health, Infracore plans to further promote a safety management culture. direction to fundamentally minimize noise-generating processes while checkups and education, while preventing legal risks related to a following its initial certification in 2013 and the recertification in 2016 also offering high-quality earplugs and other protective gears, and lack of special checkup data. In addition, the system helps Doosan (evaluation period: 3 years). The Gunsan Plant was first designated The company analyzed accidents that had occurred at its worksites providing education on the proper use of them. In addition, with the Infracore employees improve their health by managing their personal as an Excellent Worksite in Employee Health Promotion in November in the past four years, and found that conventional accidents, such increasing amount of surface particulate matter around the country, health checkup-related items, including health checkup history 2015, and re-certified in February 2019 in recognition of its exemplary as jamming, fall, and bump, have been occurring continuously, with the company has developed response guideline that calls for the management, management of chemicals used for each task, and in-house health promotion activities customized for the characteristics unstable practices and behaviors being the root cause of 70% of such provision of protective gears and proper work breaks starting at the management of working environment measurement results. of workers, including a health management program, a musculoskelaccidents. In 2020, it will, therefore, focus on preventing accidents stage of caution. etal disorder prevention program, and a job stress prevention program. due to unsafe practices and behaviors by enforcing compliance with Programs to Manage Job Stress Doosan Infracore conducts stress The Excellent Worksite in Employee Health Promotion certification is the on-site safety rules and behavioral requirements, expanding site In 2020, the company will carry out various preventive activities for surveys to manage the mental health of its employees, and runs a the most important health industry-recognized certification, which inspections and facility improvements, and strengthening the safety each type of occupational disease including by monitoring its working professional stress management program, with a particular focus involves a comprehensive evaluation of 40 items in six areas, such culture based on employee participation. environment through health risk assessments; measuring noise at all on high-risk employees, based on statistical analysis. The company as organizational culture, health promotion activities and programs, of its worksites and developing a noise map; preventing respiratory ensures that its employees can access counseling services whenever and environmental management. Designated worksites are awarded diseases by inspecting and improving control speed efficiency of local necessary through the psychological counseling office within an the benefit of being exempted from supervision by the Ministry of exhaust systems; expanding the activities of the Musculoskeletal affiliated clinic and an external counseling center linked to the Employment and Labor for the next three years. The company will 1) LTIR (Lost Time Incidents Rate): Number of incidents involving more than one-day closure of Disorder Improvement Working Council to prevent musculoskeletal company. Launched in April 2014 for the first time among affiliates of continue employee health promotions as part of its efforts to create a workday per 100 workers, Total number of lost time cases/Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 disorders; conducting regular inspections on harmful factors (every 3 Doosan Group, “DOOHUG” is a professional counseling service offered better workplace. 2) TRIR (Total Recordable Incidents Rate): Number of recordable incidents that require years); and assessing the risks of brain and cardiovascular diseases. in partnership with an external professional institution. It provides treatment for injuries or illness per 100 workers, Total number of injuries and illnesses/Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 employees with professional counseling services about not only 3) LWSR (Lost Workday Severity Rate): Number of lost work days experienced per 100 workers, Health Management Programs In helping its employees manage their their work-related concerns but also personal worries, including their Total number of lost work days/Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 health, Doosan Infracore operates various health promotion programs, families and childcare. The company keeps all DOOHUG counseling including the installation of automated external defibrillators (AEDs) details and personal information strictly confidential, and pays all of and the preparation of a low sodium diet menu. Whenever a healthcare counseling expenses. issue such as the spread of an infectious disease arises, the company operates the Emergency Situation Room and promptly offers the relevant information on preventive measures to its employees. The company pays for mandatory vaccinations for six diseases – yellow fever, cholera, malaria, typhoid, hepatitis A, and tetanus – designated internally for employees who go on business trips to countries with limited healthcare. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 84 85 Our Responsibility Suppliers Suppliers Strengthening Suppliers’ In 2019, the company focused on improving product quality and delivery compliance for five suppliers that were newly selected Competitiveness as Leading Suppliers. It categorized its support period into four – fostering period, follow-up management period, self-sufficiency period, and internalization period – to help them to continue improving their performance even after the LS support programs. In 2020, Doosan Infracore will focus more on helping its suppliers to Doosan Infracore focuses on enhancing its overall competitiveestablish a smart factory system. In connection with the government’s ness in purchase and production by helping its suppliers boost “Smart Factory Supply and Diffusion Project,” it will support the OUR APPROACH their competitiveness. To this end, the company provides a range establishment of a manufacturing execution system (MES) at its of support programs, including financial support, competency suppliers, through which they will be able to strengthen their quality enhancement training, and on-site guidance. In addition, it is capabilities and competitiveness. Doosan Infracore rapidly grows into Doosan Infracore considers win-win growth with suppliers as a primary source of its competitiveness. We, therefore, share implementing the Leading Supplier (LS) project to help its core a global company based on the our technology, quality, and management systems with our suppliers grow into small giants based on the Doosan Supplier Expanding Participation in the Benefit Sharing System principle of building a “virtuous cycle of suppliers to strengthen their competency and build a virtuous Excellence Program (DSEP), a system for fostering suppliers. The benefit sharing system is an agreement made between large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to partnerships” that enables it to achieve cycle of partnerships. In addition, we help them improve CSR Fostering Leading Suppliers capabilities in an effort to fulfill our roles and responsibilities improve suppliers’ capabilities to deliver high-quality goods on shared growth with its suppliers. Doosan Infracore conducts an annual survey of core suppliers time and share the benefits. It is an iconic model for the creation of in building a sound economic ecosystem. according to the criteria for core suppliers defined by the analysis of a healthy corporate ecology. Doosan Infracore collects suppliers’ transaction dependency and supplier relationship segmentation. And suggestions regarding new product development, parts localization, CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2019 the company helps them have the capability to supply quality products quality improvements, and design changes through the benefit at competitive prices on time by making innovative improvements in sharing system. It reflects good suggestions into its products Strengthen CSR management system of the supply chain: Defined suppliers with high CSR risks; established and the areas of plant operations, quality assurance, and manufacturing and shares the outcome, thereby creating win-win partnerships Activities and Identify suppliers with high CSR risks, and support Achievements implemented plans to help suppliers with high CSR risks make improvements; and verified the improvement results technologies. It also makes continuous efforts to foster them to with its suppliers. In October 2019, the company ran the “Benefit improvement activities by re-conducting on-site assessment (OSA) become Leading Suppliers, setting a benchmark for other suppliers. Sharing Academy,” with some 40 Doosan Infracore purchasing As the occurrence of CSR issues, such as human rights, The LS project aims not only to solve problems that suppliers are staff and suppliers’ employees in attendance, in order to increase environment, and safety of suppliers, has been on the rise, the facing but also to raise their fundamental competitiveness by enabling stakeholders’ understanding of the system and to encourage their CSR management system of the supply chain has also been gaining importance around the world. Against this backdrop, them to secure supply capacity and quality competitiveness in terms participation. Going forward, Doosan Infracore will extend the scope Doosan Infracore strives to help our suppliers manage their of a comprehensive ranking evaluation (supplier evaluation) through of our benefit sharing system to include not only first-tier suppliers CSR more systematically. To this end, we set the CSR strategic oneto three-year support programs. To foster 52 Leading Suppliers but also second-tier suppliers, to enhance our fundamental competitask for 2018 as to “Strengthen CSR management system of by 2025, Doosan Infracore has selected and supported a total of 32 tiveness as well as that of our suppliers, create synergy, and establish the supply chain: Define core suppliers and identify suppliers suppliers from 2014 through 2019. a fair subcontracting culture. with high CSR risks, and establish a management process” which was followed by the 2019 strategic task to “Strengthen CSR management system of the supply chain: Identify suppliers with high CSR risks, and support improvement activities,” and carried out activities to accomplish the tasks. LS Development Stages SUSTAINABLE VALUE FRAMEWORK Year One Year Two Year Three People | Suppliers capacity building Progress | Supply chain ESG Doosan Infracore leads the shared growth with its suppliers by Doosan Infracore makes continuous efforts to conduct ESG Intensive guidance and cultivation for overall improvements in the entire DSEP module Post-management DSEP re-evaluation to expanding the Doosan Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP) program inspection for its core suppliers and help them make improvements through DSEP enhance self-reliance which is designed to provide training, consulting, and other supports as a way to prevent risks and lay solid foundations for shared Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 maturity evaluations and re-launch of to help suppliers strengthen their competitiveness. growth. and continuous the LS program for Diagnosis Planning Development Sharing management necessary suppliers Cumulative No. of DSEP participants (Unit: Company) No. of companies subject to (Unit: Company) Identify capabilities Draw up of plans by Carry out improvement Share improvements at supplier ESG inspection1) that need to be Doosan Infracore’s activities according to the supplier conference 27 32 116 N/A improved by diagnosing experts and supplier the DSEP for one year held every October 52 125 factory operations, staff to address the and offer supplier staff quality assurance, identified capabilities training 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 and manufacturing technologies 1) Supplier ESG inspection is conducted every other year. Thus, the Year 2024 goal is reflected as the Year 2025 goal. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 86 87 Our Responsibility Suppliers Strengthening the CSR Competencies of Suppliers Doosan Infracore has established systems and programs designed Diverse Supplier import and customs clearance, and intellectual property rights based on the results of demand survey. In terms of training efficiency, it will Establishing a Culture to enable its suppliers to lay the groundwork for their response to CSR issues, including ethical management, fair trade, human rights, Support Programs offer both internal and external training programs. of Shared Growth environmental protection, and social problems. Seminars for Suppliers Doosan Infracore has been holding the “Seminar for People in Charge” for its suppliers twice a year since Strengthening CSR Management System of the Supply Chain Doosan 2017, to introduce its shared growth programs, motivate suppliers to Infracore has developed the Supplier CSR Guidelines, which consist Competitiveness Enhancement Programs actively participate in and take advantage of the programs, and help Building Win-Win Partnerships of 27 clauses under 10 categories, such as labor, human rights, health Supporting the Enhancement of Suppliers’ Competitiveness An them build competency. At the seminars held in 2019, the company Doosan Infracore has set “building a virtuous cycle of partnerships and safety, environment, ethics, and fair trade, and distributed them exclusive team, composed of dedicated staff from the Supplier introduced its leading programs for shared growth with suppliers; for shared growth with our suppliers” as the motto for shared growth to its suppliers in the form of newsletters and booklets. The company Development Team and Shared Growth Team, visits suppliers if shared information on suppliers’ technical data management system to strengthen our global competitiveness and grow together with also reflects the Guidelines in its purchase policies to ensure that necessary, to help them conduct innovative activities. In 2019, 195 and the Occupational Safety and Health Act; and discussed suppliers’ our suppliers. The virtuous cycle of partnerships aims to include consistent principles are applied not only to diagnosis and evaluation Doosan Infracore employees − twice as many as planned at the measures to respond to the amendment of the Act. all of our suppliers in the unique technology-quality-management but also to purchase, based on which the company urges its suppliers beginning of the year − helped suppliers with their innovation efforts system, which is designed to enhance our technological capabilities to engage in practical CSR activities. The Supplier CSR Guidelines are for more than five consecutive days1). Specifically, Doosan Infracore Financial Support and upgrade business practices internally. This integrated operation available at Doosan Infracore’s website. staff helped suppliers improve their manufacturing capability by In Korea, Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers enhance their financial system enables Doosan Infracore and its suppliers to build an even providing key technical support for welding, materials manufacturing, soundness by providing them with four types of financial support – stronger partnership by improving the competitiveness of the overall Reflecting CSR Elements into Supplier Evaluation Doosan Infracore and non-destructive inspection; and support for innovation in the direct support, indirect support, mixed support, and special support. system ranging from production to supply and by sharing the profits reflects CSR elements, such as employee training, labor management, fields of 3 P’s 6 S’s2), Lean3), DTC4), single PPM5), quality guidance and generated through the improvements with suppliers. The virtuous cycle environmental management, and regulatory compliance, in the problem solving, localization, and product development. Financial Support for Suppliers in 2019 (Korea) of partnerships also means that Doosan Infracore goes beyond the evaluation and registration of its new suppliers at all of its business previous relationship with its suppliers that is limited to purchasing sites in Korea and China. In the area of EHS, in particular, such as Management Doctor System Doosan Infracore is an active participant Amounts and subcontracting. The company has determined to implement Programs supported environment and health, the company evaluates the status of building in the Management Doctor System which is currently being promoted the shared growth strategy at the company level, and then has been Facility Investment Provided suppliers with interestKRW 2.3 billion foundations and level of practices including the establishment of by the SME Support Center of the Federation of Korean Industries (FKI). Fund free facility investment funds making continuous efforts to build the virtuous cycle of partnerships Direct relevant systems and improvement in risk factors. The company also Suppliers recommended by large companies are selected through Support Financial Support for Provided financial support for including by linking detailed plans to business plans of the company, shaping fixtures to enhance KRW 28.7 billion has been conducting on-site EHS assessment of new suppliers prior a review process, whereupon experts from three parties – large Shaping Fixtures product competitiveness reflecting performance results into the evaluation of its top executives, to their registration since 2015. companies, suppliers, and the FKI’s management consulting team – and establishing an effective monitoring system. To build a virtuous Network Loans, Helped suppliers receive loans Indirect KRW 30.0 billion help them improve management environments and solve problems. Support Family Corporate to fund operations with low (promised) cycle of shared growth, the Supplier Development Team and the Shared Loans interest rate based on deposits Activates to Support and Improve Suppliers’ CSR For more systematic Growth Team take the lead in helping suppliers improve their jobs and KRW 78.5 billion CSR management of its supply chain, Doosan Infracore established Industrial Innovation Campaign 4.0 Industrial Innovation Campaign Helped suppliers receive loans (raised) technical competencies while enhancing their financial soundness, Mixed Shared Growth 4.0 is one of Doosan Infracore’s leading programs for shared growth. to fund operations with low criteria to define core suppliers and set standards in 2018, based on Support Special Fund KRW 63.0 billion while also actively communicating with them through the Integrated interest rate based on deposits which it surveyed their status; conducted an on-site assessment (OSA) Through this program, consultants are dispatched to the company’s (loaned) Cooperation Council. on their response to CSR issues, such as human rights protection, suppliers to provide them with practical assistance with their Special Contribution for the Industrial ethical management, and EHS; and identified suppliers with high production innovation and smart factory operations, based on the Made contributions to shared KRW 300 million Special Innovation Campaign Support 4.0 (KOFCA) 1) growth programs for secondShared Growth System CSR risks. In 2019, the company selected nine suppliers with high company’s financial contributions. The Campaign entered its second and third-tier suppliers CSR risks, helped them to establish and implement improvement phase in 2019 following the successful completion of the first phase in Contribution to KRW 100 million Win-Win Supporters plans, and re-evaluated those suppliers which completed making 2018. The company will help some 50 suppliers for the next five years Vision the proposed improvements. Going forward, Doosan Infracore will to increase their productivity, thereby making practical improvements Shared Growth as Global Enterprises enhance CSR management capabilities of its suppliers through in their performance. Support for the Creation of Sound Corporate Ecosystem comprehensive supplier evaluation linked to the CSR evaluation and Beginning in 2017, Doosan Infracore has been running a supplier Shared Competitiveness enhancement programs improvements. Competency Building Training for Suppliers’ Staff Doosan Infracore support program that helps reduce the wage gap and increase welfare Growth Programs Profit sharing / Financial support reflects its suppliers’ feedback into the Supplier Academy, a benefits for the employees of its secondand third-tier suppliers2), customized training program to help suppliers secure competitiveness, in-house subcontractors3), and service providers. For the employees of Support for joint advance into overseas markets and offers the program every year. In 2019, 97 employees from 38 those companies, it provides them with KRW 1.2 million per year (KRW Enhancement of communication suppliers benefited from the Supplier Academy in seven areas, 100,000 per month for each person) to reduce their wage gap in the including quality, manufacturing, and production costs. To further form of Win-Win Encouragement Funds while also offering high school Build a virtuous cycle partnership Shared increase training effectiveness, in 2020 the company plans to add tuition fees to their children and allowing them to use the company’s Growth Policy enabling shared growth with suppliers training courses in such areas as production quality, Industry 4.0, daycare center free of charge to enhance their welfare benefits. Organization in Charge Competitiveness Enhancement Support Center 1) Criteria of the Korea Fair Trade Commission: 5 days = 1 person (1 day = 8 hours, based on the 1) KOFCA: Korea Foundation for Cooperation of Large&Small Business, Rural Affairs (composed of in-house experts in shared growth, time and attendance criteria) 2) Secondand third-tier suppliers: Suppliers that depend more than 35% in terms of sales on Doosan fostering of suppliers, purchase, quality, and R&D) 2) 3 P’s 6 S’s: 3 P’s (Proper Items, Proper Quantity, Proper Place), 6 S’s (Safety, Sort, Straighten, Infracore’s first-tier suppliers that count on the company by more than 35% in terms of sales Shine, Standardize, Sustain) 3) In-house subcontractors: Employees of in-house subcontractors (except for large companies 3) Lean: Activities designed to minimize inventories and innovate work processes, thus reducing and foreign enterprises) costs and enhancing productivity 4) DTC: Design to cost Innovation 5) Single PPM (parts per million): A quality innovation campaign designed to achieve the quality management goal of reducing the ratio of faulty products to under 10:1,000,000 products 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 88 89 Our Responsibility Suppliers · Product Quality & Stewardship Motivating Shared Growth Doosan Infracore reflects the shared Product Quality & growth performance of the relevant executives in the evaluation of their management by objectives (MBO), and it also reflects the Stewardship findings of the benefit sharing system in the MBO of executives in charge of purchasing to promote the system. Furthermore, to encourage suppliers to participate in shared growth activities, it reflects their involvement in shared growth and relevant performance in the comprehensive supplier evaluation. Strengthening Communication with Suppliers OUR APPROACH To enhance communication with its suppliers, Doosan Infracore operates a “Shared Growth Hotline” while also holding agreement Doosan Infracore provides world-class Doosan Infracore offers customers better value through ceremonies and meetings. The CEO visits the company’s second-tier suppliers twice a year to listen to their concerns and find solutions products, parts, and services with products that take into account not just performance but also customer safety and environmental impacts. to their problems. In China, senior executives attend a meeting with the goal of maximizing customer value. In addition, the company focuses on improving product suppliers twice a year, share the purpose of shared growth, and quality, enhancing customer services, and having more encourage commitment to realizing shared growth. dialogues with customers to become a company trusted SUSTAINABLE VALUE FRAMEWORK by customers. Integrated Cooperation Council For active and effective communication with suppliers, Doosan Infracore launched the Integrated Product, Solution, Service | Product stewardship Cooperation Council in 2015. The Council meets twice a year to share Sales of remanufactured parts (Unit: KRW million) Doosan Infracore is committed to responsible production and the company’s business plans, quality policies, and the latest global consumption by integrating the concept of sustainability into 490 770 trends including environmental restrictions, and to align the strategies the entire product life cycle ranging from production to sales, of the company with the suppliers and strengthen mutual exchanges. 1,500 utilization, and disposal. 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 Grievance Handling Channel for Suppliers Doosan Infracore has established the Shared Growth Hotline on its company website in the Shared Growth section, through which people may express their overall opinions and grievances about the company’s trade practices and shared growth activities or request related programs. In addition, objectives, such as the “Rules on Construction Machinery Safety the company has put diverse communication channels in place, such Customer-centered Standards” of Korea, the “Machinery Directive” of Europe, and the as telephone, fax, and postal service, and notifies to its suppliers. “Guobiao (GB) Standard” of China. The company also ensures that All communication made through the Shared Growth Hotline is Product Development its products are manufactured to meet the regulations of the markets kept strictly confidential, and for those wishing to maintain their to which they will be exported. Moreover, we have the Global Product anonymity, the Hotline can be used anonymously. Doosan Infracore Compliance Council (GPCC), through which we share information makes sure that no one faces retaliation for submitting a grievance, on the latest trends in global safety regulations and standards and and critical issues are reported to the CEO and relevant executives. Strengthening Product Responsibility discuss preemptive responses to any changes. Doosan Infracore is committed to securing customer safety and minimizing environmental impact throughout the entire process ranging Management of Hazardous Chemicals Doosan Infracore makes from product development to production and sales. To this end, the various efforts to respond to hazardous chemicals regulations, company strives to ensure customer safety and convenience from including the EU’s REACH/RoHS 3, and the “Act on the Registration the product planning and development stage, and also focuses on and Evaluation etc. of Chemical Substances” and the “Chemicals expanding the development of eco-friendly products in order to minimize Control Act” of Korea. The company conducted a total inspection on the environmental impact of product manufacturing and use. In addition, hazardous chemicals used throughout its work processes in 2015; the company aims to contribute to the improvement of human rights and conducted a study on the possibility of replacing some of hazardous the environment in areas that produce conflict minerals by continuously chemicals, and replaced or removed 11 types of chemicals subject to monitoring the use of conflict minerals in its products. management under The Chemicals Control Act in 2016; and developed a world-leading process and IT system to respond to REACH/RoHS 2 Compliance with International Safety Standards Doosan Infracore and completed its roll-out at Doosan Infracore China Corporation in sets up new product development and verification plans at the 2017. In 2018, to cope with even stricter regulations systematically, the planning stage by reviewing various countries’ technical regulations company created a CF team for company-wide hazardous chemicals and international standards on safety and environment, including management and operations; established a policy to manage fire, explosion, noise, rollover, electromagnetic compatibility, and restricted materials; distributed work process guidelines to the relevant toxic chemicals. The company also reflects the guidelines set forth in departments; developed alternative materials to respond to RoHS 3; major technical regulations when setting up its product development established response processes at overseas subsidiaries; input 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 90 91 Our Responsibility Product Quality & Stewardship new REACH/RoHS 3 substances and requested renewal. In 2019, The company has also put the conflict minerals management process its preemptive correction measures, Doosan Infracore not only utilizes company achieved 91.7% in claims processing rates for all its models. the company reduced the use of hazardous chemical substances in place based on close cooperation among different departments local staff at its overseas business sites but also dispatches its It also achieved 92% in making improvements by successfully working included in the Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern including purchasing, CSR, and chemical materials. In addition, it experts from the head office to any location in the world. Construction on 34 cases out of 37 design-related VOCs. (SVHC), Annex 17 and RoHS 10 Restricted Substances. Also, the strives to increase understanding of conflict minerals including by equipment must be able to withstand rough work environments. The company has extended the applicable laws and regulations to include establishing a conflict mineral response system, conducting surveys company therefore repeatedly checks the whole range of equipment Standardizing Product Post-sale Management Services Doosan California Proposition 65 and other international agreements in on the usage of minerals, helping its suppliers manage their risks, and features, from the performance of the specialty parts to simple Infracore offers our customers the 4-One Service – One Hour Contact, addition to REACH/RoHS 3 so as to proactively respond to high risks providing guidance to them. malfunction, when performing preemptive correction measures, and One Day Repair, One Touch Repair, One Plus Service – to deal with posed by hazardous chemicals and to avoid regulatory obstacles in makes corrections so that the product can be delivered to customers in product malfunctions and provide technical assistance. The company import/export of products. Increasing Eco-friendly Products Doosan Infracore is conducting its the best possible state. In addition, the company frequently manages strives to provide One Touch Repair on the day when requests are business based on its corporate philosophy which defines minimizing the major correction measure status using a system for quicker made. Therefore the company continues to make improvements in The scope of application of the relevant regulations has been environmental footprint as a corporate responsibility through which preemptive correction measures. its technical capabilities and service procedures while building a extended from finished products to include parts. In response, the company can create values. Following this corporate philosophy, comprehensive customer support system that leaves no blind spot Doosan Infracore included supplier’s obligation to REACH/RoHS 3 the company established definition and management standards for In March 2013, construction equipment and excavators were designatunaddressed and supplies parts in a timely manner. in the basic purchase contract form to raise suppliers’ awareness of eco-friendly products in 2015, and reflected the eco-friendly product ed by law as a subject to a recall in Korea. The voluntary recall involves the importance of hazardous substance management. It has also management process in its new product development process and the company making a direct report if it discovers an issue and officialCustomer Satisfaction Management Doosan Infracore has been continued to assist suppliers with training and on-site guidance to completed an upgrade of the environmental friendliness index in 2016. ly implements preemptive correction measures. In December 2017, standardizing our customer services to improve the overall customer improve the management competency of their staff, and helped At Doosan Infracore, products that preemptively meet mandatory Doosan Infracore voluntarily chose one of its products as a subject service quality, and providing all the service personnel with customer them establish the management process. In 2019, the company environmental regulations of each market in five areas – fuel efficiency, of a recall for it found possible defects in the lower heater of the fuel satisfaction (CS) trainings to foster them into CS experts. In addition, offered online trainings aimed at urging its suppliers to respond to the durability, noise control, safety, and emissions control – are defined filter which may cause an inflow of moisture into an inner pin, damage we conduct CS surveys on Happy Call services in Korea and China, and regulations and helping them improve relevant competencies. as eco-friendly products. The portion of eco-friendly products in it, overheat the fuel filter and thus make the filter stop functioning. strive to keep the satisfaction level above 4.5 points on a scale of 1-5 2019 recorded 87.3%, similar to the figure of the previous year. The company sent out a recall notice to customers and offered free points. In 2019, the level of satisfaction in Korea stood at 4.83 points. Conflict Mineral Management Conflict mineral refers to four minerals repairs at designated maintenance centers or locations preferred by – tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold – that are mined in 10 war-torn consumers. countries in Africa, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Customer Feedback Collection and Handling Process Sudan, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Congo, Zambia, Angola, Tanzania, Process to Reflect Customer Feedback and Central Africa Republic. Armed forces in these countries are Responsible Collecting and Responding to Customer Feedback Doosan Infracore Korea Overseas believed to be caught up in conflict as they are raising funds through collects and promptly handles customer feedback and requests the mining and distribution of the minerals, which in turn causes Customer Service through its dealers and direct visits to major customers. It also regularly Registration with the call center Registration with dealers human rights issues, such as loss of human life, human rights abuses, holds meetings to share the voice of customers (VOC) in which major Service action and entry child labor, and sexual violence, in addition to serious social problems suppliers participate, and thus uses them as opportunities to analyze Service action and entry (overseas subsidiaries) including environmental pollution. The international community, Preemptive Response for Customers and apply market trends. therefore, has been requiring companies to disclose the origin of the Doosan Infracore has been solidifying its relationship with customers minerals they use in their production processes, and to eradicate the based on trust by acting ahead of customers’ requests. The company In Korea, the Customer Support Center receives customer requests, Integrated input of information use of conflict minerals. As a responsible corporate citizen, Doosan provides information on products for customer safety and increased and assigns personnel who are in a position to quickly visit customers about customers’ requests and malfunctions Infracore strives to ensure that no conflict minerals associated with convenience, and carries out voluntary preemptive correction measures. through the global positioning system (GPS). This is followed by the Decision on claims armed forces in the conflict areas are included in its supply chain. “Happy Call” with customers one day after to check final progress. Furthermore, all suppliers that do business with Doosan Infracore Providing Information for Customer Safety Doosan Infracore complies To smoothly provide services to customers, the company has built a Finalization of claims are required to make sure that they do not use conflict minerals in with regulations of each country related to increased customer safety, one-stop after market (AM) service system from sales to end-of-life Adding weight their manufacturing processes and to submit certificates of origin. including Safety Standards and the Product Liability Act, and takes disposal, and continues to enhance its dealer service training. It also all the necessary actions to prevent related accidents. To ensure safe carries out trainings for office and field staff of the Customer Support Classification of Eco-Friendly Products operation and maintenance of its products, the company provides Center quarterly in line with a new product release. As an outcome of customers with safety labels of three levels – danger, warning, and such efforts, the company has achieved 97.4% of claim settlement ratio Management of major claims Notification to a department in Products that surpass charge / Information sharing the eco-friendly product caution – according to the severity of the safety risks involved. It also within the timeline required by customers. criteria and perform specifies matters that are critical to customer safety in a product above a certain level NPD Process Doosan Infracore operates the New Product Development manual. Doosan Infracore complies with ISO 92441) for the safety In China, dealers receive customer feedback and requests through in the environmentalPremium Eco-friendly friendliness index of the labels attached to its construction equipment and provides operator the Service Call Center and aim to handle them within 24 hours (NPD) process with the participation of such departments as R&D, Products relevant market(s) manuals for its machinery under ISO 67502). and complete their services within seven days. VOCs are reflected Advance Quality, Sales Strategy, and Marketing, to reflect VOCs into in product design and quality improvement. Doosan Infracore the new product development. The company’s business sites in Korea, Preemptive Correction Measures Preemptive correction measures provides various online and offline trainings to enhance the technical China, and Europe operate customer feedback collection channels are improvement measures carried out by manufacturers after making capabilities of its dealers’ service personnel. Approximately 20 from diverse perspectives. They also have built the NPD 4.0 in 2013, Eco-friendly Products with improved perspectives in terms of laws, safety, and quality. notices to customers without any external pressure. To better manage emergency service engineers make two-month training visits to around 30 dealers throughout China to provide training on mechanical repairs They are currently operating the NPD 4.3 to ensure quality innovation Products that preemptively and maintenance while also helping to solve technical issues of the throughout all steps of product development. satisfy the environmental ISO 9244: International standard specifications on general rules regarding construction company’s C (Chinese) models. As a result of these efforts, in 2019 the 1) regulations of the relevant equipment safety labels market(s) 2) ISO 6750: International standard specifications on the format of construction equipment manuals (guidance and content) 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 92 93 Our Responsibility Product Quality & Stewardship In 2019, we began to build the Project Management Information In 2020, it will further strengthen the preventive quality of its new Strengthening Quality at the Parts Production Stage System (PMIS), an integrated system to better manage our new Quality Stabilization and models, plants, and suppliers, and will expand its global governance In order to minimize the number of defects at the production stage, product and technology development tasks. PMIS is a platform-type through a set of global quality indicators and the standardization of Doosan Infracore is continuing to improve parts quality in partnership integrated task management system that targets entire NPD and NTD Standardization quality management practices at its overseas production subsidiaries. with its suppliers. As a result, the company’s warranty quality, which (New Technology Development) processes of the company. The system In addition, the company will upgrade its quality management system serves as a quality index of construction equipment parts, has digitalizes the information accumulated during the development based on digital data and cultivate internal quality experts in a bid to improved by 20% and 21% in Korea and China, respectively, over the process, which enables the company to manage its NPD and NTD gate continuously improve its quality capabilities. It will secure fundamental past three years. To prevent fluctuations in quality due to personnel as well as project schedules and issues. PMIS also supports efficient Foundation of Quality Management competitiveness and achieve zero-defect quality management to change and process improvement, the company assigns different resource allocation of the company and quick decision making of Quality Management System Doosan Infracore has established and global standards by establishing a real-time statistical process reporting obligations according to the business type of each supplier, its leaders. Doosan Infracore aims to complete the establishment been operating a customer-oriented quality management system control (SPC) system, improving its preemptive quality management while enhancing quality management through pre-inspections. It also of PMIS through two stages over the next two years. During the first in order to achieve its vision of developing into a “Global Leader in capabilities through mechanical failure predictions based on digital holds the worst quality supplier meetings to raise suppliers’ awareness stage, the company will carry out stage gate management, resource Infrastructure Solutions.” In 2019, in its efforts to continue to place top data analysis, and fostering internal quality experts in connection with on the importance of quality and urge them to implement quality-first management, and project management, while the functions for priority on quality, the company strived to secure a quality competithe functional competency (FC) diagnosis. policies. strategic planning and portfolio management will be developed in the tiveness of new products; enhance its global quality management second stage. by establishing differentiated quality strategies for different regions; Company-wide Integrated Quality Conference Doosan Infracore Doosan Infracore conducts quality audits customized to each supplier’s enhance mass production quality and strengthen proactive quality has been holding the Company-wide Integrated Quality Conference, level of quality and business type to help them improve quality, and Building Customer Trust in Marketing and Sales Stages management by reinforcing suppliers’ quality competitiveness and participated by the CEO, every month since 2010 with the goal of inspects their quality systems, processes, and products on a regular Responsible Marketing Policies Doosan Infracore sets and complies expanding the scope of their quality management; establish an attaining the highest quality from a customer’s perspective. The basis to prevent quality defects and ensure the consistency in quality with proactive and responsible customer service policies to build infrastructure system by laying foundations for a quality management conference agenda reflects the result of the product quality analysis management. In 2019, it conducted on-site assessment (OSA) and customer trust and enhance our product values. For responsible system and improving its quality system; and make continuous efforts and shares improvement points and responses. quality inspection audit for 74 suppliers, and in 2020 it will select 53 marketing, it provides the latest product information via its website to improve fundamental quality. suppliers that need quality improvements and make concentrated and social media channels, along with unique brand guidelines to Quality Improvement Index Management Doosan Infracore focuses efforts to help them improve their quality level. Going forward, Doosan serve as the yardstick for marketing and communication activities, To strengthen its quality management throughout the entire value on making innovations in parts quality and improving product Infracore will continuously prevent quality issues by diagnosing including advertising and sales promotions. The company complies chain, the company has established and been operating a diagnosis perfection to produce products that meet customer needs. The and checking quality risks in advance, including cases of transfer of with legislation related to sales, marketing, and information security, and management system for its quality management system company has selected initial quality and warranty quality as indicators suppliers’ contractual status, and modifications in design or processes. and was not subject to any sanctions for falsehood including (QMS) that enables the company to assess the level of its quality for customer recognition, and set an ambitious goal to increase exaggerated advertising practices in 2019. management in the production, purchasing/quality, R&D, sales, and customer satisfaction through quality management. Enhancing Supplier’s Quality Management service sectors and to derive improvement measures. The company Doosan Infracore has put the statistical process control (SPC) system has also built a risk management system and set up strategies to Project Tracking System The Project Tracking System (PTS) is Doosan in place and analyze data to prevent quality defects and ensure stable better respond to key risks that are managed at the company level. Infracore’s system for managing quality projects. Using PTS, the manufacturing processes. In 2019, as part of its digital transformation company checks the progress status of the projects related to market tasks, the company began to develop a real-time SPC management quality, process quality, and advance quality; responses to VOCs; and system that automatically receives SPC data from its suppliers Quality Management System improvement effects to help the company make improvements to and monitors their process management capability. As of 2019, it quality and accelerate the pace of improvement. In 2019, the company completed its goal for the first stage by establishing the system for Global Leader in focused on upgrading PTS by improving the quality conference screen, 10 suppliers. In 2020, it will proceed to the second stage and expand developing a dashboard for its process audit, improving batch mails, its scope to a total of 30 suppliers. Through the operation of the SPC Infrastructure Solutions and building a database for claims, and thus increased work efficiency and established a real-time monitoring system. In 2020, it will continue system, the company expects to make continuous improvements in fundamental quality and reduce warranty costs; build a foundation to manage quality issues. for quality data analysis based on big data; secure data reliability by automating data input; and improve work efficiency through the Customer-centric quality management system Strengthening Preventive Quality automated transfer of suppliers’ quality information. Development quality Parts quality Manufacturing quality Market quality In 2019, Doosan Infracore concentrated its efforts on making rapid and considerable quality improvements in a drive to secure fundamental In addition, Doosan Infracore has been making continuous efforts to • Upgrade the New Product • Develop parts in connection • Establish global standards to • Lifetime management regarding competitiveness and increase customer value. To raise the level of the manage SPC data of its suppliers. In 2019, the company registered Development (NPD) Process with NPD comply with global quality quality issues (occurrenceimprovement-completion) product quality by 3% compared to the current level, the company is and managed data on 332 inspection items of 86 suppliers, resulting • Strengthen quality • Run programs to nurture • Continue to improve manufacturing pre-verification through suppliers with world-leading quality through Doosan Production • Improve quality and service quality implementing tasks aimed at quality improvement, and encouraging in continuous improvements. In 2020, it plans to expand the scope to front loading competitiveness System (DPS) recognized by customers its manufacturing plants and suppliers to abide by the basics of 349 items of 100 suppliers. • Solve fundamental problems • Curtail warranty costs product quality. In 2020, Doosan Infracore will analyze quality through the Design For Six Sigma problems that have occurred previously by using big data in line with (DFSS) the Fourth Industrial Revolution to predict quality problems associated with customers’ working environments and/or equipment operation Leadership / Resource management time. In addition, it will focus more on strengthening preventive quality through the preventive inspections and TMS-based remote diagnosis service so as to prevent quality issues. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 94 95 Our Responsibility Employees Employees Human Rights and curriculum for human rights education for all its employees. The company also launched an in-depth course called “Building Healthy Diversity Partnerships Together,” customized for employees in direct contact with our suppliers, including those in the purchasing, production management, parts quality, and R&D departments. Respect for Human Rights In 2018, Doosan Infracore surveyed on its leaders and office workers As a participant of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), Doosan Infracore to identify potential human rights risks, and to preempt such risks by supports the UNGC’s 10 Principles on Human Rights, Labor Standards, analyzing awareness of the importance of human rights among its Environment, and Anti-Corruption, and complies with the International employees. Based on the results of this survey, in 2019 the company OUR APPROACH launched an organizational development program, called Winning Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Moreover, Team Dynamic (WTD), for new leaders and for members of specific Doosan Infracore continually fosters Based on a corporate culture where employees are considerate we respect the human rights of comprehensive stakeholders, including departments. The program is structured to increase cooperation and of others and diversity is respected, Doosan Infracore helps talented people who support fundamental its employees achieve personal growth at their own pace our employees and suppliers. We do not tolerate any type of verbal build a positive organizational culture through mutual understanding and respect between employees, as well as to encourage better values of the company, are committed to according to the Functional Competency (FC) system while abuse, violence, sexual harassment, or other improper acts that violate the spirit of “Inhwa,” meaning harmony between people, in communications. The program earned highly positive responses from enhancing their competitiveness, and act applying reasonable standards and principles and providing interactions within the company and with suppliers. Doosan Infracore participating employees, so that the company will expand the WTD fair opportunities. Through this, the company has been in the right way. runs reporting channels, such as the Human Rights Protection Center program to be run company-wide and solve related issues. building a mutually beneficial cycle in which people grow, (Help Line) and the Internal Reporting Center to report verbal and and the growth of people in turn leads to the growth of the In 2020, Doosan Infracore will reduce human rights risks by running physical abuse. In the event of a violation, the Personnel Committee business. In addition, the company has been enhancing its educational courses and undertaking due diligence on human rights will take immediate action according to the relevant regulations and organizational culture and win-win labor-management relations throughout the company, while also strengthening its human rights provide education to ensure that the same violation is never repeated with the aim of standing proud based on the Doosan Credo. management system. CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2019 and to build up human rights awareness. Establish management system and strengthen monitoring to Provided human rights education to all employees (gender Grievance Reporting Channels and Handling Processes Doosan Infracore A  ctivities and Enhancing the Management of Human Rights Risks As a global enhance the human rights mindset Achievements equality, improving disability awareness, anti-bullying legislation); company, Doosan Infracore is committed to fulfilling its responsibilities strives to prevent and properly handle sexual harassment and any other ran the “Building Healthy Partnership Together” program for Doosan Infracore has been building a human rights employees in contact with suppliers; and implemented the WTD regarding human rights. The establishment and implementation of verbal and physical abuse. To this end, the company is operating the management system focused on the prevention aspect through (Winning Team Dynamics) course to promote mutual respect a human rights risk management system is, therefore, one of the Help Line at the Human Rights Protection Center (previously called its CSR strategic task of “establishing management system within the organization and team building company’s strategic CSR tasks, supported by the concerted efforts of the Gender Equality Center), while also providing all employees and strengthening monitoring to enhance human rights mindset”. It also takes a step forward from the existing postStrengthen human rights management system; protect Plans the CSR Committee. To identify the status of human rights within the with education on gender equality, including prevention of sexual employees’ human rights through the due diligence tool; run management enhancement efforts and education on human organization, Doosan Infracore reviewed the reports received through harassment. It identifies employees’ grievance through diverse organizational development programs using the WTD course; rights, and diagnoses the organization’s awareness level on and continue to provide human rights education its reporting channels and the outcomes of its focus group interviews, channels, such as the Human Rights Protection Center, the Internal human rights, develops its due diligence tool to prevent human Reporting Center, and the Cyber Reporting Center on the company and established a process for responding to violations of human rights rights violations from occurring, and takes necessary preventive website, and promptly responds to them. The company protects the based on the results of its studies. It also distributed human rights activities in advance. privacy of the informant by maintaining anonymity, and handles the risk prevention manual throughout the company. To raise awareness concerning the importance of the human rights of its employees, it grievances under the relevant company regulations and procedures. SUSTAINABLE VALUE FRAMEWORK expanded the existing Gender Equality Center into the Human Rights As a result, Doosan Infracore has handled all major grievance reports People | Talent retention People | Employee development Protection Center. In addition, the company has continued to run the filed in Korea in 2019. Doosan Infracore manages its employee turnover rate as part of Doosan Infracore helps its employees develop their capabilities to offline and online human rights campaigns and education programs Respect for Diversity its efforts to attract and retain outstanding talent, create socially achieve both corporate and personal growth, To this end, it conducts which were begun in 2017, and is now customized to the different decent jobs, and create a great workplace for its employees. efficient training activities for employee competency development while requirements of its office and technical staff. In 2019, Doosan Infracore Protection of Employee Diversity As of December 31, 2019, there were managing training hours and expenses per employee. added a course on the prevention of workplace harassment to its 4,603 employees across the globe at Doosan Infracore, including 2,860 in Korea. Given the characteristics of the machine manufacturing Turnover rate (Unit: %) Training hours per employee (Unit: Hour) industry, it is not easy to recruit female employees. The company Types and Details of Human Rights Violations however strives to eliminate bias by having its female engineers take 1.29 1.05 N/A 31.7 40.6 N/A Type1) Details Type1) Details part in the interviews for recruiting. To foster the personal growth of female staff, the company does not discriminate against its female 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 Verbal abuse and staff in their job assignments, nor does it place any restrictions on Gender violence Age, position, and their assignments. The number of female employees is on the rise, Sexual harassment Training expenses per employee (Unit: KRW 1,000) employment type Verbal and and it is expected that the percentage of female managers will also Discrimination Country of origin and physical abuse Alienation and steadily increase. 663 750 N/A race Marriage and bullying Invasion of privacy childbearing 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 1) The types of human rights violations are based on the company’s code of conduct and guidelines on the creation of a sound organizational culture. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 96 97 Our Responsibility Employees Providing Fair Opportunities As specified in the Doosan Credo and to all Doosan Infracore business sites in Korea, China, the U.S., reflects the results of its FC diagnostics. It will also share the results To improve the expertise of its technical staff and foster in-house the company’s Ethics Charter, people at Doosan are respected for and Europe. All employees have the right to create or view personal more widely as part of its efforts not only to increase the understanding professionals, Doosan Infracore runs technical job training based their individual characteristics. Their employment, evaluation, and information about themselves and their team members (if they are of its own employees, but also to help the entire Korean manufacturing on the FC system, and also supports technical study clubs and the compensation are not discriminated against the grounds of gender, managers) through MY HR. They are thus required to sign the Pledge industry to improve. acquiring of certification by individual employees. The technical religion, disability, age, social status, country of origin, nationality, of Personnel Information Protection to promise to handle and process job training system was established through cooperation between ethnic backgrounds, race, skin color, physical conditions, marital the personnel information of themselves and their team members Competency Development Trainings Doosan Infracore has set up a its production executives and on-site VOCs. 271 courses in total status, pregnancy, childbearing, family type or status, ideology, according to certain principles. self-directed learning system so that employees may study voluntarily are now being developed, in stages according to priority. In 2019, political opinions, sexual orientation, educational backgrounds, or under their own volition. Employees can search, apply for, or access there were 36 programs for the employees’ study clubs, aimed at military service. Doosan people are also not treated unfairly depending Enhancing Functional Competency various courses offered by the company’s self-directed learning sharing technologies or passing technical license exams, and 236 on their personal relationships with the company’s officials based on Doosan Infracore has put a sophisticated Functional Competency (FC) system on their computers or mobile devices anytime, anywhere individuals (including double counting) completed the courses. In their academic or geographical backgrounds. development system in place, with the head office taking a central through MY HR, an integrated HR system. In December 2017, the 2020, the company will continue to support the employees’ study role, in consideration of individual employee’s unique skill sets and company launched CELL (Community of Employee-Led Learning), clubs, establish a management system for the outcomes of the study Women’s Council Doosan Infracore expanded the scope of its capabilities. The company also encourages its employees to devise a new employee learning support system, to promote and support clubs using TEAMS, and develop them into knowledge assets of the Women’s Council, launched for the Technology Division in 2014, their education plans according to the result of their FC assessment. employees’ self-directed, small-group, job-related learning activities. company, to promote a voluntary, field-oriented learning culture. As a to company-wide in 2017, thereby listening to the voice of female A CELL consists of 3-10 employees who choose their education result of these efforts to foster technical experts, 146 Doosan Infracore employees and sharing information on gender equality from an Building the FC Development System FC enables employees to define contents and methods, and undertake autonomous learning on this employees had been nationally certified as master technicians unbiased perspective. In 2018, to enhance internal communication the competencies they need to perform their duties successfully basis for 5 months. Launched in 2018, the CELL had run 4 classes (12% of all its regular technical workers) as of December 2019, and channels, each member of the Women’s Council was assigned to a and to set their roadmap for personal growth in line with their by the end of 2019, participated by 1,188 employees in 173 CELLs. 15 of them have obtained their master technician title in more than particular department to identify any violations of human rights and level of competencies. Doosan Infracore operates an FC-based HR Outstanding CELLs were selected following performance evaluations, two areas, meaning that the company has obtained 165 master collected ideas on improving gender equality in the organization. The education and development system to help its employees become and were rewarded with cash prizes and gift certificates. In 2020, the technician licenses. Those employees who acquire expertise through Council also held a meeting with HR executives twice every half-year experts in their respective fields. In 2015, the company published company will continue to support self-directed CELL-based learning by the company’s support system in turn disseminate it throughout the to share the collected feedbacks and took necessary improvement a development directory which contains a list of training courses its employees. company, creating a virtuous cycle within the organization. measures. In 2020, we launch programs designed to realize gender and details required for each job competency level. In 2016, it equality and collect opinions of a wide range of minority groups, completed the establishment of the FC development system for As set out in the company’s digital transformation direction, Doosan including millennials, thereby establishing a horizontal organizational R&D, production, and sales, and restructured functional courses. In Infracore offers courses to help foster experts with business acumen Outcomes of Development of Technical Staff culture where diversity is respected. 2017, it launched an FC level-up program that enables its employees and theoretical skills in data analysis, management, and utilization. (As of December 2019; Accumulated figure) to establish and implement their development plans on their own The “DRAW (Digital Edge Reinforcement at Work)” course was based on the result of the FC assessment. Starting from 2019, launched in 2018, followed by the “FIDAS (Field Data Scientist)” Doosan Infracore is diagnosing its employees’ job competency level based on the latest FC system, while also implementing an FC course in 2019 to nurture in-house data experts. In 2020, Doosan Infracore will accelerate the training of data experts by setting up 146 3 Human Resources level-up program for all employees every two years. the “AI Community,” a self-directed AI learning group, in addition to running its regular training courses. Master Technicians Master Craftsmen Development To nurture its technical staff to a high level of expertise and competitiveness in their respective fields, in 2014 Doosan Infracore set up a draft In 2019, Doosan Infracore launched its “MEX (Marketing Excellence)” 1 Master Craftsman of Korea1), 2 Incheon Metropolitan City Michuhall Master Craftsmen2) FC system for technical staff based on National Competency Standards course to improve the marketing skills and strategic thinking of its (NCS)1). This was followed in 2017 by competency assessments across sales and marketing leaders. The MEX course consists of lectures on 1) Master Craftsman of Korea: This refers to those who are designated by Article 11 of the Act on Doosan Infracore has established a human resources development 11 technical categories, and the implementation of an FC-based HR market sensing, marketing strategy (STP/4P), pricing & channel, and Encouragement of Skilled Crafts among those who have the highest level of skilled crafts, and system, with a particular focus on the right balance between leadership development plan, including the building of an FC diagnostic system brand power. There are also workshops on the hot topic of digital greatly contributed to the development of skilled crafts and the improvement of the status of skilled craftsmen by having worked in industrial fields for a long period of time. and expertise, aimed at fostering “global leaders who can lead the and the launch of job training linked to the FC system in 2018. In 2019, marketing, and an action learning module during which participants 2) Incheon Metropolitan City Michuhall Master Craftsmen: This refers to those who are way in organizational changes and innovation.” Individual employees the FC diagnostic system was completed for all 11 job categories, and can apply the theories and practices they learn during the course to designated by Paragraph 1 of Articles 3 of the Ordinance on the Selection and Support of Incheon Metropolitan City Michuhall Master Craftsmen among those who are equipped with develop their training plans according to their strength and competency new job training courses were launched based on the results of the the company’s actual sales strategies. Eight MEX courses were run an outstanding spirit of master craftsmen and the highest level of skilled crafts, and greatly contributed to the development of technologies by having worked in industrial fields for a levels, and participate in various education programs suited to their diagnostics. NCS-based training programs and self-diagnostic tools in 2019, enabling the company to enhance the sales and marketing long period of time growth path. have enabled the company to more systematically manage technical strategies needed to increase the value of its brand and generate job competencies, and to set up more targeted training. Doosan long-term sustainable growth. Global HR Information System Infracore became the first major Korean company to apply the NCS to its Doosan Infracore has been standardizing and streamlining its HR employee skill diagnostics system, and its NCS-based FC development systems, processes, standards, and data from the Doosan Credo system for technical staff was recognized as a pioneering case by the perspective. Accordingly, the company launched a new HR system Human Resources Development Service of Korea in January 2020 and called “MY HR” in March 2017 to integrate some 50 HR systems will be shared throughout the industry. In 2020, Doosan Infracore will that had been previously used by different subsidiaries in various improve its production and quality by running a new curriculum which countries around the world. MY HR is a globally integrated one-stop HR system designed to handle various HR tasks, such as Doosan Competency Model (DCM), management by objectives (MBO), and 1) NCS: The systemization of the knowledge, skills and processes required to perform various development plan (DP), as well as training applications. It is available jobs at industrial sites in Korea 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 98 99 Our Responsibility Employees Developing Global Talent Leadership Training The future of a business depends to a great to boost organizational vitality to nurture YBs1) in the technical field, and has been running the “Vision Camp” to enhance their leadership Doosan Infracore established its Career Development Paths of Technical Staff by creating a technical managing director system Invigorating extent on its leaders. Doosan Infracore, therefore, offers a wide range of advanced leadership education programs, including the Leader since 2016. In 2019, the company improved its existing leadership courses for employees moving to new positions and for those who and strengthening the existing technical expert system, thereby offering its technical staff a choice of becoming a “field leader” or a Organizational Culture Coaching Program, the Partnership Coaching Program, and the have recently been promoted as well as the Vision Camp. It also “technical specialist.” A technical managing director is a person with Competency Improvement Course for Part Leaders. These courses launched six new leadership courses, including “Happy Retirement leadership and practical skills and plays his/her role as a team leader enable leaders to understand their duties and acquire the leadership Preparation Course” for employees soon to be retired and “New in the company’s production units, presenting technical staff with a skills required for different leadership positions. The Leader Coaching Technology Managers Course” that reflects the new personnel system vision to be a top leader. A technical specialist is a field expert with Internalization of the Doosan Credo Program was run between June 2019 and January 2020, to offer team for technical staff. professional skills and strong competitiveness, presenting technical All members of Doosan internalize the Doosan Credo, a set of principles leaders and part leaders the opportunity to demonstrate effective staff with a vision to be a top technician. Through this system, that represents Doosan’s philosophy and unique way of doing leadership. They were taught various coaching skills, and learned how Education on the Global Work Environment To help its employees technical staff can choose from the two development paths – the business, thereby contributing to the development of the company to apply them to their working environments. The Partnership Coaching work efficiently in a global business environment without any “technical specialist track” which enables them to grow into Meisters as a sustainable organization. To create sustained positive outcomes Program was offered two times to deputy managers and managers communication difficulties, the company runs “Let’s Do Biz English,” and the “field leader track” in which they develop into executives in through a virtuous cycle structure, all employees of Doosan Infracore from June to September 2019, enabling them to tap into their personal an 80-hour practical English course, in addition to short-term intensive charge of production sites. strive to internalize the Doosan Credo with its leaders undertaking an strengths and contribute to the development of their department Chinese courses. In 2015, Doosan Infracore launched a collaboration exemplary role and CAs playing a central role in bringing change. The within the organization as a whole. In 2020, the company will continue website called Global Mobility Support (GMS) to provide employees Following the first appointment of a technical managing director on company promotes and shares the Doosan Credo on a continuous to offer customized coaching courses which enable employees to assigned to overseas posts with information about various regulations, the company’s 80th anniversary in January 2017, four Meisters were basis by annually discovering and honoring exemplary cases of improve their leadership skills, prepare leaders to step forward, and, welfare benefits, and tips intended to help them enjoy a pleasant chosen in April 2019. The title of Meister is the highest honor granted employees who have made an exceptional contribution to promoting through the Winning Team Dynamics course, bring positive changes at life overseas. The company also runs online and offline programs to professional technicians who have long been engaged in particular core values of Doosan and improving office work productivity. the team level. including language courses tailored to its employees and their family job categories for the purpose of cultivating technical staff and members. From 2020, it will launch an in-house language course for inspiring pride in them. Doosan Infracore selects a Meister through Improving the Way of Working Doosan Infracore runs group coaching programs tailored for field technical personnel at customer contact points such as CS and PS. a strict comprehensive evaluation conducted by the Professional Changes Starting from Leaders Doosan Infracore emphasizes the leaders in technical positions. This helps to resolve any on-site issues Technical Committee that includes evaluation and verification of need for its leaders to initiate changes and set a strong example with the support of professional coaches, and is bringing about Reorganizing Personnel Management System their personal competencies, fact-checking through 360-degree for others to follow. The company holds leadership sessions on an practical changes and more advanced leadership through daily for Technical Staff interviews with their colleagues, and in-depth interviews, during annual basis to bring together the CEO and senior executives to share learning and coaching. In 2018, based on the role model for technical Doosan Infracore has been building human resources development a span of six months. The four Meisters have worked for over 30 the latest changes in business management environments, figure field leaders established in 2017, the company made improvements in (HRD) systems for its technical staff in line with the Doosan Credo to years in calibration/testing, welding, engine assembly, and facility out the implications of such changes, discuss the directions that the the technical leadership education system, and operated a leadership encourage them to pursue personal development and have a clear maintenance using their top-of-the-line technical competencies, with company’s organizational culture must pursue, and find ways to make course while expanding the technical field leader coaching program to vision. To this end, the company has been making continued efforts their colleagues taking them as their role models. Doosan Infracore improvements. the Incheon Plant. In addition, the company has set an education plan including by reforming the systems for the job assignment, promotion, will continue to foster its technical staff in a systematic way so that and competency evaluation; launching courses to develop technical they can improve their work engagement with pride, thereby building Operating the CA Channel Doosan Infracore makes constant HRD System experts; establishing an FC system; operating the change agent (CA) a virtuous cycle of growth at the corporate level. improvements in its way of working through the Change Agent (CA) system for technical staff; and conducting global benchmarking. channel run by each executive organization. Serving as a bridge Leadership College Professional College In 2012, it introduced the position and promotion system so as to Career Development Paths of Technical Staff between executives and staff, a CA has a CORE Time on a monthly present its technical staff with a vision for personal growth and pride in basis to identify inefficiencies at work, discuss improvement their individual ability and status. With the introduction of the Doosan Field Leaders Technical Specialists measurements with leaders, and implement necessary tasks. Develop global leaders who have Develop experts who will Competency Model (DCM), an assessment system for technical staff, internalized the Doosan Credo enhance the company’s leaders became aware of the importance of nurturing their team Technical Managing Directors fundamental competitiveness members’ competency, while team members were encouraged to Meister and take the lead in innovations Technical General Manager Supervising develop their own strengths. The company also has established Foreman Orientation Program Functional Competencies technical specialist courses designed to help its technical staff further Technical Senior Manager Expert Understand Doosan and Diagnose the level of functional develop their job competencies and provide them with opportunities Technical Manager Foreman its philosophy competency and nurture for personal growth while working as an Expert or Meister. In addition, CA activities of technical staff contributed to solving issues within the Technical Assistant Manager Introduction to New Roles Expert Program Junior organization, while education programs and growth opportunities Senior Technical Staff Foreman Understand new roles and Strengthen expertise of core competencies each function in phases based on global benchmarking helped the company to further Technical Staff enhance its organizational competitiveness. In 2016, Doosan Infracore Build-up Program Faculty Program overhauled its FC-based HRD system in cooperation with field leaders Develop common leadership Develop in-house instructors and changed the titles of its technical staff from entry-level employees capabilities and facilitators to managers, thereby bringing about positive effects of raising their Enhance the technical Business Fundamentals Compliance & Regulatory social status. specialist path and prepare Set the ultimate goal for field leaders a personnel management Enhance capabilities of Understand statutory and as technical managing directors system conducive to growth global communication and corporate regulations into technical specialists basic business management 1) Young Boy (YB): Technical staff hired in 2004 or after 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 100 101 Our Responsibility Employees Improving Office Work Productivity Since 2018, Doosan Infracore has Support for Building a Stable Life In Korea, Doosan Infracore offers Family-friendly Management Doosan Infracore allows its employees For pregnant employees, the company grants reduced working hours implemented the company-wide campaign and action plans to boost industrial accident insurance, supports medical costs, and carries to choose childcare leave and family care leave or reduced working and prenatal checkup leave, while also offering parental leave. office work productivity. In 2019, the company made a positive impact out regular medical checkups to protect its employees in the events hours depending on their situations. The company also runs flextime It guarantees a recovery period for female employees who have on productivity by adopting more efficient ways of working, helping of health emergencies or accidents. It also helps its employees and leave of absence systems according to the circumstances of the suffered from miscarriage or abortion comparable to that granted its employees create the right work-life balance, and strengthening financially through loans for their children’s tuition fees and housing relevant countries. In Korea, Doosan Infracore runs the Mom’s Caring for childbearing. In addition, the company allows its employees, its execution capabilities. Meetings and reports have been made support measures. Program, a company-wide policy to support pregnant employees. regardless of their gender, to choose either childcare leave or reduced more efficient and smarter, with a particular emphasis on eliminating To this end, the company publishes a “Guidebook on Pregnancy, working hours, and operates in-house childcare centers in three gray zones which can arise from job assignments falling into gaps Employee Assistance Program Doosan Infracore runs the Employee Childbearing, and Childcare” to offer information about support locations – Incheon, Gunsan, and Seoul. The company also allows its between departments, new types of work emerging, and ambiguities Assistance Program (EAP) which offers counseling and education programs available in and outside the company regarding pregnancy, employees to use their leave to take care of family members in need, in roles and responsibilities (R&R) occurring. If issues and problems on health, finance, and other matters. In Korea, the company has childbearing, and childcare. Also, it creates a “Mom and Pop promote personal development, or focus on infertility treatment. In related to gray zones are solved, the office work productivity can be been operating DOOHUG, an in-house psychological counseling Guidebook” based on the opinions collected through the Women’s China, the company offers a leave of absence or a shorter workday to significantly improved. Doosan Infracore, therefore, strives to identify center, since 2014. (Please refer to page 83 of this report for further Council, shares it with all employees, and makes constant updates. female employees who have just given birth to a child. gray zones and solve any related problem at the company level, details about DOOHUG.) In China, the company offers sand-therapy thereby further enhancing its office work productivity. The company as a special program for employees and their family members, and Support Systems for Family-friendly Business Management (Korea) has also made progress in improving work-life balance, including operates psychological counseling programs for expatriate employees through more flexible working hours and automatic PC shutdown after and their family members. System Details Eligibility and period business hours. In addition, it strengthened its execution capabilities Parking permit for pregnant employees by continuing to discuss the improvement measures regarding office Moreover, the company runs a life-cycle design program in cooperaGuidebook on pregnancy, childbearing, productivity in its leadership sessions. tion with an external professional organization to help retiring and childcare employees with any career shift they may be considering. The Pregnant employee Pregnant employee badges, stickers, and Pregnant female employees caring program Communication and Consideration life-cycle design program offers one-on-one consulting and open parking permit Use of affiliated hospitals, in-house lounges, Doosan Infracore operates diverse communication channels, lectures in such areas as career exploration, support for starting a internal and external psychological counseling including online and offline grievance mechanisms, the Human Rights business, life counseling, finance, and liberal arts licenses for up to centers, if needed Protection Center, the company website, and the in-house portal ten days for around six months depending on the individual lifetime Pregnancy Compliance with 8-hour workday Pregnant female employees (the entire pregnancy period) with the goal of boosting employees’ satisfaction at work through design goals. Basic support during and prohibition of holiday work pregnancy Support for medical bills during pregnancy genuine communication between the company and its employees. Pregnant female employees (from pregnancy to childbearing) and childbearing In addition, the company has been sharing media coverage about Recharging Opportunities In Korea, Doosan Infracore encourages its Shortened working the company and public notices that it has made externally through employees to take a two-week vacation before or after the first week hours during Shortened working hours for the health of Pregnant female employees (reduce working time up to 2 hours per day pregnant employees and their babies until the 12th week and after the 36th week of pregnancy) “D-Briefing” since 2016. Moreover, it shares with its employees the of August when domestic plants halt their operations. The company pregnancy corporate vision, including key business strategies, new businesses, has also implemented the Overseas Advanced Culture Exploration Leave for prenatal Pregnant female employees (once per month until the 28th week of Parental checkup leaves pregnancy; once every two weeks from the 29th to the 36th week; and and new growth drivers, through “CEO Talks” to ensure transparent Support System for its regular staff – office or technical staff who joins checkup twice per week after the 37th weeks) communication of corporate activities. the company before January 1st of the previous year – to help them Female employees who give birth to a child (90 days / 120 days for twins) experience foreign culture on the occasion of their annual vacation Childbearing leave Work-Life Balance Leave before or after Male employees whose wives give birth (10 days) periods. The company offers them round-trip air tickets and Eurail Childbearing childbearing Female employees who have a miscarriage or abortion (Leave duration Doosan Infracore complies with the labor regulations of the countries passes so that they can take the opportunity to recharge themselves. Miscarriage/abortion leave varies depending on pregnancy period, with a ceiling of 90 days for in which it operates. To further improve its employees’ quality of This is a differentiated benefit program from other companies offered pregnancy of more than 28 weeks) life, the company offers a wide range of welfare benefits that match to Doosan employees, thus boosting their pride in the company. Childbirth cash gift Cash gift in celebration of childbirth Employees who have childbirth each country’s unique situation. In particular, it proactively supports Employees with children aged less than 8 years or second graders in a sound work-life balance through family-friendly management Leave for childcare Childcare leave elementary school (up to 2 years for a total of childcare leave (1 year) and shortened working hours) practices, including the operation of childcare centers and the Childcare Reduced working Reduction of working hours for child care granting of parental leave, reduced working hours, and family care hours for childcare (15-30 hours per week) leave. It also carries out customized activities to improve corporate In-house daycare Employees with children aged 3-5 years (selected through transparent culture by promoting the use of flextime. Daycare centers in Incheon, Gunsan, and Seoul center procedures at a fixed time) Leave of absence to take care of family members Operation of Flextime In Korea, Doosan Infracore operates a flextime suffering from illness or recovering from Employees (90 days per year) Special leave of accidents system to support its employees’ work-life balance. When working Family absence Leave of absence intended for family members hours need to be altered as a means of improving work productivity in need of special care, personal development, Employees (6 months + additional 6 months) and efficiency, employees can freely adjust their work hours by and treatment of infertility receiving pre-approval from their leaders as long as their regular working time per day is eight hours. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 102 103 Our Responsibility Employees · Communities Win-Win Labor-Management Communities Relations Compliance with Labor Policies Doosan Infracore complies with the labor standards of the Its Chinese subsidiary has established a special council in accordance International Labour Organization (ILO). Each year, the company with the Trade Union Law of the People’s Republic of China which is OUR APPROACH conducts investigations to detect any child labor or forced labor equivalent to the Labor Standard Act in Korea. The special council’s practices within the company through the annual CSR assessment members are elected by vote. The company holds a monthly meeting Doosan Infracore will grow into Based on our purpose of sincere corporate community of all domestic and major overseas business sites. In 2019, none of with the special council to discuss major developments and share involvement (CCI), Doosan Infracore has established a the company’s business sites in Korea and overseas have resorted a reliable and reputable company that global CCI system and guidelines that reflect its corporate opinions on various worksite issues, and discusses wage on an to child labor or forced labor of any kind. It has also signed the annual basis. contributes to the sustainable growth capabilities and social demands while carrying out CCI Guidelines on the Protection of the Working Conditions of In-house of local communities by generating activities worldwide guided by a common set of core values. Subcontractors’ Workers with the Korean Ministry of Employment and Joint Customer Support of Labor-Management The CCI Committee ensures that donations are spent in a Labor. Accordingly, the company ensures compliance with relevant The labor union and management of Doosan Infracore have been not only business opportunities transparent way. Together with its employees around the regulations through a regular monitoring, and it also complies with working in unison to overcome the market downturn since 2016 but also social values based on its globe, Doosan Infracore is implementing CCI programs that the government’s guidelines on fair transactions and thus properly through the joint customer support program by visiting customers, expertise and competencies. are instrumental to the development of local communities. operates in-house subcontracting activities. listening to their voice, and providing customer services. The joint customer support activities enable the company to identify customer SUSTAINABLE VALUE FRAMEWORK Labor-Management Relations requirements and forwarded them directly to the company’s Since the launch of the Win-Win Labor Union in 2011, Doosan production sites, thereby further improving product quality and also People | Corporate citizenship and donations Infracore has maintained and developed labor-management enhancing the brand value of Doosan Infracore. Doosan Infracore, as a responsible corporate citizen, aims to relations based on mutual trust and respect, including the strike-free contribute to the creation of a sustainable community through conclusion of collective bargaining agreement for nine consecutive constant CCI activities based on partnerships. years. Labor and management continue to communicate through diverse channels, including the Labor-Management Council and the CCI investment (Korea) (Unit: KRW billion) CCI investment per sales (Korea) (Unit: %) Welfare Subcommittee, and share major issues through the quarterly Business Information Session. 7.73 8.64 N/A 0.25 0.28 N/A 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 2018 2019 Goal for 2025 In 2019, the company held diverse labor-management events, including “Family Day” for its technical staff, participation in the Incheon International Half Mara hon, and support for local welfare facilities. In addition, each of its business sites in Incheon, Gunsan, and Ansan holds a “Building a Great Workplace Committee” meeting every two months, and thus improves the work environment based on employees’ opinions. CCI Strategies and CCI Strategies Directions Goal Top 100 Global CSR Leading Company1) by 2025 CCI System Mission To boost local communities’ future CCI Strategies Doosan Infracore generates not only business competitiveness and the company’s corporate opportunities but also social values by leveraging its expertise values through strategic CCI activities and competencies to grow into a trusted and reputable company Value that contributes to the sustainable growth of its own and local To promote the shared growth of the company and communities as well. To this end, the company plans and executes society through CCI activities corporate community involvement (CCI) activities that take into account the characteristics of local communities based on its CCI 3 Strategies Support for Support for Support based on the guidelines and continuous communication with local communities. the next local company’s core generation communities The CSR Part at the head office is taking a central role and works in competencies partnership with staff in charge of its overseas business sites. 1) Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 104 105 Our Responsibility Communities In 2019, the company aligned its business directions with strategic The first year of Dream School mainly consists of “Dream Leaders” Support for Local Communities Donation of Equipment and Model Doosan Infracore donates CCI directions, and subsequently expanded its employees’ voluntary activities where a mentor and mentee meet once a month to Doosan Infracore carries out corporate community involvement (CCI) excavators, parts, and engines produced in the course of product CCI activities, stabilized the operations of the reorganized Dream discover the mentee’s area of interest and dream. There are also activities in consideration of the characteristics and needs of local development stage for tests to the relevant departments of School program, strengthened community-centered activities, and other activities that form a sense of closeness between mentors communities with an aim to grow together with them. The company universities and vocational high schools to be used as educational developed new programs. In 2020, it plans to access the Dream and mentees including the “Summer Camp” where mentees meet holds workshops with staff in charge of CCI at its business sites, and materials. In April 2019, Doosan Infracore signed a memorandum of School program performance and develop new community-centered friends from other regions, “Professional Mentoring” where mentees shares the CCI direction and major annual schedule, while collecting understanding (MOU) with the Ajou Motor College in Boryeong, South CCI programs. meet professionals, and “Home Coming Day” where mentees meet their opinions. By doing so, the company promotes various CCI Chungcheongnam Province, regarding a support project to train local Dream School graduates. In the second year, the “Dream Project” activities that address the needs of communities based on cooperation young people about construction equipment. In accordance with Operation of the CCI Committee and the CCI Council Doosan is executed to improve youth’s problem-solving capabilities with with reputable non-profit organizations in local communities. the MOU, the company donated construction equipment, engines, Infracore spends donations after carrying out a comprehensive the advent of the Fourth Industrial Revolution era that is changing hydraulic pumps and cylinders, and also ran training programs. This review of the public interest and appropriateness of programs the world faster than ever. Mentees think about, identify with, Doosan Infracore carries out a variety of CCI activities with the cooperation project between industry, government, and academia is and institutions, and the relevance of programs to the company’s and discover solutions for daily life problems that requirement participation of not only its employees but also their family helping to cultivate outstanding construction equipment technicians CCI direction. For the more transparent and proper collection of improvement, and challenge themselves to find solutions, thereby members in a way that the activities can bring practical assistance in Boryeong, home to the company’s proving ground. In addition, donations and execution thereof, the company has launched the enhancing their independent problem-solving skills. The high school to local communities. In Seoul, the company conducts activities it has donated compact track loaders and the attachments needed CCI Committee, an organization that deliberates on and determines program focuses on emotional support and capacity building through to improve the residential environment of the neighborhoods in to clear snow in winter and control weeds in hazardous conditions all matters related to donation, in 2017 and established relevant coaching programs while also increasing the practical understanding which its business site is located, while in Incheon and Gunsan, the to military units stationed along Korea’s often snowbound northern regulations. Led by the CEO, who also serves as the chairman of of their dreams and aspired careers through opportunities to meet company supports local community welfare facilities as part of its border. the CSR Committee, the CCI Committee is comprised of the CFO professionals. efforts to improve the welfare of local residents. The company also and executives in charge of legal affairs and CSR. The Committee continues to supply kimchi and briquettes to the underprivileged in The Junior Engineering Class Launched in 2008, the Junior deliberates where to spend donations followed by reviews of In 2019, Doosan Infracore selected 42 mentors and mentees for local communities. It undertakes its CCI activities with funds raised Engineering Class is a talent donation circle mainly consisting how much to spend on each proposed program considering each the 6th class of Dream School. The 6th class, in particular, was run through voluntary financial contributions from its employees in the of Doosan Infracore’s R&D executives and employees. Doosan program’s relevance to the company’s business and its public under the new program direction of “career exploration to prepare form of “Collecting Small Change from Employee Salary” and the Infracore offers experience-based classes, including science kits, to nature together with the company’s financial situation. Doosan future generations,” based on which the company has been making “Employee Donation Accounts,” as well as the company’s donation elementary school students nearby its business sites in Korea to help Group’s CCI Committee, which is composed of executives from major continuous efforts to help the mentees to grow into good members in the form of a matching grant. them learn the basic principles of science in an easy and interesting affiliates of the Group including Doosan Infracore, discusses and of society by encouraging them to participate in various community way. It offered classes on topics in science and technology such makes decisions on policies on donations along with the donation activities, such as experiential activities, professional coaching, In recognition of its efforts to understand the needs of local as steel, solar cars, electrostatic power plants, and glasses which beneficiaries and amounts for each affiliate. In addition, donations and peer activities, in addition to mentoring supports offered by its communities and continue with its CCI activities, Doosan Infracore prevent drowsiness. In April 2019, the company held the Junior worth KRW 500 million or those deemed necessary to be reviewed by employees. From 2012 to 2019, 415 youth and 370 employees shared received the Prime Minister’s Commendation in the donation Engineering Class for some 20 local elementary school students the BOD are deliberated and approved by the BOD. the journey to nurture dreams of youth, and those who participated category at the 2019 National Sharing Grand Awards. The company on the topic of self-driving excavators at its Global R&D Center in in the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd classes of Dream School have grown into will continue its CCI activities based on the enduring interest it has Incheon. It also donated school supplies to the two public childcare Support for the Next Generation respectable members of society. Going forward, Doosan Infracore will developed as a member of communities where its business has centers in Incheon where the company held the class. Dream School Doosan Infracore has been running “Dream School” continue to develop new programs in consideration of expectations prospered. since 2012 together with World Vision, an international NGO devoted and standards of the participating students so as to make Dream to humanitarian aid across the world. As one of the company’s School a more practical and sustainable CCI activity. Support Based on the Company’s Core Competencies flagship CCI programs, the Dream School helps youth living nearby Doosan Infracore leverages its business resources to promote its CCI its business sites in Seoul, Incheon, and Gunsan to nurture their Construction Support for Hope Elementary Schools in China Under activities, including expertise in construction mechanical engineering dream for five years from second grade of middle school by offering the slogan of “We will build a beautiful China together,” Doosan and product development. mentoring programs, education for self-discovery, Dream Project Infracore China Corporation (DICC) has been participating in activities, and other experiential programs to help them shape their “Project Hope,” a public service project that involves the provision Support for Natural Disaster Relief In the event of a massive disaster career path. Middle school mentees take part in a mentoring program of educational support for Chinese youth and improvement of the such as an earthquake or a typhoon, Doosan Infracore promptly provided by Doosan Infracore employees for two years – it also educational environment in underprivileged regions of China. DICC has provides construction equipment, such as excavators, wheel includes education for self-discovery, specialist mentoring sessions, been supporting the construction of Hope Elementary Schools, thereby loaders, and compact construction machinery, and funds for relief and career experiences. High school mentees engage in self-directed providing local youths opportunities for education and contributing efforts, thus providing support based on its core competencies – one activities, including meeting with professionals through Dream Club to the development of local education and sustainable development of the company’s core CCI strategies. It has provided construction activities, in an effort to shape their career paths. of the country. In 2019, it expanded the scope of its support from 12 equipment and donations for rapid relief and recovery from in the previous year to 30 schools, sharing hope with children. DICC devastating natural disasters around the world, such as Hurricane also operate an “honorary school principal system” together with Katrina in the U.S. in 2005, the Sichuan earthquake in China in 2008, dealerships in China, and it has been holding the “Doosan Hope Travel the earthquake in Haiti in 2010, the Tohoku earthquake in Japan in Summer Camp” every summer since 2007. Teachers and students 2011, Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines in 2013, the devastating of Doosan Hope Elementary Schools from all around the country are earthquake in Nepal in 2015, and the earthquake that hit Indonesia invited to join the summer camp, which enables students to enjoy in 2018. cultural experiences while having fun. Under the honorary principal system, the CEOs of Doosan Infracore dealerships are appointed as principals with the aim of encouraging participation of dealers and ensuring continued support for the schools. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 106 107 Our Responsibility Appendix Communities Employee Engagement Doosan Day of Community Service Building a System for Employee Engagement The Doosan Day of Community Service refers to the CCI activities Doosan Infracore is operating various systems to establish a corporate undertaken by Doosan Group employees. They assess the needs of culture where employees’ participation in CCI is encouraged. The the local communities in which Doosan Group operates around the company built a CCI Information System on the company Intranet to world, and then lend a helping hand. Doosan Infracore takes part in increase employees’ awareness of the company’s voluntary services making meaningful changes through the Doosan Day of Community while keeping track of their participation and managing the employee Service every year, making the event a festival of sharing. In 2019, donation. In addition to company-led CCI programs, Doosan 352 Doosan Infracore employees participated in the Doosan Day of Infracore operates a support system for voluntary service clubs run Community Service and conducted volunteer activities, including by employees. In addition, the company operates diverse support putting up wallpaper and providing quarantine products in a programs, such as the CCI diligence and indolence system and reward shantytown of Dongdaemun in Seoul, improving the local community system, to encourage the voluntary participation of employees in CCI welfare facilities in Incheon, and upgrading a community center activities. cafeteria for the elderly in Gunsan. As an active member of its local communities across the globe, Doosan Infracore will continue to participate in the Doosan Day of Community Service as part of its unique culture of voluntary engagement. Employee Donations Approximately 73% of Doosan Infracore’s employees in Korea participates in the company’s employee donation programs as of the end of 2019. These consist of the “Collecting Small Change from Employee Salary” scheme and the “Employee Donation Accounts,” alongside the company’s matching grant. The funds raised are donated to the Community Chest to which the company has been APPENDIX making donations since 2011 as part of its efforts to spread a culture of sharing and donation. As a result, the company was recognized by the charity as one of “2019 The Best Good Company” in January 2020. This honor is given to the most outstanding of all those organizations whose employees donate part of their monthly salaries to the Community Chest, thereby setting a good example. For the 2019 award, 46 organizations were selected, out of more than 1,500 which were qualified nation-wide. Doosan Infracore will become a valued corporate citizen that contributes to local communities by continuing 108 its wide-ranging sharing activities. Consolidated Financial Statements 112 CSR Facts & Figures 118 Independent Assurance Report 120 Global Network 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 108 109 Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries | December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in Korean won) Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries | Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in Korean won) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Assets Revenue ₩ 8,185,839,945,377 ₩ 7,730,107,942,853 Current assets Cost of sales (6,273,218,676,924) (5,936,246,301,169) Cash and cash equivalents ₩ 756,173,371,116 ₩ 1,053,016,029,210 Gross profit 1,912,621,268,453 1,793,861,641,684 Short-term financial instruments 144,970,645,937 261,439,186,727 Selling and administrative expenses (1,072,224,207,963) (945,734,195,514) Short-term investment securities 9,318,795,000 14,288,402,916 Trade and other receivables 1,369,116,857,182 1,353,418,884,045 Operating profit 840,397,060,490 848,127,446,170 Derivative assets 18,988,676,082 8,956,727,423 Finance income 150,590,559,071 104,252,463,898 Inventories 1,786,289,860,152 1,524,363,766,335 Finance costs (330,376,100,312) (303,338,799,287) Other current assets 220,054,157,373 211,338,773,310 Other non-operating income 13,936,345,577 36,084,086,449 4,304,912,362,842 4,426,821,769,966 Non-current assets Other non-operating expenses (63,836,570,629) (63,697,135,116) Long-term financial instruments 880,896,511 848,391,912 Loss on equity method (7,702,168,374) (5,001,734,320) Long-term investment securities 14,272,106,397 99,008,790,522 Profit before income tax 603,009,125,823 616,426,327,794 Long-term trade and other receivables 3,801,609,182 10,891,458,308 Income tax expense (207,310,954,827) (222,256,598,381) Non-current derivative financial assets 7,996,253,597 Investments in associates and joint ventures 102,979,090,904 67,912,129,252 Profit for the year ₩ 395,698,170,996 ₩ 394,169,729,413 Property, plant and equipment 1,871,456,154,884 1,782,632,844,011 Profit is attributable to: Intangible assets 4,562,367,986,165 4,328,656,381,720 Owners of the Parent Company ₩ 239,913,446,929 ₩ 246,409,919,128 Investment properties 138,829,679,310 26,308,106,687 Non-controlling interests 155,784,724,067 147,759,810,285 Deferred tax assets 174,235,049,341 205,848,185,403 Right-of-use assets 95,677,455,743 Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company Other non-current assets 69,180,589,842 72,242,380,666 Basic earnings per share ₩ 1,153 ₩ 1,184 7,033,680,618,279 6,602,344,922,078 Diluted earnings per share 1,139 1,115 Total assets ₩ 11,338,592,981,121 ₩ 11,029,166,692,044 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables ₩ 1,599,449,470,221 ₩ 1,613,823,764,093 Short-term borrowings 591,083,320,796 937,599,855,700 Current portion of bonds 1,037,594,646,618 505,338,874,285 Current portion of long-term borrowings 621,375,844,987 173,048,137,404 Current tax liabilities 30,414,605,601 25,849,607,446 Derivative liabilities 492,095,603 12,301,480,333 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Provisions 236,982,347,908 179,066,431,365 Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries | Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in Korean won) Current lease liabilities 28,225,777,667 2019 2018 Other current liabilities 338,801,722,238 331,546,013,747 4,484,419,831,639 3,778,574,164,373 Profit for the year ₩ 395,698,170,996 ₩ 394,169,729,413 Non-current liabilities Other comprehensive income Non-current other payables 1,370,355,771 1,156,747,007 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Bonds 902,476,286,676 944,061,136,540 Remeasurements of net defined benefit liability (41,849,401,252) 37,545,492,014 Long-term borrowings 751,008,61 7,154 1,708,761,427,603 Net defined benefit liabilities 429,338,000,825 406,106,460,314 Revaluation reserves of property, plant and equipment 33,791,953,262 3,000,935,957 Non-current derivative liabilities 1,974,340,123 4,127,632,054 Gain on valuation of equity instruments at fair value (2,369,093,630) 311,745,173 Deferred tax liabilities 260,072,401,549 204,364,376,024 through other comprehensive income Non-current provisions 52,254,778,188 20,377,900,315 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 1,737,603,778 Non-current lease liabilities 51,179,799,272 Share of retained earnings of associates (183,785,886) (109,506,066) Other non-current liabilities 136,946,531,665 140,821,964,241 2,586,621,1 1 1 ,223 3,429,777,644,098 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Total liabilities 7,071,040,942,862 7,208,351,808,471 Exchange differences 112,466,225,181 129,649,536,168 Equity Cash flow hedges 1,406,355,621 2,510,805,778 Share capital 1,040,806,395,000 1,040,790,385,000 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 104,999,857,074 172,909,009,024 Capital surplus 154,356,219,760 213,014,383,085 Total comprehensive income for the year ₩ 500,698,028,070 ₩ 567,078,738,437 Other components of equity (70,649,474,593) (129,310,962,134) Accumulated other comprehensive income (159,818,151,453) (256,805,144,728) Total comprehensive income for the year is attributable to: Retained earnings 1,257,868,188,737 1,049,189,116,801 Owners of the Parent Company 305,666,065,211 342,631,656,647 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 2,222,563,1 7 7,451 1,916,877,778,024 Non-controlling interests 195,031,962,859 224,447,081,790 Non-controlling interest 2,044,988,860,808 1,903,937,105,549 ₩ 500,698,028,070 ₩ 567,078,738,437 Total equity 4,267,552,038,259 3,820,814,883,573 Total liabilities and equity ₩ 11 ,338,592,981,121 ₩ 11,029,166,692,044 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 110 111 Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries | Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in Korean won) Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries | Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in Korean won) 2019 2018 Attributable to Owners of the Parent Company Other Accumulated Cash flows from operating activities Share Capital Retained Non-controlling Components Other Comprehensive Subtotal Total Capital Surplus Earnings Interest Cash generated from operations: of Equity Income Balance at January 1, 2018 ₩ 1,040,000,595,000 ₩ 211,545,565,029 ₩ (108,457,073,777) ₩ (334,050,917,882) ₩ 784,702,285,730 ₩ 1,593,740,454,100 ₩ 1,579,421,175,054 ₩ 3,173,161,629,154 Profit for the year ₩ 395,698,170,996 ₩ 394,169,729,413 Changes in accounting policy (899,052,422) (899,052,422) (372,370,064) (1,271,422,486) Adjustments 699,544,598,699 731,167,416,259 Balance after changes 1,040,000,595,000 211,545,565,029 (108,457,073,777) (334,050,917,882) 783,803,233,308 1,592,841,401,678 1,579,048,804,990 3,171,890,206,668 Changes in operating assets and liabilities (279,345,395,612) (82,048,871,379) Total comprehensive income (loss): Interest received 15,548,783,391 15, 117,484,431 Profit for the year 246,409,919,128 246,409,919,128 147,759,810,285 394,169,729,413 Interest paid (152,315,252,013) (166,701,900,364) Remeasurement of net defined 13,693,307,289 13,693,307,289 23,852,184,725 37,545,492,014 Dividends received 12,982,337,562 4,265,837,456 benefit liabilities Income tax paid (124,694,966,717) (58,191,953,508) Revaluation reserves of (2,371,378,063) 5,372,314,020 3,000,935,957 3,000,935,957 property, plant and equipment Net cash inflow from operating activities 567,418,276,306 837,777,742,308 Gain on valuation of financial Cash flows from investing activities assets at fair value through 296,376,151 15,369,022 311,745,173 311,745,173 other comprehensive income Decrease in short-term financial instruments 116,468,540,790 Share of retained earnings of (105,025,966) (105,025,966) (4,480,100) (109,506,066) Disposal of short-term investment securities 4,229,388,547 22,809,378,447 associates Exchange differences 79,549,916,777 79,549,916,777 50,099,619,391 129,649,536,168 Disposal of long-term investment securities 89,098,064,562 229,129,080 Cash flow hedges (229,141,711) (229,141,711) 2,739,947,489 2,510,805,778 Decrease in loans 214,655,657 525,036,293 Total comprehensive income for Disposal of property, plant and equipment 40,704,138,031 25,288,647,854 77,245,773,154 265,385,883,493 342,631,656,647 224,447,081,790 567,078,738,437 the period Disposal of intangible assets 2,661,894,631 242,643,718 Transactions with owners Disposal of investments in associates 36,424,000,000 Cancellation of share options 1,117,895,000 (1,117,895,000) Increase in short-term financial instruments (101,272,254,333) Exercise of stock warrants 789,790,000 350,923,056 1,140,713,056 1,140,713,056 Acquisition of long-term investment securities (5,373,856,271) (3,393,765,000) Dividend of subsidiary (53,727,499,200) (53,727,499,200) (19,735,993,357) (19,735,993,357) 154,168,717,969 134,432,724,612 Increase in loans (393,666,636) Disposal of subsidiary shares Total transactions with owners 789,790,000 1,468,818,056 (20,853,888,357) (18,595,280,301) 100,441,218,769 81,845,938,468 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (266,697,358,416) (150,822,172,341) Balance at December 31, 2018 ₩ 1,040,790,385,000 ₩ 213,014,383,085 ₩ (129,310,962,134) ₩ (256,805,144,728) ₩ 1,049,189,116,801 ₩ 1,916,877,778,024 ₩ 1,903,937,105,549 ₩ 3,820,814,883,573 Acquisition of intangible assets (182,781,856,741) (109,604,453,424) Balance at January 1, 2019 ₩ 1,040,790,385,000 ₩ 213,014,383,085 ₩ (129,310,962,134) ₩ (256,805,144,728) ₩ 1,049,189,116,801 ₩ 1,916,877,778,024 ₩ 1,903,937,105,549 ₩ 3,820,814,883,573 Acquisition of investment properties (89,941,811,010) Total comprehensive income Acquisition of investment in associates (41,386,826,160) (18,059,850,000) (loss): Others (6,569,781,464) (14,820,807,038) Profit for the year 239,913,446,929 239,913,446,929 155,784,724,067 395,698,170,996 Net cash outflow from investing activities (339,374,807,844) (312,848,133,380) Remeasurement of net defined (31,295,789,705) (31,295,789,705) (10,553,611,547) (41,849,401,252) benefit liabilities Cash flows from financing activities Revaluation reserves of 31,876,521,385 60,968,141 31,937,489,526 1,854,463,736 33,791,953,262 Proceeds from borrowings 11,656,500,000 637,834,889,738 property, plant and equipment Gain on valuation of financial Proceeds from issuance of bonds 954,050,856,272 283,474,563,443 assets at fair value through (2,540,552,371) 171,458,741 (2,369,093,630) (2,369,093,630) other comprehensive income Changes in Subsidiary Equity 140,764,800,002 Share of other comprehensive Repayment of borrowings (941,445,938,332) (909,251,648,286) 1,614,767,527 1,614,767,527 122,836,251 1,737,603,778 income of associates Repayment of bonds (498,648,637,732) (521,653,462,500) Share of retained earnings of (171,012,170) (171,012,170) (12,773,716) (183,785,886) associates Payments for lease liabilities (21,423,052,313) Exchange differences 61,553,072,511 61,553,072,511 50,913,152,670 112,466,225,181 Dividends paid (53,980,207,600) (53,727,499,200) Cash flow hedges 4,483,184,223 4,483,184,223 (3,076,828,602) 1,406,355,621 Net cash outflow from financing activities (549,790,479,705) (422,558,356,803) Total comprehensive income 96,986,993,275 208,679,071,936 305,666,065,211 195,031,962,859 500,698,028,070 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 24,904,353,149 7,163,635,831 for the year Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (296,842,658,094) 109,534,887,956 Transactions with owners Cancellation of share options 243,505,810 (243,505,810) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,053,016,029,210 943,481,141,254 Exercise of stock warrants 16,010,000 3,324,216 19,334,216 19,334,216 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ₩ 756,173,371,116 ₩ 1,053,016,029,210 Dividend of subsidiary (53,980,207,600) (53,980,207,600) Reclassification of other (58,904,993,351) 58,904,993,351 components of equity Total transactions with owners 16,010,000 (58,658,163,325) 58,661,487,541 19,334,216 (53,980,207,600) (53,960,873,384) Balance at December 31, 2019 ₩ 1,040,806,395,000 ₩ 154,356,219,760 ₩ (70,649,474,593) ₩ (159,818,151,453) ₩ 1,257,868,188,737 ₩ 2,222,563,177,451 ₩ 2,044,988,860,808 ₩ 4,267,552,038,259 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 112 113 Appendix CSR Facts & Figures CSR Facts & Figures Economic Transparent Management Economic Growth: Sales Records Corporate Governance Policy-related Expenditures Energy Consumption Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Sales KRW 6,567,897 7,730,108 8,185,840 Attendance rate of Total political KRW Total TJ 1,871 2,067 2,142 million 0 0 directors in BOD Korea 86.9 85.7 92.9 donation million % Korea LNG TJ 216 251 248 Operating KRW meetings1) Total contributions KRW Consolidated 660,769 848,127 840,397 1,502 1,271 Electricity TJ 1,463 1,632 1,701 income million to associations million Korea 1)  In 2018, the reporting scope was changed from attendance rate of outside directors (in 2017 Diesel TJ 124 109 122 KRW * Information related to politics and relevant organizations has been disclosed since 2018 Net income million 296,643 394,170 395,698 Integrated Report) to the attendance rate of all directors. Accordingly, the attendance rate for the Energy past 3 years was revised. Others (LPG, consumption TJ 68 75 71 KRW (Including kerosene, etc.) Sales million 2,651,329 3,058,277 3,102,184 Largest Expenditures to Associations in 2019 direct and Total2) TJ 175 254 228 Operating KRW CEO-to-Worker Remuneration Ratio Classification Unit Amount indirect Separate 137,632 181,518 178,187 LNG TJ 51 68 69 income million Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 consumption) Korea Foundation for Cooperation of Electricity TJ 58 78 75 KRW KRW million 400 China1) Net income 60,472 71,748 53,024 KRW Large & Small Business, Rural Affairs million CEO remuneration million 1,105 1,543 1,443 Steam TJ 15 25 16 Incheon Employers Federation KRW million 288 Average remuneration Korea KRW Diesel TJ 50 81 67 79 87 89 Korea Construction Equipment Korea per employee million KRW million 270 Gasoline TJ 1 1 1 Financial Soundness: Financial Status Manufactures Association 1) Ratio 13.99 17.74 16.21 1) China calculates energy consumption based on net calorific value according to the “General Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Incheon Chamber of Commerce & Industry KRW million 80 Principles for Calculation of Comprehensive Energy Consumption GB/T2589—2008” (for steam, a KRW 1)  Figure calculated by dividing the total CEO remuneration by the average remuneration per employee Gunsan Chamber of Commerce & Industry 51 formula developed by the Yantai municipal government is applied). In 2019, unit of China’s energy Total assets million 10,276,090 11,029,167 11,338,593 KRW million consumption was changed to TJ, and accordingly, energy consumption data for the past three years was revised. Total KRW Ethical Management Consolidated 7,102,929 7,208,352 7,071,041 2)  All figures are rounded off to the nearest tenth, and therefore there may be singular number liabilities million Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 difference in the sum of figures. KRW Total equity million 3,173,161 3,820,815 4,267,552 Completion rate of Korea % 94.4 95.3 95.0 KRW ethical management Customers Resources Usage Total assets million 5,053,901 4,923,151 4,965,757 training1) China % 94.6 95.3 100.0 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total KRW 1)  No. of employees who have completed the ethical management training / No. of total employees Protection of Customer Information Separate 3,707,435 3,516,787 3,490,347 Scrap liabilities million (once a year per person) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 ton 25,170 29,974 34,225 metal KRW Total equity 1,346,466 1,406,364 1,475,410 Customers Korea Cases 0 0 0 Scrap ton/ million Collection rate of statement of information leakages metal KRW 0.009 0.010 0.011 100 100 100 China Cases 0 0 0 interests form1) % Raw intensity million material Incheon1) Sand Research & Development 1) No. of employees who submitted a signed copy of statement of interests form / No. of office worker who consumption (molding ton 14,484 17,762 18,406 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 has a job title of part leader or higher from among employees in Korea and resident employees in China sand)2) KRW ton/ R&D investment Korea 111,802 135,084 149,291 Sand million Actions Taken Against Code of Conduct Violations1) KRW 0.006 0.006 0.006 intensity million Environment R&D investment Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 % 4.2 4.4 4.8 * Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year. per sales Cases 6 7 5 Environmental Expenditure and Investment 1) No usage of steel plate at the Incheon Plant since the excavator plant advancement; and No usage Disciplinary action * Based on separate financial statements (Percentage) (55%) (44%) (71%) of steel plate, scrap metal, and sand at the Gunsan Plant Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 2) Molding sands are 100% recycled. Warning or lesser Cases 5 9 2 Korea 3,914 measure (Percentage) (45%) (56%) (29%) Environmental Intellectual Application Cases 3,422 3,576 KRW Global investments and Korea 16.7 17.6 7.9 2017 2018 20193) properties Registration Cases 2,184 2,467 2,871 Cases 11 16 7 billion Classification Unit Total operating costs (Percentage) (100%) (100%) (100%) Volume * Number of intellectual property rights applications and registration made at home and abroad; Based on consolidated financial statements 1)  Includes violation of “Inhwa” (human rights, workplace harassment, sexual harassment, etc.), of water ton 554,044 605,326 584,771 honesty and transparency (misconduct, corruption, information security, conflict of interest, etc.), and consumed fair competition (supplier and fair trade, etc.) Environmental Management System Water ton/ Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Korea consumption KRW 0.209 0.198 0.189 intensity 1) million Worksites with 3 3 3 Water Compliance Korea Sites consumption ISO 14001 (EMS) Recycled Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 certification China Sites 1 1 1 or reused ton 85,450 67,742 56,771 Legal measures water 2) on unfair trade Korea % 0 1 0 Volume conduct China of water ton 67,416 67,863 93,289 consumed Fine levied due to KRW a violation of laws or 0 382 100 1) Korea Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year. million regulations 2) Total volume of reused water, including reused waste water, reclaimed water, and recycled rainwater 3)   * Due to a violation of Article 12-3 of the Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act, Doosan Infracore paid In January 2019, the volume consumed by industrial vehicles was excluded from the volume of water a fine in 2018 and penalty in 2019. In relation to this matter, a lawsuit requesting cancellation, consumed. including a correction order, was filed on December 18, 2018, and is in progress. 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 114 115 Appendix CSR Facts & Figures Safety Air Emissions Effluents and Waste Occupational Safety and Health Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total1) tonCO2eq 97,955 108,244 112,186 NOx1) ppm 12.9 20.3 14.2 Korea ton 58,953 81,861 87,137 Korea % 0.54 0.85 1.01 Occupational Scope 1 tonCO2eq 26,890 28,951 29,550 Sox2) ppm 0.4 0.2 1.3 Incheon ton 51,288 74,244 80,539 accident rate China % 0.10 0 0 Korea Emissions Scope 2 tonCO2eq 71,067 79,295 82,639 VOCs of effluents (Continuous Gunsan ton 7,665 7,617 6,598 * Based on accidents requiring medical care covered by Industrial Accident Insurance tonCO eq/ Intensity2) KRW million 2 0.037 0.035 0.036 9.8/25.2 11.6/11.8 17.1/20.2 Incheon type/Nonppm China ton 57,737 58,037 71,878 Emissions continuous LTIR1) 0.97 1.17 Total tonCO2eq 79,625 88,572 93,197 of greenhouse type)3) BOD 1) mg/L 13.1 17.1 7.4 gas Incheon Scope 1 tonCO2eq 16,924 18,102 18,754 TRIR2) Korea 2.45 1.99 Emissions Dust (Electric (Including Scope 2 tonCO2eq 62,701 70,470 74,443 arc furnace/ mg/m3 4.6/6.0 5.7/6.8 1.98/1.81 COD2) mg/L 23.7 18.4 10.6 of air Incheon LWSR3) 48.68 70.31 direct and pollutants Others)4) Total tonCO2eq 15,518 16,798 16,340 Suspended indirect mg/L 12.7 3.0 4.0 Gunsan Scope 1 8,706 9,636 9,515 NOx 5) ppm 0.37 1.82 9.96 solids3) LTIR 0 0 emissions) tonCO2eq Emissions Scope 2 tonCO2eq 6,812 7,163 6,825 SOx6) ppm 0.10 0.04 0.02 of water BOD4) mg/L 188.7 144.7 103.2 TRIR China 0 0 Gunsan VOCs7) ppm 6.39 7.05 5.63 pollutants Total tonCO2eq 2,812 2,874 2,649 COD5) mg/L 161.0 169.1 143.5 LWSR 0 0 Gunsan Dust8) mg/m3 3.56 4.13 3.64 Others Scope 1 tonCO2eq 1,259 1,214 1,279 Suspended mg/L 7.0 15.2 8.5 * LTIR, TRIR, and LWSR have been managed since 2018 VOCs mg/m3 10.15 3.80 2.82 solids6) Scope 2 tonCO2eq 1,554 1,662 1,370 China 1)  LTIR (Lost Time Incidents Rate): Number of incidents involving more than one-day closure of Dust mg/m3 11.12 10.44 2.76 workday per 100 workers, Total number of lost time cases / Total number of hours worked by China COD mg/L 23.0 20.5 21.5 Total4) tonCO2eq 22,632 31,982 29,214 1) employees * 200,000 Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 80ppm 2)  Scope 1 tonCO2eq 6,668 10,049 9,012 2) 1)  Legal standard 120mg/L, company’s internal standard 48mg/L TRIR (Total Recordable Incidents Rate): Number of recordable incidents that require treatment Legal limit: 400ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm for injuries or illness per 100 workers, Total number of injuries and illnesses / Total number of China 3) Continuous type: Legal limit: 40ppm, company’s internal limit: 32ppm / 2) Legal standard 130mg/L, company’s internal standard 52mg/L Scope 2 tonCO2eq 15,963 21,933 20,201 hours worked by employees * 200,000 Non-continuous type: Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm 3) Legal standard 120mg/L, company’s internal standard 48mg/L 3)  tonCO eq/ LWSR (Lost Workday Severity Rate): Number of lost work days experienced per 100 workers, Intensity2) KRW million 2 0.022 0.023 0.021 4) Electric arc furnace: Legal limit: 20mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 8mg/m3 / 4) Legal standard 400mg/L, company’s internal standard 160mg/L Total number of lost work days / Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 Emissions Others: Legal limit: 50mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 20mg/m3 5) Legal standard 400mg/L, company’s internal standard 160mg/L of greenhouse Total tonCO2eq 21,500 30,843 28,118 5) Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 80ppm 6) Legal standard 200mg/L, company’s internal standard 80mg/L DICC gas3) Scope 1 tonCO2eq 6,646 10,021 8,964 6) Legal limit: 400ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm (Yantai) Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (Including Scope 2 tonCO2eq 14,854 20,821 19,154 7) Legal limit: 40ppm, company’s internal limit: 32ppm direct and 8) Legal limit: 50mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 20mg/m3 Total waste ton 27,179 32,691 37,655 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 indirect Total tonCO2eq 968 1,008 965 DISD Korea Recycled waste ton 25,334 30,881 35,660 OIFR1) Korea % 0.147 0.315 emissions) Scope 1 tonCO2eq 5 11 26 (Yantai) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Recycling rate % 93 94 95 Scope 2 tonCO2eq 964 996 939 * OIFR data has been managed since 2018 Emissions Incheon CFC, HCFC, 1)  General waste ton 23,932 29,309 33,426 OIFR (Occupational Illness Frequency Rate): Number of workers who have occupational illness Others Total tonCO2eq 163 132 131 ppm 0 0 0 of ozoneCH₃Br, R-22 and other related illness / Total workers (Application of calculation formula of the Korea (Including Scope 1 tonCO2eq 17 17 22 depleting Incheon Specified waste ton 2,321 2,349 3,567 Occupational Safety and Health Agency) DICI) CFC, HCFC, Scope 2 tonCO2eq 146 115 108 substances Gunsan CH₃Br, R-22 ppm 0 0 0 Waste Recycling rate % 94 95 96 1) There is a difference between the total emissions volume by GHG type and the total of discharge * Zero emissions of ozone-depleting substances and General waste ton 743 727 419 worksites which sums up rounding off numbers of each worksite’s emissions. 2) Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year. Intensity recycle Gunsan Specified waste ton 183 306 243 for the Chinese business sites is calculated after Korean won calculations that are based on the average exchange rate of the respective year. Recycling rate % 71 78 71 3) Figure was calculated by applying energy usage volume to the “Yantai Energy Reduction Information System,” and can be subject to error. Doosan Infracore plans to carry out external Total waste1) ton 3,470 6,086 4,878 verification of GHG emissions to increase reliability. Recycled – Source of Scope 1 emissions includes LNG, diesel fuel, LPG, gasoline, and carbon dioxide China ton 1,815 2,801 2,836 waste2) (shielding gas for welding) 4) All figures are rounded off to the nearest tenth, and therefore there may be singular number Recycling rate % 52 46 58 difference in the sum of figures. 1) Includes both hazardous and non-hazardous waste 2) Waste steel, waste wood 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 116 117 Appendix CSR Facts & Figures Shared Growth Employees Community Involvement Support for Suppliers Employment Community Involvement Activities Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Number of Korea Persons 2,602 2,720 2,860 1) Including Number of Male Persons 116 118 118 double Persons 978 1,046 970 suppliers Number of employees on Korea count Companies 42 62 53 China Persons 1,266 1,299 1,255 Number of received employees parental leave 2) Female Persons 14 16 11 Korea employees who Excluding financial support 374 385 440 Global Persons 4,027 4,468 4,603 participated in double Persons CCI activities count Amount of Number of Male Persons 875 884 926 Financial KRW Korea financial1) billion 43.5 43.5 43.5 Office Persons 1,426 1,505 1,622 employees eligible Korea China Persons 595 1,696 1,892 support support By job Korea 3) Technical Persons 1,176 1,215 1,238 for childcare leave Female Persons 47 54 65 Ratio of cash Total hours of % 0.1 0.3 0.2 Korea Hours 5,247 4,422 3,902 settlement cases Temporary 1) Persons 87 66 96 Male 14 14 19 CCI activities By Number of Persons Number of Once Once Once employment Korea Ratio of employees on Korea Times payments a month a month a month type % 3.3 2.4 3.4 childcare leave4) Female Persons 11 10 22 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 temporary 2) 1) Excluding indirect support CCI KRW Number of Male Persons 7 15 19 6.85 7.73 8.64 Disabled 3) Persons 28 32 35 investment 1) billion employees Support for Veterans 4) Persons 82 90 92 returning to work Korea Korea CCI after childcare Female Persons 9 9 11 CCI developing Cases 45 28 22 investment % 0.26 0.25 0.28 Technical Diversity Korea Elderly 5) Persons 219 224 327 leave 5) investment technology per sales2) development Korea Support for Male Persons 2,408 2,479 2,608 Continue to work CCI KRW support Male % 83 100 100 China 28,803 109,743 153,340 protecting Cases 7 6 6 rate for 12 months investment 3) 1,000 Female Persons 194 241 252 after childcare Korea technology leave6) Female % 100 100 100 1) Used amount of donation Training Office Persons 550 561 562 2) CCI investment / Sales of each year based on separate financial statements Courses 11 14 12 By job China Korean won calculations are based on the average exchange rate of the year courses Technical Persons 716 738 693 Number of Male Persons 67 58 53 3) Staff at employees on China Korea suppliers Temporary Persons 62 41 39 parental leave Female Persons 26 9 17 Education By Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 who Persons 124 82 96 employment China Ratio of support Return to work Employee participation rate completed type % 4.7 3.1 3.1 trainings temporary rate after parental China % 100 100 100 in the salary fraction donation % 75 75 73 leave campaign1) Training Disabled Persons 0 0 0 China Hours 28 52 108 Employees who began their paternity leave in 2019 hours 1)  Elderly Persons 7 7 9 2) Employees who began their maternity leave in 2019 Annual fund raised by KRW Operation man-day Diversity China 3) Staff in Korea with children aged eight or under, or second graders in elementary school or below the salary fraction donation million 121 123 143 Korea (Person) 260 196 195 Male Persons 1,087 1,117 1,071 campaign2) days 4) Number of employees who began childcare leave in the base year Competitiveness Support for Female Persons 179 182 184 5) Number of employees who returned from childcare leave in the base year Excluding staff sent to overseas worksites 1)  enhancement enhancing 6) (12 months after the return to work) Number of current employees in 2019 from among employees who  In 2019, a change was made to disclose the fund raised by employee donation (sum of funds from 2)  support China man-day 286 357 357 1) C  ontract workers (entrustment, technology entrustment, outside directors, advisory, outside competitivereturned in 2018 / Employees who returned in 2018 * 100. Calculation for 2019 is based on figures as the Collecting Small Change from Employee Salary scheme, Employee Donation Accounts, and the appointment) of April 2020 company’s matching grant), and accordingly, amount of fund raised for the past three years was ness Temporary worker / Total staff * 100 2)  revised. * Fair Trade Commission standard: 5 days=1 person (1 day=8 hours, Based on the application Based on MY HR; national disabled classification (levels 1-6) 3)  period of punctuality) Based on MY HR; national merit recipients (person with a merit number or someone approved) 4)  Labor Union Above the age of 55 (Based on total staff in Korea) 5)  Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Provision of Companies 74 99 134 Union membership rate Korea % 78.5 93.4 94.4 Part casting molds development Korea KRW * Based on technical staff (1,095 with membership out of 1,160 in total as of December 31, 2019) to strengthen billion 12.8 21.9 28.7 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 capacity suppliers’ part enhancement Turnover rate 1) Korea % 1.92 1.29 1.05 development Education support China Companies 77 77 77 capacity 20s % 3.65 2.26 2.44 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 * Including multiple provision of casting molds to suppliers Turnover rate 30s % 2.33 1.59 1.12 Average annual training Hours 47.9 31.7 40.6 by age2) 40s % 1.72 0.93 0.71 hours per person Korea Korea Companies 44 46 55 Average training KRW 50 and above % 0.18 0.35 0.48 383 663 750 EHS support1) expenses per person1) 1,000 China Companies 3 0 13 1)  Based on regular workers. Total number of turnovers in 2019 / Annual average number in Korea in 2019 Based on regular workers. Total number of turnovers in 2019 by age / Annual average number in Korea 2)  Average annual training 1) In 2019, calculation criteria for “Supplier EHS Support” were adjusted, and accordingly, the Hours 17.1 17.3 14.9 in 2019 by age hours per person number of suppliers which had received EHS support for the past three years was revised. China Average training KRW 1,000 290 289 352 expenses per person2) There was a change in the per-capita annual average training expense management standards in 2019. 1)  Accordingly training expenses per person for the past three years have been recalculated. 2) Korean won calculations are based on the average exchange rate of the year Participation rate in education on human rights Korea % 96.7 96.0 95.8 protection and sexual harassment prevention 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 118 119 Appendix Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report We were engaged by Doosan Infracore to provide limited assurance Assurance Standards Opinion on the ‘2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report’ for the year ended We conducted our engagement based on the International Standard on • Stakeholder Inclusiveness December 31, 2019 (further ‘the Report’). Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements other – Doosan Infracore operates communication channels with key Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the stakeholders such as shareholders/investors, customers/ has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not presented Context and Scope International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and also dealers, employees, suppliers, local communities (environment/ fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on AA1000AS. The standards require that we comply with applicable NGOs), local/central government and media. criteria. whether the Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and that – We are not aware of any key stakeholder group that has been accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about July 2020 excluded from dialogue in the Report. Reporting Initiative (GRI). We do not provide any assurance on the whether the Report is free from material misstatement. KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of Doosan CEO Kim, Kyo Tai Infracore. Limitations • Sustainability Context A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope – Doosan Infracore has established a process to incorporate CSR in The scope of our engagement conforms to the KPMG Sustainability than a reasonable assurance engagement, and consequently does management’s decision-making and the business management Assurance Manual™ (KSAM™), including the aspect of “materiality”. not enable us to obtain assurance on all significant matters that plans of relevant teams, thereby securing continuity. With regards to financial data, our procedures were limited to verifying we may become aware of in a reasonable assurance engagement. – We confirmed that Doosan Infracore recognizes general business that they were correctly derived from audited financial statements. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. management and social responsibility management comprehenTo obtain a thorough understanding of Doosan Infracore’s financial sively and applies such understanding within the Report. results and position, the audited financial statements produced on This report has been prepared solely for Doosan Infracore in 30 March 2020 should be referred to. accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Doosan Infracore for our • Materiality Responsibilities work, or for the conclusions we have reached in the assurance report. – Doosan Infracore conducts a materiality test in determining As stated in the ‘Reporting Principles and Standard,’ Doosan Infracore material issues. is responsible for all content within the Report in respect of the GRI Main Assurance Procedures – We are not aware of any material aspects concerning its sustainSustainability Reporting Standards. It is the responsibility of Doosan Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on ability performance which have been excluded from the Report. Infracore’s management to establish and maintain appropriate whether the Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, performance management and internal control systems from which in accordance with the reporting criteria. Procedures performed the reported sustainability information is derived. to obtain a limited level of assurance on a sustainability report • Completeness consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for – Doosan Infracore applies reporting scope, boundary and Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and the preparation of information presented in the integrated report, temporal criteria. to express a conclusion based on the work performed. and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as – In terms of criteria mentioned above, we confirm that the Report appropriate. These procedures included the following: is suitable for stakeholders to assess social responsibility Independence performance. • Confirmation on whether the financial information presented in In conducting our engagement, we have complied with the requirethe Report was correctly derived from Doosan Infracore’s audited ments of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of financial statements Ethics for Professional Accountants, issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. We do not engage in any and all • Inquiries to gain an understanding of Doosan Infracore’s processes activities that may influence our independence from Doosan Infracore. for determining the material issues for key stakeholder groups KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business unit levels with the Code, and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. responsible for providing the information in the Report • Visit to Doosan Infracore’s offices in Doosan Tower • Comparing the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, Doosan Infracore’s performance on non-financial value creation 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 120 Global Network Headquarters Production Subsidiaries Sales Subsidiaries Parts Distribution Center Headquarters Production Subsidiaries Sales Subsidiaries UN Global Compact – 10 Principles Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Seoul, Korea | Human Rights 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon, Korea 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon, Korea Yantai, China | Beijing, China | Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally The paper used in printing the 2019 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report is Chennai, India | Americana, Brazil | proclaimed human rights; and certified as an environmental-friendly product by the Forest Stewardship Santiago, Chile | Elnesvågen, Norway | Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Council®. In addition, the report was printed at an FSC-certified print shop using Doosan Infracore(China) Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. soy oil ink which drastically reduces the emissions of air pollutants. Groot-Ammers, Netherlands | Labour Investment Co., Ltd. 185, Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Suwanee, U.S. | Prague, Czech Republic Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Business Locations in Korea 19th Fl., Tower B., Gateway, No. 18, Jeollabuk-do, Korea recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Xiaguangli, North Road, East Third Ring, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Seoul Office Doosan Tower, 275, Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul +82-2-3398-8114 Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and No. 28, Wuzhishan road, ECO & Tech. Parts Distribution Center (PDC) Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Incheon Plant 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon +82-32-211-1114 Doosan(China) Financial Leasing Development Zone Yantai, Shandong, Environment Gunsan Plant 185, Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Jeollabuk-do Corp. China Ansan, Korea | Yantai, China | Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental +82-63-447-3043 challenges; 20th Fl., Tower B., Gateway, No. 18, Halle, Germany | Dubai, UAE | Singapore | Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Ansan Parts 48, Yongdam-ro, Sangnok-gu, Ansan-si, Gyeonggi-do Xiaguangli, North Road, East Third Ring, Doosan Infracore Norway AS. Americana, Brazil | Miami, U.S. | Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Service Center +82-31-400-2114 Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China Varholvegen 149 N-6440 Elnesvågen, Atlanta, U.S. | Seattle, U.S | Cardiff, U.K. technologies. Date Published July 2020 Norway Anti-Corruption Publishing Team  Doosan Infracore Communication Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion CSR/Shared Growth Team CSR part and bribery. E-mail: csr.di@doosan.com Doosan Infracore supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Planning and Design Talantone Creative Group
