Integrated Report 2020 Year Ended March 31, 2020 To improve lives and contribute to a better society The OMRON Principles OMRON founder Kazuma Tateishi resonated with the public nature of business, saying, “A company shouldn’t be just about pursuing profits...it has an obligation to serve society.” In 1959, he publicly announced the OMRON’s Corporate Motto, to improve lives and contribute to a better society. In 1990, we transformed this motto into the OMRON Principles and have since evolved it with the times. OMRON Principles Management Philosophy We believe a business should create value for society through its key practices. We are committed to sustainably increasing our long-term value by putting Our Mission and Values into practice. We uphold a long-term vision and solve social issues through our business. We operate as a truly global company through our fair and transparent management practices. We cultivate strong relationships with all of our stakeholders through responsible engagement. 1 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 SINIC* Theory: Predicting the Future Through the Interrelationships of Science, Technology, and Society Our founder, Kazuma Tateishi, believed that solving social issues through business to create a better society required the ability to anticipate future social needs. He believed that a company needed a compass to help predict the future. As our compass, Mr. Tateishi formulated the SINIC predictive theory, which projects the future based on the cycle of interrelationships between Science, Technology, and Society. OMRON first announced this predictive theory to the world at the International Future Research World Congress in 1970. Since then, the SINIC Theory has been our compass for projecting into the future. The basic philosophy behind the SINIC Theory is that the interrelationships among science, technology, and society lead to social change. Let us use the Cybernation Society as an example. We can see how the rise of cybernetics, computer science, and other synthetic sciences in the 1940s became the seeds of electronic control technologies, programming, and other technology. These technologies gave rise to the PC and the internet, leading to the advent of the Cybernation Society. Society demanded more data, along with more accurate and rapid data analysis. These demands forced us to produce CPUs and GPUs with faster processing power, make advancements in deep learning and other artificial intelligence technologies, and reach higher levels of sophistication in neuroscience and cognitive science. The evolution of these interrelationships serves as a driving force behind humanity’s desire to progress. * SINIC: Seed-Innovation to Need-Impetus Cyclic Evolution Seed Technology Innovation Impetus Need Progress -oriented motivation Science Society Past Future ltural Society Agricu y Ha iet nd oc icr eS af t tiv So c nal Handi le ditio cr Techn aft c Col Tra chnics ics ty Te ie In Ancient d Pri Re lize y Te mit y Science na ar e Sc issa ria I stri st olog zation Soc Natur ch ive ni rim enc ien n du hn ndu riali iety al S cs P ci ce c Te ty ust ce ocie oci S ty al S Ind Socie Primiti ety Primit ve i dern Religi ve Mo nce Meta-Psycho e on Sci Modern logic Technology on onom Technology i z a ti M echan y S oci o us ety Me ce t S ocie ien taAut l Sc t Psy Contro ut yc on chon Seed A o on ti c C gy S o m at iz a Te ho Innovation ati olo c ie i o n i m ty O p t S o ci e ch -Bi etics ty no olo tom hn C y b er n atio n log gic Au Tec ro S o ciety Need l Ps y Ele Impetus ctro rol Tec nic Cont ont ic C Cyclic Evolution Cy hno logy rol Biolog nology s be Tech t ic rn eti ne cs ho syc P Bionetics OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 2 Integrated Report 2020 Contents Vision 5 A History of Creating Value 9 Value Creation Model 11 Message from CEO Our Response to the Spread of Coronavirus Disease 17 (COVID-19) 19 Risk Management 21 OMRON’s Business and Fiscal 2019 Results Strategy 24 Message from CFO 28 ROIC Management 29 VG2.0 Medium-Term Management Plan 31 Sustainability Initiatives: Progress Business 33 Industrial Automation Business (IAB) 41 Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) 45 Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) 49 Healthcare Business (HCB) Technology 53 Message from CTO 57 Open Innovation Initiatives 59 Strengthen Technology Management People 60 Human Resources Management Environment 67 Environment Governance 69 Message from the Chairman 73 Corporate Governance Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, 83 and Executive Officers Data 87 Financial Information and More 97 Corporate Information and More <About the Cover> OMRON practices the OMRON Principles, solving social issues through our businesses. Our employees are the main drivers of this mission. Every day, every OMRON employee takes one step forward in contributing to a better society. 3 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 From the Publisher COVID-19 has had a profound impact on society, economy, and people’s lives and values. In the face of unprecedented adversity, OMRON has undertaken initiatives to fulfill its social responsibilities in the “withCOVID” world, placing the utmost priority on contributing to reducing the risk of further spread of COVID-19 and ensuring the safety of employees. In these circumstances, OMRON issued this Integrated Report 2020 with the main topic of OMRON’s value creation toward improving future corporate value beyond the COVIDshock. Through messages from management and specific examples of initiatives undertaken by business units and employees, the Report describes how OMRON addresses social issues at each of “under-COVID,” “with-COVID,” and “after-COVID” stages. For this issue, we made some changes to improve the content based on feedback from our stakeholders. First, we changed the overall structure of the Report in order to highlight materiality issues specific to OMRON. Specifically, we added 3 new independent sections: “Technology” “People” and “Environment.” The “Technology” section summarizes our technology strategies, the “People” section describes progress in our human resources strategies, and the “Environment” section outlines our environmental initiatives. Second, we improved the description of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. The Report describes the role of the Board of Directors and discussions at the meetings of the Board. In addition, the Report includes more details of the methodology for effectiveness evaluation, as well as progress and valuation related to high-priority issues in fiscal 2019. In an interview with Chairman of the Board of Directors, we attempted to elicit the effectiveness by reviewing the involvement of the Board of Directors in the process of transferring the Automotive Electronic Components Business. The disclosure of earnings forecasts for fiscal 2020 was postponed until the end of July because of the COVID-19 pandemic. This resulted in a one-month delay in publication of the Report. We will continue to place great value on dialogue with our stakeholders. We look forward to hearing your honest opinions in this regard. Executive Officer Global Investor & Brand Communications HQ Publisher, Integrated Report 2020 Tsutomu Igaki Edition Team Members for Integrated Report 2020 Global Investor & Brand Communications HQ Satomi Somekawa (Editor-in-Chief) Kanako Kimura (Deputy Editor-in-Chief) Kisho Iida Kenji Kawauchi Hiroshi Oda Kazunori Yasui Members for Integrated Report 2020 Industrial Automation OMRON HEALTHCARE Global Human Resources and Sustainability Office Company Kaori Iijima Administration HQ Rumi Ueyama Junko Iida Yoichi Tomita Ryota Ueshima Masaru Kaizaki Hidetaka Kitajima Yasuhiko Ueshima Katsuhiko Sugii Nobutaka Nakanishi Technology & Intellectual Yoshinobu Kokufugata Kashuku Hirao Property HQ Shuji Tatsuoka Yasuyuki Hirakawa Electronic and Mechanical Makoto Ohira Yasuteru Yamamoto Junko Hirata Components Company Yoko Kitamura Nami Matsuko Tomonori Seki Global Risk Management and Yuki Yoshikawa Yoshitaka Taishi Global Investor & Brand Legal HQ Michinao Maeba Communications HQ Keiji Ota Board of Directors Office Naru Yasuda Haruki Onishi Koji Okamoto Yuriko Sunaga Shunji Okumura Yoshichika Tanabe Naoki Nakai OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Noboru Shibata Sachiko Yagi Takahiro Iesato Megumi Nakai Production cooperation Junko Yoshida Susumu Hikita TAKARA PRINTING CO., LTD. Kazuki Matsuyama DIAMOND,Inc. Haruka Morimoto Delights co ltd. Mana Yamamoto OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 4 A History of Creating Value Since our founding, OMRON has pursued innovation driven by social needs, leading the world in innovative ideas. We will continue to improve lives and contribute to a better society by creating value for the future. This section introduces some leading examples of OMRON’s innovation driven by social needs. 1. Opening Up the Automation Market (1955-) In the 1950s, Japan built the foundations to recover from World War II and entered a full-scale growth phase. In 1955, Japan’s real Gross National Product per capita exceeded the prewar level, and its national life entered the era of electrification represented by 3 essential tools for modern life: TV, electric washing machine, and electric refrigerator, which were called Sanshu no Jingi (known as “Three Sacred Treasures). OMRON was among the first in Japan to develop relays, timers, switches, and other components essential for the automatic operation of manufacturing machines. In this way, OMRON has supported the spread of home appliances, automobiles, and other products that enrich people’s lives through the automation of manufacturing processes. At that time, little was known about the concept of automation in Japan, and OMRON pioneered a new market of automation in the country through the publication of enlightening newspapers such as Automation News and the holding of Technical Fair. Consequently, human labor was replaced by machines in Japanese manufacturing settings, reducing errors that had been caused by long working hours, and improving work efficiency and safety. At the same time, OMRON built the foundation for manufacturing in all processes, production stages, management systems, and quality control. In addition, OMRON developed the world’s first non-contact switch, contributing to the creation of advanced machines capable of mass production without failure or wear. Mass production has brought an abundant supply of products to markets and made them more readily available to consumers. For the past 65 years, OMRON has delivered relays, switches, sensors, controllers, robots, testing apparatus, and other device that help advance manufacturing processes, thereby contributing to increased productivity in the global manufacturing industry and helping enrich people's lives. With technology and solutions centered on the industry's broadest range of control devices, OMRON continues to address increasingly serious issues in manufacturing settings, such as soaring labor costs and the shortage of skilled technicians. Social Issues Solutions OMRON has been providing 1950s Automation enabled mass production during the high-growth period 1960 1943 Japan’s first microswitch World’s first non-contact switch Now Address soaring labor costs, shortage of skilled technicians, and 2015 2016 2020 advanced World’s first World’s first World’s first high performance SCARA robot with robotic integrated manufacturing smart camera with predictive maintenance controller multi-color light functions 5 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision 2. The Challenge of Developing an Unmanned Train Station System (1964-) In Japan in the mid-1960s, economic development posed new social challenges. Commuting rush hour in urban areas due to population concentration was one of them. At ticket counters and gate areas at stations, station workers had to sell and check a large number of passengers tickets by hand, resulting in long waiting lines. Since the early 1960s, OMRON has challenged solving this issue and has continued research and development by applying its cybernation technology cultivated through the development of vending machines, automated traffic signals, and other products. Cybernation is a combination of computers and automation using automatic control technology incorporating a feedback function. In 1964, OMRON began to develop automatic ticket gates for commuter passes in cooperation with Kintetsu Railway Co., Ltd. In January 1966, a prototype was completed, and a practical trial began. After that, OMRON attempted to introduce an automated ticket gate system for commuter and ordinary tickets at Kita-senri Station (Senri line), which was planned to be constructed by Hankyu Corporation. After repeated research and development, prototype testing, and adjustments, OMRON finally succeeded in developing the system in 1967, 3 years before the EXPO'70, and commenced full-scale operation. The world's first unmanned automated station system was realized with a lineup of ticket vending machines, commuter pass punchers, bill exchangers, and automated ticket gates. For more than 50 years, OMRON has been providing automated ticket gates, ticket vending machines, and maintenance and operation services, and thereby contributing to creating safe, secure, and comfortable stations to support the growth of Japan. In Japan, station workers are required to provide increasingly wider and more complex services, including responding to various inquiries from passengers about train connections, station precincts, and vicinities, as well as assistance with boarding and alighting from trains. In addition, it is becoming more difficult to secure human resources due to a decline in the working population resulting from the falling birthrate and the aging population. OMRON works with railway companies to automate their station operations in order to provide safe, secure, comfortable, and user-friendly station services. In 2019, OMRON began offering multi-functional service robots capable of cleaning, guarding, and guiding, and initiated demonstration experiments of a station guide robot equipped with voice-interactive artificial intelligence. Social Issues Solutions OMRON has been providing 1960s Congestion in urban public transportation 1967 World’s first unmanned train station system (Kita-senri Station, Hankyu Corporation) Now Wider and more complex services provided by station workers 2019 2019 Multi-functional service Station guide robot equipped robots with voice-interactive artificial intelligence Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 6 3. Wider use of home blood pressure monitors (1973-) OMRON’s efforts to develop home blood pressure monitors originated from the concept of Health Engineering in the early 1960s for the first time in the world. Health Engineering was conceived by OMRON founder Kazuma Tateishi from factory automation system at that time. Health Engineering is a concept that views the human body as a tissue engineering-based aggregate of numerous automatic control systems and uses automation technology to manage health, diagnose diseases, and treat diseases. Based on this unique theory, we began research on health medical devices at the Central Laboratory in 1961. Since then, we have pursued the development of home blood pressure monitors to contribute to health through measurement technology based on the OMRON principles, “business should create value for society through its key practices.” In 1973, OMRON released its first electronic blood pressure monitor, Manometer-typed Manual Blood Pressure Monitor (HEM-1). In 1978, OMRON’s first digital blood pressure monitor, Digital Blood Pressure Monitor for Home Use (HEM-77) was developed. Since then, OMRON has worked with healthcare professionals to promote home blood pressure monitoring. The April 2014 revision of the Japanese Society of Hypertension Guidelines for the Management of Hypertension stated that if a difference is noted between clinic and home blood pressure measurements, the latter should be preferred. Thus, home blood pressure is now an essential component in the treatment of hypertension. In this way, OMRON has created a culture of home medical care. Today, the prevalence of lifestyle-related diseases is increasing rapidly around the world with the aging of the population in developed countries and changes in dietary habits associated with economic growth in emerging countries. In addition, the accompanying increase in medical care costs has become a new social issue. OMRON continues to contribute to the health and well-being of people by delivering home blood pressure monitors and other healthcare device to approximately 120 countries and regions around the world, as well as offering services tailored to the social infrastructure and healthcare system in each country. In 2018, OMRON launched the world’s first wearable blood pressure monitor & watch that makes it possible to measure blood pressure easily anywhere at any time. In 2019, we released the world’s first home blood pressure monitor with an electrocardiograph (EKG) that enables users to take an EKG easily at home. OMRON continues to bring out innovative devices. Social Issues Solutions OMRON has been providing 1970s Rising concern for personal health resulting from changes in lifestyle 1973 Digital blood pressure monitors Now Medical care costs increased by a surge in lifestyle-related diseases around the world 2018 2019 World’s first wearable World’s first blood blood pressure monitor pressure monitor with & watch an EKG 7 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision In addition to the examples above, OMRON has been providing society with a multitude of world’s first, Japan’s first, or industry’s first solutions that contribute to creating a better society. Social Issues / Customer Issues Solutions OMRON has been providing 1963 Japan’s first Automated meal ticket vending machines in multifunctional meal ticket vending machine restaurants that were crowded and understaffed only during certain times of day 1964 Reduced road traffic congestion due to World’s first fully automated traffic signal population concentration in urban areas 1971 Realized a cashless society where carrying a World’s first online automated cash dispenser cash card instead of cash 1972 Opened the welfare factory OMRON Taiyo Co., Ltd and Japan Sun Industries (Taiyo no ie), as the first attempt in JapanOpened the Independence of the disabled in Japan welfare factory OMRON Taiyo Co., Ltd and Japan Sun Industries (Taiyo no ie), as the first attempt in Japan 1987 World’s first Developed machines capable of complex ultra-high-speed fuzzy logic controller control, not just on and off 1997 OKAO® vision Technology speeding the wider use of digital image sensing technology devices 2011 Industry’s first PV inverter for photovoltaic power generation equipped with the anti-islanding control Wider adoption of renewable energy in technology (AICOT®), which prevents Japan islanding conditions in multiple photovoltaic power generation systems 2016 World’s first Realized safe autonomous driving on-vehicle sensor using cutting-edge artificial technology intelligence 2019 Japan’s first Mobility as a Service (MaaS) application combining private vehicle-for-hire Ensuring means of mobility for residents in by residents and public transportation such as bus and taxi depopulated and aging local cities in Japan Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 8 Value Creation Model OMRON value creation is anchored to future social needs as we work toward our vision of a better society. Innovation driven by social needs means creating new value through inspired solutions to social issues. At OMRON, we base value creation on the OMRON Principles and the SINIC Theory (future predictive model). We commercialize innovations as products and services for our customers, contributing to a better society as these solutions are put into use. Our value creation model results in business growth and sustainable corporate value improvement. As we grow, we generate larger amounts of management capital for use in creating innovation driven by new social needs. Business Creation Process at OMRON Management Capital (Input) Human Capital Employees 28,006 Inno (As of March 2020) vat ion Social and Relationship Capital Dr iv No. of Countries Demographic en 1 Around 120 countries/regions Trends Identify Social by Limited Issues s (As of March 2020) eed Resources NearlN Financial Capital Technological cia Ratings AA-(R&I)/A(S&P) Innovation Future So (As of March 2020) Design Intellectual Capital 5 2 Sensing & Patents 10,087 Control (As of March 2020) + Think R&D expenses ¥46.0 billion Launch Core Open (FY2019) and Technology Innovation Manufactured Capital Monetize Evolution Capital expenditures Businesses and ¥33.1 billion Business Model 4 (FY2019) 3 Design Intellectual Capital, Manufactured Capital, Social Develop and Relationship Capital m Products and Growth Investment* Co m Services er ¥100.0 billion to ¥200.0 billion cia liz ati (FY2017 to FY2020 plan) *M&A + Alliances on Natural Capital Energy Consumption 362,475 MWh Water Consumption The OMRON Principles (Water Intake) 1,626 km3 (FY2019) 9 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision Business Creation Process at OMRON Innovation Driven by Social Needs Identify Social Issues Identify signs of change in the world and search for social issues (including customer issues) in key areas of focus. Near-Future Design Develop near-future design for the next three to ten years, anchored to our future vision of social issues, technological innovation, and developments in science. Core Technology Evolution and Business Model Design Evolve core technologies and design business models necessary for achieving our vision of the near future. Commercialization Develop Products and Services Develop products and services for customers and society. Launch and Monetize Businesses Incubate and grow businesses to solve social issues, while identifying new and emerging social issues. Domains Products and Services (Output) Social Value Factory Customers: Automation Improve productivity at Manufacturers manufacturing plants Industrial Automation Digital Business (IAB) through the innovativeAutomotive Food and more Automation P33 Factory Automation Device Increase added value in secondary industries through innovativeHealthcare Automation 3 Domains Customers: Healthcare Business Users including (HCB) healthcare professionals and consumers Healthcare & P49 Medical Device  educe the incidence of R cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases by Social Solutions wider use of home blood Customers: pressure monitors in Social Systems, Railway / Roads, emerging countries Solutions and Service Housing Makers, (especially India) Business (SSB) Station and and more Traffic Equipment Maintenance / P45 Services PV Inverters, Other OMRON Device Modules Support Growth Customers: Environmental contribution Home Appliance by OMRON products: Electronic and Mechanical Makers, and Components Business Relays, 971kt-CO2 Other more Surface-Mounted (EMC) P41 Switches  reenhouse gas G emissions:166 kt-CO2 Open Innovation Human Resources Manufacturing, Risk Management Environment Management Corporate Governance Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 10 Message from the CEO Overcoming the COVID Crisis Through Selection and Decentralization Management Based on the OMRON Principles to Survive and Thrive in the New Normal Era President and CEO Yoshihito Yamada September 2020 In 2020, 12 years after the global financial crisis of 2008, the world was suddenly beset by a new threat in the form of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19. President and CEO Yoshihito Yamada believes that OMRON will continue to survive and thrive in the new normal era, when the unforeseen has become the norm. Mr. Yamada has heralded a new concept, Selection and Decentralization for a unique OMRON style of management based on the OMRON Principles. We spoke to him about his resolve to open the way to the future. (Interviewer: Integrated Report Production Team) 11 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision which are our common values, so even with the What is Needed to Overcome this individual organizations acting independently, they can still create synergy. Decentralization also Unprecedented Crisis includes the concept of diversity. What to select, how to decentralize, and how to incorporate – Editor: The global COVID-19 pandemic has diversity. These questions are constantly on our dealt a more devastating blow to the global minds as we work to bring resilience to our economy than the 2008 global financial crisis. business portfolio. What is your view of the situation? In fiscal 2019, OMRON made the significant When the spread of the novel coronavirus reached decision to sell off its Automotive Electronic global pandemic proportions, demand fell around Components Business. This was the result of the world, and this has cast a shadow over all selecting, as our engines for future growth, our industries. I am prepared for the likelihood that the Industrial Automation Business (IAB), Healthcare damage to the global economy will be further Business (HCB), and Social Systems, Solutions and intensified going forward. Employment will become Service Business (SSB), as well as the Electronic unstable and personal consumption will be and Mechanical Components Business (EMC), adversely affected. Businesses may also be which supports these three businesses. The vision plunged into even more dire straits. We have truly we are aiming for is to make firm profits with these entered an age of the “survival of the fittest.” four (3+1) pillar businesses. Our vision is not one of On the other hand, the crisis has also resulted in a core business being leant on by other businesses. major leaps forward. Take healthcare, for example. That is not what we are striving for. Having selected Progress in telehealth had previously been our business areas, we are now decentralizing our hampered by various regulations, but it has now pillar businesses. Should one of our businesses advanced considerably on a global scale. In face adversity, the other businesses will be able to production settings, there are growing needs for compensate for the impact of that adversity and new kinds of labor-saving through collaboration hold the entire company steady. between human workers and robots, to ensure Refer to Selection and Decentralization table on p.13 social distancing and protect the health of workers. P69 Message from the Chairman In this way, we are seeing two changes occurring simultaneously—a decline in total demand and a – Amidst this crisis of the COVID-19 stirring of new demand. OMRON will address pandemic, how has OMRON been able to these changes head-on and continue to survive and protect its employees and achieve the thrive in this age of survival of the fittest. continuation of its business? Has the selection and decentralization concept worked in this – Most of us have heard of the term, situation as well? “selection and concentration,” but you recently Of course, it functioned very effectively. At signaled an interesting new concept of OMRON, the protection of our employees’ health “selection and decentralization.” What is our top priority. In late January, when the meanings and aims are embedded in this pandemic was in its early stages, we established a concept? framework for gathering information from various This concept of selection and decentralization is locations around the world in real time and in an something that OMRON has been pursuing for integrated manner. At the same time, we issued some time. For OMRON, selection refers to directions for flexible responses in each area, choosing those business areas in which we can including temporary shutting down factories and leverage our core technologies, based on the shifting to work-from-home, instead of having OMRON Principles. In the course of that selection, people come into the office. Our mission was to we clearly distinguish domains in which OMRON protect employees’ health while maintaining itself will engage and areas in which OMRON business operations, to fulfill our supply seeks to work together with collaborators and responsibilities. This act of balancing these two partners. Decentralization, on the other hand, missions, more than anything, is the responsibility means to establish multiple “pillar businesses,” of executive management. instead of relying on a single particular business, OMRON has diversified its risk by establishing a customer, or country. In today’s highly uncertain tri-polar framework for our supply chain between environment, dependence on just one particular Japan, China, and Southeast Asia, in which each business, customer, or country increases risk. With pole complements the others organically. In the multiple pillar businesses that are independent of early stages of the pandemic, production in China each other, we can diversify risk, and, by was shut down but, thanks to back-up from connecting these pillar businesses organically, we production centers in Japan and southeast Asia, we can create a more resilient organization. were able to overcome the crisis without disrupting Ordinarily, the global deployment of multiple the flow of supply. What made this possible was businesses would adversely affect efficiency. our groundwork in decentralizing and organically However, OMRON has the OMRON Principles, linking independent organizations. Specifically, it Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 12 was the result of smooth transition of production Principles into practice. and sharing of production technology based on a The term “instilling” in an organization is often framework of independent complementarity. In this used in terms of corporate principles, but I take a way, selection and decentralization is achieved by different view. My image is of “unleashing,” or independent organizations connecting with each “releasing” employees’ will to implement those other and having the ability to back each other up. principles, not instilling them. If they are able to P17 Responses to COVID-19 Pandemic take personal ownership of innovation driven by social needs, as stated in the OMRON Principles, our employees will think and act of their own OMRON Principles Unleash the volition. The implementation of the OMRON Principles by employees will resonate with their Passion of Our Employees colleagues around them, generating a great movement to change the world. Each and every – We understand that, even in this time of employee will take a step forward to realize a better crisis, the OMRON Principles were put into society. It is my belief that management based on practice in various locations in the world. Could the OMRON Principles is what will unleash our you give us some specific examples? employees’ passion. Many challenges were pursued in various parts of P60 People the world. What made me particularly happy was that the employees took the initiative to think about what they could do themselves and pursued these Fiscal 2019 Review and Fiscal 2020 challenges voluntarily. For example, our engineers in the Industrial Outlook Automation Business in Europe voluntarily participated in an external project for the – In fiscal 2019, we were rocked greatly by development of ventilators, and in the United the intensifying confrontation between the States and Asia, our people worked with partners United States and China and the COVID-19 to develop unmanned sanitizing robots equipped pandemic. What is your view of our business with UV. At the height of the pandemic, our results in fiscal 2019? production centers in the Healthcare Business in It was a harsh year. We were unexpectedly beset China and Italy responded to requests from by the COVID crisis in the fourth quarter of this governments to manufacture critical products for year, but even before then, the geopolitical risk treatment of COVID-19, such as thermometers, from the trade friction between the United States nebulizers, and medical suction equipment. There and China had been weighing heavily on the are many other examples of local employees company. With the Industrial Automation Business showing initiative and putting the OMRON significantly affected by the negative spiral in trade Selection and Decentralization Approaches Approaches Outcomes Opportunities E  stablishment of three domains + one business positioned in growth areas Establishment of IAB, HCB, and SSB, as well as EMC, which supports Business those three businesses, as focus businesses  reate new businesses as future pillars C Domains Building ROIC mechanisms into management to enable the automatic Expand profit from service business review of areas of focus Establishment of global management framework through Overseas Strengthen functions of Overseas Headquarters (six locations) Headquarters Business Localization of managerial positions overseas Strengthen governance function to Centers (70% of positions localized in FY2019 against FY2020 target of 66%) respond to bloc economy trend and Transfer of overseas HR function to Singapore geopolitical risk Development of technologies with Sensing & Control + Think  cceleration of initiatives for creating innovation with external partners by A Implement advanced technologies in Technology OSX* society Acquisition of technology through investment in external ventures by OVC* Decentralize production centers in line  stablishment of global tri-polar production framework between Japan, E with local production/local consumption Production China, and Southeast Asia strategy Frameworks (IAB: Japan (Kusatsu/Ayabe), China (Shanghai), Indonesia) (Europe, US, etc.) (HCB: Japan (Matsusaka), China (Dalian), Vietnam) Further reinforce individual production centers’ alternative production functions Reinforce product competitiveness Ensured outstanding QCD based on group purchase volumes through Purchasing central purchasing through adoption of advanced materials function Realized stable procurement during pandemic Reduce procurement costs through optimization of logistics Strengthen personnel mobility and rebuild HR systems  ecruitment of mid-career personnel (99 in FY2019, alongside 174 newR Increase percentage of female managers Diversity graduate recruits) in Japan Recruitment of people with different skills through a job scheme Diversity in the Board of Directors (foreign nationals) * OSX: OMRON SINIC X Corporation * OVC: OMRON Ventures Co., Ltd. 13 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision and capital expenditures, our whole-company simultaneously exploiting existing businesses and results fell sharply by ¥54.6 billion compared with exploring and establishing new businesses in a the previous year. While sales were significantly well-balanced manner. The growth of our existing down, we were able to minimize the decline in our businesses alone will not be enough to achieve profit. dramatic growth in sales. We will strive to create This is the result of being able to improve our gross new business areas through OMRON’s mission, profit (GP) margin (gross profit on net sales), which that is, innovation driven by social needs. indicates our capacity to earn profits. Generally, a P24 Message from the CFO P53 Message from the CTO decline in sales leads to a decline in GP margin, but at OMRON, our GP margin rose by 0.4 percentage *F  rom Lead and Disrupt: How to Solve the Innovator’s Dilemma (2016), O’Reilly, Charles A., III, and Tushman, Michael L. points over the previous year to 44.8%, our highest on record. We achieved this through our ongoing – With further adversity anticipated, how will ROIC Management efforts, such as a shift to OMRON survive fiscal 2020? What is your solution sales and the introduction of competitive outlook for fiscal 2020 based on the first-quarter new products. results? This increase in GP margin could be described as I do not believe that the catastrophe wreaked by evidence that our earning ability is not hindered by COVID-19 will end in a year. The decline in final change. We are also seeing a definite strengthening demand will continue to weigh heavily. Our highest of our financial position. This is clear from a priority will be to endure this era of the survival of comparison of the figures for fiscal 2008, the year the fittest. of the global financial crisis, with the figures for Thanks to our responsiveness to change, even in fiscal 2019, when the COVID crisis struck. Our GP this unprecedented crisis brought about by margin in fiscal 2019 was 10 percentage points COVID-19, our first-quarter results showed a higher than fiscal 2008’s 34.8%. Cash and deposits, significant increase in profit compared with the borrowings, and shareholders’ equity ratio have all previous year, despite a decline in net sales. There also improved substantially. were three main reasons for this result. On the other hand, in terms of growth power, Firstly, we were able to curb the extent of the sales which is the ability to withstand trials in business decline from our initial projections by firmly conditions and push up sales, challenges still capturing unforeseen demand that emerged from remain. From the viewpoint of establishing a selfthe pandemic, such as a sharp rise in demand in driven growth structure, we are still lacking digital industries, increased demand for production strength. Going forward, we will band together of personal protective equipment such as masks, across the entire company to strive for and increased demand for thermometers. Secondly, “ambidextrous management”* as a way to build we further improved our gross profit margin by up the power to achieve self-driven growth. continuing to engage in various initiatives such as Ambidexterity in management means companies strengthening our product lineup, reducing variable striving to achieve perpetual growth by costs, and implementing structural reforms. Thirdly, B  CP Framework in Supply Chain (Major Production FY 2019 Results (Billions of yen) Centers) Operations based on a tri-polar production framework, building FY2019 Results Y/Y a production framework in which production centers are able to cover for each other Net Sales 678.0 – 7.5% 4 centers Gross Profit 303.7 – 6.7% in China Shanghai, Dalian, Operating Income 54.8 – 18.6% Shenzhen 8 centers Net Income* 74.9 + 37.9% in Japan Kusatsu, Ayabe, Gross Profit Margin 44.8% + 0.4%pt Matsusaka, other * Net income includes net income from discontinued business (Automotive Electronic Components Business) (including profit from sale). 3 centers in Southeast Asia Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam Q1 FY2020 Results (Billions of yen) FY2019 FY 2020 YOY change Changes in Financial Position (Billions of yen) Q1 Result Q1 Result FY2008 FY2019 Difference Net Sales 160.0 146.5 – 8.5 % GP margin 34.8% 44.8% + 10.0 %pt Gross Profit 71.5 66.4 – 7.2 % (Gross profit margin) (44.7%) (45.3%) (+ 0.6pt) Cash and deposits 46.6 185.5 398.0 % Operating Income 10.0 12.5 + 24.2 % Borrowings 54.4 1.7 3.1 % (Operating income margin) (6.3%) (8.5%) (+ 2.2pt) Shareholders’ Net Income in equity ratio 55.4% 70.0% + 14.6 %pt Quarterly Period 8.5* 9.7 + 13.5% * Includes quarterly net income from discontinued business (Automotive Electronic Components Business). Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 14 there was a curbing of fixed costs, through the that support these three businesses, our engines progress made as planned in the cuts decided at for future growth will not change. However, we will the beginning of the fiscal year, and through the work on the following three challenges within that restriction of business activities due to COVID-19. plan. We achieved better results than expected for the The first is the deepening of existing businesses in first quarter, but with the pandemic showing signs response to new needs. This includes, for example, of prolonging, we anticipate that the market businesses that deal with telehealth, and Industrial environment will remain uncertain. Therefore, on Automation Business such as robots for further the premise that the harsh business conditions will labor saving. In the post-COVID society, there will continue at least until the end of the fiscal year, we be more and more progress in automation. It is have selected a conservative scenario that vital that we address this potential firmly. eliminates factors of high uncertainty as much as The second is to establish new businesses. possible, and set a full-fiscal-year forecast of falls in Examples include service-based businesses and sales and profit. Of course, we do not believe that recurring businesses, in line with the significant this is all we need to do. We will continue to seize trend away from goods toward services. In the IAB, business opportunities firmly and aim to enhance we will leverage the knowledge and data we have our performance. The business environment is acquired to date to realize the ultimate in uncertain, but we will continue to make production lines that will generate no defective investments that will be essential for future growth products. We will establish service-based and in the post-COVID era. recurring businesses by leveraging our proprietary P25 Table: FY2020 Plan technologies, such as the world’s first AI-equipped controller and industry’s first image processing – The two years of fiscal 2020 and 2021 have system that uses AI technology to detect flaws and been designated as a period of preparation and defects without the need to learn enormous transformation in anticipation of the postvolumes of data. COVID era. In the HCB, we have launched telehealth services I expect the with-COVID era to continue for some in the United States with the aim of achieving Zero time. The impact of the pandemic is also bound to Events of cardiac infarction and cerebral stroke. Our have a significant impact on future society. target for this service is to have 100,000 users and Accordingly, we have designated those two years a business scale of ¥5 billion or more over the next as our critical response period, in which we will five years. place top priority on responding to the crisis to The third challenge, the overhaul of operations and ensure the continuation of our business and secure digitalization, is one that underpins the entirety of profits. At the same time, we will proceed with OMRON’s business. For the past several years, we preparations and reforms for the post-COVID era have been pursuing a project to introduce a new and work on developing our next long-term vision. main information system. In order to establish new The next long-term vision will commence in fiscal businesses and to realize service-based and 2022, after that two-year period. Although the recurring businesses, this new main system must COVID crisis has been a tremendous trial, it has be well suited to these businesses. Further, we will also given OMRON a clearer outline of the address reforms of our HR systems to enable us to innovation driven by the social needs of the near assign the most appropriate people from around future that we should seek to achieve. People’s the world to projects that will find solutions to new values, business models, and the image of society social issues, thus allowing our people to reach are all on the verge of enormous change. Over those two years, OMRON will seize those changes and accelerate our transformation, so we can OMRON Focus Domains continue to be a pioneer in creating inspired solutions to future social needs. Demonstrating OMRON’s Raison d’Être FA in an Era of Major Transformation – As the major transformation of society Sensing & proceeds, how will OMRON transform its Control +Think business and demonstrate its own raison d’être Social in the next long-term vision? Healthcare Solutions Basically, our plan to make the Industrial Automation, Healthcare, and Social Systems, Solutions and Service businesses, and the Electronic and Mechanical Components Business Devices and Modules Business 15 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision their full potential. investors, are casting an increasingly severe eye on These three challenges represent OMRON’s companies, and companies’ level of commitment is challenge for its own self-transformation. being called into question. In response to these P33 Business1 expectations from society, OMRON will set specific sustainability challenges, shed light on them, and – In the future, the world may enter an age bring in external parties to help solve them, and of frequent risks, with different crises, such as repeat those actions in a constant cycle. These epidemics of unknown infectious diseases, efforts will resonate out and attract excellent large-scale natural disasters, and increased people to OMRON. Together with those people, we geopolitical risks, occurring simultaneously. will solve social issues through business, which will Under such circumstances, how will OMRON lead to the expansion and regeneration of our grow on the global stage while solving social business. issues? Besides our sustainability initiatives, OMRON has When the unforeseen becomes the norm. That is the OMRON Principles, our core technologies the very definition of the “new normal” era. cultivated over many years, effective governance, Besides infectious diseases and natural disasters, and most important of all, employees who are there is also likely to be disruptive technological passionate about solving social issues. Combining innovations. That is why our only option is to the power of all these things, we will engage manage our business on the assumption of forthrightly in our mission to solve social issues uncertainty and sudden change. So, how do we through business. That is because such an achieve that? I believe that our only option is endeavor means, no more and no less, putting management based on the OMRON Principles. OMRON Principles into practice. This entails first understanding the essence of our P31 Sustainability Initiatives: Progress own raison d’être and of the value that we should offer to society. Then, so that we can respond – Could you tell us your own intentions and flexibly according to the circumstances closer to resolve, as president, toward the new normal the front line, our management must collaborate era? with the people supporting the front line and make The COVID-19 pandemic is not yet over. Firstly, we swift decisions. If things do not go according to need to survive and thrive in this era of the survival plan, we should then correct our course of the fittest. The key to achieving this will lie in immediately and try again. This cycle of actions how, while continuing our business with the health should be repeated at high speed. This is the only of our employees remaining our top priority, we can style of management that will allow us to respond sow seeds for future growth in the post-COVID era. to change. Looking back, OMRON successfully sowed the Therefore, to ensure that everyone is moving seeds for future growth during the global Financial forward in the same direction, it is important to crisis, when OMRON’s financial position was even have something that can be shared, something that weaker than it is today. Those seeds have since will resonate. For OMRON, that something is the blossomed into business models such as the OMRON Principles. In terms of overcoming the Industrial Automation Business’s “innovativetrials of the COVID crisis, I believe now is when Automation” and have become the driving force for management based on the OMRON Principles and growth today. Our actions in times of adversity are management that resonates will demonstrate their what will determine our future. full strength. In that respect, M&As and alliances are also forms of seeding that are necessary for future growth, – In response to the COVID crisis, one after and the current adverse conditions represent an the other, international organizations and opportunity in this regard. By combining our own institutional investors released statements in strengths with new capabilities from outside the which they called on industry to implement company, including M&As and alliances, we will serious ESG management. OMRON possesses steadily advance our preparations for a major leap many non-financial intangible assets, such as toward the next era. intellectual property, human resources, Our goal is to become a corporate group that environment, and governance. How will you link people can always depend on, and an organization those assets to future corporate value and that continues to live up to the high expectations of accelerate management based on the OMRON people from all over the world. In the new normal Principles? era, we will continue to contribute to a better Various social issues raised in the SDGs society and realize sustainable growth. (Sustainable Development Goals), such as poverty and climate change, already existed before COVID-19. Far from being resolved, these issues are only getting worse. What can companies do under such circumstances? How should they manage their business? All stakeholders, not only Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 16 Our Response to the Spread of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) COVID-19 has continued to spread throughout the world since it was first discovered in December 2019. OMRON had been making various efforts to solve the social issues caused by the global spread of COVID-19, placing a high priority on ensuring the safety of all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, our employees and their families, and preventing the spread of infection. OMRON’s Responses to Initiatives to Solve Social Issues Caused the Corona crisis January Measures for Combating COVID-19 Through Chinese Headquarters directed all employees in the region to Our Business implement infection prevention Even while COVID-19 continued to spread, to fulfil its corporate measures (1/21–) responsibility to society, OMRON maintained its supply of the A-Rank Emergency Headquarters is products and services needed to prevent the spread of the virus established at OMRON Headquarters and maintain people’s lifestyles. (1/27) P19 Business travel to all parts of China is Maintained and increased production of healthcare equipment restricted (1/31–) to support people’s health, including thermometers and artificial aspirators (China, Italy, etc.: Feb.–) February Provided solutions to customers’ sites for the manufacture of Operations are suspended at all products for the control of the virus such as masks and testing factories in China (2/3–12) kits, and products for the maintenance of people’s lifestyles, Note: Healthcare Business’s factory in Dalian including food and daily essentials (China, Germany, etc.: Feb.–) resumes some operations on Feb. 4 Provided repairs and maintenance services to customers Employees in Japan are directed to operating transport facilities that support people’s lives, such as implement infection prevention measures (2/20–) railways and public transport operators (Japan: Feb.–) S-Rank (highest possible rank) Supported ongoing treatment of hypertension through the Company-Wide Emergency provision of online consultations for patients for whom Headquarters is established at coronavirus has made it difficult to attend clinics or hospitals OMRON Headquarters (2/25) (Japan, United States, etc.: May–) Prevention of spread of infection during disinfection operations March through the provision of UV-equipped robots to hospitals and Business travel to Italy, other public sector facilities (At least 10 countries, including France specified areas of Europe, and Korea and Italy: June–) is banned (3/1–) Operations are suspended at the Healthcare Business’s factory in Italy (3/9) Operations are suspended at the Industrial Automation Business’s two Contribution to Coronavirus Infection Control factories in the United States (3/17– Through Community Service Activities and 4/7) Operations are suspended at the Employees’ Volunteer Activities Electronic and Mechanical OMRON made donations of health equipment in response to the Components Business’s factory in increased demand for temperature taking in various countries as a Malaysia (3/18–23) result of COVID-19. OMRON employees also volunteered in a Operations are suspended at the development project for ventilators, which have been in short Electronic and Mechanical supply. Components Business’s factory in Italy (3/23–5/4) Donated electric thermometers in various parts of Japan and China (February–) April OMRON Employees in Spain joined an open ventilator In response to the declaration of a development project (March–) state of emergency by the Japanese Employees in various countries participated in volunteer Government, employees are directed production of face shields (April–) to work from home in principle Made donations to local charities through the OMRON (4/8–5/26) Foundation in the United States (Apr. 21) Joined the IP Open Access Declaration Against COVID-19 (May May 18) With the lifting of the declaration of a Donated 10,000 non-contact forehead thermometers to National state of emergency by the Japanese Governors’ Association in Japan (June 8) Government, transitioned to “WithDonated 500 non-contact forehead thermometers to the COVID19” mode for co-existence Cabinet Office in Japan (July 3) with the virus while balancing the Donated 7.85 million yen to the iPS Cell Research Fund through spread of infection with social and the shareholder special benefit program (September 9) economic activities (5/26) 17 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision On May 26, 2020, we shifted from “emergency response” mode, which prioritized preventing the spread of infection and the continuation of business under the state of emergency declaration, to “With-COVID-19” mode, in which we will co-exist with the virus, balancing prevention of the spread of infection with social and economic activities. In With-COVID-19 mode, while continuing with the prevention measures that we have employed to date, we will push forward with transformation and devote all our strengths to solving the social issues that become apparent as we move toward the new normal era, in which people’s values will change greatly. Toward the New Normal by COVID-19 Era Development of Remote Healthcare Consultation As we pass through the COVID crisis into a new normal era, in which Services that Will Enable Ongoing Diagnosis and people’s values will change, OMRON Treatment Even in With-Corona Times will respond to the ever increasing needs for telehealth services and for the establishment of public-sector facilities and production lines in manufacturing sites that avoid the Three Cs (closed spaces, crowded places, and close-contact settings). Initiatives by Individual Businesses Industrial Automation Business Due to the spread of COVID-19, it is believed that many Provision of innovative products, patients with hypertension have hesitated to attend their such as robotic integrated hospitals or clinics due to concerns about the risk of infection controllers to assist with the when traveling to or while attending the hospital or clinic. establishment of production lines in OMRON uses blood pressure monitors, electrocardiographs manufacturing sites that avoid the (EKG), body composition monitors, and other devices to Three Cs and with the digital measure patients’ vital data in the home. The vital data is then transformation of San Gen Shugi shared with the patient’s doctor in a timely manner. We are (principle of three realities), which engaged in the development of telehealth services that will is the great principle of enable patients to receive appropriate diagnosis and manufacturing activity treatment from their doctors, no matter where they are, P33 either in the home or at the hospital or clinic. Electronic and Mechanical Components Business OMRON Employees in Spain joined an Response to growing needs for open ventilator development project smarter equipment, such as noncontact temperature detection systems and devices that operate without manually activating a switch P41 Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business Provision of service automation, such as check-in terminals at hotels and other facilities of a highly public After witnessing the sharp rise in cases and the many deaths nature to achieve labor saving and in their own country of Spain, three employees of the contactless services. Industrial Automation Business in the European region joined P45 an open ventilator development project conducted by a non-profit organization. The ventilators developed at a rapid pace in this project were Healthcare Business donated to Spanish hospitals. With the coronavirus also ravaging South American countries, trial models are being Development of remote introduced in various countries, so the NPO donated more consultation services and roll-out of than 50 machines to Ecuador. services in Japan, the United States, Europe, and Asia P49 Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 18 Risk Management Corresponding SDGs Integrated Risk Management During COVID-19 OMRON’s Risk Management Policy stipulates that “We will identify critical risks to the Group and enable Groupwide responses through the Executive Council” and “In a time of crisis, we will make reports in accordance with established procedures prescribed in the OMRON Rules for Integrated Risk Management and form response teams necessary to address crisis.” Based on this policy and rules, we have responded to the recent COVID-19 pandemic. On January 27, when COVID-19 began spreading in countries and regions outside China, OMRON declared the COVID-19 pandemic a Grade A Crisis that would hinder the achievement of the OMRON Group’s important goals. We launched the Pandemic Response Headquarters headed by Nitto, Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CFO and Senior General Manager, Global Strategy HQ, taking measures to ensure the safety of employees and business continuity. As COVID-19 then began sweeping the globe, President and CEO Yamada deemed it necessary to upgrade risk management to deal with a Grade S Crisis, which represents the highest risk, and appointed himself the directorgeneral of the emergency headquarters. Since then, we have worked with all OMRON Group companies around the world to strengthen measures against COVID-19. Putting our top priority on ensuring the health and safety of employees, as well as preventing the spread of the disease in regions where the companies operate. We have arranged to deliver relief goods to employees working in regulated areas and are preparing IT infrastructure and other measures to expand telecommuting. Based on the assumption of living COVID-19, we will continue to ensure the safety and peace of mind of employees and prevent the spread of the disease in communities, and we will play our role in ensuring the supply to our customers and fulfilling social responsibilities. Integrated Risk Management for Supporting Global Business Activities OMRON initiated its integrated risk Business Risks management when it began executing External Risk Management, Business Strategy, Financial Risk VG2020. Our risk management platform Impact on management performance and financial health Economic Ratings Market trends reflects the sentiment of top Macro: Macro: Finance: downturn downgrade Interest rate management that the faster pace of Finance: situation Exchange Anti-bribery Legal: change in the operating environment Market volatility Finance: Macro: fluctuation Anti-trust Legal: and rising levels of uncertainty calls for Defects, recalls rapid response to risk. We have Geopolitical Risk Quality: become more attuned to risk, scenting Change inGeopolitical international relations risk: Patent disputes R&D: Brand and addressing risks at the earliest Stricter laws and Geopolitical R&D: infringement regulations risk: stages. Geopolitical Trade restraints Information Legal: securities risk: To visualize diverse risks faced in the Security trade Legal: controls course of our global business Initial response Quality: failure operation, we have categorized the Supplier CSR Procurement: Environmental laws issues entire spectrum of risks that impact Environmental and regulations conservation: Legal Risk management performance and financial Price changes Procurement: health and have charted their Decline in social Crisis evaluation response: interrelationships. We aim to develop effective risk Contagious Natural Data breach IT security: Component Procurement of disease disaster shortages components: management whereby all employees Climate change Natural Major data IT security: Product supply Production: and disaster disaster collapse disruption and management teams can work Unforeseen Natural HumanIndustrial System failure IT security: together to solve issues arising from disaster accident disaster resource: Natural Disaster Risk Resource, Infrastructure Risk environmental changes that cannot be resolved at the working level. We work Graphic representation of the business risks as shown on to improve our initiatives by following https://www.omron.com/global/en/ir/management/risk/ the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle on a global scale. Another important aspect is to consider the accelerated environmental changes as opportunities and determine how to take risks. While adhering to the OMRON Management Philosophy and OMRON Group rules, we are addressing how to make efficient, effective, and prompt risk decisions at the working level. 19 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision Integrated Risk Management Structure OMRON has established a PDCA cycle that is conducted throughout the year to analyze risks, respond to material risks, and engage in crisis management. To promote initiatives on a global scale with all employees, risk managers are appointed for each headquarters, division, regional headquarters, and group company across the world. Activity Cycle for Integrated Risk Management Corporate Ethics & Risk Management Execute Plan Committee Share and report information related to Determine risk response plan for the upcoming material risks Plan Do year Conduct activities based on the plan Determine budgets for the upcoming year Corporate ethics month Board of Directors Analyze Global Risk Annual activity review Headquarters, regional headquarters, Executive Council divisions Report the progress of activities for the current Act Check Corporate Ethics & Risk Management year Committee Report the results of global risk analysis Annual activity review Determine material Group risks for the Share analysis of risks upcoming year Identify material Group risk candidates Disclose Results of Activities Critical Risk Management FY2019 Critical Risks One of the main initiatives of integrated risk Grade S risk: business continuity, global information/IT management is to analyze risks on a global scale, security, global statutory violations (such as bribery), and others identify material risks, and take measures to address Grade A risk: geopolitical risk, occupational safety and them. OMRON classifies risks that may jeopardize the Frequency health, and others existence of the Group or result in substantial social Extremely liabilities as Grade S risks. The most critical risks in high Critical risks in High Grade A risk Grade S risk the management of the Group, and risks that would impede the achievement of important Group goals is Moderate each business classified as Grade A risks. The grade of risks is discussed by the Corporate Ethics and Risk Low Management Committee and then graded by the Impact C B A S Executive Council. As a risk manager for the Americas, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Brazil, I am responsible for the management of risks, environment, safety and health, and facilities. My duties include assisting with developing business continuity plans (BCPs) in the event of a natural disaster or pandemic. When COVID-19 began to spread across the Americas, we took three initiatives to continue our business while placing top priority on ensuring the safety and health of OMRON employees. First, we mandated that, in principle, all salespeople and administrative workers in the Americas, accounting for the majority of employees in the region, work from home. As there are many hurricanes and other natural disasters in the Americas, we OMRON MANAGEMENT had already tested this prior to COVID-19. As a result, the initiative went smoothly. CENTER OF AMERICA Second, we took initiatives for employees working at factories. At each factory, we Americas Risk Manager quickly implemented a non-contact measuring system to take the temperature of employees coming to work, distributed protective gear, and took swift measures to Kevin Bulatek avoid the “Three Cs (closed spaces, crowded places, and close-contact settings).” Lastly, we focused on communication. Legal affairs departments took a lead in collecting information on COVID-19 provided by federal and state governments as well as information received from employees regarding initiatives during the COVID-19 pandemic. We shared these information was shared with employees on a regular basis. To ease employees’ anxieties, we distributed face masks to those who could not obtain them themselves and also supplied a COVID-19 prevention kit containing rubber gloves, face masks, and goggles to employees who had to visit customers. We intend to draw on this experience to develop a resilient risk management plan for unexpected situations. Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 20 OMRON’s Business and Fiscal 2019 Results OMRON manufactures and sells market-leading sensing and control products in around 120 countries/regions around the world. Our products include control equipment, electronic components, social systems, and healthcare items. Consolidated Sales Composition Ratio Healthcare Business Industrial Automation (HCB) Business (IAB) Providing a Eliminations and Corporate OMRON’s mainstay comprehensive lineup of business; innovating healthcare products for home and hospital use 1% ¥8.9 billion global manufacturing through factory automation 17% ¥112.0 billion FY 2019 Social Systems, Solutions and 17% Consolidated Sales by Business Segment 52% Electronic and Mechanical ¥352.8 billion Service Business (SSB) Offering social ¥116.0 billion ¥678.0 billion Components Business (EMC) Providing the market with infrastructure systems for sophisticated 13 a safer, more comfortable components that create society seamless relationships % between people and ¥88.4 billion machines Net Sales and Number of Employees by Region (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2020: Net Sales ¥678.0 billion Number of Employees 28,006 Consolidated) Japan Greater China Net Sales ¥311.5 billion Net Sales ¥126.1 billion Number of Number of Employees 10,600 Employees 8,031 Europe Americas Asia Pacific Net Sales Net Sales Net Sales ¥108.5 billion ¥67.8 billion ¥62.7 billion Number of Employees Number of Employees Number of Employees 2,320 1,798 5,257 * Regional categories are defined as follows: Americas includes North America, Central America, and South America. Europe includes Europe, Russia, Africa, and Middle East. Greater China includes China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Asia Pacific includes Southeast Asia, Korea, India, and Oceania. 21 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision Financial Highlights Gross Profit Margin ROIC EPS and Dividend 44.8% 14.1% ¥365.3 Gross Profit Margin Selling, general and administrative expenses ratio Earnings per share Cash dividends per share (excluding R&D expenses) R&Dexpenses ratio Operating income margin Dividend payout ratio Dividend on equity (%) (%) (Yen) (%) 50 15 14.1 400 40 365.3 44.4 44.8 31.6 32.2 13.4 31.1 40 44.7 12.7 296.9 39.3 39.3 300 283.9 30 38.5 38.5 11.3 10 25.3 260.8 10.3 10.6 30 9.7 25.0 219.0 215.1 25.6 29.9 209.8 28.5 23.0 27.6 200 20 24.7 24.3 20 23.5 23.4 Expected cost 5 of capital 10.2 10.5 100 84 84 10 8.8 7.5 8.6 9.2 8.1 6% 71 68 68 76 10 53 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.6 6.7 6.8 5.7 3.4 3.2 3.3 3.5 3.3 2.9 3.1 0 0 0 0 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Gross profit margin reached a record high, Our focus on ROIC management resulted OMRON paid dividends of ¥84 per share, driven by stronger group-wide earnings in a 14.1% ROIC, far above our 6% representing dividend on equity above our capacity expected cost of capital. target of approximately 3%. Cash and Cash Equivalents Ratio of Overseas Sales Capital Expenditures ¥185.5 billion 54.1% ¥33.1 billion Cash and Cash Equivalents Overseas Total Japan Capital expenditures Total interest-bearing liabilities Depreciation and amortization (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 200.0 70 50.0 185.5 60 60.1 60.3 40.0 58.4 57.3 38.1 150.0 55.4 56.5 36.9 54.1 35.7 50 33.7 33.1 126.0 33.0 31.5 44.6 45.9 30.0 28.3 29.0 102.6 106.2 103.9 40 41.6 42.7 43.5 39.9 39.7 25.1 25.7 25.4 25.7 100.0 24.3 90.3 82.9 30 20.0 20 50.0 10.0 10 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.3 2.1 1.6 0 0 0 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 As a result of a business transfer, cash and OMRON’s overseas sales ratio remains OMRON made carefully selected capital cash equivalents increased significantly over 50%. investments, including increased year on year. production facilities and investment in operating sites for future growth. * The Automotive Electronics Components Business (AEC) was transferred, and the AEC business was classified as a “discontinued business.” Accordingly, some financial data for fiscal 2017 and 2018 have been reclassified. Vision OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 22 Non-Financial Highlights Ratio of non-Japanese in Ratio of women in managerial Ratio of employees with disabilities managerial positions overseas roles (OMRON Group in Japan) (OMRON Group in Japan) 70% 5.9% 2.8% * Ratio of women in managerial roles (left) OMRON Group in Japan No. of women in managerial roles (right) Japanese national average (%) (%) (Number) (%) 80 8 100 4 70 85 62 60 6 75 3 2.8 2.6 2.5 2.5 49 49 5.2 2.4 2.4 2.4 46 59 42 42 53 40 4 50 2 2.1 2.1 2.0 3.6 1.9 1.9 36 1.8 1.8 3.3 30 23 27 20 2 2.3 25 1 1.8 1.9 1.5 0 0 0 0 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Depending on the size of the overseas We are increasing the ratio of women in We are striving to create more employment OMRON Group companies, we will leadership-level managerial roles in Japan. opportunities and fulfilling work for disabled increase the ratio of local employees to the persons. number of important positions determined * Figures represent results as of April 20. Highlighted figure * Figures represent results as of June 20. by OMRON. is as of April 20, 2020. * For companies subject to the Act on Employment * From FY2018, concurrent positions for governance and * In the domestic OMRON group, the number of women in Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. development positions are excluded. managerial positions ratio. * Employment rate calculation is based on the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. Environmental Contribution Greenhouse Gas Emissions 971 166 Energy-Generation Product thousand thousand ton-CO2 ton-CO2 Environmental contribution Greenhouse gas emissions CO2 emissions of production sites Net sales to CO2 emissions (Thousand ton-CO2) (Million yen / ton-CO2) (Thousand ton-CO2) 1,200 5 500 PV inverters 4.47 5.02 1,055 4.12 4.22 1,000 971 3.94 4 3.83 400 851 3.60 800 Energy-Saving Product 661 659 3 271 300 593 250 235 600 508 2 166 200 400 215 221 202 202 204 1 100 193 200 135 0 0 0 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Electricity monitors (left) Environment ANDON (right) FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 We are expanding the environmental contribution of OMRON OMRON has established its new environmental target “OMRON products and services that reduce the impact on the environment. Carbon Zero” with the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions We also strive to reduce CO2 emissions at our production centers to zero by 2050. OMRON has set greenhouse gas emissions as an through the use of our own energy saving products. indicator to achieve that goal. * Environmental Contribution = Volume of CO2 emissions reduction contributed by * Net sales to CO2 emissions: Net sales per one ton of CO2 emissions society’s use of the OMRON Group’s energy generation and savings products and * Since fiscal 2016, OMRON has been using the following published figures for the CO2 services. emissions coefficient associated with electric power: Japan: Ministry of the EnvironmentCalculation method : By Power Company (updated annually); China: National Development and Innovation https://sustainability.omron.com/en/environ/contribution/products/#calc Committee – By Power Company (updated annually); Other: IEA, by country (2011) https://sustainability.omron.com/en/environ/reduce/co2/#co2 Indicates independent verification or review performed by a third party. P103 23 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Vision Message from the CFO September 2020 To Solve Social Issues of the Future Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer ROIC Management to Maximize Earning CFO and Senior General Manager, Global Strategy HQ Ability Koji Nitto Earning Capacity and Responsiveness to for OMRON to measure the value we have provided to customers. No matter how excellent Change Displayed in the Midst of Adversity the products we manufacture may be, we cannot increase our GP margin unless we can – The capabilities of a company can be tested communicate the value those products offer based on how well they are able to respond to appropriately and have customers buy them at drastic changes in the environment. As CFO, appropriate prices. GP margin is, in a nutshell, our how would you sum up fiscal 2019? overall ability to earn profits that is a measure of In response to the impact of the trade friction the company’s ability to get things done as a between the United States and China that has manufacturer, from planning to development, continued since fiscal 2018, we revised our production, and sales. It includes its efforts to business forecasts downward when we announced reduce costs, including variable costs, its ability to our second quarter financial results for the fiscal supply products in a timely manner, and its ability year. In the fourth quarter, just as we started to see to improve customer value by proposing solutions. signs of recovery from that impact, we were struck In that respect, in fiscal 2019, despite a decline in by the unforeseen blow of the COVID-19 pandemic. net sales, we achieved our highest ever GP margin Looking back now, it was an extremely harsh year. of 44.8%, which gave us a major confidence boost. Even so, we reached the end of the fiscal year with This is the outcome of the efforts that we have better results than we had expected during the steadily pursued for over 10 years, with a focusing year. on that ability to earn profits. Since fiscal 2011, OMRON has upheld Value In terms of responsiveness to change, I believe Generation 2020 (VG2020), its long-term vision for that continuous review of our business portfolio is the company that focuses on the growing key. In fiscal 2019, as well as the grave decision we capability, earning capacity, and responsiveness to made to sell off our Automotive Electronic change. I strongly believe that the reason we were Components Business (AEC), we proceeded to able to overcome the harsh conditions of fiscal wrap up our Backlights Business, which had been a 2019 was that our earning capacity and pending issue. This was the result of rebuilding our responsiveness to change have steadily improved. business structure in line with Portfolio The main focus in the evaluation of earning capacity Management, which is one of the pillars of ROIC is gross profit (GP) margin (gross profit on net Management that OMRON has been pursuing. sales), which is an indicator of our capacity to Such a rebuilding of business structure is another generate profits. This is the most important index major factor that contributed significantly to the Strategy OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 24 increase in GP margin by 3.6 percentage points* Regarding GP margin, the negative impact of over the previous year. With the addition of the exchange rates has been taken into account, so the gains on the sale of the business, our financial plan target is unchanged from the previous year. If, position has become extremely strong. however, we were to discount that impact, the * When the Automotive Electronic Components Business is excluded from the FY2018 forecast would be a substantive increase in GP results, fiscal 2019 GP margin is an increase of 0.4 percentage points over the previous year. margin of about 0.7 percentage points. We have already achieved a record high of 45.3% in the first – President Yamada has said that, among the quarter of fiscal 2020, so we anticipate that we will three abilities that we have focused on in the be able to achieve our target of 44.8% for the full long-term vision, the growth power to push up fiscal year. our top line (net sales) further will be our We have forecast operating income of ¥30 billion challenge going forward. How would you for this fiscal year, despite an anticipated significant support it? decline in net sales of 13% year-on-year. We will I think that continuing to invest in future growth will steadily reduce fixed costs by ¥20 billion yen per be important. To this end, we will need to further annum as planned, but I think that the enhance the operational excellence of our existing strengthening of GP margin, which indicates the businesses. We will improve our GP margin by ability of our core businesses to earn profits, will be eliminating unreasonableness and waste, improving a major contributing factor. productivity, and providing value at an appropriate Fiscal 2020 is expected to be even more difficult price. Then, the question becomes how much of than the previous year, but it is the understanding the resources generated through those efforts we and cooperation of the people on the ground that can divert into growth areas. No matter how has allowed us to set these targets. Behind those excellent your growth strategy is, you cannot sow efforts is management based on the OMRON the seeds of growth without those resources. Of Principles. What does society expect of us and how course, there is no guarantee that investments will can we contribute to society? The fact that the generate growth, but it is a prerequisite for growth OMRON Principles are shared by all employees that you must continue to take risks and invest in globally undoubtedly works as a driving force for us future growth. to get through these difficult times together. A The entire company will work on ambidexterity in sense of crisis alone is not enough to make people our management, deepening existing businesses, take action. Something that connects people to and exploring and establishing new businesses to others is needed. For OMRON, that something is push up our top line and acquire the capacity for the OMRON Principles. self-driven growth. Some challenges may be difficult to overcome by one company alone. While FY2020 Plan (Billions of yen) ensuring the flexibility of our operations, we will also set our sights on partnerships, strategic FY2020 Plan Y/Y alignments, M&As, and alliances. Net Sales 590.0 – 13.0% – Due to the COVID crisis, the business Gross Profit 264.5 – 12.9% performances of many companies in fiscal 2020 Operating Income 30.0 – 45.2% remain unclear. What is OMRON’s outlook? Our plan target is to maintain a high level of GP Net Income 16.5 – 78.0% margin at 44.8%, despite a forecast decline in Gross Profit Margin 44.8% + 0.0pt* net sales of 13%. * +0.7 pt if exchange rate impact is excluded Net Sales, Operating Income, GP (Gross Profit Margin) Results (FY2011-FY2020) Net Sales (billions of yen) 847.3 860.0 859.5 Operating Income (billions of yen) 833.6 44.8% 44.8% 773.0 794.2 GP (Gross Profit Margin) (%) 678.5 650.5 619.5 41.6% 41.2% 590.0 86.6 68.1 38.5% 39.3% 77.0 39.3% 67.6 67.3 62.3 54.8 48.0 45.3 38.5% 30.0 37.1% 36.8% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Forecast Year 25 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Strategy – President Yamada has heralded the concept To Soar in the Post-COVID Era of Selection and Decentralization. As CFO, how would you put this concept into practice? In order to survive and thrive in the post-COVID – President Yamada has positioned fiscal era, each existing business will need to enhance its 2020 and 2021 as a period of preparation and autonomy, increase its speed, and take up the transformation in anticipation of the postchallenge of creating new value. At the same time, COVID era, and says that the company will work we will also need to take into full consideration the on three challenges ((1) establishment of new risks of keeping our businesses too fixed. OMRON businesses, (2) shift to service-based businesses currently has selected a business portfolio that and recurring businesses, and (3) overhaul of comprises the three business domains of factory operations and digitalization). automation, healthcare, and social solutions, with We will accelerate our challenge to shift our the addition of the Electronic and Mechanical business model from goods to services. To this end, Components Business (EMC), but there is no it will be necessary to establish incubation guarantee that we will be able to continue with mechanisms for the generation of new businesses. these domains forever. To build up the OMRON of This includes co-creation with external parties. the future, we need to generate businesses that Meanwhile, we will work on a review of our cost will become new “pillars”. structures to reduce fixed costs and further reinforce So, how to go about that? The key to that question our profitability. While our GP margin, which is decentralization. As we select business domains indicates earnings capability, has increased, that leverage our own strengths, we will strive to problems remain with the level of SG&A (selling, decentralize them to an appropriate degree to general and administrative expenses), so we will generate new business. You could say we will need review efficiency and cost structure thoroughly. select how we go about that decentralization. In addition, digitalization needs to be addressed OMRON started with control devices. The founder urgently to improve the operational excellence of leveraged this technology to enter the healthcare our existing businesses. With the need for a global business, later expanding the business into social overhaul and integration of our main systems, we systems such as automatic ticket gates at railway are currently working at fever pitch on the overall stations. If we had defined ourselves solely as a conceptualization and design. This will entail manufacturer of control devices, neither the changes in formats and procedures, which may Healthcare Business nor the Social Systems, cause discomfort and confusion on the front line. Solutions and Service Business would ever have However, unless the entire company works come into being. In other words, OMRON has together to overcome this, we will not be able to been selecting its core technologies and establish the foundations for data-based decentralizing its business domains for a very long management. The next two years will be a critical time. period in our digital transformation (DX). With strong will and determination and, of course, – Selection and decentralization also works with the appropriate level of funding, we will because OMRON has established ROIC pursue this to completion. Management, is that correct? Exactly. Decentralization also requires discipline. – So, you are saying that the next two years This means instilling a mechanism, namely ROIC will be a critical period in OMRON’s history? management, to strengthen discipline in all Because the COVID crisis has significantly changed companies and business units, be they existing or the assumptions of our business, we redefined new, and maintaining centripetal force. We need to fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021 as periods for the achieve a high degree of balance between acceleration of transformation that will lead to the concentration, as a centripetal force, and next stage of our growth. decentralization, as a centrifugal force. The time of the 2008 global financial crisis was still Precisely because the OMRON Principles underpin an era of quantitative expansion, but that will end that balance, we will be able to unite everyone in due to the COVID crisis and we will likely see the same direction. We apply this to ROIC qualitative shifts in many areas. I maintain a strong Management as well. Known as the Down-Top sense of crisis that, unless we can adapt to this ROIC Tree, this process breaks ROIC down into the change, we will not be able to survive. To enhance key performance indicators (KPIs) such as our responsiveness to change and to soar in the automation rate and the facilities turnover rate to post-COVID era, we will accelerate our find out how efficiencies achieved through transformation over these two years. improvements in business processes on the front Strategy OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 26 line lead to improved results. The Down-Top ROIC companies are evaluating OMRON from a longTree serves to visualize this analysis. term perspective. To meet these expectations and In addition, we thoroughly implement Portfolio continue to increase our corporate value, we will Management, which evaluates businesses based implement cash allocations based on capital on their economic and market values and imposes efficiency in the order of growth investments, a hurdle ROIC rate of 10% on our approximately 60 stable dividends, and treasury stock. business units. We have set this criterion at 10% Our standard for cash-on-hand is one to two because it would cover OMRON’s estimated cost months of monthly sales at normal times. This is a of capital of 6%, and we have informed all range of approximately ¥50 billion to ¥100 billion businesses that a failure to reach that target would yen. In the current fiscal year, with the profit from be equivalent to a loss of corporate value. We have last year’s sale of the Automotive Electronic established a rule that, if a business’s ROIC falls Components Business and in preparation for drastic below 6%, it will be given a certain grace period in changes in the business environment in withwhich to recover, and if the business is still unable COVID times, we have increased that amount to to meet that bar, we will start considering approximately ¥200 billion, which is equivalent to divestiture. On the other hand, we also see growth three to four months of monthly sales. Through the potential as an important indicator. This is because flexible use of this cash-on-hand, we will steadily growing businesses require larger investments and implement investments for future growth even in tend to be less profitable. In some cases, we may the with-COVID era. make further investments in such businesses, Regarding dividends, although we have forecast despite their being less profitable, to accelerate falls in sales and income for this fiscal year, we will their growth. (Category B in the diagram at the bottom of the next continue to pay a dividend of ¥84 per share. Due to page) the current difficulties in predicting the business The indication of clear divestiture criteria actually environment, we will allocate capital appropriately allows employees to engage in new businesses in accordance with the DOE (Dividend on Equity) with peace of mind. criteria. While maintaining discipline, by investing capital to – Finally, what will OMRON do to meet the ensure future growth, we will enhance our expectations of its shareholders? corporate value and meet the expectations of Despite announcing forecasts of lower net sales shareholders. As CFO, I will fulfill that and income for the first quarter at the end of July, I responsibility. understand the favorable reception of this announcement from the market to be an expression of the expectations of our stakeholders toward OMRON. My sense is that, because we are firmly holding to our long-term vision, more Business Units Subject to Portfolio Management (FY2019) (Unit: ¥1 billion) Net Sales: >¥10 billion) Net Sales: ¥10–3 billion) Net Sales: <¥3 billion) 70 26 businesses 20 businesses 17 businesses 60 Category S ROIC: 10% or above; growth rate (annual): 5% or above 50 Category A ROIC: 10% or above; growth rate (annual): less than 5% 40 Category B ROIC: Less than 10%; growth rate (annual): 5% or above Category C ROIC: Less than 10%; growth rate (annual): less than 5% 30 20 10 0 27 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Strategy ROIC Management ROIC management consists of Down-Top ROIC Tree and Portfolio Management. OMRON encompasses a number of business ROIC Management divisions with varied characteristics. We believe ROIC is an excellent measure for assessing business performance fairly for each business. Using operating income or operating income Down-Top Portfolio margin as an indicator doesn’t account for ROIC Tree Management variances due to the nature or scope of a business. ROIC, on the other hand, measures return on invested capital, providing a fair assessment. Down-Top ROIC Tree Down-Top ROIC Tree KPI Drivers Down-Top ROIC Tree breaks ROIC into key performance indicators for each department, Sales in Focus Industries / Areas Gross Profit Margin allowing us to improve ROIC at the most basic Sales of New / Focus Products operating level. Using simple ROS or invested Selling Price Control Added-Value % capital turnover as ROIC indicators are ineffective, Variable Cost Reduction, Value % since they do not relate directly to front-line Defect Cost % ROS operations. On-site managers would have trouble Per-Head Production #Units thinking of ways to improve ROIC using these Automation % Fixed Manufacturing Costs % indicators. However, we can break ROIC down (Headcount Reduction) into automation/head count reduction or facilities Labor Costs-Sales % SG&A % ROIC Invested Capital Turnover turnover as KPIs of manufacturing departments. R&D % With these indicators, managers can finally see how their goals tie directly to ROIC improvement Inventory Turnover Months Working Capital initiatives. At OMRON, one of our greatest Slow-Moving Inventory Months Turnover strengths is our unified approach to improving Credits & Debits Months ROIC from the ground level up. Facilities Turnover Fixed Asset Turnover (1/N Automation Ratio) Portfolio Management OMRON consists of approximately 60 business units, each subject to a portfolio management system that assesses the economic value of the unit according to (1) ROIC and (2) sales growth rate. In this way, OMRON management can make proper and timely decisions related to new business entry, growth acceleration, restructuring, or divestiture to drive improvements in OMRON Group value. We consider both the economic value and the market competitiveness of a business to allocate limited resources in an optimal manner. This assessment system allows us to identify the growth potential of each business unit, making an optimal allocation of our resources. Assessing Economic Value Assessing Competitiveness B S B S Sales Growth Rate (%) Market Growth Rate (%) Expecting Growth Investment C A C A Profit Restructuring Examining Regrowth ROIC (%) Market Share (%) Strategy OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 28 VG2.0 Medium-Term Management Plan A Road Map Anchored in the Future In 2011, OMRON started Value Generation 2020 (VG2020), a plan that outlines a 10-year vision for our company. VG2.0, our medium-term management plan launched in fiscal 2017, is the last stage of VG2020. Spanning four fiscal years, VG2.0 also defines our long-term strategy to respond to social change beyond the timeframe. In drafting VG2.0, we forecast future world trends and social changes, incorporating these projections of the future into our strategies. VG2.0 also reflects considerations of the SINIC theory (OMRON’s unique future predictive model) and Sustainable Development Goals*. Innovation driven by social needs. It is the core tenet of the OMRON Principles and a concept driving us to solve social issues through leveraging open innovation with customers and partners. To achieve this, we have set the following three focused domains in growing market where we can exhibit our strength: Factory Automation (FA), Healthcare, and Social Solutions. Given the spread of COVID-19, OMRON puts the highest priority on crisis response for ensuring business continuity and profitability for the 2 years between fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021, assuming that the “with COVID-19” situation will remain during the period. Aiming for sustainable growth in a new normal era, we specified the 2 years as the period of transformation, which will lead to our next long-term vision, to accelerate business structure shift and strengthen profitability by maximizing the ability to respond to change. The next long-term vision period will begin in fiscal 2022. OMRON Growing Concern for Social Issues Sustainability VG2.0 Labor shortages Frequent traffic Adapting to changes in accidents, congestion Business Strategies manufacturing Deteriorating urban environment 1. Redefine focus domains and maximize the strength of businesses 2. Evolve business models Aging society Soaring medical Advancing climate change 3. Reinforce core technologies costs Rapid Technological Innovation Collaborative Creation with Partners Operations/Functional Strategies AI Human Resource Management, Manufacturing/Environment and Risk Management IoT Robotics * Goals for sustainable development adopted by the United Nations. 29 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Strategy VG2.0 and Sustainability Initiatives OMRON has aligned sustainability targets with our VG2.0 goals to pursue sustainable corporate value through the generation of social value. Based on the OMRON Sustainability Policy, we identified social issues in VG2.0 to be solved through focus domains, while selecting core sustainability issues to support our execution of VG2.0 as well as answer the expectations of our stakeholders. We set goals in these areas to achieve by fiscal 2020, and began working toward these goals in fiscal 2017. In the same year, we added progress toward VG2.0 and sustainability indicators* evaluated by third parties into the mediumand long-term performance-linked stock based compensation system for our officers and directors. P31 nciples icy 2020-2021 Period of transformation for the Sustainability Initiatives next long-term vision  risis Response for C Social Issues to be solved through our Business P33 Ensuring Business Continuity A  ccelerate Business FA Healthcare Social Solutions Transformation for Sustainable Growth 2030 Shared Goals (SDGs) Among Collaborative Creation with Partners International Society Issues Responding to Stakeholder Expectations P31 Human Resource Management Manufacturing/Environment Risk Management https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ * An evaluation based on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). Strategy OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 30 Sustainability Initiatives: Progress Throughout fiscal 2019, we worked on our Sustainability Goals to be achieved by fiscal 2020. We have made steady progress in solving individual issues by leveraging our company-wide management structure and through Sustainability Promotion Committee and Executive Council discussions and engagement activities in response to stakeholder evaluations. The Board of Directors receives reports from operating divisions, oversight and supervising initiatives related to sustainability issues. Solving Social Issues Through our Businesses (Three Domains) OMRON has identified social issues to be solved in 3 business domains it focuses on. The Company has set targets for addressing the issues. Factory Automation P33 Shrinking labor force, as an issue in global manufacturing Social Issues  hortage of skilled workforce on production floors and requirements of increasingly advanced & S to be Solved diversifying manufacturing processes Generate applications to embody the concept of innovative-Automation in our four focused Fiscal 2020 industries, establish control technologies, and develop new products—Generate Control Goals Technologies for Manufacturing Innovation— More than 170 applications embodying innovative-Automation R  esponded flexibly to changes in product models and setups, and generate new value through Fiscal 2019 improved operating capacity, “Flexible Production Line” that contributes to manufacturing Progress innovation, and “Cell-Line Control System,” that fosters harmony between humans and machines Healthcare P49 Social Issues Increased incidence of brain diseases and cardiovascular diseases attributable to high blood pressure to be Solved Increased worldwide prevalence of asthma and other respiratory diseases Blood pressure monitor sales: 25 million units/year Fiscal 2020 Development of analytical technologies to continuously track blood pressure fluctuations Goals Nebulizer and wheeze detector sales: 7.65 million units/year Blood pressure monitor sales: 20.01 million units/year C  ompleted clinical evaluation of wearable blood pressure monitor (relationship between hidden Fiscal 2019 hypertension and underlying causes related to lifestyle activities; evaluation of accuracy during Progress daily measurements) Nebulizer and wheeze detector sales: 3.44 million units/year Social Solutions P45 Increase in traffic accidents and traffic jam Social Issues Global warming from CO2 emissions to be Solved Slow expansion of the renewable energy market Transport Creation of safe driving support systems and technologies Fiscal 2020 Energy Cumulative shipped capacity of solar power/storage battery systems: 11.2GW Goals Build an energy resource aggregation business using solar power/storage battery systems (Japan) Transport Introduced tailgating detection function Fiscal 2019 Energy Solar power system: Cumulative shipping capacity 9.6GW Progress Storage battery system: Cumulative shipping capacity 438MWh 31 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Strategy Solving Issues Responding to Stakeholder Expectations OMRON has set a total of 11 sustainability targets for issues to be addressed for strengthening its business base and responding to stakeholder expectations. Here, we will provide five examples of these targets. Please visit our website for all targets. (URL:https://sustainability.omron.com/en/omron_csr/tasks_goals/) Human Resources Management Talent Attraction and Development P60 Continue evolution of TOGA*1 towards meeting OMRON Principles Fiscal 2020 Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial positions overseas: 66% Goals Accelerate the PDCA implementation through employee engagement surveys VOICE*2 TOGA has taken root as a process to share and recognize voluntary employee initiatives in practicing the OMRON Principles Fiscal 2019 Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial positions overseas: 70% (+8 points vs. prior year) Progress Implemented improvement measures in response to organizational issues identified in our engagement survey VOICE Respect for Human Rights and Labor Practices P64 Fiscal 2020 Define and adopt due diligence process Goals Implement analyses and corrective actions regarding human rights risks at all production sites Initiatives to respect the human rights of not only own employees, but also those from service providers (employee dispatch companies and contractors) (OMRON Group in Japan) Established and began operations of a system to protect the human rights of all persons working Fiscal 2019 at our business locations Progress Completed management design and trial operations of a human rights risk management system for employee dispatch companies and contractors Expanded the number of production facilities conducting human rights risks analysis/corrective actions: Total 19 locations Manufacturing, Environment Supply Chain Management S  ustainability selfassessment for important suppliers (Partner Suppliers): 100% Fiscal 2020 Goals implementation ratio Sustainability selfassessment: Achieve RBA score of 85 or more  ompleted sustainability self checks for all critical suppliers C Fiscal 2019 Of the 12 companies scoring less than 85 points, we received plans from 11, agreeing on the Progress details of the initiatives proposed Environment P67 Fiscal 2020 Reduce total GHG emissions by 4% (vs. fiscal 2016) Goals Environmental contribution to exceed CO2 emissions from production centers Fiscal 2019 Reduced total GHG emissions by 34% (vs. fiscal 2016) Progress Environmental contribution of 971kt-CO2 > Production location CO2 emissions: 135kt-CO2 Risk Management Privacy and Data Security Fiscal 2020 Build a new information security system Goals Fiscal 2019 Improved security level of IT networks at global major sites Progress *1 TOGA: The OMRON Global Awards *2 VOICE: VG OMRON Interactive Communication with Employee Strategy OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 32 Industrial Automation Domains Factory Automation Business (IAB) Corresponding SDGs With the vision to “bring innovation to manufacturing by automation, to enrich lives of people all over the world,” the Industrial Automation Business leverages OMRON technologies to create innovations in manufacturing. These innovations contribute to productivity advancements in the world’s manufacturing industry. Setting our unique innovative-Automation concept, our aim is to enrich the lives of people around the world by generating/making manufacturing innovations through our technologies and solutions based on the widest range of control devices in the industrial market. Digital Transformation Needed Rapidly in Manufacturing Floors The environment surrounding the manufacturing industry has been undergoing great changes recently. This includes changes in needs in manufactured items and methods, manufacturing locations, and manufacturing personnel, as well as changes in seeds, such as artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), robotics, and other technological innovations. To solve these challenges faced in manufacturing floors through innovations, OMRON came up with the unique innovative-Automation concept in 2016. By 2019, we had created more than 170 control applications highly integrated with software by making use of more than 200,000 industry-leading control devices. These control applications have been highly appraised by our Executive Vice President customers. Company President, Industrial COVID-19 has posed unprecedented challenges to the manufacturing Automation Company floor. Lockdown and travel restrictions implemented to contain the pandemic have caused stagnation throughout the supply chains of Yutaka Miyanaga manufacturing industries, accelerating the shift from centralized mass production through globalization to local production for local consumption. In human-centered production floors, where social distancing is required, there are growing calls for diverse working styles, including remote work. As a result, there is a rapidly growing demand for digital transformation (DX) that uses digital technologies to realize the fundamental manufacturing principles, San Gen Shugi (principle of three realities), which focus on real sites, real objects and real situations. Solve New Challenges From the COVID-19 Crisis Leveraging innovative-Automation as a Partner for Manufacturing Floor Innovation As a company that has been involved in upstream processes of manufacturing for many years, OMRON regards it as its social responsibility to contribute to reducing the risk of spreading COVID-19, to ensure the safety of its employees, and to support work sites that play an essential role in securing sustainable urban and social activities. The new challenges facing manufacturing in the withand post-COVID eras may also create good opportunities for further innovation leveraging innovative-Automation. Specifically, we can introduce automation to increase resilience in production, or we can apply digital technologies to engineering environments that are highly dependent on human resources, such as design and modification of production facilities and start-up and maintenance of facilities. In June 2020, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, OMRON released an AI-mounted image processing system that contributes to labor saving and automation in the field of visual inspection. This was followed in July with the launch of the robotic integrated controller that enables advanced synchronization of robots and control devices comprising production facilities, and achieves remote engineering at any time and place. These products represent value that can only be provided by OMRON, a company that possesses all the necessary automation devices, including sensors, motion technologies, robots, and safety devices that comprise facilities, and enables automation in a comprehensive manner. To continue with manufacturing innovations in the new world after the COVID crisis, we are working to build remote, online, and other forms of support systems that take into account the health and safety of our customers to the fullest. As a good partner for manufacturing floor innovation, OMRON remains committed to solving new challenges with our customers. 33 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Business Highlights Net Sales / Operating Income / Operating Income Margin Capital Expenditures / Depreciation and Amortization / R&D Expenses Net Sales Operating Income Operating Income Margin (right axis) Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 396.1 391.8 400.0 20 25.0 23.3 352.8 21.0 336.0 331.0 16.1% 20.0 18.7% 15.2% 307.0 20.0 18.2 300.0 15.7% 16.4 14.3% 11.4% 15.0 200.0 10 10.0 9.3 7.4 6.9 5.3 4.5 100.0 74.0 62.9 5.0 6.9 47.9 52.0 53.6 35.0 5.2 4.8 4.0 4.2 0 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 20 FY 15 16 17 18 19 FY (Forecast) Fiscal 2019 Results and Fiscal 2020 Plan In fiscal 2019, although demand for capital investment in the digital industry remained low from the beginning of the fiscal year, signs of recovery were seen in the second half, with some investment in semiconductor-related businesses rebounding. On the other hand, demand in the automobile industry was limited as a result of restrained investment due to a decline in global new car sales. Combined with the impact of foreign exchange due to yen appreciation, among others, net sales decreased year on year. Due to the decline in net sales and the impact of foreign exchange, operating income decreased year on year. In fiscal 2020, we continue to intensify Sales by Product our efforts to offer solutions for solving issues in manufacturing floors. In addition, we place focus on responding Output + Robot Input to the growing demand for automation and labor saving due to the impact of 12 % COVID-19. We expect that it will take Fiber time for a recovery to be seen in demand Servo Motors Mobile FY2019 35 % Sensors for capital investments in the automobile and Drivers Robots industry. In light of the continued Net sales challenging business environment Logic ¥352.8 billion described above, we forecast net sales Vision Sensors for fiscal 2020 to be lower than the 53 % previous year. Due to the decline in net Safety Light Curtains sales and the impact of yen appreciation, Programmable Controllers we forecast operating income to decrease year on year. Motion Controllers Safety Controllers Progress of Sustainability Initiatives Social Issues to be Solved Fiscal 2020 Goals Labor shortages New innovative-Automation products across four focus (shrinking labor force in developed countries and lack of skilled industries workers in emerging economies) – Control technology for manufacturing innovation – Respond to increasingly advanced and diversified manufacturing processes Fiscal 2019 Progress INPUT OUTPUT OUTCOME Number of employees: 9,791 Net sales: ¥352.8 billion Improve productivity at R&D expenses: ¥20.0 billion Operating Income: ¥53.6 billion (Operating manufacturing plants through Capital expenditures: ¥4.8 billion Income Margin: 15.2%) innovative-Automation (Total of 37 Automation Centers/ Created more than 170 control applications to 2 new PoCs) realize innovative-Automation SDGs 8.2.1 Created new values, including new production line “Cell Line Control System” where people and machines can cooperate Increase added value in Launched the autonomous mobile robot LD-250 secondary industries through and expanded automation applications innovative-Automation Three partnerships for accelerating innovative-Automation SDGs 9.2.1 Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 34 Further Deepening innovative-Automation OMRON works to solve issues in manufacturing floors with the unique value creation concept, innovative-Automation. As the name suggests, “innovation” forms a key part of this concept. We have been involved deeply in our customers’ front-line operations and created an array of control applications highly integrated with software. We deliver these applications to customers in a wide range of industries around the world, including automobile, digital, and food businesses. The Automation Centers (ATCs) are production hubs for these control applications. The ATCs are intended to provide a place where our sales engineers and customers can simulate equipment for use on-site and test and demonstrate solutions for issues faced by the customers in their manufacturing floors. In January 2020, OMRON opened AUTOMATION CENTER TOKYO (ATC-TOKYO) in a highly accessible location in Shinagawa, Tokyo. ATC-TOKYO is our 37th global ATC. ATC-TOKYO is the world’s largest* ATC that simulates a manufacturing environment. At ATC-TOKYO, visitors can experience and verify AI, IoT, robotics, and other latest factory automation technology. With the ATC-TOKYO as our flagship base, more than 1,000 sales engineers support our customers in solving their issues around the world. Now, society is shifting focus from things to experiences (or services). Previous to this shift, we have been working on the manufacturing site data utilization service “i-BELT” since 2017. The service is intended to improve manufacturing productivity and quality. The i-BELT is a co-creative service that makes use of digital technology. With the i-BELT service, OMRON combines customers’ knowledge with our unique know-how that we have accumulated in control devices and software as a company well-versed in front-line manufacturing operations. In this way, we promote the transformation of our customers’ front-line operations through on-site survey, creation of an environment for data collection and visualization, ongoing analysis, and improvement suggestions. In November 2019, OMRON formed a partnership with Siemens for the open platform MindSphere® in order to solve challenges faced in globally diversified manufacturing floors. Through the partnership, OMRON is expanding the service area of i-BELT. OMRON’s strength lies in solving issues at the edge, and Siemens has the cloud-based IoT platform. Through the partnership between the two companies, we seek to make use of vast amounts of manufacturing floor data to raise the improvement levels of front-line operations in quality and quantity, as well as to solve issues across multiple manufacturing bases at a time. In September 2019, OMRON reached an agreement with NTT DOCOMO and Nokia for a joint demonstration using the fifth-generation mobile communications system (5G) in manufacturing floors. We combine NTT DOCOMO’s insight into communications technology, Nokia’s base-station platform knowledge, and our expertise in automation of manufacturing front-line operations to evaluate jointly the usefulness and potential of 5G with the aim of developing communications technology required in manufacturing floors of the future. Intelligent Machine Craftsmanship Machines That Learn and Evolve High-Speed, High-Precision Fabrication Innovative Machine Control Zero Equipment Failures Predictive Maintenance innovative-Automation Integration of Workplace and Office Sensory Inspection Integration of Equipment and Replication of Human Management Technologies Senses Mobile Robot Conveyor-Less Production Intelligent Cell-Line Collecting, Storing, and Processing Data Mechanized Cell-Line Harmonization with Machines * In terms of floor area among all of OMRON’s ATCs as of September 2020. 35 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Initiatives in Fiscal 2019 to Deepen innovative-Automation World’s Largest Flagship Base of OMRON’s FA Technology “ATC-TOKYO” At ATC-TOKYO, customers can experience and test solutions that are tailored to challenges they face with technologies and applications created through an optimal combination of our more than 200,000 control devices. Adjacent to ATC-TOKYO is AUTOMATION CENTER TOKYO POC LAB (POC-TOKYO). At the POC-TOKYO, we perform work verifications with industrial robots, autonomous mobile robots, and other various robots; test equipment that customers have brought in; conduct demonstration tests simulating the customers’ operating environments; and provide technical training for introducing these devices. In this way, ATC-TOKYO ATC-TOKYO provides customers with total support, giving them the chance to not only “experience” cutting-edge manufacturing technologies, but also “verify,” “learn skills for,” and “develop” devices. Comments from the General Manager of the Automation Center Manufacturing floors are entering a period of major transition, and is facing challenges relating to advances in manufacturing processes, high-mix low-volume production, and shortage of skilled workers. ATC-TOKYO works with customers to solve manufacturing challenges of the future by providing opportunities to experience the latest technology combining AI, IoT, robotics, and other cutting-edge technologies in a simulated manufacturing environment. Going forward, we will also Japan work on new styles of solutions through digital transformation that combine reality General Manager, Automation Center with virtual reality. Seki Yamazaki Commencement of Demonstration Trials on the Use of 5G in Factories in Cooperation with NTT DOCOMO and Nokia The trials by the three companies will test the usefulness and possibilities of 5G wireless communications, including high-speed, large-capacity, low-latency, and simultaneous multiple connections in factories. As a future application of 5G, we aim to realize layout-free production lines whereby highmix low-volume production lines using autonomous mobile robots can be constructed freely. We will also provide operators with real-time coaching to support early mastery of skills by collecting and analyzing video data that capture the line of movement and physical movements of operators and giving them immediate feedback on Analyzing operator movements differences from skilled operators. In this way, we aim to level of cooperative work between humans and machines. Comments from Our Partner 5G is expected to be utilized in many industries, therefore NTT DOCOMO is working hard on promoting the introduction of 5G for wireless communication in manufacturing settings, as one of the most promising use cases. We are grateful for the chance to cooperate with OMRON and Nokia since fiscal 2019 in the examination and demonstration trials for the use of 5G in manufacturing floors. OMRON has extensive insight and expertise in factory automation devices, control technology, and manufacturing. OMRON is a very strong partner in solving the challenges faced by manufacturing industries. NTT DOCOMO, INC. Through the collaboration, we would like to contribute to OMRON’s efforts to Senior Vice President General Manager of 6G Laboratories improve operating efficiency on manufacturing floors by taking advantage of the Mr. Takehiro Nakamura features of 5G, such as high speed, large capacity, low latency, and simultaneous multiple connections. Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 36 Contribute to Manufacturing Innovation in the With-COVID Era The spread of COVID-19 has had a major impact on the manufacturing industry. OMRON has continued to make efforts to ensure a stable supply and provide support in various ways through its global production network and sales/ service bases. These efforts include increasing the production of pharmaceuticals and other medical-related products that play an important role in anti-virus measures, starting up new facilities, supporting the production of food and other products indispensable for everyday life, and establishing production lines that avoid the “three Cs” (“closed spaces,” “crowded places,” and “close-contact settings”) on manufacturing floors. On the medical front, in particular, OMRON has supported the increased production of medical-related products such as medical face masks and gowns, which are in short supply, and antibody test kits for COVID-19. We have also begun to address new needs arising from COVID-19. One such example is a disinfecting robot mounted with an ultraviolet (UV) light irradiator using the autonomous mobile robot. The disinfecting robot takes advantage of its non-human characteristics, in particular, its immunity to pathogens, and is equipped with a UV light irradiator. It is operated by setting the locations, routes, and time for sterilization and disinfection, and has already been adopted at various facilities in more than 10 countries around the world, including Poland, France and Canada. OMRON helps reduce the burden on healthcare professionals and disinfecting personnel, and also helps prevent the risk of infection from spreading, by supplying the mobile robots to its partner, which develops disinfecting robots, and supporting their introduction. OMRON has pursued a new relationship of harmony between humans and machines based on its automation philosophy, “To the machine, the work of the machine; to humankind, the thrill of unfettered creativity.” No matter how automation technology advances, human’s flexibility and senses will never be surpassed by machines. There has long been a need for labor saving in production floors through the automation of assembly and inspection processes that are commonly performed by human resources. Following the outbreak of COVID-19, a new labor saving method is required to avoid the three Cs in human-centered manufacturing environments, such as cell lines. As a solution to meet this need, collaborative robots that work with human operators are attracting attention. Placing these collaborative robots between human operators makes it possible to avoid the three Cs on manufacturing floors, ensuring the safety of the operators while contributing to productivity at the same time. In this way, OMRON contributes to constructing manufacturing environments that can cope with the shortage of workers by ensuring optimal cooperation between humans and machines, even in the event of unforeseen circumstances such as COVID-19. Conventional human-centered manufacturing floor Manufacturing floor where humans and machines harmonize 37 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Solve Social Issues in the With-COVID Era Supporting the Increased Production of Antibody Test Kits for COVID-19 With the increasing demand for antibody test kits for COVID-19, OMRON developed a robotic solution that connects a cutting machine and a packaging machine in cooperation with the equipment manufacturer, KRAUS-MASCHINENBAU. In just a few months, we built production lines to increase production at Senova Immunoassay Systems in Germany, which develops and produces test kits. OMRON has automated Antibody test kit for COVID-19 conventional manual production processes and achieved a significant increase in speed, contributing to increased production of test kits, for which there is increased demand. Employee Comments “We are pleased that we can use our technology to support the global efforts in the fight against the corona virus to a small extent. In times like these and in flexible production of the future, cooperation is the key. We are proud that we follow with this project the OMRON Principles: “to improve lives and contribute to a better society.” Jörg Krause, Germany Area Sales Manager Automating Disinfection Work in Hospital with Mobile Robots At the Royal Hobart Hospital in Australia, medical staff had to carry large quantities of used medical equipment to a disinfection room, and the risk of contracting COVID-19 during this process was a cause for concern. In collaboration with A.E. Atherton & Sons, OMRON developed an automated solution for disinfecting medical equipment by linking disinfection equipment with the mobile robot. This solution reduces the Automated solution disinfecting for risk of infection for medical staff, relieves them from hard labor, and medical equipment contributes to creating a better working environment. Employee Comments The automated disinfection process not only reduced the risk of injury from hard labor, but it also improved the work efficiency of hospital staff and contributed to a better working style. We were able to share the OMRON Principles with our partner and deliver Australia’s first solution. John Merret, Australia Business Development Manager Preventing the Spread of Infection during Disinfection Work with a Disinfecting Robot Mounted with an Ultraviolet Light Irradiator In Poland, where COVID-19 is spreading, we focused on the disinfecting effects of ultraviolet rays. We have provided mobile robots to ControlTEC, a company developing disinfecting robots equipped with ultraviolet light irradiators, as part of our efforts to prevent the infection from spreading. The product is currently being used in public facilities, such as hospitals, schools, and hotels in Poland, reducing the risk of infection during disinfection work and contributing to the health and Disinfecting robot mounted with safety of healthcare professionals and others. an ultraviolet light irradiator Employee Comments Many companies have realized that automation can provide them with valuable support in coping with this COVID-19 challenge. It is thanks to OMRON’s Principle of solving social issues that we were able to come up with an optimal solution based on technology. Jaroslaw Drzazga, Poland Field Sales Engineer Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 38 Innovative Products That Contribute to Post-COVID Manufacturing COVID-19 has brought major changes to manufacturing floors. Key to these changes is the massive transformation brought about by the latest digital technology, digital transformation (DX). We expect to see further diversification in the way people work, and acceleration in the automation of manufacturing front-line operations. OMRON has launched solutions for accelerating the digital transformation on production floors and the innovation of manufacturing. These solutions include an image processing system with defect detection AI to automate visual inspections, an autonomous mobile robot capable of carrying the heaviest class payload*1 in the world, and a robotic integrated controller that integrates and controls robots and control devices. The image processing system with defect detection AI makes use of the knowledge that OMRON has accumulated over more than 30 years in the field of visual inspection. Even an engineer with no expertise in AI can bring out the system’s high inspection performance by getting the system to learn from only about 10 images. The image processing system incorporates AI technology that reproduces “human sensibility” and “expert experience” in order to detect defects that up to now were difficult to detect with a machine without relying on human experience. This system contributes significantly to the automation of visual inspection, which will become more critical due to the shortage of labor. The autonomous mobile robot capable of carrying loads of up to 1,500 kg safely automates the transportation of heavy loads, such as large automotive components and voluminous pallet loads, that would have traditionally been moved using forklifts. In response to the increasing demand for labor saving in manufacturing floors, it can be used in combination with the mobile robot capable of transporting loads of up to 250 kg to automate monotonous and dangerous tasks and provide flexible and optimal autonomous transportation. The robotic integrated controller solves traditional challenges in manufacturing, including high-mix low-volume production, rapid start-up of production facilities, and shortage of skilled technicians, and contributes to promoting the digital transformation of manufacturing, such as remote and virtual operations, which are new needs that have emerged due to COVID-19. The robotic integrated controller is the world’s first*2 controller that makes it possible to control a robot and control devices with a single controller. This previously required separate controllers and software. Integrating ILOR+S*3, which are sensors, motions, robots, safety products—devices necessary for automation that comprise facilities— with a single controller makes it possible to control robots and peripheral mechanisms in real time and in full synchronization. This enables manufacturers to automate sophisticated and complex tasks, such as inspection and assembly, with robots. This is a value that can only be provided by OMRON, a company that possesses all the ILOR+S devices. In addition, we have made it possible to use the same programming language to control robots and machines, which used to be controlled with separate programming languages. This enables design and modification simulations for production facilities, and the remote start-up, adjustment, and maintenance of facilities, to be performed in a virtual environment. These products and applications automate tasks that previously had to be performed manually, and facilitate remote styles of engineering, based on the innovative-Automation concept. OMRON is also working to provide value through new methods of sales activities in real and remote environments by promoting digital transformation. We will remain committed to manufacturing innovation required in the post-COVID world by deepening innovative-Automation to solve challenges in manufacturing floors. Image processing system with Autonomous mobile robots Robotic integrated controller defect detection AI (Released in July 2020) (Released in July 2020) (Released in June 2020) *1 As of July 2020 (comparison based on catalogue specs of autonomous mobile robots/internal survey) *2 Internal survey based on the status of patent applications and registrations as of November 2019 *3 ILOR+S in an abbreviation for Input (input devices such as sensors), Logic (control devices such as controllers), Output (output devices such as motors), Robot, and Safety (safety devices to ensure the safety of equipment) 39 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business innovative-Automation to Transform Conventional Perceptions of San Gen Shugi World’s First Robotic Integrated Controller That Enables Remote Manufacturing The robotic integrated controller makes it possible to manage robots and control devices with a single piece of software. This allows users to check the performance of all of the equipment before setting up the actual facility, check facilities in operation from a remote location, and repair and maintain facilities. For example, in the event of a problem in an overseas facility, a user can virtually check the facility from a remote location without actually visiting the location, and address the problem with members on-site. Toward a future characterized by advancements in remote work and other new styles of work, we will transform the conventional perceptions of San Gen Shugi in manufacturing with our robotic integrated controller and create new value based on the deepened innovative-Automation concept. Remote maintenance using simulations Online Support by Manufacturing Environment Specialist Team Serving as a Partner for Front-line Innovation Sales teams have also begun working to dramatically improve efficiency in resolving customer issues by utilizing digital technology. We have begun to deliver value that can only OMRON can provide as a company working together with customers to solve their issues. For example, we have introduced new forms of sales, including virtual ATC tours and online live communication with ATCs to test customer equipment remotely. In addition, we have utilized digital technology to explore new ways of solving customer issues by forming a global online team of experts in sales, development, ATC operations, production, and other sections from all over the world, with specialist skills and extensive experience. We will continue to take on the challenge of proposing the innovative-Automation concept through this specialist team, combining real-world and online support. ATC Experts Provide innovative solutions with state-of-the-art FA technology and support Tokyo/Kariya/Kusatsu Development Solution support from Online Meeting Tools a product development perspective Customer Production Solution support from a production perspective, Sales FAE including efforts at in-house factories Lead the specialist team Support customers in building and deploying to support customers solutions tailored to issues specific to the in solving issues manufacturing environment of each customer Issues Resolved Remotely by a Global Specialist Team Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 40 Electronic and Mechanical Devices and Modules that Support Domains OMRON Growth Components Business (EMC) Corresponding SDGs The mission of the Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC): “With our devices and modules, create customer value, and contribute to society.” EMC is OMRON’s core business unit as a global component supplier of relays, switches, connectors and sensors that act as eyes and ears for wide variety of products playing a vital role in switching and connecting devices, for customers across various industries including smartphones, home appliances, automotive and industrial equipment manufacturers. Transformation into a Business That Creates Value for Customers and Continues to Develop Innovative Module Products that Contribute to People and Societies around the World The EMC segment has faced three major changes in recent years. The first is social changes. Social issues are becoming more diverse and serious, as evident from labor shortages due to the declining birthrate and aging population, and the widening use of electric vehicles and renewable energy as a response to rapid global warming. The second is the change in customer behavior. Technological innovations in AI, Managing Executive Officer IoT, and robotics have advanced at a much faster pace than expected, Company President, Electronic and and customers are looking for partners with technological capabilities. Mechanical Components Company The last change relates to competition. The emergence of multiple Shizuto Yukumoto new players, particularly in emerging economies, has led to rapid commoditization. For EMC to continue to grow sustainably in its own right in the face of these changes, it required a significant change in its conventional business model. To that end, since 2017, we have focused on three key initiatives to transform our business into one that provides not only stand-alone devices but also modules that combine multiple technologies, in order to be a partner of choice with the ability to co-create value with our customers. The first involves redefining the target customers for our modules, in other words, the focus domains. We see the accelerating “shift to smarter equipment” and the “shift to battery-powered and direct-current power sources,” as typified by electric vehicles and storage battery systems, as two major trends, and have identified industries related to these trends as our focus domains. The second is the provision of value through a combination of the strengths we have cultivated. The strengths of the EMC are “devices” such as relays and sensors, and the “technologies” in producing these products, such as fineprocessing techniques and software embedding. We are building a framework and organization for developing modules that deliver value to our customers by combining these strengths. The third is the consolidation of strengths that support the development of modules. Before, the EMC’s strengths in technologies, quality, and production, cultivated through providing devices over many years, were scattered globally. By consolidating these elements, we were able to not only reinforce our organizational strengths but improve efficiency. This has resulted in a significant improvement particularly in production efficiency. With the current COVID shock, there is a growing demand for smarter equipment, such as non-contact temperature measurement systems and devices that operate without manually activating a switch. EMC will realize its transformation into a business that continues to develop devices and modules that create value for customers and contribute to people’s lives and the advancement of societies around the world by supplying core components that help solve social issues through our customers’ products and services. 41 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Business Highlights Net Sales / Operating Income / Operating Income Margin Capital Expenditures / Depreciation and Amortization / R&D Expenses Net Sales Operating Income Operating Income Margin (right axis) Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 120 15 14 104.7 104.4 103.1 12 95.2 12.0% 12 88.4 10 90 76.0 10 10 8.9 10.2% 7.9% 7.9 7.7 7.6 7.6 8 60 8.2% 8.3 5.9 6 6.5 5 5.3 4 4.9 4.6 5.1 4.9 30 8.6 9.8 12.5 1.0% 2 8.2 0.7% 0.9 0.5 0 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 20 FY 15 16 17 18 19 FY (Forecast) Fiscal 2019 Results and Fiscal 2020 Plan In fiscal 2019, in China, home appliances, machine tools and automotive demand declined significantly as a result of reduced capital investment caused by lower exports and decline in consumer purchase sentiment. Demand also declined in the Americas and Europe due to weak customer sentiment. Combined with the impact of foreign exchange due to yen appreciation, net sales decreased significantly compared to the previous year. Operating income also decreased significantly compared to the previous year due to the impact of foreign exchange in addition to lower net sales to external customers and Sales by Product OMRON Group businesses. In fiscal 2020, we expect the impact of Other Electronic and Relays, Switches, Connectors the spread of COVID-19 to continue, and Mechanical Components that it will take time for a market recovery (Amusement Equipment, to be seen in the automobile industry in Image Sensing, MEMS Sensors, etc.) 26 % particular. The business environment for the consumer and commercial products Net Sales in Power Relays for Printed Circuit Boards market is also expected to continue to be Power Supply Units FY2019 for Amusement challenging, and we forecast net sales for Devices ¥88.4 billion fiscal 2020 to be lower than the previous year. Due to the decline in net sales and 74 % Surface-Mounted Switches the impact of yen appreciation, we Human Image MEMS forecast operating income to decrease Sensor Pressure Sensors compared to the previous year. MIL Connectors Progress of Sustainability Initiatives Social Issues to be Solved Fiscal 2020 Goals Solve social issues relating in the domains of FA, Healthcare A  s a device and module business supporting focus domains, and Social Solutions contribute to achieving sustainability goals in each domain Fiscal 2019 Progress INPUT OUTPUT OUTCOME Number of employees: 7,743 Net sales: ¥88.4 billion Advanced sustainability goals Research and development expenses: Operating income: ¥0.9 billion in each domain through the ¥4.9 billion provision of devices and Capital expenditures: ¥5.9 billion modules Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 42 Development of Devices and Modules that Create Value for Customers In EMC, we have cultivated our strengths in “devices” such as relays and sensors, and the “technologies” in producing these products, such as fine processing techniques, algorithm development, and compact software embedding. We are developing devices and modules that create value for customers by combining these strengths. Here are two such examples. Seismic Sensor That Detects Tremors and Damage to Buildings from Earthquakes OMRON contributes to enabling people to live safe and secure lives by providing advanced electronic component for equipment and devices that support society. One such component is the mechanical seismoscope for gas meters installed in homes and commercial facilities. The seismoscope is a key component of a gas meter that detects strong shaking above a certain intensity as an earthquake. It has been used in gas meters for many years as a security function component to prevent secondary disasters such as a fire by automatically shutting off the gas supply in the event of an earthquake. In Japan, the importance of securing the lifeline after a major earthquake came to be widely recognized after the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. With respect to gas meters, there was increasing demand for a system to shut off the gas supply automatically only in the event of an earthquake registering 5 or above on the seismic intensity scale, not only as a safety measure to detect and shut off the gas supply during an earthquake, but also to ensure a stable supply of gas in areas with less damage. To meet this demand, there was a need for a sensor that could accurately determine seismic intensity than the conventional seismoscopes. To solve this problem, we developed the world’s smallest class* seismic sensor that incorporates a 3-axis acceleration sensor with OMRON’s unique algorithm. This seismic sensor analyzes the data obtained from the 3-axis acceleration sensor using a unique SI value calculation algorithm to calculate the SI value which enables the scale of the earthquake to be determined with high precision. This enables accurate earthquake determination of 5 or above on the seismic intensity scale, and gas companies can provide a stable supply of gas according to the extent of the damage. In addition, the compact and low power consumption features of this seismic sensor make it ideal for installation in equipment. This was achieved through a combination of OMRON’s in-device edge processing technologies. Moreover, the sensor comes with a memory function that can record the magnitude of earthquake, for use in further enhancing the safety of gas supply system itself. This will enable gas companies to collect earthquake data and formulate appropriate recovery measures based on the seismic intensity and collapsed building information, and the damage situation, in each area. Seismic sensor Gas meter installed with a seismic sensor * As a sensor for measuring and outputting SI values. As of November 6, 2015. Internal survey. 43 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Virtual Modules Essential for Creating Comfortable Work Environments While Also Saving Energy Work styles in which people actively choose their work locations according to their individual circumstances, such as the content and progress of their work, have drawn much attention in recent years. Such styles of work are expected to lead to improved productivity by facilitating communication and collaboration with a diverse range of people and enabling people to handle individual tasks with a high level of concentration. Eliminating the need for fixed seating can also be expected to improve operational efficiency in the office and thus save energy. However, in the past, air conditioning, lighting and other equipment in a buildings had their own sensors and were controlled independently. To operate office spaces more comfortably and efficiently, and to promote further improvement in productivity and energy saving, it is necessary to develop a system that optimizes the office space overall. OMRON, Nikken Sekkei Ltd, KYOWA EXEO CORPORATION, WHERE, Inc., and Kanda Tsushinki Co., Ltd. have been working together since April 2020 to develop and test a sensor and facility control network system to save energy and optimize office spaces at the same time. The network system aims to optimize the overall office space by analyzing environmental data on temperature, humidity, brightness level and other conditions obtained from various sensors installed in the office, and then centrally controlling air conditioning, lighting and other equipment. Overall optimization Multi-purpose Multi-purpose sensors sensors Air conditioning signage Multi-purpose sensors Overview of the sensor and facility control network system OMRON’s environmental sensor and thermopile motion sensor provide “vision and senses” which are indispensable to this network system. The environmental sensor is an ultra-compact, complex sensing device packed with six sensors. By analyzing the data from each sensor, it can measure eight types of environmental data, including temperature, humidity, illuminance, atmospheric pressure, and discomfort index. The motion sensor uses a unique algorithm to analyze temperature data obtained from non-contact temperature sensors to accurately determine how many people there are within a scope of approximately 13m2.* By combining the environmental sensor and the motion sensor and using these as a virtual module, it is possible to ascertain in real time how many people there are in the office and where, as well the conditions of the space around them. This makes it possible to provide a comfortable space that has been optimized overall in which the temperature and brightness levels are adjusted according to actual conditions. Environmental sensor Thermopile motion sensor * Detects conditions in an area measuring 3.6 m × 3.6 m when installed on a 3 m ceiling. Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 44 Social Systems, Solutions and Domains Social Solutions Service Business (SSB) Corresponding SDGs The mission of the Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) is “Creating a society in which the people of the world live in safety, security, and comfort.” We provide a wide range of terminals and systems, including PV inverters, storage batteries, railway station systems such as automated ticket gates and ticket vending machines, traffic and road management systems, payment systems, and UPS that protect equipment from unexpected power disruption which cause data loss. We also provide total solutions ranging from software development to comprehensive maintenance services to support the social infrastructure. Realizing a Well-being Society Where People Can Continue to Live a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Life in the New Normal Era Looking ahead to the future, there are many social issues to be solved in front of us. COVID-19 has changed social structures, lifestyles and even our business styles. Amidst these rapid changes, as a company entrusted with the task of providing social systems, OMRON has to identify new social issues and resolve them in addition to maintaining the social infrastructure. The SSB has defined “labor saving,” “resilience,” and the Managing Executive Officer “environment” as the three social issues to be solved by 2030. Labor OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Co., Ltd. saving is a major issue for maintaining social infrastructure functions. President and CEO Necessity of labor saving is growing even more in response to the Toshio Hosoi demand of non-contact systems due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Railway companies, our customers, are taking initiatives to maintain and improve their services and optimize their operations by the concept of saving labor through “coexistence of people and machines.” The initiatives include automating passenger support desk work handled by railway station attendants and using remote monitoring systems that enable centralized management of multiple facilities. For our initiatives in resilience, we aim to build a “strong” infrastructure assuming that disasters will occur and respond to the increasing frequency and severity of natural disasters on a global scale. We will accelerate our initiatives from the broad perspective of solving region-specific issues to build safe and secure communities. By combining our infrastructure monitoring technologies including water level monitoring to detect river flooding before it occurs with local governments’ information and knowledge. In the field of the environment, we take initiatives to promote renewable energy and optimize energy usage in response to climate change caused by global warming. In fiscal 2020, we merged the Environmental Solutions Business, which was under the direct control of headquarters. This resulted in adding energy control technologies cultivated in the development of environmental components such as PV inverters and storage batteries to our existing capabilities in software development and engineering. Leveraging this additional capability, we contribute to creating a sustainable society by creating systems for managing and coordinating energy demand on a regional basis, as well as sharing energy in the event of a disaster. The SSB will continue challenging to realize a safe, secure, and comfortable society required in the new normal era by solving these social issues through social automation, which combines our automation technologies based on AI, IoT, and robotics and providing total solutions in the fields of energy, transport, lifestyle services, and communities. 45 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Business Highlights Net Sales / Operating Income / Operating Income Margin Capital Expenditures / Depreciation and Amortization / R&D Expenses Net Sales Operating Income Operating Income Margin (right axis) Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 120 116.0 9.4% 10 6 5.7 100.6 93.0 5 4.8 90 6.9% 75.9 6.1% 4 70.3 6.5% 5.4% 3.0 68.0 60 3.8% 5 3 2.5 2.2 2.1 2 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.4 2.0 2.1 30 1 1.5 1.4 1.3 6.5 10.9 2.9 4.1 4.8 5.0 0 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 20 FY 15 16 17 18 19 FY (Forecast) Fiscal 2019 Results and Fiscal 2020 Plan In fiscal 2019, the SSB segment experienced strong demand for upgrades in the Public Transportation and Road Management Systems Business. In response, we proposed solutions tailored to the needs of our customers. In addition, the Environmental Solutions Business reported strong performance for the year, experiencing growing demand for storage battery systems. Net sales increased significantly compared to the prior fiscal year. Operating income increased significantly year on year, mainly due to higher net sales and Sales by Product improved profitability. In fiscal 2020, we expect to see Other (Software Development, etc.) Energy, Environmental Solutions significant changes in investment among 7 4 customers in the Public Transportation % Business due to the impact of lower Uninterruptible Power % PV inverters 32 travel revenues. Although the Energy Supply Units (UPS) % System Components Business is seeing Net Sales in a growing market for storage battery Engineering 24 % FY2019 systems, the impact of the spread of Storage Batteries COVID-19 has limited customer business ¥116.0 billion activities, likely resulting in weak sales for the segment. As a result, we forecast net 5 % sales for fiscal 2020 to be lower than the 4 % 24 % Public Transportation (Automated Ticket Gates, previous year. Due to the decline in net Payment Systems Ticket Vending Machines) sales, we forecast operating income to decrease year on year. Road Traffic (Road Traffic Management Systems, etc.) Ticket Vending Automated Progress of Sustainability Initiatives Machines Ticket Gates Social Issues to be Solved Fiscal 2020 Goals Contribute to achieving a smart society in which people around Create driving safety support systems and technologies the world can continue to lead a safe, secure, comfortable, and Cumulative shipped capacity of solar power/storage battery clean life systems: 11.2GW Global warming from CO2 emissions Build the energy resource aggregation business using solar Slow growth of the renewable energy market power/storage battery systems (Japan) Fiscal 2019 Progress INPUT OUTPUT OUTCOME Number of employees: 3,237 Net sales: ¥116.0 billion Environmental contribution by Research and development expenses: Operating income: ¥10.9 billion SSB products and services: ¥5.7 billion Launched tailgating detection function 898kt-CO2 Capital expenditures: ¥3.0 billion for the driving safety support system Cumulative shipped capacity of solar SDGs Goal 7.1.2 power systems: 9.6GW Cumulative shipped capacity of storage battery systems: 438MWh SDGs Goal 13.2.1 Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 46 Promoting the Development of Resilient Communities That Are Resistant to Disasters In recent years, floods and landslides caused by torrential rain and other natural disasters are increasing in frequency and severity in Japan. Previous natural disaster countermeasures were formed by systematic preparations and set procedures based on a tendency identified from past observation data. However, the recent natural disasters are beyond our expectations and they continue to set new records in scale. It is getting difficult to limit the damage using conventional countermeasures. Each local community needs to build a resilient system that can cope with events exceeding expectations, and to minimize the damage by making decisions and acting autonomously. This is becoming a social issue. This article introduces our initiatives; the next-generation of disaster prevention “Visualization” that we are working on in cooperation with Maizuru City in Kyoto Prefecture. Next-Generation Disaster Prevention: Visualization To build resilient communities, it is necessary to first detect risks that could cause extensive damage to each region in real time, and then visualize them on a community-wide basis. However, local governments, which are responsible for implementing these measures are facing financial difficulties due to aging and depopulation. We therefore set out to develop a compact monitoring system for visualizing regional disaster Monitoring Business Department prevention information, narrowing down the functions of sensors for Business Development HQ detecting risks by utilizing our own assets. Toshiyuki Kinami We are now in the process of incorporating the monitoring system into Maizuru City’s portal site and setting up the system within the city. By combining data from tide gauges, river water level gauges, rain gauges and other disaster-prevention sensors installed throughout the city with the map data of the local government, the system allows local government employees and residents to view all disaster preventionrelated information on one screen. This advanced initiative has been selected as a model for enhancing national resilience* under the CrossMonitoring system being developed ministerial Strategic Innovation Promotion Program of the Cabinet Office. with Maizuru City Aiming for Realizing an Autonomous Resilient System Management The benefits of a resilient system are not only to minimize damage, but also minimize the burden on local government employees and residents Cloud in the event of a disaster so that they can focus on a quick recovery. To Optimization build an autonomous resilient system, it is necessary to combine the Autonomous “visualization” function to monitor risks in real time, “enhancement” to Monitoring resilient Energy system supply energy required for supporting life in an emergency, and an “optimization” function to manage the operations of the region. Radio Sensor Power generation Storage Visualization Enhancement We contribute to the creation of a sustainable society by introducing autonomous resilient systems to local governments in Japan. Autonomous resilient system which the SSB is building Having been selected as a SDGs Future City, Maizuru City is aiming for a community, where people can enjoy interaction, a convenient and well-being country life. Developing a safe community by solving disaster prevention issues is the cornerstone of this initiative. We would like to further promote this initiative in collaboration with OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS. Manager of Flood Control Sewerage Construction Division, Department of Water and Sanitation, Maizuru City Mr. Sunao Higashiyama * Realization of an information system that ensures each citizen can evacuate safely and make decision for an early recovery in the event of a large-scale disaster. 47 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Lifestyle Service Automation for Improving Services and Saving Labor In Japan, the labor shortage caused by the declining birthrate and aging population is becoming a serious issue year by year. Particularly in the hotel industry, where the number of hotels has increased rapidly due to the continuing demand for inbound tourism, labor shortage has become a serious social issue. OMRON entered the automation business in the area of hotel operations in 2018. With the aim of streamlining and saving labor in hotel operations, we have developed and introduced “Smare,” a self check-in terminal. Recently, the necessity of preventive measures against COVID-19 increased demand for further contactless service through automation. The article below introduces the application check-in model introduced at APA HOTEL. It’s All for Our Customers: Developing an Application Check-in Model that Enables a High Level of Hospitality APA HOTEL, a leading company in the hotel industry, has adopted Smare. They consulted us for solutions to improve the service to their customers. This led to developing the app check-in model for APA app subscribers. The current self checkin service for their registered members took time in its procedures. To solve this Business Development issue, we need to combine APA HOTEL’s knowledge and our automation Department, Social Solution technologies to realize their “Always Pleasant Amenity (APA)” concept. The Business HQ application check-in model was the result of this collaboration, shortening the Ryoji Ohashi waiting time to the last one second and escorting customers to their rooms which realized a higher level of hospitality. The application check-in model does not merely reduce check-in time; it also minimizes the risk of infections from human contact. By eliminating the need to hand over room keys, customers do not need to wait at the front desk and can go directly to their rooms. Furthermore, by streamlining front desk work, it frees up the staff’s time which they can devote to entertaining the customers. We will continue to advance our automation business in the hotel industry by developing remote and centralized hotel management system, and robots that can Application Check-in Model clean and monitor. Through these initiatives, we will contribute to solving the labor shortage issues and offering lifestyle services with enhanced safety, security, and comfort. As indicated in our company name, APA HOTEL aims to constantly provide safe, secure and comfortable accommodation services for customers. We have worked on cutting-edge initiatives with OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS ever since we opened our first APA HOTEL in 1984. In developing the application check-in model, OMRON showed understanding towards our goal and motto: “Time Is Life.” OMRON and our staff considered how to shorten the check-in speed as much as possible and realized a system that not only affords comfortable, but also stress-free check-in for customers and reduced the risk of COVID-19 infection. In addition to the check-in model, I am looking forward to working together to realize a more comfortable accommodation service together. Director, IT Department, APA HOTEL Mr. Tomonari Kozuka Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 48 Healthcare Business (HCB) Domains Healthcare Corresponding SDGs The mission of our Healthcare Business is “To help realize healthy and comfortable lives for people around the world.” By living up to this mission, we have developed healthcare products and services with a focus on usability and accuracy of readings. This is intended to allow anyone to take measurements easily and correctly, with accuracy that ensures reliability for medical use. OMRON has achieved certification for medical use for a variety of devices in various countries, including blood pressure monitors, digital thermometers, and nebulizers (devices that deliver asthma medication through inhalation by patients). Moreover, OMRON also provides services that are compatible with each country’s/region’s social infrastructures and healthcare system, which varies from country to country. These products and services are now available in more than 110 countries across the world. Achieving Zero Events Aimed at Eliminating Cerebrovascular / Cardiovascular Diseases Currently, some 1 billion people worldwide are reported to suffer from hypertension. In Japan, this number is estimated to be 43 million. The most frightening aspect of hypertension is that disease progression usually occurs while symptoms remain unnoticed, yet it still can cause serious cerebrovascular or cardiovascular conditions such as strokes or heart attacks. To prevent the incidence of these serious diseases arising from high blood pressure, OMRON has been advocating the use of blood Managing Executive Officer pressure monitoring at home for more than 40 years, in collaboration OMRON HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. with medical professionals. At the same time, OMRON has worked to President and CEO raise public awareness of hypertension treatment and prevention Isao Ogino through home blood pressure monitoring. Despite this rising awareness, ischemic heart disease still remains the leading cause of death worldwide, with stroke being the second leading cause. As such, we have set forth the vision for our Cardiovascular Business: “Reducing the incidence of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease caused by high blood pressure to Zero (Zero Events)” in 2015. Since then, we have been committed to supplying devices and services that are useful for treatment and prevention of hypertension worldwide. In recent years, OMRON has released many innovative devices, such as a wearable watch-type blood pressure monitor that allows users to check their blood pressure anywhere at any time and quickly detect abnormal conditions, and a blood pressure monitor with an ECG function that enables simple monitoring of blood pressure and electrocardiogram data at home. Both of these devices have been certified as medical equipment. In 2016, OMRON globally launched a health management app, named “OMRON connect,” which enables data measured with homeuse devices to be easily recorded and displayed on a user’s smartphone. So far, this app has generated more than 1.9 million downloads. Moreover, the measurement data collected by OMRON connect is compatible with apps from various service providers worldwide. To keep up with the future advancement of healthcare systems and corporate wellness, OMRON is committed to developing services that use these devices, along with the collected data, to prevent progression of chronic diseases and assist in treatment. The challenge now is putting these services into practice throughout the world. The services include remote medical consultation support services, specific health guidance support service, and lifestyle improvement support service. The global spread of COVID-19 has had a profound impact on social infrastructure, as well as people’s values and lifestyles. In the midst of these changes, the importance of health management at home, which we have continuously advocated, is being seen in a new light. As such, we will proactively collaborate with our partners to create new services to address emerging issues, such as shortages of medical professionals and medical resources, and the need to avoid the risk of secondary infections arising from hospital visits. * Source: World Health Organization “The top 10 causes of death” 49 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Business Highlights Net Sales / Operating Income / Operating Income Margin Capital Expenditures / Depreciation and Amortization / R&D Expenses Net Sales Operating Income Operating Income Margin (right axis) Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 120 115.5 112.0 112.0 8 108.1 108.5 15 6.8 101.3 6.7 6.7 6.1 6.2 90 13.4% 6 12.1% 6.0 11.3% 10 10.3% 3.8 4.0 60 4 3.3 8.4% 3.2 6.7% 5 2.8 3.0 2.8 2.8 30 2 15.0 2.2 11.2 13.0 13.5 7.3 8.5 0 0 0 FY 15 16 17 18 19 20 FY 15 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) Fiscal 2019 Results and Fiscal 2020 Plan In fiscal 2019, the demand for blood pressure monitors in China, Europe and Asia remained firm. Meanwhile, demand in Japan was sluggish due to the increase in consumption tax and other factors, while in North America, demand declined due to the trade friction between the United States and China. In the fourth quarter, COVID-19 had a global impact. Combined with the negative effects of the yen’s appreciation, net sales decreased year on year. Despite this impact from the foreign exchange situation, operating income increased year on year, mainly because of productivity improvements and efficient use of fixed costs. Sales by Product In fiscal 2020, we anticipate increasing demand for blood pressure monitors and Blood Pressure Monitors Other (Activity Trackers, etc.) thermometers, in response to the growing need for health management to counter the impact of COVID-19. Further, we intend to expand our online channels 15 % for sales amid restrictions on nonBody Composition 4 % essential travel outside the home. On the other hand, we anticipate a negative Monitors 6 % Net Sales in FY2019 foreign exchange impact stemming from 8 % ¥112.0 billion a strong yen. As a result, we project that Thermometers net sales for fiscal 2020 will be at the 56 % approximate level of the previous year. 11 % We expect operating income to increase significantly, driven by improved gross profit margin resulting from increased Low-Frequency Therapy Nebulizers sales of high-value-added products. Equipment Progress of Sustainability Initiatives Social Issues to be Solved Fiscal 2020 Goals Increased incidence of brain diseases and cardiovascular Blood pressure monitor sales: 25 million units/year diseases attributable to hypertension Development of analytical technologies to continuously track Increased worldwide prevalence of asthma and other blood pressure fluctuations respiratory diseases Nebulizer and wheeze detector sales: 7.65 million units/year Fiscal 2019 Progress INPUT OUTPUT OUTCOME Number of employees: Net sales: ¥112.0 billion R  educed the incidence of 3,758 Operating income: ¥13.5 billion cerebrovascular and Research and development Blood pressure monitor sales: 20.01 million units/year cardiovascular diseases by expenses: ¥6.8 billion Began clinical trials using wearable blood pressure monitors wider use of home blood Capital expenditures: Nebulizer and wheeze detector sales: 3.44 million units/year pressure monitors in emerging ¥6.0 billion Developed innovative devices and services, and actively promoted countries (especially India) Number of operating education for medical professionals and consumers, in order to countries: More than 110 raise their awareness regarding the importance of Zero Events SDG 3.4.1  Promoted wider use of home blood pressure monitors in emerging countries (especially India) by holding “OMRON Academy” education programs for doctors in 12 locations and blood pressure monitoring workshops for consumers in 10 cities across India Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 50 Seeking Continuity of Care for Hypertension Patients The COVID-19 pandemic brought about new issues, which accelerated the widespread practice of telemedicine globally. However, patients with hypertension, diabetes, or other chronic diseases must still pay regular visits to hospitals or clinics and have ongoing treatment. But by doing so, these patients have the risk of getting seriously ill with COVID-19, which is likely to keep them away from regular treatment visits. OMRON is developing a remote patient monitoring service that allows patients to measure vital signs at home using our blood pressure monitor, ECG monitor, and/or a body composition monitor with scale and share the data with their physicians/nurses in a timely manner. This helps patients to receive appropriate advice from their physicians from the comfort of their homes, without the need for visiting a hospital. Going forward, we will continue to propose new approaches to telemedicine that are adaptable to the upcoming “new normal,” as we seek to contribute to the management and prevention of chronic diseases. Remote Patient Monitoring System for Hypertension In August 2020, OMRON launched a remote patient monitoring (RPM) system for hypertension, called VitalSightTM at the New York-based Mount Sinai Hospital, one of the leading and most respected hospitals in North America. With VitalSightTM, which is part of our telemedicine initiatives, patients with hypertension can directly send their daily blood pressure readings and body composition data measured at home to the hospital’s electronic medical record system via the dedicated communications hub or “OMRON connect” health management app. This enables both patients and their physicians/nurses to share the patient’s data. The deployment of this RPM system enables physicians/nurses to keep track of their patient’s day-to-day conditions, thus helping them choose a more effective therapy suitable for each patient. Patients, in turn, can share their health data with their physicians on a daily basis, which helps motivate them to become more involved in treatment. This contributes to improved medical compliance and continuity of treatment. OMRON has been strengthening its data service business in the United States in response to the launch of telemedicine reimbursement under Medicare, which is the federal health insurance program for American citizens or 5-year legal residents who are 65 or older. Going forward, we will continue to present new RPM-based hypertension treatment solutions in North America, where nearly one in two adults has high blood pressure. Receiving remote consultation services Example of a VitalSight patient kit (illustration) Online Hypertension Consultation Support Service In Japan, online consultation is regarded as supplementary to face-to-face consultation. Presently, of the 43 million hypertensive patients, those who are undergoing treatment and have their blood pressure appropriately controlled account for a mere 27% (12 million), while those who are receiving treatment but are not having their blood pressure controlled properly account for 29% (12.5 million). While 11% (4.5 million) are leaving their condition untreated even though they know they have hypertension, 33% (14 million) are not even aware that they have hypertension. According to those who are aware that they have hypertension but are not receiving treatment or not having their blood pressure controlled properly, hospital visits are a burden to elderly people, and those in their prime lack the time to visit a clinic. These are some of the factors that cause them to discontinue treatment of hypertension. To address those issues, OMRON launched an online hypertension consultation support service, called “telemedEASE BPTM” in May 2019 through partnership with an incorporated association called telmedEASE. This system provides a one-stop service for online hypertension management, allowing patients to perform all tasks from day-to-day blood pressure tracking to making a doctor’s appointment, receiving a diagnosis and prescription, receipt of medication, and even the payment of healthcare fees from the patient’s home or office. Due to the accelerated spread of COVID-19, the effectiveness of telemedicine consultations has been widely recognized in Japan as well, leading to hopes for the easing of regulations. By taking the future of hypertension care into consideration, OMRON is determined to accelerate the development of devices and services that can contribute to more effective treatment of hypertension in Japan as well as the United States, Europe and Asia. 51 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Business Overview of the Remote Patient Monitoring System Remote patient monitoring system (Vital signs measured at home are shared with medical professionals) Medical institution Home Cloud server Data is checked by dedicated team of Decisions and interventions Daily readings of vital signs doctors and clinical pharmacists based on suggestions sent via smartphone app/communication hub Hospital system Smartphone app/ Doctor’s PC communication hub Treatment and Consultation Electronic prescription policy medical Lifestyle guidance record suggestions Face-to-face Doctor Patient Devices with (Test results, Telephone communication symptoms, function treatment history) Online Comments from an Employee in Charge of the Remote Patient Monitoring System in the United States In response to the global increasing demand for telehealth, OMRON Healthcare has begun to develop the VitalSight™ remote patient monitoring system for hypertensive patients, under the initiative of the new business development team in the U.S. This system is intended to provide both patients and physicians with innovative, effective, and efficient hypertension management solutions. Patients with hypertension can share their blood pressure readings measured at home Omron Healthcare (USA) with their physicians, thus receiving continuous treatment from their home. With the Client Success Manager unprecedented impact of COVID-19, this capability has become more important, VitalSightTM making it urgently necessary to launch VitalSightTM as soon as possible. In response, Adriana Benassi OMRON Healthcare’s New Business Team has collaborated with many groups within Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, specifically the organization’s Population Health and Clinical Pharmacist teams, to launch the service in August. This service encourages patients to actively participate in their blood pressure management along with their physicians, enabling proactive intervention before the incidence of a cardiovascular event, such as stroke. This, we believe, should help realize our vision of “Going for Zero,” intended to eliminate cardiovascular diseases caused by high blood pressure. Going forward, we will further extend our collaborations with more medical partners. At the same time, we will continue challenging ourselves to develop VitalSightTM into a leading service model that will drive OMRON Healthcare’s development of innovative remote patient monitoring solutions. Comments from a Hospital which Adopted the Remote Patient Monitoring System in the United States The ability to monitor patients at home during the pandemic – and on an ongoing basis – is critical. Our collaboration with OMRON Healthcare helps make patients active participants in their own health care and extends the reach of clinicians, who receive a continuous stream of their patients’ real-time health data so that they can proactively intervene as necessary. Additionally, we are focusing first on our most vulnerable patients, who bear the consequences of disparities in care – in part, due to lack of technology access. This program requires no technology and comes at no cost for the device, with little-to-no cost for service. Mount Sinai Hospital SVP and Chief Medical Officer Dr. Rob Fields Business OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 52 Message from the CTO Creating New Business Quickly by Visualizing the Process of Innovation and Discussion September 2020 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CTO and Senior General Manager, Technology & Intellectual Property HQ and Senior General Manager, Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ Kiichiro Miyata approach, occasionally pivoting (deliberating from How will we achieve innovation in various angles) along the way, this HQ has been an age of VUCA? exploring the sprouts of new business. Facing the COVID-19 pandemic convinced us that we had not been wrong in adopting such an approach. In the – In your position as CTO, what impact do age of VUCA, it is essential for OMRON’s growth you think that the spread of COVID-19 across that, as we move toward the future, we have the world has had on OMRON? various options running concurrently. The current era was already being described as an age of VUCA (Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity, – There is an established theory that holds and Ambiguity), and this pandemic has impressed that large companies are slow to generate on us the undeniable reality of that view. Precisely innovation. Since its foundation, OMRON has because the world is now so uncertain and realized innovation through the encouragement unpredictable, we will no longer be able to of venture spirit. What has IXI achieved over the compete using the methods we have used in the past two years? past. To acquire the capacity for self-driven growth, we We must have multiple options at all times in are working on “ambidexterity in management,” by preparation for an ever-changing future. which I mean development for the deepening of OMRON has been taking a backcasting approach to existing businesses and exploring new business the creation of new business, starting from specific models for the future. IXI’s role in this process is points in the near future ranging from three to ten the exploration of new business models for the years from now. One example is the Innovation future. Exploring Initiative HQ (IXI), a company-wide For the past two years since 2018, an enormous platform established in 2018 to create innovation number of ideas have come in from across the with near future design. Over the past two years, OMRON group. From those many ideas, six IXI has been developing various near-future projects are currently in the business verification scenarios and exploring business models necessary stage. They include a project under a partnership for the realization of those scenarios. Testing these agreement with Oita Prefecture to provide longscenarios and models with a trial-and-error term care prevention services for the elderly, as 53 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Technology well as an agri-automation project in China. needs, we will not be able to launch it as a new Although these projects are all in different sectors, business. they have one thing in common, namely, they are In the process toward commercialization after all data-driven businesses. In other words, selection of the business ideas, in more than a few leveraging sensing technologies, one of the cases, the project relied on the individual efforts of OMRON’s core technologies, to collect various data particular team members. In other cases, the and connecting that data to true social needs is project lost speed as it headed toward launch giving rise to new business opportunities. because of a lack of driving force caused by insufficient leadership from management. – Is this not something that the existing Based on these reflections, with the aim of not only business units could achieve themselves? creating new businesses but also sharing and In this age of VUCA in which we find ourselves, it is utilizing knowledge to increase the certainty of not realistic to take action based on only one such businesses, we established a mechanism we scenario. To respond to a changing future, we need call the Integrated Innovation Process, which to have multiple scenarios at hand and keep combines both processes (refer to the diagram on repeating the cycle of validation and pivoting. That the next page). This mechanism consists of four takes time and effort, and, inevitably, efficiency phases: Phase 0—Business Idea Selection, Phase declines will ensue. That kind of redundancy is not 1—Strategy Formulation, Phase 2—Business something that can be tolerated in our existing Verification & Technology Validation, and Phase business units, which have budget responsibilities. 3—Business Development, where investment For this reason, it is the role of IXI to explore new comes in. Key checkpoints have also been set social needs and commercialize those needs, between Phase 0 and Phase 1 and between Phase things that cannot be achieved within frameworks 2 and Phase 3. The former is the Business Idea of our existing businesses. Judgement Meeting, and the latter is the Investment Committee. At the initial stage of Phase 0, we put out a call for business ideas. All employees are welcome to raise Knowledge Management Essential their hands, and in fact, we receive ideas from all for the Creation of New Business divisions across the OMRON group. However, as I mentioned earlier, the key is to have the perceptive capacity needed to seek out true social needs. At – Conversely, have other issues emerged? this stage, a judgement of whether or not the One issue that emerged was the inability as an business has scaling-up potential is required. The organization to build a mechanism for “knowledge first checkpoint, the Business Idea Judgement management” to accompany the exploration of Meeting, plays that important role. IXI and the new social needs and the commercialization of Technology & Intellectual Property HQ, which is those needs. responsible for R&D, have each been assigned one In particular, we focused on the judgement of employee with extensive business experience both business ideas that provide the starting point for inside and outside OMRON and a particularly projects. The key here was whether we have the discerning eye regarding the keys to the success or perceptive capacity to seek out true social needs. failure of new businesses. They assess the At first glance, we can discover several business proposed business ideas with both the perceptive ideas that would appear to incorporate social capacity to determine whether or not the ideas can needs, but if our discernment of those needs is respond to true social needs and a commercial lacking and they end up falling into the category of sense to decide whether the ideas have scaling-up individual needs, even if they are commercialized, potential as businesses. the business could not be scaled up. If we were to One of the most amazing things about Kazuma merely expand the individual needs of specific Tateishi, the founder of OMRON, was that he not customers to some extent, we could only expect only focused on true social needs and developed sales in the order of around ¥1 billion at most. At products that did not yet exist at the time, such as OMRON, we have set the hurdle (minimum automated ticket vending machines and home criterion) for new business at ¥3 billion in sales, so healthcare equipment, but he also leveraged his unless a business model addresses true social commercial sense to grow them into OMRON’s Technology OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 54 main businesses of today. This Integrated past mistakes next time. To ensure that innovation Innovation Process came about by visualizing those does not become a mere product of chance, we methodologies of the founder and arranging them need to accumulate and share knowledge as an into a more contemporary format. It could be organization and increase the speed and accuracy described as an innovation compass befitting the of new business creation. age of VUCA. As evidenced by the many companies that fall into The Integrated Innovation Process is a tool that not a dilemma, innovation is not a straightforward task. only points us in the direction we need to go, but We must nurture the buds of opportunities while also identifies what stage a project is at and what responding flexibly to unforeseen circumstances. decisions need to be made. For example, suppose However, time waits for no man. The most a certain project has hit a wall. In this case, the important thing we should do is to speed up. The business idea’s premises may be wrong or some Integrated Innovation Process is not a rubberimportant factor may be lacking from the strategy. stamping process by any means, but a mechanism If that is the case, we need to go back to the to accelerate innovation. appropriate phase and re-examine the premise or strategy. In order to evaluate them objectively and quickly, it is important to visualize the current status and Advancing Projects Through Repeated Cycle progress of project. The Integrated Innovation of Strategy Formulation and Verification Process allows all members of IXI and the Technology & Intellectual Property HQ to review the status of each project online. Discussion is also – Could you give us a more detailed held openly, with more than 100 members explanation of the process by which ideas voluntarily participating in each discussion. advance to commercialization? The reason for my insistence on this kind of For example, suppose we have a theme of “remote mechanism of open knowledge management is medical consultation service” in Phase 0. At the that innovation attempts have a tendency to starting point, OMRON does not need to be the become personal. If we cannot visualize the subject in this context. We begin by drawing a process, there is a possibility that individuals could picture of the future from the perspective of who take over the whole project or, conversely, due to will dominate the world of remote consultation an inability to obtain cooperation from those around service. Once that picture has been envisaged, we them, an excessive burden could be placed on the start discussing what kinds of business OMRON people in charge of a project, causing it to collapse. could develop in that space and what scale we Also, if we do not accumulate the knowledge could expect that business to achieve. In other obtained through the process at the appropriate words, in Phase 0, we draw up the big picture of strategic points, we will not be able to learn from the project. Integrated Innovation Process Phase 0 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Business Business Strategy Business Investment Business Ideation Idea Formulation Verification & Committee Development Judgement Technology Meeting Validation Review of new Judgement of business ideas investment by by two experts a committee including CEO Launch a dedicated team Launch a tentative sales team for an accepted theme for business verification 55 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Technology Then, at the first checkpoint, the Business Idea criteria, using concrete numbers such as “unless Judgement Meeting, the business potential of the we achieve at least XXX yen in sales or a market project will be assessed from the perspectives of share of at least XX% within X years, we will perception of social needs and scaling-up potential. withdraw from the project.” I also commit to those Once the go-ahead is given at the Business Idea criteria. It may be a new business, but a certain Judgement Meeting, a project team will be formed level of discipline is essential. to start the strategy formulation process in Phase 1. The team will envisage issues such as – This approach of repeated trial and error is deregulation and advances in medical technology sure to nurture your personnel, isn’t it? that would be needed for remote consultation Exactly. Looking back over the past two years in IXI, services, as well as the strategies of our all of the team members who have been involved competitors. It will then come up with concrete in the project have learned tremendous lessons by visions for products and services that would experiencing a variety of trial-and-error processes, leverage OMRON’s strengths. and they have definitely experienced growth. In Next, in Phase 2, a virtual sales force (a team that that respect, this innovation creation process can will not be given a sales quota but that will work on also be described as a human resource the ground to test whether or not the envisaged development process. The process is actually an products and services would sell) will be launched innovation itself. and the process of business verification will Having said that, creating new business with ¥3 commence. Concurrently with that process, the billion or more in sales is certainly no easy task. technology needed for those products and services Therefore, the project team members need to have will also be validated. For both business and the perceptive capacity to discern true needs and technology models, if a gap emerges between the commercial sense to scale businesses up, as strategy and reality, the teams will pivot as many well as a strong will to succeed in business, times as necessary. Depending on cases, they go whatever it takes. OMRON needs more people like back to the previous phase to rework the theme or this, who are brimming with an entrepreneurial strategy. spirit After that process of formulation and verification Another important point is the commitment of has been repeated several times and prospects for management. Management must be prepared to commercialization have emerged, the project will work together with front-line staff and not foist the then be put to the second checkpoint, the creation of new business entirely onto them. Unlike Investment Committee. This Committee will assess business organizations that have a vertical the project from comprehensive perspectives, structure, an innovative organization should be a flat including business scale, concrete strategies, and and open network structure. Therefore, we need to feasibility, and determine whether the project approach the creation of new business as a should proceed to Phase 3 for full-scale business company-wide battle. development. Armed with our new weapon of the Integrated As I mentioned earlier, there are six projects in Innovation Process which combine the wisdom progress and one of those is an agri-automation from across the OMRON group, even we fail, we project in China which is now proceeded to this will turn them to good account. Never giving up, Phase 3. In March 2020, we established a new we will boldly meet the challenge of innovation in company, OMRON Smart Agri Technologies Co., the age of VUCA, with our venture spirit. Ltd. in Shanghai, where we have embarked on the final step of validating and evaluating the project’s business potential in China, while assessing the status of fresh food distribution in China. – At which phase does President and CEO Yamada join the process? CEO joins the process from the Investment Committee, just before Phase 3. When he takes part, one thing that CEO Yamada always asks about is “exit criteria.” We need to show him specific Technology OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 56 Open Innovation Initiatives OMRON VENTURES CO., LTD. President and CEO Tomoko Inoue OMRON VENTURES strives to create a new world by joining hands with entrepreneurs who seriously believe they can change the world. OMRON believes that, to solve social issues that are businesses that have yet to sprout. Accordingly, in 2018, becoming increasingly serious and diverse, it is OVC made a significant change to its investment strategy. important to create new business and strengthen Until then, our investments had concentrated mainly on existing businesses through open innovation that is not Japan, putting small amounts into startups with which constrained by conventional frameworks. For this our business divisions could collaborate in some way reason, in July 2014, we established our own corporate from the time of the investment. In a shift from that venture capital (CVC) to use investment as a means of strategy, we decided to invest reasonably large amounts deepening collaboration with startup companies that in early-stage startups that included seeds, in regions have creative technologies and ideas but we didn’t such as the United States, Europe, and Israel, where the have connections with before. That CVC is OMRON world’s cutting-edge technologies and business ideas are VENTURES CO., LTD (OVC). concentrated. In the six years since its establishment, OVC has Since changing our investment strategy in 2018, we have invested in 15 startups. One of its earliest investments invested in 7 startup companies in the United States, was in an agriculture-related startup, Organic nico Co., Israel, and the United Kingdom. All of these companies Ltd. This company’s business idea and technology are have unique technologies and ideas. currently being put to use in an agri-automation project For example, Realtime Robotics, Inc. (United States), in in China, leading to the creation of a new business for which we invested in October 2019, is developing OMRON. technology for real-time motion planning of industrial robots. This technology can significantly reduce the time To Collect the World’s Cutting-edge Technologies needed to program robots’ movements to avoid collisions I became OVC’s second President and CEO in April with various obstacles, which currently takes hundreds of 2018. Under the VG2.0 Medium-Term Management hours. If this technology is commercialized, there is Plan that began in 2017, we designated certain focus potential for an immediate expansion in the adoption of domains, including factory automation, healthcare, and robots. The validation of the technology is currently in social solutions and determined to accelerate progress at multiple factories. In the healthcare field, we innovation driven by social needs and sow the seeds invested in AIRx Health Inc. in the Silicon Valley in March for future growth through open innovation. 2020. This company is developing a unique business To achieve this, it is more important than ever that we model for remote patient monitoring in the United States. cast our antenna across the world and continue to Telehealth has attracted much attention during the identify trends of cutting-edge technology and COVID-19 pandemic, but it is something that patients, 57 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Technology doctors, and hospitals had been calling for even before the pandemic. This company’s business model has the potential to change the future of healthcare. i n ter vi ew In medical equipment in particular, it is extremely difficult for a single startup to handle the entire business from development to sales. With a system in which new technology developed by a startup can be connected to actual healthcare settings, after which a large, established company would be responsible for the scaling up of the technology, we will see the spread of the kinds of products and services that society really needs. It is my belief that it is precisely because corporate venture capital like OVC exists o p e n i n n ova t i o n that innovation is generated and that more people are able to enjoy the benefits of that innovation. Peter Howard CEO, Realtime Robotics, Inc. Never Slow Down on Investments in Startups that Are Growing in Importance Realtime Robotics, Inc. aims to become the As we have come through the COVID-19 pandemic, social cornerstone of a wave of robotics automation by issues that, until now, OMRON has identified through providing innovative technologies that will backcasting, have become more and more apparent. In become the “common core” that will dramatically simplify robotics application and particular, the need for labor-saving with the use of robots reduce their costs. OMRON is one of the world’s and remote patient monitoring is likely to accelerate. top automation companies and has wonderful I want us to create a new world by joining hands with product lines that complement our products and entrepreneurs all over the globe who see things in their own vision. freeway, who are unencumbered by conventional practice, OMRON VENTURES CO., LTD. has a good and who seriously believe they can change the world. In understanding of our value proposition and particular, in today’s society that is overflowing with data, we provides the support that will allow us to build aim to create new value by leveraging the data as an asset, the appropriate connections that we need in to realize a world that is free from disease, a world where OMRON. Going forward, we will continue to humans and machines work together in harmony, a world work closely with OMRON VENTURES to realize that enables optimization of an autonomous individual our vision. simultaneously with optimization of the whole. To this end, OVC will not slow down in its investment in the seeds of OMRON’s future growth and continue to invest in aggressive startups. OVC Investment Track Record May 2015 Plant Life Systems Co., Ltd. (Japan: cultivation support systems) Jun. 2015 3D Media Co., Ltd. (Japan: 3D recognition technology) In 2018, the company’s name was changed to Kyoto Robotics Corporation. Jul. 2015 Organic nico Co., Ltd. (Japan: production technology for organic Vijay Rajasekhar vegetables) CEO, AIRx Health Inc. Mar. 2016 Life Robotics Inc., (Japan: collaborative robot) Oct. 2016 Exvision Corporation (Japan: high-speed vision technology) AIRx Health Inc. is creating a scalable measure May 2017 Vegitalia Inc. (Japan: agricultural IoT business) for health teams to triage (prioritize according to Jun. 2017 Lark Technologies Inc. (United States: Health management applications for improving risk) and manage the health status of high-risk lifestyle habits) patients, including those with chronic diseases Dec. 2017 mofiria Corporation (Japan: biometrics business) and novel coronavirus infections. By linking Oct. 2018 De-Identification Ltd. (D-ID) OMRON’s medical devices with AIRx Health’s (Israel: privacy protection technology for facial images) Nov. 2018 Connected Signals, Inc. software and remote consultation platforms, (United States: real-time, predictive traffic signal algorithms and medical teams can dramatically improve medical data for vehicle use) outcomes with remote patient monitoring May 2019 Theranica Bio-Electronics Ltd. (RPM). We were impressed by OMRON (Israel: advanced electrical neuromodulation devices for the acute treatment of migraine) VENTURES’ enthusiasm and the speed of their Jun. 2019 Patients Know Best Limited (UK: Health data sharing system) decision making, which is on a par with that of Oct. 2019 Realtime Robotics, Inc. prominent venture capital firms in Silicon Valley. (United States: Real-time motion planning technology for industrial We look forward to working with OMRON robots) VENTURES to realize our common vision of Mar. 2020 Avails Medical, Inc. (United States: Devices for use in antibiotic susceptibility testing) improving the health of our several millions of Mar. 2020 AIRx Health Inc. (United States: Remote patient monitoring) patients around the world. Technology OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 58 Strengthening Technology Management To enhance its ability to bring innovation driven by social needs, OMRON has been engaged in strengthening core technologies, accelerating innovation, and strengthening intellectual property. This section highlights some of the progress made in fiscal 2019. Strengthening Core Technologies In fiscal 2019, we worked on creating new technologies, acquiring cutting-edge technologies through the corporate venture capital OVC, and implementing cutting-edge technologies in society through our business activities. Creating new technologies OMRON developed the decentralized learning technology Decentralized X that enhances the performance of artificial intelligence (AI) by integrating multiple machine learning models rather than aggregating field data in one place (November 2019) Acquiring cutting-edge technologies through OVC P57 Implementing cutting-edge technologies in society through our business activities Industrial Automation Business: Launched the industry’s first image processing system with defect extraction AI, which reproduces human sensibility and expert experience (June 2020) Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business: Initiated demonstration trials of a station guidance robot featuring voice-interactive AI engine that supports four languages (Japanese, English, Chinese, and Korean) (September 2019) Healthcare Business: Launched the world’s first blood pressure monitor with an electrocardiograph (ECG) that enables users to monitor ECG data easily at home in the United States (May 2019) Accelerating Innovation IXI has been exploring new business models and is working on six business verification and development projects as of July 2020. Major commercialization verification projects Project under a partnership agreement with Oita Prefecture to provide long-term care prevention services for the elderly (business verification phase) Organic tomato agri-automation project in China (business development phase) Strengthening Intellectual Property OMRON has been engaged in intellectual property activities based on its business, technology, and intellectual property strategies. In fiscal 2019, we continued to work on “Patent Dojo” and Invention Reward System to enhance the ability of our engineers to apply for patents. These efforts have led to an increase in the number of patents held by OMRON and recognition from external organizations. Number of patents held 10,087 (increased by 305 from the previous fiscal year) External recognition OMRON was selected for the fourth consecutive year as a Top 100 Global Innovator, an award recognizing the best 100 innovative companies and research institutes OMRON ranked 1st for the number of national patent applications for technology using AI in production plant management (survey by NeoTechnology, Inc.) Example of Accelerating Innovation: Agri-automation Project In recent years, China has seen rising health awareness and changes in food preferences. This resulted in a rapid increase in demand for fresh and delicious raw vegetables that are safe to eat. Organic or low-pesticide cultivation in a greenhouse is the best way of producing vegetables that are delicious and safe. However, this requires advanced farming skills and experience, such as careful temperature and humidity control, and measures against diseases and pests. OMRON has developed an Agricultural Cultivation Support Service that uses information and communication technology (ICT) to visualize data on the growth of vegetables and their growing environment, including temperature, humidity, and hours of sunlight. The service also provides Alert and Recommend functions, as necessary. The Agricultural Cultivation Support Service offers assistance based on scientific evidence at each step of the farming process, from raising seedlings, planting, and cultivation to shipment, thus enabling farmers to produce high-quality vegetables. In addition, process management and traceability are ensured through data accumulation, making it easier for producers to assure consumers of safety and security. We are currently conducting demonstration trials in eight regions of China in collaboration with agricultural corporations, food manufacturers, and the agricultural sector of the Chinese government, with the aim of fully commercializing the service. 59 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Technology Human Resources Management Corresponding SDGs Employees are the most critical element to promote OMRON Principles Management. As employees supporting the growth of OMRON, we enjoy our work and commit to building an attractive company that accepts the challenge of creating social needs that solve social issues. We create and evolve conditions where the company and its employees can grow together. OMRON Principles Unleash the Passion of Employees Our goal is to solve social issues through business by creating and evolving a working environment where the company and its employees can grow together. In an employeeor people-oriented manner, it can be put otherwise as follows: if employees can unleash and exercise their abilities and passions to the fullest, we will be able to solve more social issues and ensure that OMRON and its employees can grow together. To this end, OMRON emphasizes “resonant management,” which focuses on how we can share the OMRON Principles with each and every employee and create resonance. It is important to work as a team to address social issues. Senior General Manager, Global Human Resources and There are limits to what you can do alone, but a team can solve bigger social Administration HQ issues. Every team needs a purpose. OMRON has a clear purpose; putting Masahiko Tomita the OMRON Principles into practice. Our ideal organization is a group of teams formed of individuals sympathetic to the Principles to solve social issues in a self-motivated manner. Each team must include people with diverse specialties and experiences and a leader who bring the team together. Each team member needs to refine and increase his or her specialty skills, and the team leader is expected to combine the diverse skills of members to lead the team to success and improve the team’s ability. Progress and Issues in VG2.0 Human Resources Strategies To achieve the goals set in the VG2.0, OMRON focused the most on fostering global leaders and empowering diverse talent in its human resources strategies. For cultivating global leaders, we have pursued the Global Core Positions and Core Human Resources Strategies. The Global Core Positions were established as the most important position to lead OMRON’s sustainable growth and business model transformation. Qualified future leaders are assigned to this position at the right time. In addition, we have discovered talent with the potential to assume the position in the future and foster successors to enhance our pipeline. In particular, we have been focusing on the recruitment of local human resources and producing a steady flow of results. Social issues, places where we solve them, and partners with whom we work together are has globalized. With the increasing importance of local perceptions and prompt decision making, it will be our greatest strength that the local talent who have grown, learned, and worked there takes the core positions. Consequently, the ratio of nonJapanese in managerial positions overseas, which accounts for approximately one third of the Global Core Positions, has increased significantly from 49% in fiscal 2017, when VG2.0 began, to 70% in fiscal 2019. As for the empowerment of diverse human resources, at the inception of the VG2.0, we identified requirements for human resources needed to execute the strategies and combined hiring and internal development processes to deploy a diverse range of talent with unprecedented capabilities and experience on a global basis. In Japan, the mass recruiting of new graduates has been very common. At OMRON, the number of hiring career employees exceeded that of new graduates in the 3 years from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2019. Career employees have quite diverse capabilities and experience. The collaboration among career workers or between existing employees and other employees leads to innovation. With the OMRON Principles as the starting point of the collaboration, diverse capabilities, experiences, and views are intermingled to bring innovation and solve social issues. In this way, our Diversity & Inclusion efforts have made good progress. However, new issues have emerged. Until now, we have focused on increasing the number of diverse employees. The next step is to further enhance the capabilities of individuals. We are taking on the challenge of visualizing and connecting diverse capabilities on a global scale. People OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 60 Next Challenge Accelerated by COVID-19 We feel that COVID-19 has greatly pushed the clock forward as a driver of social change. From the perspective of human resources management, while the dualistic question is asked whether we should work from home or at office, COVID-19 provided an opportunity to think about the advantages of face-to-face communication and the role of an office. A more significant implication of COVID-19 is that leaders and specialties who are the most eligible for the purpose in each case but scattered around the globe can form the best team in a flexible combination of remote and face-to-face communications across countries and regions. We realized the possibility of creating greater value and communications timely and faster. To this end, OMRON will remain committed to fostering global leaders and empowering diverse human resources. To build best teams with global members more quickly and flexibly, we will promote the recruitment and internal development of strong global leaders who can practice the OMRON Principles and deliver results, as well as specialists with more advanced skills and abundant experience. In addition, we are working on introducing the Global Human Resources Management System (G-HRMS) in order to centralize and visualize human resources information. The G-HRMS will be put into operation on a step-by-step basis in fiscal 2021 and will be able to list human resources information scattered all over the world in fiscal 2022. This will enable us to assign the right people to the right positions on a global scale. Employees will be able to have an opportunity for diverse work experience across countries and regions Visualizing their capabilities and experience gained will lead to further career advancement. To provide a basis on which each and every employee can display their abilities to the fullest, we continue to work on ensuring the health and human rights of all people working at OMRON and the safety of workplaces. This is exactly the practice of the OMRON Principles by Human Resources division. This is also the realization of one of Our Values, “Respect for All,” and is the role undertaken by human resources division. We are responsible for promoting the advancement of OMRON’s employees and organizations throughout the Group and are committed to solving social issues through our business. We will continue to create and evolve conditions where the Company and its employees can grow together. Key Initiatives for VG2.0 Human Resources Strategies Management Ideal Conditions Major Initiatives to Date The right people with  uccession plans have been developed and implemented to assign the right people to the S adequate qualifications and right Global Core Positions Fostering capabilities are assigned to The assignment of local human resources to the Global Core Positions has been promoted to Global managerial positions, and make prompt decisions based on local perceptions (ratio of non-Japanese > 70%) Leaders an adequate successor Appointment to regional managerial positions has been promoted, and the effort to discover pipeline is in place to and foster next-generation management personnel on a global basis has also been sustain the conditions accelerated Diverse talent has been recruited on a global scale to expand diversity (number of new hires Empowering Employees with diverse between FY2017 and FY2019: 867 persons) of Diverse skills and experience play Recruitment methods have been devised globally (e.g., expanding direct recruitment). Human an active role, collaborate, Post-hire training programs have been standardized globally Resources and create new values The empowerment of women has been promoted in Japan (ratio of women in managerial roles increased from 3.3% in 2017 to 5.9%* in April 2020 ) In Japan, a total of 97 employees (2017-2019) took advantage of an open recruitment and an Employees always work to Encourage application system intended to encourage self-motivated career development increase their motivation SelfRetention and engagement have been improved by visualizing career paths and publishing and improve skills to motivated and posting vacant positions achieve results that are a Employees Region-specific enlightening programs concerning leadership, management, skills for each job source of competitiveness category, etc. have been provided G-HRMS is in place to Visualize visualize human resources G-HRMS has been put in place to visualize the abilities, experience, and skills of employees Human and ensure that the right A  n employee engagement survey has been conducted to find out what employees really Resources and people are assigned to the think and thereby visualize the state of workplace and organization Organization right positions at the right To managers, 360 degree feedback has been provided All Employees time The circle of resonance has been expanded through the advancement of TOGA for practicing The OMRON Principles Practice the OMRON the OMRON Principles (advancement of “externalization”, “walk the talk,” and “resonance”) serve as the Company’s Principles The circle of resonance has been expanded outside the Company to create even greater value unifying and driving force with external partners that cannot be achieved internally * As of April 20, 2020. In the domestic OMRON group, the number of women in managerial positions ratio. Indicates independent assurance performed by a third party. P103 61 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 People Global Core Positions and Core Human Resources Strategies Global Core Positions The Global Core Positions are the most important executive positions that lead the OMRON Group’s management and business. Currently, approximately 200 positions are in place globally, and a person suited to the role of each position is assigned. As a rule, a person assuming the position must be a division director or higher level administrator, although it depends on the size of the organization to which such a person belongs. Three Abilities and Three Experiences Required for All Core Human Resources OMRON has established requirements of abilities and experiences for core human resources taking the Global Core Positions. In addition to the specialties and other requirements for each core position, three abilities and three experiences are required as common requirements to drive OMRON’s management and business. The foundation for this concept is the practice and embodiment of the OMRON Principles. Three Abilities and Three Experiences Required for All Core Human Resources Three Abilities Three Experiences 1. Ability to lead oneself 1. B  usiness experience with PL revenue 2. Ability to lead in producing results responsibility 3. Ability to lead people and 2. E  xperience in working across different organizations businesses, and head offices/branch offices 3. Work experience in non-home countries Practicing and Embodying OMRON Principles System to Assign the Right People to the Right Global Core Positions on an Ongoing Basis In order to assign the right people to the right Global Core Positions on an ongoing basis, we operate a system to discover and foster next-generation management human resources. Deploy Human Resources to Global Core Positions Led by the Global Human Resources and Administration HQ, which oversees human resources as a head office division, candidates for placement in Global Core Positions are listed through discussions with related divisions and management. The President and CEO finalizes the selection and assignment. Develop and Implement Succession Plans A person assuming a core position is responsible for selecting and fostering his or her successor candidates. Approximately 400 successors have been selected and trained by management and core position incumbents. Discover and Foster Next-generation Leaders Most of the successor candidates for next-generation leaders are selected from employees under the age of 35. This is because we believe that it is difficult for them to gain all of the three experiences after being appointed as a successor or assigned to a key position. In addition to employees meeting all of the requirements of three abilities, the next-generation leaders include individuals recommended by several core position incumbents. We have selected approximately 200 next-generation leaders and cultivate them by providing opportunities to accumulate the three experiences with a focus on stretch assignments. We intend to foster leaders who can discover and solve issues on their own. In addition, we support their growth by holding dialog sessions in which management and core position incumbents act as mentors to the future leaders and through educational programs to acquire management literacy.  verview of System to Assign the Right O Core Position Appointment People to the Right Global Core Positions Ready Now on an Ongoing Basis Core Position Dismissal Global Fostering Select / Replace Core Position Successors Business Companies/ Select / Replace Next-generation Subsidiaries and Affiliates Leaders Key Position Core Position Human Resource Pool People OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 62 Results of Global Core Positions and Core Human Resources Strategies The Global Core Positions and Core Human Resources Strategies has enabled us to assign the right people to approximately 200 Global Core Positions on an ongoing basis. The ratio of non-Japanese in core positions overseas, on which we have focused since fiscal 2017, reached 70% in fiscal 2019, exceeding the fiscal 2020 target of 66% one year ahead of schedule. The number of non-Japanese Executive Officers increased from one person in April 2011 to four persons in April 2020. Changes in the ratio of non-Japanese in core positions overseas* (Percentage of non-Japanese) FY2019 Results 80 70% FY2020 Target 60 40 20 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Fiscal year In 1995, I joined OMRON as a production control manager at a factory of Electronic and Mechanical Components Company (OMR) in Shanghai, China. After that, I worked on business supervision and management planning. In 2013, I became the President of OMR. In 2017, I had charge of manufacturing innovation in China at the Head Office as an Executive Officer of OMRON. In April 2020, I was appointed President of OMRON (CHINA) CO., LTD. (OMCC), the regional headquarters for the Greater China region. This diverse experience has been a great asset for me in considering what I should Executive Officer do as the President of the regional headquarters for the Greater China region. In President, OMRON (CHINA) particular, I gained a broad perspective through opportunities to engage in dialogue Jian Xu with customers and the OMRON management team during my time as the President of OMR and during training sessions for selected employees. Through work experience at OMR, I acquired a sense of agility and business acumen. At the Head Office, I grasped the issues in manufacturing, business management, and human resource development in China from a comprehensive perspective. As the OMCC’s first President from China, I will make use of these experiences to expand the circle of resonance of practicing the OMRON Principles among OMRON’s employees and society in China. China has grown significantly over the past decade and has faced enormous social issues. In addition, the recent COVID-19 pandemic brought about a major change in the way people work. We are committed to fulfilling our functions as a regional headquarters, supporting OMRON’s businesses in responding to China’s speed, whereby contributing to the development of Chinese society. We will inherit the OMRON Principles and OMRON’s DNA, and develop talent for successors capable of conducting business operations rooted in China, from a comprehensive perspective encompassing not only Greater China but also the entire territory of the OMRON Group. * “Core positions overseas” is synonymous with the disclosed “managerial positions overseas.” 63 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 People Respect for Human Rights As declared in the OMRON Principles, Our Values include Respect for All. In our view, Respect for All is the value that underlies all of our activities, including respect for human diversity, personality, and individuality, as well as the pursuit of a decent life and work. We believe that acting with integrity in our dealings with people at all times will lead to increased trust from society and the Company’s existence. Human Rights Policies in Line with International Norms and Guidelines OMRON has formulated the Sustainable Conduct Policies which sets forth environmental and social issues to be addressed by OMRON and policies for dealing with the issues, with reference to international norms and guidelines such as the International Bill of Human Rights. The Sustainable Conduct Policies declares that we will respect the fundamental human rights of individuals and will not engage in discrimination or human rights violations for any reason. To this end, we respect the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, establish procedures for identifying, preventing, mitigating, and rectifying negative impacts on human rights, and strengthen efforts to fulfill our corporate responsibility to respect human rights on a company-wide basis. Due Diligence Process for Human Rights Risk Identification Policy Information and Corrective Actions Monitoring Commitment Disclosure assessment Respect for international Area risk Rectifying immediately On-site investigations Disclosure human rights norms and Japan, China, AP Reviewing related Questionnaires OMRON website guidelines policies/procedures (employees, Integrated Report Guiding Principles on Value chain risks Strengthening human suppliers) Responding to Business and Human OMRON’s production rights training, etc. Audit by a third party external surveys and Rights, and others centers questionnaires Supply chain Medium-term initiatives Management reports Relevant parties Expanding areas for Board of Directors OMRON employees Persons subject to respect for human Executive Council and business partners assessment rights (temporary Sustainability (including suppliers, OMRON employees agencies and Committee customers, and local Employees of contractors) Corporate Ethics & communities) temporary agencies/ Risk Management contractors Committee Priority issues Foreign workers Central Human Rights Prohibition of forced Suppliers’ employees Committee (Japan) labor, child labor, discrimination, etc. Respecting Human Rights of All People Working for OMRON OMRON works to ensure that the human rights of all people working at its business offices are always respected. In fiscal 2019, we revised our human rights policies and decided to exert an influence on business partners involved in our business. To protect the human rights of all people working on our company premises, in fiscal 2019, we began providing the employees of contractors undertaking production, development, in-house logistics, security, food service, cleaning, and other services and working at our business sites in Japan with access equivalent to that provided to OMRON employees to human rights training opportunities as well as to an whistleblowing system and other relief measures. Human Rights Initiatives During COVID-19 Pandemic The spread of COVID-19 has brought about an unprecedented and growing interest in corporate initiatives for human rights issues such as the safety and health of employees, including suppliers. OMRON is addressing the negative impacts of COVID-19 on human rights. Consultation Desk for COVID-19 We have set up a consultation desk at each business site in Japan for general consultations on concerns of individuals regarding the recent spread of COVID-19. We also provide consultation through whistleblowing system with due consideration of privacy protection. These two contact points are available not only to our full-time employees but also to temporary employees, part-time employees, and employees of contractors. People OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 64 The OMRON Global Awards (TOGA) OMRON pursues the goal of improving society by solving social issues through our business based on the OMRON Principles. TOGA initiatives are intended to share the stories of how the OMRON Principles are practiced throughout the entire Group across the world to ensure that all employees are aware of, and understand, the Principles, which are the source of OMRON’s strength, and to expand the circle of empathy and resonance. Highlights of TOGA Program TOGA encourages employees to set their own goals for solving social issues to help them experience the connection between their work and the OMRON Principles, with the aim of fostering a culture of ongoing aspirations to put the OMRON Principles into practice. We share and publicly praise the OMRON Principles practiced in everyday work and workplaces, expanding the circle of empathy and resonance in practicing the OMRON Principles. TOGA program is ongoing throughout the year. Thirteen teams that pass preliminary selections from our organizations around the world are invited to come to Kyoto to present their initiatives for practicing the OMRON Principles at the OMRON Global Meet on May 10th, the OMRON Group Founder’s Day. These teams bring back news of how other team initiatives were received to their local workplaces, sharing their experiences with their co-workers and expanding the circle of empathy and resonance throughout the world. TOGA Process TOGA is designed based on the SECI* Model of knowledge management in 1Plant the Flag which the tacit knowledge of an individual is drawn out to become shared knowledge throughout an organization. OMRON engages in a cycle of setting inspirational goals, taking action, and reviewing progress to share information and 5 Resonate Externalize 2 Declare Commitment encourage buy-in throughout the entire year. Resonate Walk the Talk * SECI Model: A knowledge management mechanism produced by Hitotsubashi University professor Ikujiro Nonaka that focuses on knowledge creation activities. Through a conversion process of socialization, externalization, combination, and 4 3 internalization, organizations can take the tacit knowledge of an individual and create shared knowledge throughout a group or organization. Review and Put Commitment Share into Practice (Source: Globis University, Graduate School of Management MBA Glossary) TOGA Evolution In fiscal 2019, TOGA drew a total of 6,405 entries from around the world. The total number of entries decreased due to the transfer of the Automotive Electronic Components Business, but the number of entries per employee has continued to increase each year. TOGA has taken root as a process to share and recognize voluntary employee initiatives in practicing the OMRON Principles. For further innovation driven by social needs, we continue to practice the Principles across departments and in cooperation with external partners. The circle of empathy and resonance that originates from TOGA now involves people outside OMRON as well, and has led to new innovation driven by social needs. A typical example is the “Promoting Metabolic Management Centers (MMCs)” in China, which received the Gold Award in fiscal 2017. Details of this example are introduced on the following page. TOGA Evolution Event-based movement Expanded opportunities for Linking innovation driven by Rules and communications externalization and resonance social needs to the workplace driven by the head office More company-driven, Expanding circle of resonance local workplace participation inside and outside OMRON 2012 2015 2017 2020 Number of TOGA Entries and Entries Per Employee (Number of Entries) (Number of Entries Per Employee) 10,000 1.78 2 Number of Entries 1.88 Number of Entries Per Employee 1.41 7,500 1.30 1.5 1.01 6,957 0.87 6,216 6,405 5,000 1 0.59 0.64 5,003 4,173 2,500 3,651 0.5 2,481 2,519 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 65 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 People Example of Putting the OMRON Principles into Practice Medical Treatment Innovation Offers Unified Patient Administration: Establishing the Metabolic Management Center (MMC) (Fiscal 2017 Gold Award, China) In China, the number of patients with diabetes has increased rapidly as a result of improvements in living standards and is said to have exceeded 110 million. Diabetes is a serious disease that can lead to various complications such as liver diseases, neurological diseases, visual impairments, and a range of other complications. In China, patients who develop complications need to visit several different hospitals and clinical departments for each symptom. This has placed a considerable burden on patients and the lack of access to proper medical care has become a social issue. To address this issue, a team led by Zhenjie Li of OMRON MEDICAL (BEIJING) Co., Ltd. has worked to establish the Metabolic Management Center (MMC) that enables one-stop management of patient information by doctors, so that patients can receive the optimal care for complications. However, clinical departments in China were vertically segmented so that it was difficult to even share each patient information. There was no environment to receive one-stop medical treatment. To change this situation, Li and his team members attended almost 100 conferences in a year and explained the importance of MMC. As a result of this effort, the team gained the understanding and support for the MMC of doctors from different clinical departments attending those conferences, as well as the Chinese government, ophthalmology testing equipment companies, pharmaceutical companies, and medical IT companies, among others. In 2016, MMC equipped with blood pressure monitors, arteriosclerosis measuring devices, ophthalmologic diagnostic equipment, testing kits, and other test devices to treat complications of diabetes was introduced at a hospital for the first time. Since then, MMC has quickly spread across China’s provinces and regions. Now, a total of 484 hospitals have set up the MMC. More than 950 hospitals intend to adopt the system. The circle of resonance for the MMC has been expanding even further. The first MMC Health Convenience Store, offering easy access and a seamless connection between home and healthcare, opened at a major pharmacy chain located in the heart of Shanghai, China. The MMC Health Convenience Store is equipped with latest medical facilities such as MMC and iHEC.* It allows patients to receive advanced medical examinations including arteriosclerosis tests and funduscopic examinations at local pharmacies which were previously available only in hospitals. For those who continue to visit the store and register as a member, we will share each person’s ID and medical data with medical institutions operating MMC or iHEC so that patients with diabetes can receive drugs prescribed based on their medical records, without visiting hospitals. This MMC Health Convenience Store is expected to open another 30 stores by the end of 2020. The circle of resonance for OMRON’s efforts to contribute to the healthy lives of people in China continues to grow. We are confident that the service will contribute to achieving our goal of “zero cerebrovascular and cardiovascular events” by getting more actively involved in the treatment of hypertension and intervening before events such as stroke occur. Going forward, we will continue with our challenge of expanding our collaboration to include more healthcare partners and becoming a service model that serves as a driving force for OMRON Healthcare’s remote consultation service initiatives. Zhenjie Li of OMRON MEDICAL Major pharmacy chain in Shanghai Receiving medical examination at the (BEIJING) Co., Ltd. housing the MMC Convenience Store MMC Convenience Store * iHEC: intelligent Hypertension Excellence Center. The Center collects and analyzes data from various healthcare devices on a cloud-based platform and uses the results to provide guidance from hypertension specialists and doctors. People OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 66 Environment Corresponding SDGs Disclosure of Climate Change-Related Information based on TCFD*1 OMRON recognizes that climate change impacts our future sustainable growth. We are engaged in the following framework, using the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), for which we declared our support in February 2019. Governance OMRON has designated response to climate change as one of is key sustainability issues under its medium-term management plan. We are carrying out specific initiatives in accordance with annual targets and plans approved by the Sustainability Committee and the Executive Council. These initiatives are monitored and supervised by the Board of Directors, based on reports on their content and progress. Part of the medium-to-long-term, performance-linked compensation for internal directors and executive officers incorporates evaluations based on sustainability indicators evaluated by third parties. Risk Management Under its integrated management structure, OMRON manages risks that have a significant impact on management and finances as key management risks. We also analyze climate change risks as part of our integrated risk management. We collect and analyze a wide range of information on risk factors such as regulations relating to climate change and their impact on business, by conducting audits of environmental legal compliance assessment globally, assessing vulnerability of each site to natural disasters (flooding, torrential rain, water shortages, etc.) which are expected to increase in scale and frequency as a result of climate change, and making preparations for business continuity. Indicators and Targets OMRON has designated greenhouse gas emissions as an indicator for climate change, and has set OMRON Carbon Zero with the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to zero by fiscal 2050. Using the Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions quantities of fiscal 2016 as a baseline, we backcast from fiscal 2050 to set reduction targets for fiscal 2030 and fiscal 2020.*2 A target for Scope 3 is also under consideration. Under ORMON Carbon Zero, we are targeting a 32% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by fiscal 2030, compared to fiscal 2016. This represents a reduction of approximately 300 thousand t-CO2 (reference value) by fiscal 2030 from the reductions expected if initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions remained at the current level. If a carbon tax were to be introduced by 2030 in the countries where OMRON operates,*3 the financial impact of reducing greenhouse gas emissions is estimated to be between ¥0.99 billion and ¥3.3 billion.*4 Compared to Compared to Zero Greenhouse Gas Actual amount of greenhouse gas emitted Greenhouse gas emissions target Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2016 Greenhouse Emissions Reductions expected if initiatives to reduce 4% 32% Gas Fiscal 2019 Results Reduction Reduction Emissions greenhouse gas emissions remained at the 30 current level (reference value) (Reference 25 Value) 166 Greenhouse 24 thousand t-CO2 gas emissions (10 thousand 17 ton-CO2) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2030 Fiscal 2050 (FY) Results Target Target Target In fiscal 2019, we reduced greenhouse gas emissions to 166 thousand t-CO2, a 34% reduction compared to fiscal 2016. This was achieved by continuing to procure renewable energy-derived electricity in Japan, which we started to do in fiscal 2018, in addition to promoting energy conservation measures at each site, and installing a new PV inverter system. OMRON will continue its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, aiming to reduce the emissions to zero by 2050. *1: TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures): Task force to develop recommendations for climate-related financial disclosures established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), an international body committed to the stabilization of financial systems. *2: Greenhouse gas emissions calculated from sales forecasts, including the Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) that was sold off in October 2019. In considering targets to align with the SBT criteria in fiscal 2017, we set 2016, the year of the latest values, as the reference year. (SBT: Science Based Targets. Science-based, mediumto long-term targets for reducing greenhouse gases.) *3: Assumes the inclusion of the United States, Brazil, and EU countries in addition to Japan, China, Indonesia, and other Southeast Asian countries where OMRON’s sites are based. *4: Assumes a unit charge for carbon tax of USD30 to USD110. Converted at the rate of JPY110 = USD1) Source: Carbon Pricing Corridors The Market View 2018, CDP 67 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Environment Strategy: Scenario Analysis OMRON began analyzing scenarios from the Social Solutions domain, which offers energy generation, energy storage, and energy conservation products and services to help customers maximize their energy efficiency. We identified and organized risks and opportunities based on two scenarios as announced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the International Energy Agency, and others: one assuming a rise in global average temperature of 4°C or more, and the other assuming that the increase in global average temperature was kept to below 2°C (1.5°C in some cases) as agreed under the Paris Agreement. As a result, we reaffirmed the need to promote the widespread use of renewable energy to contribute to solving the climate change issue. Going forward, we will evaluate the impact for each scenario, and also carry out scenario analysis in other domains, to use the results in formulating our next long-term vision. Scenario Analysis Conducted in the Environmental Solutions Business of the Social Solutions Domain Assumed period: Fiscal 2030 Scenario adopted: IPCC/RCP8.5 (a rise in global average temperature of 4°C or more above pre-industrial level) IEA/SDS (in part, IPCC/SR1.5) (increase in global average temperature kept to below 2°C (1.5°C in some cases)) Risks and opportunities identified in the scenario OMRON’s response to the risks and opportunities analysis identified Increase in business costs (introduction of carbon tax, emissions trading, etc.) as a result of Systematic promotion of energy conservation and Migration risks complying with climate change regulations renewable energy (introduction of high-efficiency airIntensifying competition due to entries from other conditioning equipment, expansion of in-house industries and by overseas companies, changes in renewable energy-based power generation, customer needs, etc. purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates, etc.) Increase in business costs due to circular economy Development of products and services that help regulations (making it mandatory to provide reduce greenhouse gas emissions repairable products), which are expected to Review of products planning and design, etc. accelerate with climate change response Measures for Business Continuity Planning (BCP) (decentralization of material suppliers, production Disruption of the supply chain due to increased Physical risks sites, etc.) severity of natural disasters (flooding, torrential Introduction of in-house renewable energy-based rain, water shortages, etc.) power generation Increase in operating costs for air conditioning and Avoid procuring electricity from the power grid cooling systems due to higher average during high-load periods when unit prices are high temperatures by combining storage batteries with supply/demand control technologies Expansion of renewable energy, energy storage and energy management markets due to rapid progress of decarbonization in energy supply and consumption processes Expanded sales of PV inverters and storage Companies and local governments: Accelerated batteries, capturing the growing demand for adoption of renewable energy and energy storage renewable energy and energy storage at systems, which are distributed power sources, Opportunities companies, homes, and local governments due to increasing demand for decarbonization and Establishment of an energy management business disaster prevention using solar power and storage batteries General households: Increased popularity of Study of new business development in anticipation self-generation, storage and consumption of of advances in the circular economy electricity Attracting ESG investment and enhancing the added Advancement in energy management that can value of our products through proactive response to solve electricity supply/demand balance issues climate change and the circular economy associated with the spread of renewable energy Promotion of green recovery (economic stimulus measures and environmental conservation) in response to the impact of COVID-19 * Risks and opportunities detailed above include not only those related to the Environmental Solutions Business, but also those related to the entire company. Comment from an Employee Who Took Part in the Scenario Analysis This initiative made me realize that climate change is a major issue for human survival, and for companies that do not work to solve this issue, the value of their existence will be called into question. We will continue to work to create products and services to realize a society that can make more effective use of renewable energy, which is regarded as the most promising solution. Energy Solutions Business HQ, OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Tatsuya Komamine Environment OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 68 Message from the Chairman For Value Creation Across the Future OMRON’s Ever-Evolving, Unique Governance September 2020 Chairman Fumio Tateishi Over the years, OMRON’s corporate governance has continued to evolve based on the OMRON Principles. In fiscal 2015, OMRON introduced board of directors evaluations to further improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. It is especially in uncertain times that the Board of Directors is called on to be its most effective. We asked Chairman of OMRON, Fumio Tateishi, about how effective the Board of Directors has been, citing specific examples. (Interviewer: Integrated Report Production Team) 69 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance – Editor (in bold): OMRON has been working year are decided. to build and reinforce its governance systems In this way, as well as building up our corporate since the 1990s, when corporate governance governance framework step by step, most recently, was still in its early stages in Japan. Could you we have been improving the Board’s effectiveness tell us about how OMRON’s Board of Directors by rotating the PDCA cycle of this Board of has evolved through those efforts? Directors evaluation process. The history of OMRON’s governance began in 1996, when Nobuo Tateishi, the then Chairman of – In fiscal 2019, the Board of Directors, which OMRON, participated as Japan’s representative in a has led the evolution of the corporate business advisory group of the Organisation for governance system over the past 25 years, came Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). to deliberate on a major proposal to transfer From the OECD’s activities, he came to recognize one of our main businesses, the Automotive the importance of governance and the need for Electronic Components Business (AEC), to Japanese companies to introduce corporate Nidec Corporation. There must have been governance. Holding to the adage, “start with the several hurdles in the process that led to the first step,” OMRON established its Management final decision. What were the deliberations like? Personnel Advisory Committee (today’s Personnel OMRON has positioned corporate governance as Advisory Committee) in 1996. In 1999, it cut the the mechanism by which management based on number of directors from 30 to 7 and introduced an the OMRON Principles will be accelerated and executive officer system at the same time. These corporate value will be enhanced over the long were quite advanced initiatives at that time in term. Since the Board of Directors evaluation Japan. process was introduced, our aim has been to turn Subsequently, outside directors were brought onto the Board of Directors into something akin to a the Board in 2001 and the positions of Chairman of “monitoring board,” one that focuses on the the Board of Directors and CEO were separated in discussion of key mediumand long-term issues. In 2003. That same year, the Compensation Advisory fact, 70% of the Board’s agenda is now given over Committee was established, followed by the CEO to topics that concern mediumand long-term Selection Advisory Committee in 2006 and the strategies. This is why the Board of Directors also Corporate Governance Committee in 2008. A deliberated on the AEC from short-, medium-, and process of evaluating the Board of Directors was long-term perspectives. introduced in 2015 to evaluate the effectiveness of As symbolized by EVs (electric vehicles) and ADASs the Board, and executive directors (excluding the (Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems), the Chairman of the Board) were abolished in 2017 to automotive electronic components market is enhance the oversight functions of the Board. In entering a once-in-a-century period of great this way, for the past quarter of a century, OMRON transformation. has been improving the Board of Directors’ The Board of Directors refrained from making shorteffectiveness, step by step. sighted assessments about the transfer of the One of the most unique features of OMRON’s AEC, and instead deliberated on the matter from corporate governance framework is that the CEO is mid-and long-term perspectives based on the not a member of any of the advisory committees. OMRON Principles before reaching a Further, all advisory committees are chaired by determination. My view is that we were able to outside directors, which ensures a high degree of achieve this precisely because the three conditions transparency, objectivity, and effectiveness. For needed to achieve it were in place. Those three example, to realize both effectiveness and conditions were management based on the objectivity, the Board evaluation process, which OMRON Principles, underpinned by the OMRON was introduced in fiscal 2015, is carried out by the Corporate Motto established by the founder in Corporate Governance Committee, which is chaired 1959, management based on our long-term vision by an outside director and whose five members are that has been reviewed every 10 years since 1991, all outside directors and outside members of the and the strengthening of our corporate governance Audit & Supervisory Board. over the past 25 years. In this process, the outcomes of the evaluation of In the process of these deliberations, the matter the Board’s operations are analyzed every fiscal was considered from many different angles, and year, and, based on the analysis, operational the Directors raised various questions, such as policies and important themes for the following whether we really ought to be selling off a business Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 70 whose earnings are on a par with the industry option for allowing the AEC business to contribute average, and whether, even if we did sell it, should to the automobile industry and to broader society we sell off the entire business, which could provide beyond that over the long term. a foothold into growth areas such as EVs and The last point concerned the motivation of the ADAS. employees. We decided that, by transferring the In making a final decision, we debated the matter AEC to Nidec Corporation, it could continue to multiple times from three different points. contribute to the automobile industry for the next Specifically, the first point was whether OMRON 10, or even 20 years, and its employees would be would be able to contribute to future social able to engage in their work with hopes and development through the Automotive Electronic dreams. Having said that, a change of company is a Components Business according to the OMRON massive change for employees. I asked executive Principles. In other words, would OMRON be able management to explain the transfer carefully to the to remain the best owner of that business? The employees, so that they could stay positive and second point was whether the business could perform to their fullest ability even after the continue to create new value and be needed by transfer. society under Nidec Corporation’s management. In The most important thing is for the AEC business other words, would Nidec Corporation be the best to grow even further after the transfer by option for the business? The third point was contributing to society. This is an example of putting whether, if the business were to be sold, the the OMRON Principles into practice. employees working in the Automotive Electronic Components Business would be able to keep hold – In the end, OMRON was able to achieve of their dream of solving social issues in the the best negotiations with the best timing, but automobile industry. what do you think was the most important Regarding the first point, as I mentioned earlier, the point that made that possible? automobile industry is entering a once-in-a-century I think there were two key points. The first is the period of great transformation, the impacts of future potential of the AEC business in the which are also being felt in the automotive automobile industry. electronic components market. In the area of The other point is that the Board of Directors has electronic control units (ECU), where OMRON’s conducted discussions on important themes from control technologies can demonstrate their midto long-term perspectives. The very reason we strength, cars now have about 70 such units, but were able to make a prompt decision with such these are predicted to be aggregated into only good timing was that oversight and executive three in-vehicle computers in the future. In such a functions were already communicating with each severe environment, OMRON would need to make other in a constructive manner. large investments over the next five to ten years to The decision on the sale of the business was made ensure that the AEC could offer OMRON value to through business portfolio management (PPM) society. However, given our policy of positioning under OMRON’s ROIC management. From around the Industrial Automation Business (IAB) and 2006, OMRON started to focus on return on Healthcare Business (HCB) as our growth invested capital (ROIC) and to evaluate its businesses and investing aggressively in those businesses based on ROE and ROA as well. At that areas, it would have been difficult to invest in the time, ROIC was still only an indicator of the results AEC to the same degree. For these reasons, we of business evaluations, but after Yamada became reached the conclusion that it would be best to CEO, he formally advocated ROIC management in transfer the operation of the business to another fiscal 2013. Since then, the individual businesses party who would be capable of creating value in the have been asked to achieve return on invested future while the business was still competitive and capital (ROIC) over and above capital costs. Since performing sufficiently in terms of net sales and the company’s foundation, OMRON has pursued profit. innovation driven by social needs without limiting Regarding the second point, if Nidec Corporation, itself to certain domains. We have strived to create whose strengths lie in motor technology, and greater social value by withdrawing from OMRON AEC business, whose strengths lie in businesses in which it had become difficult to control technology, were to come together, they create social value and concentrating our would be able to create competitive modules. We management resources on businesses with higher determined that such a pairing would be the best potential. Our pursuit to date of ROIC management 71 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance that is conscious of capital costs is what enabled – Recently, stock exchanges and institutional us to make the decision to transfer the AEC investors are calling for the further acceleration Business. of ESG-based and diversity-based management. How will the Board of Directors respond to – How will the Board of Directors perform its these kinds of global demands? role during the current COVID crisis and as we Commitment to ESG is the epitome of the practice head toward the new normal era post-COVID? of the OMRON Principles. OMRON’s position is Our first priority is to protect the health and safety that the practice of the OMRON Principles equals of our employees. On that premise, we have asked the promotion of sustainability. By that I mean that the executive side to strive to keep the business we are engaging in ESG with the belief that running, and we check whether or not a balance accelerating the practice of the OMRON Principles between the two is being achieved. The executive will accelerate the promotion of sustainability. was actually swift in its responses by stepping up In 2016, we deliberated on the OMRON remote work to keep our employees safe and Sustainability Policy and identified our material resuming production to fulfill our supply sustainability issues (materialities). Since the responsibilities to our customers. The very reason Sustainability Office was established under the the executive function was able to act so quickly direct control of the Board of Directors in 2017, the was that, because the Board of Directors has been Board of Directors has selected sustainability as a communicating constructively with the executive key theme and has been checking the state of function in normal times and evaluating it progress and the issues on a regular basis. Our accurately, the executive function has had the sustainability initiatives are also linked to our confidence to put its responses in place even under directors’ remuneration. Specifically, we have such crisis conditions. adopted the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) The next key theme for the Board of Directors in as our sustainability evaluation index, which we are fiscal 2020 is to consider the role that OMRON using to accelerate our initiatives, by reflecting the should play in the post-COVID era. There are three index in medium-to-long-term performance-linked points to discuss on this theme. remuneration. Firstly, how will society change and what form will Regarding the diversity of the Board of Directors, it take in the post-COVID era? Secondly, in the new we have worked to incorporate more diverse normal era post-COVID, what kind of social needs perspectives and views by having outside directors will drive innovation at OMRON? Thirdly, what kinds and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory of new businesses will meet those social needs? Board on the board from an early stage. Diversity What should our business model, including that of really is essential for dealing with today’s chaotic our existing businesses, look like? external environment. I believe that, as well as Currently, one of the most important items on the gender and nationality, diversity can be achieved by Board of Directors’ agenda is the growth of bringing together the strengths of people with OMRON. To this end, we recognize the extreme diverse views and different business experiences. importance of thinking about the post-COVID era. I also believe that innovation can be created by Specifically, creating new businesses that will diverse human resources performing to their full provide new business pillars and transforming our ability. As such, I have urged the executive function business model from a goods-based to a serviceto promote diversity. based one will be key. However, these new OMRON will work to create the kind of value that challenges also come with risks. Taking into account only OMRON can offer by responding to social the opinions of our experienced outside directors needs such as SDGs. To this end, the Board of and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory Directors will strive to achieve sustainable Board, the Board of Directors will accelerate new improvement of corporate value through the innovation driven by social needs by providing continuous exercise of its oversight function. mechanisms and an environment to support the executive function as it takes on challenges and risks in the lead-up to the post-COVID era. Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 72 Corporate Governance Basic Stance for Corporate Governance At the OMRON Group, corporate governance is defined as the system of processes and practices based on the OMRON Principles and the OMRON Management Philosophy. The system is intended to ensure transparency and fairness in business and speed up management decisions and practices. This is done by connecting the entire process from oversight and supervision all the way to business execution in order to boost the OMRON Group’s competitive edge. OMRON’s corporate governance also involves building such a system and maintaining its proper function. The ultimate objective is to achieve sustainable enhancement of corporate value by earning the support of all stakeholders. OMRON Corporate Governance Policies OMRON Corporation established the OMRON Corporate Governance Policies* based on the Basic Stance for Corporate Governance. Since establishing the Management Personnel Advisory Committee in 1996, we have spent more than 20 years formalizing and strengthening our framework of corporate governance. We intend to continue our pursuit of ongoing corporate governance improvement as we develop our own unique vision of governance. * Omron Corporate Governance Policies https://www.omron.com/global/en/about/corporate/governance/policy/ Corporate Governance Initiatives 1999 2003 2011 President 1987: Yoshio Tateishi 2003: Hisao Sakuta 2011: Yoshihito Yamada Chair of the Board of 2003: Chairman serves as chair of the Board of Directors; President served as both Directors / CEO president serves as CEO 1999: Revised articles of incorporation, 2017: Eliminated Separation of setting number of board members to 10 or fewer board titles* management oversight 30 directors and business execution 2017: Positioned 1999: Adopted executive officer system president as an executive officer Advisory Board 1999: Advisory Board 2001: One 2003: Two outside directors 2015: Three outside Outside Director outside (seven directors) directors (eight directors) director Audit & Supervisory 1998: One 2003: Three members 2011: Two members Board Member 1999: Two members member (four auditors) (four auditors) (Independent) 1996: Management Personnel Advisory 2000: Personnel Advisory Committee Committee 2003: Compensation Advisory Committee Advisory and Other Committees 2006: CEO Selection Advisory Committee 2008: Corporate Governance Committee 1959: 1990: Corporate Corporate OMRON 1998: Revised 2006: Revised 2015: Revised Philosophy Motto Principles OMRON Corporate 2015: Established Governance Policies * Not including chairman of the Board 73 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance Corporate Governance Framework OMRON has elected to be a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. The OMRON Board of Directors is made up of eight members to ensure substantive discussion and deliberations. OMRON has separated the management oversight and business execution functions within the company, creating a system whereby the majority of Board Directors are not engaged directly in business operations. We have also adopted a policy setting the ratio of outside directors to at least one-third of the total number of directors on the board. To increase objectivity on behalf of the Board of Directors, the titles and roles of chairman of the Board and President (CEO) have been separated. The Chairman serves as chair of the Board of Directors with no direct corporate representational authority. OMRON has established several advisory committees to enhance the oversight functions of the Board of Directors. These committees include the Personnel Advisory Committee, the CEO Selection Advisory Committee, the Compensation Advisory Committee, and the Corporate Governance Committee. The Personnel Advisory Committee, the CEO Selection Advisory Committee, and the Compensation Advisory Committee are all chaired by outside directors with at least half of the committee members being outside directors. The CEO is not a member of any of these committees. The chair and members of the Corporate Governance Committee are outside directors and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory Board. This structure offers another layer of transparency and objectivity to the decision-making process. In these policies, OMRON has created a hybrid governance framework that combining the best features of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board and a company with a Nomination Committee. Outside directors and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory Board attended the 13 meetings of the Board of Directors held during fiscal 2019 at a rate of 100%. Outside members had an attendance rate of 100% at the13 meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board. Fiscal 2020 OMRON’s Corporate Governance Structure Shareholders’ Meeting Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Chair: Chairman of the Board Audit & Supervisory Board Office Board of Directors Office Personnel Advisory Committee Accounting Auditor Sustainability Office CEO Selection Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Committee Executive Organization President Internal Audit Division Executive Council Business Companies Sustainability Committee* Head Office Divisions (Internal Companies) * The Sustainability Committee identifies important issues relating to sustainability in the focus domains, the head office divisions, and various committees (the Corporate Ethics & Risk Management Committee, the Information Disclosure Executive Committee, and the Group Environment Activity Committee) and oversees them on a Group-wide basis. Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Personnel Advisory Committee CEO Selection Advisory Selects board directors, auditors, Oversees corporate governance Sets standards and policies Committee and executive officers, determines framework and execution related to selecting and hiring Deliberates candidates for compensation for directors and business operations; conducts directors, Audit & Supervisory selection as new CEO; deliberates executive officers, makes audits of day-to-day business Board members, and executive succession plans and candidates decisions on important business activities, including those officers; deliberates on proposed in the event of an emergency. issues, and performs other performed by directors. candidates. supervisory functions. Compensation Advisory Corporate Governance Executive Council Committee Committee Deliberates and discusses Sets policies for director and Oversees ongoing corporate important operational matters executive officer compensation; governance improvement; within the scope of the authority deliberates compensation levels deliberates policies to advance of the president and CEO; and specific compensation management transparency and determines future direction. packages. fairness. Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 74 Fiscal 2020 Advisory Committee Personnel CEO Selection Compensation Corporate Title Name Advisory Advisory Advisory Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman of the Board Fumio Tateishi Representative Director Yoshihito Yamada Representative Director Kiichiro Miyata Director Koji Nitto Director Satoshi Ando Outside Director Eizo Kobayashi Outside Director Takehiro Kamigama Outside Director Izumi Kobayashi Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full-time) Kiichiro Kondo Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full-time) Kiyoshi Yoshikawa Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Hideyo Uchiyama Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Tadashi Kunihiro Chairperson Vice-Chairperson Committee Member Independent under Tokyo Stock Exchange rules Composition of the Board of Directors and Each Committee Personnel Advisory Committee Board of Directors Corporate Governance CEO Selection Advisory Committee Committee Compensation Advisory Committee Ratio of Non-executive Ratio of Independent Ratio of Independent Ratio of Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Executive 5/8 3/8 3/5 5/5 62.5% 37.5% 60% 100% Director Compensation OMRON has set up the Compensation Advisory Committee for the purpose of bolstering the management oversight function of the Board of Directors by enhancing transparency and objectivity in determining compensation amounts for each director and executive officer. In response to a consultation request from the chairperson of the Board of Directors, the Compensation Advisory Committee deliberates on and makes recommendations regarding the Compensation Policy for Directors. The Compensation Advisory Committee also deliberates on and determines the Compensation Policy for Executive Officers in response to a consultation request from the CEO. Reflecting the committee’s recommendations, the Board of Directors determines the Compensation Policy for Directors. Based on the above-mentioned respective Compensation Policy, the Compensation Advisory Committee deliberates on compensation of Directors and Executive Officers. Director compensation is based on input from the Compensation Advisory Committee. The board of directors considers this input to determines director compensation within the scope approved by a resolution at the general meeting of shareholders. The amount of executive officer compensation is determined in accord with deliberations and reports from the Compensation Advisory Committee. These amounts shall be within the maximum limit of the sum of compensation amounts for all directors, as set by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders. The amounts of compensation for individual executive officers shall be determined according to the recommendations of the Compensation Advisory Committee. *See our website for more about Audit & Supervisory Board member compensation policies. https://www.omron.com/global/en/about/corporate/governance/compensation/ 75 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance Compensation Policy for Directors Basic Policy The Company shall provide compensation sufficient to recruit as directors exceptional people who are capable of putting the OMRON Principles into practice. The compensation structure shall be sufficient to motivate directors to contribute to sustainable enhancement of corporate value. The compensation structure shall maintain a high level of transparency, fairness, and rationality to ensure accountability to shareholders and other stakeholders. Structure of Compensation for directors shall consist of a base salary, which is fixed compensation, and Compensation performance-linked compensation, which varies depending on the Company’s performance. Compensation for outside directors shall consist of a base salary only, reflecting their roles and the need for maintaining independence. Base Salary The amount of a base salary shall be determined by taking into account the salary levels of other companies, as surveyed by a specialized outside organization. PerformanceAs short-term performance-linked compensation, the Company shall provide bonuses linked to Linked yearly performance indicators, and to the degree of achievement of performance targets. Compensation As mediumto long-term performance-linked compensation, the Company shall grant stock compensation linked to the degree of achievement of the goals of the medium-term management plan, and to the improvement in corporate value (value of stock). The Company shall determine the target amounts for short-term performance-linked compensation and mediumto long-term performance-linked compensation based on the target pay mix specified according to each director’s role and responsibility. Compensation All compensation for directors shall be determined by a resolution of the Board of Directors Governance reflecting the deliberations and recommendations of the Compensation Advisory Committee. Overview of Compensation Structure for Directors (1) Compensation Composition Ratio Compensation consists of a “base salary” (fixed compensation) and compensation according to Company performance, namely “short-term performance-linked compensation (bonuses)” and “medium-to-long-term, performance-linked compensation (Performance-linked and Share-based Incentive Plan).” The ratio of compensation consisting of performance-linked compensation compared to base salary has been determined for each role: Short-term performanceMedium-to-long-term, performanceBase salary linked compensation (bonuses) linked compensation (Performance-linked and Share-based Incentive Plan) 1:1:1.5* *Referring to Representative Director, President and CEO *The ratio is based on the assumption that the performance targets are set as 100% for each performance-linked compensation. (2) Base Salary A base salary is paid to Directors as fixed compensation. Base salaries are determined for each role by taking into account the salary levels of officers at other companies (benchmarked companies of the same industry and scope selected by the Compensation Advisory Committee), as surveyed by a specialized outside organization. (3) Short-term Performance-linked Compensation (Bonuses) Bonuses are paid to Directors excluding Directors (Independent) as short-term performance-linked compensation, which is linked to yearly performance indicators and the degree of achievement of performance targets. Director bonuses vary between 0% and 200% according to the achievement of operating income, net income, and ROIC targets defined in the annual operating plan. Short-term performanceBase amount for Performance score ROIC score linked compensation each position (Operating income 50%, net income 50%) (bonuses) (4) Medium-to-long-term, Performance-linked Compensation (Performance-linked and Sharebased Incentive Plan) Stock compensation is paid as medium-to-long-term, performance-linked compensation to Directors excluding Directors (Independent). Stock compensation comprises the performance-linked component (60%), which is linked to the degree of achievement of the medium-term management plan, and the nonperformancelinked component (40%), which aims for retention and motivation to improve share prices over the mediumto long-term, and is paid under the condition of a certain term of service. Stock compensation for performance-linked component varies between 0% and 200%, according to achievement of net sales, EPS, and ROE targets based on the medium-term management plan, as well as sustainability evaluation* based on a third-party organization. Stock Base amount for Performance score Sustainability ROE score compensation each position (Net sales 30%, EPS 70%) evaluation * (performance-linked) As a rule, stock paid in stock-based compensation must be held by the individual during their term of service. In the event that an individual Director in question engages in serious misconduct during their term of service, and such misconduct harms the Company, the Compensation Advisory Committee will deliberate and make a recommendation. Based on this discussion and recommendation, the Board of Directors shall resolve to limit the payment of stockbased compensation. * Sustainability Evaluation An evaluation based on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI). The DJSI are a series of ESG Indices which include companies evaluated and selected based on long-term shareholder value perspective, reflecting economic, environmental, and social factors comprehensively. Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 76 Initiatives Towards Improving the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness Status of Initiatives Towards Improving the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness The Company ensures transparency and fairness in business management, speeds up management decisions and practices, and strives to boost the OMRON Group’s competitive edge. The ultimate objective is to achieve sustained enhancement of corporate value. To this end, the Company reinforces the oversight functions of Board of Directors through initiatives for improving its effectiveness. Such initiatives are undertaken in a cycle of (1) evaluation of Board of Directors’ effectiveness, and (2) determination of the operational policy and focus themes of Board of Directors and formulation and implementation of annual plans. (1) Evaluation of Board of Directors’ effectiveness The Company’s evaluation of Board of Directors’ effectiveness is conducted by Corporate Governance Committee chaired by a Director (Independent) and comprising only Directors (Independent) and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Independent) (hereinafter “Outside Executives”). Outside Executives act as members of Board of Directors while having the perspectives of all stakeholders including the shareholders. Corporate Governance Committee, which is composed only of Outside Executives, performs evaluations in order to ensure that evaluations are both objective and effective. (2) Determination of the operational policy and focus themes of Board of Directors and formulation and implementation of annual plans Based on the evaluation results by Corporate Governance Committee in (1) and the business environment, etc., Board of Directors determines its operational policy and focus themes for the next fiscal year. Board of Directors formulates and implements annual plans based on this operational policy. The Company continues to improve Board of Directors’ effectiveness by implementing (1) and (2) above on a yearly basis. Corporate Governance Committee has evaluated these initiatives to be the Company’s unique, optimal activities that are both objective and effective. Board of Directors recognizes the Company's initiatives as being more effective than evaluations by third parties. Initiatives Towards Improving the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 Determination of the operating Execution policy Determination of the operating Execution Evaluation Determination of Implementation policy policies for of measures to Evaluation operating the improve the Determination of Implementation Analysis and Board of Directors effectiveness policies for of measures to evaluation of for the following through the operating the improve the the Board’s fiscal year based Board of Analysis and Board of Directors effectiveness effectiveness evaluation of on evaluation Directors for the following through the and the results meetings the Board’s fiscal year based Board of execution status effectiveness on evaluation Directors of measures and the results meetings execution status Board of Directors of measures Corporate Governance Board of Directors Committee Implementation Corporate Governance bodies Committee Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness for Fiscal 2019 The methods of the evaluation of Board of Directors’ effectiveness and the evaluation items in the selfevaluation for fiscal 2019 are as described below. (1) Evaluation Methods (i) Self-evaluations by Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Each Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member performed self-evaluations of the content of discussions at meetings of Board of Directors and the extent of oversight functions exercised, immediately following each meeting of Board of Directors held in and after July 2019. 77 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance Each Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member performed self-evaluations of the operation, etc. of Board of Directors over the course of the year following the meeting of Board of Directors held in March 2020. (ii) Interviews by the Chairman of Board of Directors The Chairman of Board of Directors conducted individual interviews with Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members between January and March 2020. (iii) Evaluation by Corporate Governance Committee Corporate Governance Committee conducted evaluations of the focus themes in (i) above in March 2020. The effectiveness of Board of Directors was evaluated in May 2020, although this was done later than usual due to COVID-19. The evaluation was based on the overall results of self-evaluations conducted in fiscal 2019 in (i) above, and the results of the interviews in (ii) above. (2) Self-evaluation Items Self-evaluation items are as follows. Evaluations were performed from the perspectives of whether or not Board of Directors sufficiently exercised its oversight functions, and whether it contributed to the exercise of its oversight functions. Evaluations are performed by completing anonymous questionnaires. For each evaluation item, answers are provided using five-point scales and free comment fields. (i) Self-evaluations performed immediately following meetings of Board of Directors Content of discussions at the meeting of Board of Directors Extent of oversight functions exercised by Board of Directors are demonstrated (ii) Self-evaluations for the entire year, performed at the end of the fiscal year 1. Operation of Board of Directors 1) Policy for the operation of Board of Directors for fiscal 2019 2) Focus themes set forth in the operational policy 3) Deliberations and reports regarding issues other than focus themes 4) Board of Directors operational policy and focus themes for fiscal 2020 2. Issues Other than Operation of Board of Directors 1) Separate meetings 2) Provision of information such as worksite tours 3) Self-evaluations performed immediately following the meetings of Board of Directors 3. Advisory Committees 4. Other Overall Issues regarding Board of Directors (iii) O  ther self-evaluations (evaluations performed when new officers are appointed, when medium-term management plans are formulated, when changes are made to the corporate governance system, etc.) Scale and composition of Board of Directors State of operations of Board of Directors Operation of the advisory committees Results of Evaluation of Board of Directors’ Effectiveness for Fiscal 2019 Corporate Governance Committee conducted an evaluation of Board of Directors’ effectiveness for fiscal 2019 and reported the results of the evaluation at Board of Directors meeting held on June 23. Board of Directors Operational Policy for Fiscal 2019 “In fiscal 2019, which is the third year of OMRON’s medium-term management plan, “VG2.0,” Board of Directors will exercise its oversight functions by looking ahead to the completion of VG2.0 and the next long-term vision, which will be launched in fiscal 2021.” Focus Themes Set Forth in the Operational Policy Confirmation of the direction of long-term strategies with the next long-term vision in mind Continuing initiatives concerning the information system and quality strategies Initiatives to respond to changes in the internal and external business environment in fiscal 2019-2020 Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 78 (1) General comments on evaluation (i) Operation of Board of Directors (Operation in accordance with the operational policy, selection/discussion of focus themes, deliberation/reporting items in areas other than focus themes) As fiscal 2019 was the third year of OMRON’s medium-term management plan, “VG2.0,” Board of Directors’ operation was determined to be conducted by looking ahead to the next long-term vision. As such, Board of Directors determined its operational policy in a way that would exercise its oversight functions by taking the completion of VG2.0 and the next long-term vision into consideration. As such, the Board set forth the three focus themes. Based on this, the President & CEO and other executive officers implemented each focus theme, and reported its status to Board of Directors. As for the strategies based on VG2.0, the status of business execution was reported to Board of Directors, including each business company’s short-term management plan, reorganization of business domains, and deliberation on potential M&A&A projects. Quality risks and matters subject to disciplinary actions were uniquely specified by the Company as items to be reported on a quarterly basis from the perspective of risk management, and reported accordingly. In response to reports made by each executive officer, the Board members engaged in active discussions in order to understand the direction of executing each business operation, share issues, and to determine the need for continuous monitoring. As for the divestiture of the automotive electronic component business, discussions were comprehensive, from the underlying policy to detailed risk management. Because OMRON’s business environment underwent a radical change in the fiscal year under review, executive officers reported the status of business as necessary and various suggestions were made by Outside Executives. Corporate Governance Committee decided that Board of Directors was effectively putting its oversight function to use, by recognizing the Board’s operation based on its operational policy and discussions with regard to each focus theme from a mediumto long-term perspective. Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members including Outside Executives spoke out based on their experience and knowledge, while executive officers took the opinions of Board of Directors very seriously, which helped them enhance their strategies and initiatives. At the Board meetings, discussions were conducted not only for pointing out issues regarding individual matters subject to deliberation and those reported, but also reflecting the perspective of mediumto long-term business growth and human resources development. In general, discussions among the Board members were oriented toward enhancing the feasibility of strategies. As such, Corporate Governance Committee concluded that Board of Directors was exercising its oversight functions. As for quality risks and matters subject to disciplinary action, both of which were specified as items to be reported regularly on a quarterly basis, it was confirmed that their initiatives had been instilled deeply into each worksite, and that the systems for these initiatives were functioning properly. Accordingly, Corporate Governance Committee considered that this indicated an improvement resulting from the Board’s continuous practice of its oversight functions. In the fiscal year under review, the OMRON Group’s business environment experienced radical changes caused by the US-China trade war and the COVID-19 pandemic. The Committee recognized that in response to this situation, Board of Directors’ engaged in discussion on specific matters, such as things that need to be done to deal with the present situation, and those that need to be done in preparation for the time after these events eventually come to an end. The Committee understood that Board of Directors engaged in not only discussions intended to solve short-term issues but also those reflecting a mediumto long-term perspective. (ii) Items other than the operation of Board of Directors To improve the effectiveness of Board of Directors, the Board strived to increase information sharing opportunities by planning separate meetings and other opportunities to provide information. In the fiscal year under review, new initiatives were launched, including meetings for Outside Executives to exchange opinions with each other, as well as the practice of self-evaluations immediately following each Board meeting. Corporate Governance Committee recognized that Board of Directors’ initiatives aimed at promoting the provision of information to Outside Executives properly served as opportunities to improve the Board’s effectiveness. These initiatives included workplace tours, information exchange among Outside Executives, and set-up of opportunities for communication between the President & CEO and Outside Executives. As for the Outside Executives’ opinion exchange meeting, an initiative launched in the fiscal year under review, the Committee recognized the need for further enhancing its functionality. The Committee considered the self-evaluations performed immediately following each Board of Directors meeting to be effective and useful for improving the Board’s effectiveness, and as an initiative unique to the Company. 79 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance (2) Overview of Board of Directors’ operation (i) Initiatives regarding focus themes Focus theme: Confirmation of the direction of long-term strategies with the next long-term vision in mind Board of Directors specified its operational policy for fiscal 2019 as exercising its oversight functions by looking ahead to the next long-term vision, which is to be launched in fiscal 2021. Accordingly, the Board identified confirmation of the direction of the next long-term vision as one of its focus themes. Based on this, the President & CEO made a primary report for the next long-term vision. This report on the next long-term vision focused on “things to uphold,” “things to evolve,” and the “direction of the OMRON Group’s evolution.” These were determined by redefining the impact social transformation has on the Company’s business based on the anticipation that the society envisioned with the present medium-term management plan, “VG2.0,” would undergo transformation toward 2030. With regard to this report, Board of Directors discussed the perspective to take for evaluation of the current medium-term management plan, “VG2.0;” the presuppositions on which the next long-term vision should be based, its significance, and methods for setting the vision’s objectives; the way of management when putting the vision into practice; the responsibility of OMRON HQ; talent necessary for realizing the vision; methods of sharing the vision externally and internally, and other matters. Corporate Governance Committee recognized that the discussion regarding the planning of the next long-term vision at Board of Directors meeting helped Outside Executives fully understand the direction of enhancing corporate value through the execution of business operations. The Committee then determined that Board of Directors was exerting its oversight functions more effectively, with Outside Executives suggesting the importance of incorporating a diversity of viewpoints from internal and external sources, and the perspective of giving excitement and motivation to employees. The Committee also made an additional comment, describing the need for continuously fulfilling its oversight functions through the opportunities of periodic reporting and discussions toward the perfection of the next long-term vision. Focus theme: Continuing initiatives concerning information system strategies Based on the recognition of issues related to existing IT systems, the Company has been implementing a Groupwide IT system strategy formulated in fiscal 2018, with the aim of achieving the ideal management system. As such, Board of Directors specified this as a focus theme for fiscal 2019, as it was in fiscal 2018. Accordingly, the President & CEO and the CFO reported the implementation status of the Group-wide IT system strategy in fiscal 2019, with a focus on what the Group-wide IT system strategy aims to achieve, and the progress of the implementation of each management system. In response, Board of Directors engaged in a discussion on such matters as standardization of the IT system, visualization of existing tasks necessary for the IT system standardization, the creation of a step-by-step roadmap for improving feasibility, the need for experienced personnel, the integration of efforts with frontline staff members to promote the project, etc. Corporate Governance Committee found that Board of Directors, through a discussion regarding continuous implementation of initiatives regarding the information system, became aware of the direction of the IT system strategy, which executive officers had identified and had been promoting as one of the top-priority management challenges, as well as its progress. The Committee also found that items that require the utmost attention when putting plans into practice were shared among Board members based on Outside Executives’ suggestions regarding issues and risks related to the implementation of plans. Due to these reasons, Corporate Governance Committee concluded that Board of Directors exercised its oversight functions. Moreover, because issues such as the need for reinforcing project management, reflecting its nature of being a long-term project, as well as the need for experienced personnel, concerns about all-around goals were brought up, Corporate Governance Committee considered that Board of Directors was generally performing appropriate oversight. The Committee added a comment that the Board should continuously fulfill its oversight functions for strategies related to information systems, by taking opportunities for periodic reporting and discussions. Focus theme: Continuing initiatives concerning quality strategies Since fiscal 2018, the Company has been working on rebuilding its quality management system (QMS) in order to reinforce its quality capabilities, which is one of the Company’s top-priority challenges, based on the awareness of issues related to its existing QMS. Accordingly, Board of Directors specified this as a focus theme for fiscal 2019, as it was done in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2019, a round of effectiveness audits toward rebuilding QMS has been completed across the Group. As such, the President & CEO and the CTO reported common issues that require focus, and key initiatives for fiscal 2020 intended to solve them. In response, Board of Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 80 Directors reconfirmed the Group-wide framework of QMS, and discussed the auditing for effectiveness tailored for each business’s characteristics, human resources development to nurture auditors for effectiveness, etc. Corporate Governance Committee recognized that discussions regarding continuing initiatives concerning quality strategies at Board of Directors helped realize anew that executive officers were addressing this issue by specifying it as one of its top-priority management challenges. Moreover, the Committee noted that various suggestions for ensuring the practice of quality strategies were made by Outside Executives. Due to these reasons, Corporate Governance Committee concluded that Board of Directors properly exercised its oversight functions. Moreover, the Committee recognized that the Board was performing appropriate oversight as a whole, because the need for focusing on highly effective processes was also brought up for discussion. This was to avoid the possibility that QMS would become a formality through reliance on a single unified activity, which could eventually cause a reduction of quality. Focus theme: Initiatives to respond to changes in the business environment Aware that the speed of changes in the business environment has recently continued to accelerate, Board of Directors specified recognition of the business environment as one of its focus themes for fiscal 2019. Accordingly, the President & CEO and the CFO reported on the changes in the business environment recognized through the execution of business and initiatives to respond to them as part of the agenda of quarterly results review. With regard to this report, Board of Directors confirmed the growth of business and investment themes of focus, and discussed ways of improving accuracy in the projection of results, in response to changes in the business environment. Corporate Governance Committee determined that Board of Directors exercised its oversight functions, as the Board strengthened understanding of each business company’s methods for detecting and analyzing changes in their respective business environments, and made specific proposals regarding the challenges the Company should tackle in these times of economic recession. (ii) Other deliberation/reporting items Board of Directors deliberated 28 issues to be resolved at Board of Directors meeting, as well as 29 reported issues. These included regular meeting agendas such as quarterly results and other matters for which deliberation is legally required, as well as quality risks and matters subject to disciplinary action. Board of Directors operational policy for fiscal 2020 and its focus themes Based on the results of evaluation conducted by Corporate Governance Committee, Board of Directors engaged in a discussion to determine its operational policy for fiscal 2020. Based on the results of this discussion, Board of Directors operational policy for fiscal 2020 and its focus themes were determined at Board of Directors meeting held on July 28. Board of Directors Operational Policy for Fiscal 2020 “To enable the OMRON Group to deliver new value in this period of social structure transformation, Board of Directors will exercise its oversight functions in a multifaceted manner and from the short-term and mediumto long-term perspectives.” Focus Themes Business operations with COVID-19 in mind Response to increasing geopolitical risks Creation of new businesses in the period of transformation and taking on the challenge of new business model development Building a new core information system Determination of the direction of next long-term vision with new values in mind 81 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance Message from New Outside Director On My Appointment as Outside Director It is a great honor for me to be appointed as a new Outside Director of OMRON in June of this year. I have worked in global financial institutions for approximately 30 years. For 25 of those years, I worked at an American investment bank. The remaining five years, I worked for international organizations and have been involved in work for developing countries around the world. Working with people of diverse cultures and opinions, there were many occasions in which I felt that although I am Japanese, my ideas and ways of prioritizing issues have somehow strayed from the norm in the Japanese companies’ business operation. On the other hand, being in that environment has made me realize Japan’s strengths and the points that we should promote more to the world. Izumi Kobayashi To aim for sustainable value creation, it is necessary to think from both Outside Director angles: improving overall productivity and investing adequately for the Personnel Advisory Committee Member CEO Selection Advisory Committee Member future. In addition, since independent outside directors are elected by Compensation Advisory Committee Member the shareholders, we are required to be balanced in the way we look at Corporate Governance Committee Member short-term gain and future benefit, and the benefit to wide-ranging stakeholders, including employees, customers, and the broader community, to fulfil our responsibilities of oversight. My appointment as a director happened to take place in the middle of the global pandemic of COVID-19. This pandemic has caused an economic recession of a global scale. On the other hand, it has given us the opportunity to move forward with the transition to a “new society” that we had been considering for many years but could not take a step toward. The focus of this transition is digitalization, but at the same time, the pandemic has also had an enormous impact in terms of visualizing structural issues such as global warming, working styles, and inequality. Sustainable value creation can only be achieved by responding to the way people live and the needs of society. Society is now undergoing a transformation due to the pandemic. Companies need to change and respond more freely and flexibly by freeing themselves from the constraints of conventional business administration and organizational structures while looking to the future. Such changes will have a major impact not only on products and services, but also on the way the organization should be and the relationship between the companies and their employees. I am hopeful that OMRON has the spirit to respond adequately to these kinds of changes. My mission as a director is to oversee management as it boldly faces changes and to support the development of an organization as it takes advantage of new buds sprouting both within and outside the company and helps them bear abundant fruit, sometimes with a firm hand and at other times with patience. Lastly, I look forward to playing a role in introducing the OMRON brand that originated in Kyoto to the world. Career Outline Apr. 1981 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries, Nov. 2008 Executive Vice President, Multilateral Limited (now Mitsubishi Chemical Investment Guarantee Agency, The World Corporation) Bank Group Jun. 1985 Joined Merrill Lynch Futures Japan Inc. Apr. 2015 Vice Chairperson, Japan Association of Dec. 2001 President and Representative Director, Corporate Executives Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd. Jun. 2016 Governor, Japan Broadcasting Corporation Jun. 2020 Outside Director, OMRON (to present) Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 82 Directors Directors Fumio Tateishi Yoshihito Yamada Kiichiro Miyata Koji Nitto Chairman President and CEO Director, Senior Managing Director CEO Selection Advisory Executive Officer, CTO Senior Managing Executive Officer, CFO Committee Member Personnel Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee Member Member Aug. 1975 Joined OMRON Apr. 1984 Joined OMRON Apr. 1985 Joined Tateisi Institute of Apr. 1983 Joined OMRON Jun. 1997 Director Jun. 2008 Executive Officer; Life Science, Inc. (now Mar. 2011 Senior General Manager, Jun. 1999 Managing Executive Officer Representative Director and OMRON HEALTHCARE Global Resource Jun. 2001 Senior General Manager, President, OMRON Co., Ltd.) Management HQ Corporate Strategic HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. Mar. 2010 Representative Director and Jun. 2011 Executive Officer Planning HQ Mar. 2010 Senior General Manager, President, OMRON Mar. 2013 Senior General Manager, Jun. 2003 Executive Officer and Corporate Strategic HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. Global SCM and IT Executive Vice President; Planning HQ Jun. 2010 Executive Officer Innovation HQ President, Industrial Jun. 2010 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2012 Managing Executive Officer Apr. 2013 Managing Executive Officer Automation Business Jun. 2011 Representative Director and Apr. 2015 Chief Technology Officer Mar. 2014 Senior General Manager, Company President (to present) (CTO) and Senior General Global Strategy HQ (to Jun. 2008 Director and Executive Vice Manager of Technology & present) Chairman Intellectual Property HQ (to Apr. 2014 Senior Managing Executive Jun. 2013 Chairman of the Board (to present) Officer (to present) present) Apr. 2017 Senior Managing Executive Jun. 2014 Director (to present) Officer (to present) Apr. 2017 Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Jun. 2017 Representative Director (to (to present) present) Apr. 2018 Senior General Manager, Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ (to present) Directors Outside Directors Satoshi Ando Eizo Kobayashi Takehiro Kamigama Izumi Kobayashi Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Vice Chairman of the Personnel Chairman of the Personnel Advisory Committee Chairman of the Compensation Personnel Advisory Committee Member Advisory Committee Chairman of the CEO Selection Advisory Advisory Committee CEO Selection Advisory Committee Member Vice Chairman of the CEO Committee Vice Chairman of Corporate Governance Compensation Advisory Committee Member Selection Advisory Committee Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee Member Corporate Governance Vice Chairman of the Compensation Committee Personnel Advisory Committee Member Committee Member Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee Member CEO Selection Advisory Committee Member Apr. 1977 Joined The Bank of Tokyo, Apr. 1972 Joined ITOCHU Corporation Apr. 1981 Joined TDK Corporation Apr. 1981 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Ltd. (now MUFG Bank, Ltd.) Jun. 2000 Executive Officer, ITOCHU Jun. 2002 Corporate Officer, TDK Industries Limited (now July 2003 Branch Manager of Jakarta Corporation Corporation Mitsubishi Chemical Branch, The Bank of Apr. 2002 Managing Executive Officer, Jun. 2003 Senior Vice President, TDK Corporation) Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. ITOCHU Corporation Corporation Jun. 1985 Joined Merrill Lynch (Resigned in June 2007) Jun. 2003 Representative Director and Jun. 2004 Director & Executive Vice Futures Japan Inc. Jun. 2007 Audit & Supervisory Board Managing Director, ITOCHU President, TDK Corporation Dec. 2001 President and Member (Independent), Corporation Jun. 2006 President & Representative Representative Director of OMRON Apr. 2004 Representative Director and Director, TDK Corporation Merrill Lynch Japan Jun. 2011 Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director, Jun. 2016 Chairman & Representative Securities Co., Ltd. Senior General Manager, ITOCHU Corporation Director, TDK Corporation Nov. 2008 Executive Vice President of Investor Relations HQ Jun. 2004 President and CEO, Jun. 2017 Outside Director, OMRON Multilateral Investment Mar. 2015 Senior General Manager, ITOCHU Corporation (to present) Guarantee Agency, The Global Investor Relations & Apr. 2010 Chairman and Representative Jun. 2018 Mission Executive, TDK World Bank Group Corporate Communications Director, ITOCHU Corporation Corporation (to present) Apr. 2015 Vice Chairperson of Japan HQ Jun. 2011 Chairman, ITOCHU Corporation Association of Corporate Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2013 Outside Director, OMRON Executives Jun. 2017 Director (to present) (to present) Jun. 2016 Governor of Japan Jun. 2016 Chairman, ITOCHU Corporation Broadcasting Corporation * As of June 2020 Apr. 2018 Senior Representative, Jun. 2020 Outside Director, OMRON ITOCHU Corporation (to present) Apr. 2020 Director Emeritus, ITOCHU Corporation (to present) 83 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Full-time) Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Independent) Kiichiro Kondo Kiyoshi Yoshikawa Hideyo Uchiyama Tadashi Kunihiro Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full-time) Member (Full-time) Member (Independent) Member (Independent) Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Committee Member Committee Member Apr. 1977 Joined Mitsui Ocean Apr. 1983 Joined OMRON Nov. 1975 Joined Arthur Young & Apr. 1986 Registered as attorney with Development & Engineering Mar. 2010 Senior General Manager, Company the Daini Tokyo Bar Co., Ltd. Monozukuri Innovation HQ Dec. 1979 Joined Asahi Accounting Association; Jan. 1988 Joined Mitsui Trust and Jun. 2010 Executive Officer Company (now KPMG Joined Nasu & Iguchi Law Banking Company, Limited Apr. 2016 Managing Executive Officer AZSA LLC) Office (now Sumitomo Mitsui Jun. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Mar. 1980 Registered as Certified Jan. 1994 Established Kunihiro Law Trust Bank, Limited) Member (Full-time) (to Public Accountant Office (now T. Kunihiro & Apr. 1999 Joined OMRON present) July 1999 Representative Partner, Co. Attorneys-at-Law) Mar. 2007 Senior General Manager, KPMG AZSA LLC Jun. 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Public Solutions Business May 2002 Board Member, KPMG Member (Independent), Department, Social AZSA LLC OMRON (to present) Systems Solutions and Jun. 2006 Executive Board Member, Service Business Company KPMG AZSA LLC Jun. 2007 Executive Officer Jun. 2010 Managing Partner, KPMG Apr. 2011 President and CEO, AZSA LLC, Chairman, OMRON SOCIAL KPMG Japan SOLUTIONS Co., Ltd. Sep. 2011 Chairman, KPMG Asia Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer Pacific Jun. 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Oct. 2013 CEO, KPMG Japan Member (Full-time) (to Sep. 2015 Executive Advisor, ASAHI present) Tax Corporation (to present) Jun. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent), OMRON (to present) * As of June 2020 Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 84 Executive Officers President Yoshihito Yamada CEO Executive Vice President Yutaka Miyanaga Company President, Industrial Automation Company Senior Managing Executive Officers Kiichiro Miyata Koji Nitto CTO and Senior General Manager, CFO and Senior General Manager, Technology & Intellectual Property HQ Global Strategy HQ and Senior General Manager, Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ Managing Executive Officer Shizuto Yukumoto Seigo Kinugawa Company President, CEO, OMRON EUROPE, Electronic and Mechanical Components Industrial Automation Company Company, and Senior General Manager, Business Development HQ Toshio Hosoi Masahiko Tomita President and CEO, Senior General Manager, OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Global Human Resources and Administration HQ Isao Ogino Junta Tsujinaga President and CEO, Senior General Manager, OMRON HEALTHCARE Product Business Division HQ, Industrial Automation Company Nigel Blakeway Chairman and CEO, OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF AMERICA and Chairman, OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF EUROPE and Chairman, OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC * As of June 2020 85 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Governance Executive Officers Goshi Oba Shinji Fukui Chairman and President, Senior General Manager, OMRON INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION Technology Development Division HQ, (CHINA) Industrial Automation Company Takayoshi Oue Masako Kubo Senior General Manager, President and CEO, Global Finance and Accounting HQ OMRON EXPERTLINK Takashi Kitagawa Seiji Takeda Senior General Manager, General Manager, Board of Directors Office Corporate Planning Dept., Global Strategy HQ Shuji Tamaki Taisuke Tateishi Senior General Manager, Senior General Manager, Global Risk Management and Legal HQ Energy Solutions Business HQ, OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Makoto Ota Katsuhiro Shikata Senior General Manager, President and CEO, Production Division HQ, Electronic and OMRON FIELD ENGINEERING Mechanical Components Company Tsutomu Igaki Virendra Shelar Senior General Manager, President, OMRON MANAGEMENT Global Investor & Brand CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC Communications HQ and General Manager, Global Human Resource Strategy Dept. Jian Xu Masayuki Yamamoto President and CEO, Senior General Manager, OMRON (CHINA) Strategy Planning Division HQ, Industrial Automation Company Kenji Eda Robert Black Senior General Manager, President, CEO and COO, Global Procurement and Quality OMRON ELECTRONICS (USA), Management HQ Industrial Automation Company * As of June 2020 Governance OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 86 Financial Results Fiscal 2019 in Review Consolidated Earnings The business environment surrounding the OMRON Group in fiscal 2019, the third year of the VG2.0 medium-term management plan, was underscored by severe conditions globally. The U.S.-China trade frictions from the beginning of the fiscal year resulted in weak business sentiment among manufacturers, while the negative impact of the spread of COVID-19 beginning in the fourth quarter expanded. In this environment, the OMRON Group results for net sales and operating income underperformed the prior fiscal year. The OMRON Group recorded a record high in gross profit margin, owing to earnings structure reforms conducted jointly among manufacturing, sales, and development across our organization, steadily improving our earnings capacity. Net income attributable to OMRON shareholders rose significantly compared to the previous fiscal year. This result was due to a gain on sale of ¥51.5 billion recorded in connection with the completion of the transfer of the Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) to the Nidec Corporation Group on October 31, 2019. Consolidated Statements of Income Net Sales OMRON Group net sales for fiscal 2019 amounted to ¥678.0 billion, down 7.5% from the prior year. Despite signs of recovery in certain areas of the digital industry during the second half of the fiscal year, our Industrial Automation Business (IAB) and Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) recorded lower sales compared to the prior fiscal year due to weakening capital investment in the automobile and other industries. Meanwhile, our Public Transportation (Automated Ticket Gates, Ticket Vending Machines) and Road Management Systems businesses experienced firm demand for upgrades, which helped drive Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) sales significantly higher. The Healthcare Business (HCB) reported lower sales due to slow demand in Japan and North America. Gross Profit Margin, SG&A Expenses, and R&D Expenses Gross profit margin was 44.8%, up 0.4 points from the prior year, owing to earnings structure reforms conducted jointly among manufacturing, sales, and development across our organization. Selling, general and administrative expenses were down ¥5.9 billion to ¥203.0 billion, mainly due to company-wide efforts to control and reduce fixed costs. Research and development expenses fell ¥3.3 billion year on year to ¥46.0 billion, mainly due to detailed selection in research and development projects. Operating Income and Net Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders OMRON Group operating income for the year was ¥54.8 billion (18.6% decrease), while our operating income margin was 8.1% (1.1-point decrease). Net income attributable to OMRON shareholders came in at ¥74.9 billion (37.9% increase). This result was due to a gain on sale of ¥51.5 billion recorded in connection with the completion of the transfer of the Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) to the Nidec Corporation Group. Net sales Gross profit margin ¥678.0 44.8 YoY YoY billion -7.5% % +0.4%pt Operating income Net income attributable to OMRON shareholders ¥54.8 ¥74.9 YoY YoY billion -18.6% billion +37.9% Average exchange rate during the period USD ¥109.1 EUR ¥121.2 RMB ¥15.7 87 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Data Review of Financial Condition Total assets at the end of fiscal 2019 amounted to ¥758.1 billion, an increase of ¥8.2 billion compared to the end of the prior fiscal year. This was mainly due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents and the recording of right-of-use assets under operating leases. Total liabilities decreased ¥18.0 billion to ¥225.5 billion, mainly due to a decrease in termination and retirement benefits stemming from a revision to our corporate pension plan, in addition to a decrease in liabilities held for sale due to the completion of the transfer of the Automotive Electronic Components Business. Total net assets increased ¥26.3 billion compared to the end of the prior fiscal year to ¥532.6 billion, mainly due the recording net income attributable to OMRON shareholders. Our shareholders’ equity ratio was 70.0%, up 2.8 points compared to 67.2% at the end of the prior fiscal year. Accordingly, the Company has maintained a firm financial foundation. Capital Expenditures Strictly selecting targets for investments, such as base investments, total capital investments of ¥33.1 billion were made during fiscal 2019, representing a 7.2% decrease compared to the prior fiscal year. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal year amounted to ¥89.8 billion (an increase in cash provided of ¥18.5 billion compared to the prior fiscal year). This result was mainly due to the recording of net income (¥75.3 billion, up ¥20.3 billion year on year) and increases in notes and accounts payable-trade and income taxes payable. Net cash provided by investing activities was ¥28.6 billion (an increase in cash provided of ¥63.6 billion compared to the prior fiscal year). This result was mainly due to the recognition of a gain in connection with the transfer of a business. Free cash flows (cash provided by operating activities less cash provided by investing activities) amounted to ¥118.4 billion, an increase of ¥82.1 billion compared to the prior fiscal year. Net cash used in financing activities was ¥29.4 billion, which was a decrease in net cash used of ¥11.4 billion compared to the prior fiscal year. This result was mainly due to dividends paid and stock buybacks. In addition to the preceding, changes in foreign currency translation were factors having an impact on cash and cash equivalents. As a result, the balance of cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2020 amounted to ¥185.5 billion, an increase of ¥81.7 billion compared to the end of the prior consolidated fiscal year. Dividend Policy Our basic policy for profit distribution is to aim for sustainable corporate value growth, and thus OMRON prioritizes investment necessary for future business expansion. These investments include research and development, capital investments, mergers and acquisitions, and other investments for future growth. Having secured internal reserves, the Company makes decisions regarding ongoing profit distribution to shareholders in consideration of capital efficiency. The Company has established a guideline of approximately 30% in payout ratio and approximately 3% of DOE for profit distributions for the period covered by the VG2.0 medium-term management plan. Our full-year dividend for fiscal 2019 was ¥84 per share, the same as the prior fiscal year. As a result, our dividend payout ratio was 23.0%, and our dividend on equity ratio was 3.3%. Full-year dividend per share and dividend payout ratio 84 84 76 Full-year dividend per share (Yen) Payout ratio (%) 32.2 25.6 23.0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Data OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 88 Outlook for Fiscal 2020 The OMRON Group forecasts a significant decline in sales and income in fiscal 2020, based on the assumption that the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic will persist during the current fiscal year at the least. In terms of net sales, we project a significant decrease from the prior fiscal year due mainly to sluggish demand associated with the stagnation of manufacturing and sales activities and reduction in capital investments of our customers in the Industrial Automation Business (IAB), Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC), and Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB). In the Healthcare Business (HCB), we expect firm demand associated with the rise in healthcare needs globally. We will continue our efforts to strengthen our product capabilities and carry out structural reform, and thus expect our gross profit margin to be level with the prior fiscal year when we reached a record high. Also, while carrying out initiatives to reduce fixed costs in an amount of approximately ¥20.0 billion annually as planned at the beginning of the fiscal year, we will continue to make investments indispensable for future growth, with a view to the post-COVID-19 era. Based on the above assumptions, we project a significant decline in operating income year on year. The spread of COVID-19 has had an impact on our personal values and industrial structures, accelerating social reform in a variety of areas. New social issues have emerged, leading to more potential business opportunities. OMRON will accelerate initiatives to leverage business opportunities in our three focus domains for the post-COVID-19 world. Some examples of tying opportunities to growth include our factory automation business, which is pursuing new projects to expand 5G, a part of future social infrastructure supporting medical and food product security and safety. This business is also working on new automation projects to prevent the spread of disease on production floors. In the healthcare field, we are solving social issues through remote medicine services and other programs. We also plan to integrate our Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business and Environmental Solutions Business to accelerate social solutions in energy management and other fields. At the same time, we intend to strengthen our IT infrastructure. Moving forward, the OMRON Group will reach new levels of growth power, earnings power, and ability to respond to change, allowing us to make a dramatic leap ahead after the impact of COVID-19 has settled. FY2019 FY2020 Change Net sales ¥678.0 billion ¥590.0 billion -13.0% Gross profit ¥303.7 billion ¥264.5 billion -12.9% (Gross profit margin) (44.8%) (44.8%) [+0.0%pt] Operating income ¥54.8 billion ¥30.0 billion -45.2% (Operating income margin) (8.1%) (5.1%) [-3.0%pt] Income before income taxes from continuing operations ¥51.8 billion ¥25.0 billion -51.8% Net income attributable to OMRON shareholders ¥74.9 billion ¥16.5 billion -78.0% Average USD exchange rate ¥109.1 ¥106.5 -¥2.6 Average EUR exchange rate ¥121.2 ¥119.6 -¥1.6 Average RMB exchange rate ¥15.7 ¥15.0 -¥0.7 Note 1: Net income attributable to OMRON shareholders for FY2019 includes income from discontinued operations (including gain on sales of AEC). Net income attributable to OMRON shareholders for FY2019 calculated by excluding the impact of income from discontinued operations is ¥39.2 billion, and the rate of change calculated based on the above assumption is -57.9%. Note 2: F rom FY2020, the OMRON Group has changed the method of depreciation of property, plant and equipment of the Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries from the declining-balance method to the straight-line method.In line with this change, depreciation and amortization for FY2020 is expected to decrease by approximately ¥2.0 billion when compared with the amount calculated using the previous method. 89 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Data Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries March 31, 2019 and 2020 (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) ASSETS FY2018 FY2019 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FY2018 FY2019 Current Assets: Current Liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 103,850 ¥ 185,533 Notes and accounts payable trade ¥ 71,360 ¥ 64,496 Notes and accounts receivable trade 149,171 134,786 Accrued expenses 38,290 37,179 Allowance for doubtful receivables (861) (759) Income taxes payable 3,174 2,516 Inventories 120,379 104,301 Short-term operating lease liabilities — 11,070 Assets held for sale 73,331 441 Liabilities held for sale 27,730 — Other current assets 14,103 22,837 Other current liabilities 35,001 36,038 Total Current Assets 459,973 447,139 Total Current Liabilities 175,555 151,299 Property, Plant and Equipment: Deferred Income Taxes 733 1,717 Land 21,746 20,446 Termination and Retirement Benefits 55,036 40,236 Buildings 118,036 129,110 Long-Term Operating Lease Liabilities — 19,820 Machinery and equipment 151,355 147,038 Other Long-Term Liabilities 12,243 12,463 Construction in progress 11,316 5,467 Total Liabilities 243,567 225,535 Total 302,453 302,061 Accumulated depreciation (187,370) (187,535) Shareholders’ Equity: Net Property, Plant and Equipment 115,083 114,526 Capital 64,100 64,100 Common stock Investments and Other Assets: Authorized: 487,000,000 shares in FY2018 Right-of-use assets under operating leases — 30,327 487,000,000 shares in FY2019 Goodwill 40,532 38,568 Issued: 213,958,172 shares in FY2018 Investments in and advances to affiliates 26,022 29,251 206,244,872 shares in FY2019 Investment securities 28,997 25,782 Capital surplus 100,233 100,521 Leasehold deposits 7,533 7,486 Legal reserve 21,826 20,981 Deferred income taxes 42,537 37,416 Retained earnings 433,639 451,768 Other assets 29,201 27,629 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (70,200) (83,606) Total Investments and Other Assets 174,822 196,459 Treasury stock (45,386) (23,349) 8,596,608 shares in FY2018 4,306,748 shares in FY2019 Total Shareholders’ Equity 504,212 530,415 Noncontrolling Interests 2,099 2,174 Total Net Assets 506,311 532,589 Total ¥ 749,878 ¥ 758,124 Total ¥ 749,878 ¥ 758,124 * The consolidated balance sheets for FY2018 have been reclassified in line with the classification change of the Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) to discontinued operations. Data OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 90 Consolidated Statements of Income OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020 (Millions of yen) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Net sales ¥ 732,306 ¥ 732,581 ¥ 677,980 Costs and Expenses: Cost of sales 404,721 407,097 374,278 Selling, general and administrative expenses 201,777 208,895 202,954 Research and development expenses 48,622 49,335 45,988 Other expenses, net 2,053 1,342 2,924 Total 657,173 666,669 626,144 Income before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Affiliates 75,133 65,912 51,836 Income Taxes 19,968 17,016 11,270 Equity in Earnings of Affiliates (1,754) 1,578 963 Net Income from Continuing Operations 56,919 47,318 39,603 Net Income from Discontinued Operations 6,587 7,673 35,732 Net Income 63,506 54,991 75,335 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 347 668 440 Net Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders ¥ 63,159 ¥ 54,323 ¥ 74,895 (Yen) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Per Share Data: Net Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders: Net Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders from Continuing Operations ¥ 265.89 ¥ 223.95 ¥ 191.00 Net Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders from Discontinued Operations 30.96 36.84 174.26 Basic ¥ 296.85 ¥ 260.78 ¥ 365.26 Diluted — — — * The consolidated statements of income for FY2018 and FY2017 have been reclassified in line with the classification change of the Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) to discontinued operations. 91 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Data Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020 (Millions of yen) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Net Income ¥ 63,506 ¥ 54,991 ¥ 75,335 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax: Foreign currency translation adjustments: Foreign currency translation adjustments arising during the year 3,153 (4,419) (23,674) Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income — (109) (119) Net unrealized gain (loss) 3,153 (4,528) (23,793) Pension liability adjustments: Pension liability adjustments arising during the year 451 (11,419) 7,033 Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income 2,335 2,556 3,365 Net unrealized gain (loss) 2,786 (8,863) 10,398 Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year 3,695 — — Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income (2,034) — — Net unrealized gain (loss) 1,661 — — Net gains (losses) on derivative instruments: Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year (514) 32 77 Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income 920 (73) (160) Net unrealized gain (loss) 406 (41) (83) Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 8,006 (13,432) (13,478) Comprehensive Income 71,512 41,559 61,857 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 349 651 368 Comprehensive Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders ¥ 71,163 ¥ 40,908 ¥ 61,489 Data OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 92 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020 (Millions of yen) Accumulated Number of Total Common Capital Legal Retained other Treasury Noncontrolling Total net common shareholders’ shares issued stock surplus reserve earnings comprehensive stock Interests assets equity income (loss) Balance, March 31, 2017 213,958,172 ¥ 64,100 ¥ 99,138 ¥ 17,813 ¥ 346,000 ¥ (57,363) ¥ (659) ¥ 469,029 ¥ 1,728 ¥ 470,757 Net Income 63,159 63,159 347 63,506 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥76 per (16,083) (16,083) (16,083) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (215) (215) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests 6 1 7 (6) 1 and other Stock-based payment 444 444 444 Transfer to legal reserve 2,127 (2,127) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) 8,004 8,004 2 8,006 Acquisition of treasury stock (19,030) (19,030) (19,030) Balance, March 31, 2018 213,958,172 64,100 99,588 19,940 390,950 (49,359) (19,689) 505,530 1,856 507,386 Cumulative impact of the application of FASB Accounting Standards 7,650 (7,426) 224 224 Update 2016-01 and 2018-03*1 Balance, April 1, 2018 (reflecting application of FASB Accounting 213,958,172 64,100 99,588 19,940 398,600 (56,785) (19,689) 505,754 1,856 507,610 Standards Update 2016-01 and 2018-03 Net Income 54,323 54,323 668 54,991 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥84 per (17,398) (17,398) (17,398) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (343) (343) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests — (65) (65) and other Stock-based payment 645 645 645 Transfer to legal reserve 1,886 (1,886) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) (13,415) (13,415) (17) (13,432) Acquisition of treasury stock (25,697) (25,697) (25,697) Balance, March 31, 2019 213,958,172 64,100 100,233 21,826 433,639 (70,200) (45,386) 504,212 2,099 506,311 Net Income 74,895 74,895 440 75,335 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥84 per (17,107) (17,107) (17,107) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (293) (293) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests 2 2 2 and other Change in shareholders’ equity due to decrease in (74) (2,386) 2,460 — — consolidated subsidiaries Stock-based payment*2 360 360 360 Transfer to legal reserve 1,541 (1541) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) (13,406) (13,406) (72) (13,478) Acquisition of treasury stock (18,541) (18,541) (18,541) Cancellation of treasury stock (40,578) 40,578 — — Balance, March 31, 2020 206,244,872 ¥ 64,100 ¥ 100,521 ¥ 20,981 ¥ 451,768 ¥ (83,606) ¥ (23,349) ¥ 530,415 ¥ 2,174 ¥ 532,589 *1 Represents the impact of applying FASB Accounting Standards Update 2016-01 and 2018-03. *2 Includes ¥(275) million, the amount of decrease in capital surplus due to changes in the estimates of stock-based payment. 93 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Data Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020 (Millions of yen) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Operating Activities: Net Income ¥ 63,506 ¥ 54,991 ¥ 75,335 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 29,465 30,459 28,605 Net loss (gain) on sale and disposals of property, plant, and equipment 949 (1,098) (1,487) Impairment losses on long-lived assets 911 196 498 Net loss on valuation of investment securities — 563 1,170 Net loss on sale of investment securities (3,003) — 43 Impairment losses on investment securities 155 — — Termination and Retirement Benefits 2,706 3,818 (436) Deferred income taxes (2,607) (383) (125) Equity in earnings of affiliates (1,754) 1,578 963 Gain on sales of business 14 (407) (51,450) Changes in assets and liabilities: Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable trade (3,210) (534) 12,944 Decrease (increase) in inventories (17,409) (3,491) 10,704 Increase in other assets (6,113) (294) (6,422) Decrease in notes and accounts payable trade 4,116 (5,401) (1,319) Increase (decrease) in income taxes payable (614) (2,775) 15,614 Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other current liabilities 6,276 (6,851) 3,570 Other, net 285 874 1,600 Total adjustments 10,167 16,254 14,452 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 73,673 71,245 89,787 Investing Activities: Proceeds from sale or maturities of investment securities 3,776 465 1,423 Purchase of investment securities (649) (602) (2,344) Capital expenditures (38,542) (39,045) (37,629) Decrease (increase) in leasehold deposits, net (634) (193) 62 Proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 990 3,475 4,565 Increase in investments in affiliates — (498) (2,231) Proceeds from sale of business, net of cash paid (427) 1,817 64,460 Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired (20,445) (830) — Other, net 89 454 333 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investigating Activities (55,842) (34,957) 28,639 Financing Activities: Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term debt 951 2,109 6,365 Dividends paid by the Company (15,378) (16,776) (17,250) Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests (215) (343) (293) Acquisition of treasury stock (18,530) (25,716) (18,571) Other, net 90 (57) (319) Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (33,082) (40,783) (29,430) Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents 2,248 1,722 (13,713) Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (13,003) (2,773) 75,283 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Year 126,026 113,023 110,250 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year 113,023 110,250 185,533 Cash and Cash Equivalents from Discontinued Operations at End of the Year 6,800 6,400 — Cash and Cash Equivalents from Continuing Operations at End of the Year ¥ 106,223 ¥ 103,850 ¥ 185,533 * Consolidated statements of cash flows consist of cash flows from continuing operations and cash flows from discontinued operations. We have not presented cash flows separately for discontinued operations. Data OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 94 11-Year Financial and Non-Financial Highlights OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries (As of and for the years ended March 31) Long-Term Management Strategy Grand Design 2010 (GD2010) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Financial Indicators: Operating Results: Net sales ¥524,694 ¥617,825 ¥619,461 ¥650,461 Gross profit 184,342 231,702 227,887 241,507 Selling, general and administrative expenses (excl. R&D expenses) 133,426 142,365 145,662 152,676 R&D expenses 37,842 41,300 42,089 43,488 Operating income 13,074 48,037 40,136 45,343 EBITDA (Note 1) 40,088 71,021 62,753 67,795 Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders 3,518 26,782 16,389 30,203 Cash Flows: Net cash provided by operating activities 42,759 41,956 31,946 53,058 Net cash used in investing activities (18,584) (20,210) (26,486) (28,471) Free cash flow (Note 2) 24,175 21,746 5,460 24,587 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (20,358) 3,333 (33,492) (18,550) Financial Position: Total assets 532,254 562,790 537,323 573,637 Cash and cash equivalents 51,726 74,735 45,257 55,708 Total interest-bearing liabilities 36,612 45,519 18,774 5,570 Total shareholders’ equity 306,327 312,753 320,840 366,962 Per Share Data: Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders (EPS) (Yen) 16.0 121.7 74.5 137.2 Shareholders’ equity 1,391.4 1,421.0 1,457.5 1,667.0 Cash dividends (Note 3) (Yen) 17 30 28 37 Dividend payout ratio 106.4% 24.7% 37.6% 27.0% Other Financial Data: Gross profit margin 35.1% 37.5% 36.8% 37.1% Operating income margin 2.5% 7.8% 6.5% 7.0% EBITDA margin 7.6% 11.5% 10.1% 10.4% Return on invested capital (ROIC) 1.0% 7.8% 4.8% 8.6% Return on equity (ROE) 1.2% 8.7% 5.2% 8.8% Ratio of shareholders’ equity to total assets 57.6% 55.6% 59.7% 64.0% Total return ratio (Note 4) 106.7% 25.2% 37.7% 27.0% Capital expenditures 19,524 23,192 28,341 28,285 Depreciation and amortization 27,014 22,984 22,617 22,452 Ratio of overseas sales 50.7% 51.4% 52.2% 51.1% Non-Financial Indicators: Number of employees 36,299 35,684 35,992 35,411 Ratio of overseas employees to total employees 68.1% 67.8% 67.7% 67.4% Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial positions overseas (Note 5) — — 34% 36% Ratio of women in managerial roles (OMRON Group in Japan) (Note 6) — — — 1.4% Number of women in managerial roles — — — 22 Ratio of employees with disabilities (OMRON Group in Japan) (Note 7) 2.1% 2.2% 2.2% 2.2% Number of patents held (Note 8) 5,218 5,452 5,959 6,448 Environmental contribution (thousand ton-CO2) — 193 189 313 CO2 emissions of production sites (thousand ton-CO2) — 187 193 203 Net sales to CO2 emissions (million yen / ton-CO2) — 3.31 3.21 3.21 Greenhouse gas emissions (thousand ton-CO2) — — — — Note: 1. EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization 2. Free cash flow = Net cash provided by operating activities + Net cash used in investing activities 3. Cash dividends per share represent the amounts applicable to the respective year, including dividends to be paid after the end of the fiscal year. 4. Total return ratio = (Total dividends paid + Amount of shares repurchased) / Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders (does not include repurchases of less than one trading unit) 5. The ratio of local employees to the number of important positions determined by OMRON depending on the size of the overseas OMRON Group companies, concurrent positions for governance and development positions are excluded. 6. Figures represent results as of April 20. In the domestic OMRON group, the number of women in managerial positions ratio. 7. Figures represent results as of June 20. Group companies in Japan that must observe the “Promotion of the Employment of Persons with Disabilities Law” (June 2019: including 20 consolidated subsidiaries) and follow the law’s method of calculation of the ratio of employment of persons with disabilities. 8. Patent information is as of March 31 each year. Indicates assurance performed by independent third party. Indicates verification or review performed by independent third party. P103 95 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Data Value Generation 2020 (VG2020) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Millions of yen) ¥772,966 ¥847,252 ¥833,604 ¥794,201 ¥732,306 ¥732,581 ¥677,980 297,208 332,607 320,812 312,161 327,585 325,484 303,702 181,225 198,103 205,735 193,093 201,777 208,895 202,954 47,928 47,913 52,790 50,539 48,622 49,335 45,988 68,055 86,591 62,287 68,529 77,186 67,254 54,760 93,144 114,930 93,747 97,495 101,501 92,609 80,466 46,185 62,170 47,290 45,987 63,159 54,323 74,895 79,044 77,057 84,207 77,875 73,673 71,245 89,787 (31,125) (39,517) (67,116) (15,041) (55,842) (34,957) 28,639 47,919 37,540 17,091 62,834 17,831 36,288 118,426 (16,298) (29,303) (31,550) (15,012) (33,082) (40,783) (29,430) 654,704 711,011 683,325 697,701 744,952 749,878 758,124 90,251 102,622 82,910 126,026 106,223 103,850 185,533 488 0 0 156 298 2,086 1,593 430,509 489,769 444,718 469,029 505,530 504,212 530,415 209.8 283.9 219.0 215.1 296.9 260.8 365.3 1,956.1 2,254.4 2,080.0 2,193.7 2,400.4 2,455.2 2,626.6 53 71 68 68 76 84 84 25.3% 25.0% 31.1% 31.6% 25.6% 32.232.2% 23.0% 38.5% 39.3% 38.5% 39.3% 44.7% 44.4% 44.8% 8.8% 10.2% 7.5% 8.6% 10.5% 9.2% 8.1% 12.1% 13.6% 11.2% 12.2% 14.6% 12.6% 11.9% 11.3% 13.4% 9.7% 10.3% 12.7% 10.6% 14.1% 11.6% 13.5% 10.1% 10.1% 13.0% 10.8% 14.5% 65.8% 68.9% 65.1% 67.2% 67.9% 67.2% 70.0% 25.3% 49.1% 62.7% 31.6% 48.2% 79.5% 47.7% 33,653 38,143 36,859 25,692 33,027 35,661 33,110 25,089 28,339 31,460 28,966 24,315 25,355 25,706 55.4% 60.1% 60.3% 58.4% 57.3% 56.5% 54.1% 36,842 37,572 37,709 36,008 36,193 35,090 28,006 69.1% 69.7% 69.3% 68.3% 68.1% 67.6% 62.2% 42% 42% 46% 49% 49% 62% 70% 1.5% 1.8% 1.9% 2.3% 3.3% 3.6% 5.2% 23 27 30 36 53 59 85 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% 2.5% 2.6% 2.5% 2.8% 6,635 7,194 7,686 8,224 8,774 9,782 10,087 661 851 508 593 659 1,055 971 215 221 202 202 204 193 135 3.60 3.83 4.12 3.94 4.22 4.47 5.02 — — — 250 271 235 166 Operating Income OMRON applies the single step presentation of income under U.S. GAAP (that is, the various levels of income are not presented) in its consolidated statements of income. For comparison with other companies, operating income is presented as gross profit less selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses. Changes in Accounting Policies With the company’s adoption of US GAAP in fiscal 2018, we have reclassified consolidated statements of income for fiscal years 2016 and later for presentation herein. Financial Data Reclassification The Automotive Electronics Components Business (AEC) was transferred, and the AEC business was classified as a “discontinued business.” Accordingly, some financial data for fiscal 2017 and 2018 have been reclassified. Data OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 96 Corporate Information As of March 31, 2020 Established Major Manufacturing & Development, Sales & Marketing, and May 10, 1933 Research & Development Centers in Japan Incorporated Manufacturing & Subsidiaries and Affiliates May 19, 1948 Development OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Co., Ltd. Kusatsu Office OMRON HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. Capital Okayama Office OMRON RELAY & DEVICES Co., Ltd. ¥64,100 million Ayabe Office OMRON SWITCH & DEVICES Co., Ltd. Number of Employees Yasu Office OMRON AMUSEMENT CO., Ltd (Consolidated) OMRON FIELD ENGINEERING Co., Ltd. 28,006 Research & Development OMRON SOFTWARE Co., Ltd. Keihanna Technology OMRON ASO Co., Ltd. Common Stock Innovation Center OMRON EXPERTLINK Co., Ltd. Issued 206,245 thousand shares Trading Unit 100 shares Sales & Marketing Number of Shareholders 32,238 Tokyo Office Stock Listings Osaka Office Tokyo Stock Exchange, Frankfurt Nagoya Office Stock Exchange Mishima Office Securities Code 6645 Fiscal Year-End Regional Headquarters March 31 North America Asia Pacific Annual Shareholders’ Meeting OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF AMERICA CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC June (United States of America, Illinois) (Singapore) Custodian of Register of Europe Korea Shareholders OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON MANAGEMENT Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking CENTER OF EUROPE CENTER OF KOREA (Seoul) Corporation (The Netherlands, North Holland) Depositary and Transfer Agent for Greater China OMRON MANAGEMENT American Depositary Receipts CENTER OF CHINA (Shanghai) JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Head Office Shiokoji Horikawa, Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto 600-8530, Japan Tel : +81-75-344-7000 Fax: +81-75-344-7001 97 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Data Stock Information Share Price and Volume (Yen, Point) Daily Trading Volume (1,000 Shares) 8,000 4,000 OMRON TOPIX TOPIX Electric Appliances 6,000 3,000 4,000 2,000 2,000 1,000 0 0 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 † OMRON share prices prior to July 16, 2013 reflect prices on the First Section of the Osaka Securities Exchange. Share prices on July 16, 2013 and later reflect prices on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Total Shareholder Return (TSR*1) FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 OMRON 63.1% 92.6% 119.4% 101.0% 110.9% TOPIX 89.2% 102.3% 118.5% 112.5% 101.8% TOPIX Electric Appliances 78.4% 99.5% 123.7% 110.4% 108.9% *1 Represents total investment return to shareholders, combining capital gains and dividends. The calculation of this figure is a required disclosure under Cabinet Office Ordinance. † This figure reflects period-end value for fiscal years beginning with fiscal 2015, assuming an investment at the fiscal 2014 year-end closing price. 52-Week High / Low, Volatility*2 Dividends per Share / Payout Ratio FY High (¥) Low (¥) Volatility (%) FY Dividends per Share (¥) Payout Ratio (%) 2019 6,870 4,410 32.3 2019 84 23.0 2018 6,300 3,740 34.5 2018 84 32.2 2017 7,670 4,385 27.1 2017 76 25.6 2016 5,120 3,045 32.5 2016 68 31.6 2015 5,900 2,742 40.0 2015 68 31.1 2014 5,800 3,365 30.9 2014 71 25.0 2013 4,730 2,213 39.7 2013 53 25.3 2012 2,478 1,436 29.9 2012 37*3 27.0 2011 2,357 1,381 36.5 2011 28 37.6 2010 2,418 1,749 34.7 2010 30 24.7 *2 Volatility: Price fluctuation risk expressed in standard deviations *3 Including ¥5.0 per share of 80th anniversary memorial dividend Ownership and Distribution of Shares  hareholder Distribution by Number of Shares S % Held (Trading unit: 100 shares) 100 1,000 to less than 5,000 13.0% 16.0% 12.6% 100 to less than1,000 0.4% More than 80 10 to less 1.4% 5,000 than 100 0.2% 47.9% 33.4% 35.4% 14.8% 60 5.7% 2.8% 5.5% 1.9% 32,238 Shareholders 40 5.7% End of March 2020 1.0% Individuals and others 20 Foreign investors 32.4% 42.1% 44.6% Other corporations Financial instruments dealers Less than 10 0 Financial institutions 2017 2018 2019 (FY-end) 83.2% Data OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 98 Responsible Engagement With Our Stakeholders As stated in our Sustainability Policy, OMRON cultivates strong relationships with our stakeholders through responsible engagement. We see these strong relationships as invisible assets important for our sustainable growth. These relationships are also an indispensable part of creating innovation driven by social needs. We engaged in responsible Dialogues with our stakeholders to improve corporate value and contribute to a better society through our businesses by using marketing, corporate, and investor communications. Responsible Engagement with Our Stakeholders Improved corporate value Improved business value Improved brand value Improved shareholder value Value chain Supply chain Investment chain Suppliers Products/services Business partners Investment Marketing Corporate Corporate Investor Customers communications communications OMRON communications communications Investors Compensation Employees Capital gain (Sales/profit) (recruitment/employment) Income gain Communities Increased Solving social issues income Increased Social development Increased employment Return Investment taxes Contribution to development of a better society through our businesses Case Studies: Dialogues with Stakeholders Marketing communications / Dialogues with customers In the Healthcare Business, we are promoting dialogue with healthcare professionals and consumers to spread the importance of home blood pressure monitoring. In fiscal 2019, we expanded our activities globally, holding educational programs for healthcare professionals called “OMRON Academy” in 12 locations across India and blood pressure measurement events for consumers in 10 cities. We will continue to promote achieving “zero events The OMRON Academy (zero cerebrovascular and cardiovascular events)” in various locations by having people understand the importance of home blood pressure monitoring and utilize these events for medical care. 99 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Data Corporate communications / Dialogues with suppliers Every year, OMRON holds a Global Partner Conference with representatives for major suppliers. At this conference, we share details of our management policy initiatives, business structures, procurement policies, and sustainable procurement practices. A total of 110 supplier companies participated in the May 2019 conference, showing that sustainable procurement efforts are progressing smoothly. We asked suppliers to continue working with OMRON to Global Partner Conference contribute a sustainable society throughout the supply chain. (May 2019) Corporate communications / Dialogues with business partners At OMRON, we strive to create business through co-creation with business partners. Industrial Automation Business is conducting trials utilizing the fifthgeneration mobile communication system (5G) in factories and other manufacturing sites under the collaborative efforts of NTT DOCOMO, NOKIA, and OMRON. We jointly evaluate the usefulness and possibilities of 5G with the Announcement of joint trial by three aim of solving the challenges facing the manufacturing industry and developing companies (September 2019) communications technology required in manufacturing sites of the future. Corporate communications / Dialogues with employees Since 2016, OMRON has been conducting the engagement survey VOICE that aims to listen directly to feedback from our global employees, identify management issues, and take actions to solve those issues. In fiscal 2019, we introduced an application program for personnel transfer in response to requests from employees in the fiscal 2018 survey. The application program provides employees with opportunities to advertise their talents and transfer to A poster calling on employees to reply to other department to challenge themselves in even if there are no job openings. VOICE By reflecting the opinions of employees, we will work to create a company where employees can play an active role. Corporate communications / Dialogues with communities OMRON is working to solve community-specific social issues. In March 2020, the Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business signed a comprehensive collaboration agreement with Uki City, Kumamoto Prefecture to mutually engage in a collaborative effort to realize Society 5.0 that solves regional issues with new technologies. We will contribute to developing sustainable towns through the introduction of management systems that utilize IoT for disaster Comprehensive collaboration agreement prevention sensors and the introduction of renewable energy management signed with Uki City (March 2020) systems to public facilities. Investor communications / Dialogues with investors OMRON strives to raise corporate value through dialogues with shareholders and investors. In fiscal 2019, we held the 82nd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, as well as the third ESG Meeting. At the ESG Meeting, we took the opportunity to explain OMRON’s business, initiatives for human resources centered on management based on the OMRON Principles, climate change The 82nd Ordinary General Meeting of initiatives, and corporate governance. We fielded many questions and listened Shareholders (June 18, 2019) to opinions from the shareholders and investors who participated in the meeting. Also, we implemented a total of 680 interviews with institutional investors in fiscal 2019. The knowledge we received from interactions with our shareholders and investors has led to improvements in our management initiatives. Fiscal 2019 ESG Meeting (February 17, 2020) Data OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 100 OMRON Recognitions OMRON Innovations Recognized Selected as Top 100 Global Innovator 2019 OMRON was selected for a fourth consecutive year from fiscal 2016 as a Top 100 Global Innovator, an award recognizing the best 100 innovative companies and research institutes. Coverage in Various Indexes We are honored to have been included for the tenth consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) Asia/ Pacific Index from 2010 and for the third consecutive year in the DJSI World Index from fiscal 2017. We have also been included for the sixth consecutive year in the MSCI ESG Leaders Index from 2015 and for the fifth consecutive year in the FTSE4Good Index Series. We have also been included in a range of other indexes. ESG Indexes With the commencement of ESG investing by the Japan Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), OMRON was selected as a component member of three ESG indexes in July 2017 for the fourth consecutive year. In 2018, we were also selected for the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient index for the second consecutive year. Major Indexes in Japan Since March 2019, we have been included as one of the 225 stocks that make up the Nikkei Stock Average. 101 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 Data OMRON Contributions to Sustainability Recognized Designated 2020 Health & Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand Productivity Stock Selection OMRON was OMRON was recognized for recognized for our the second consecutive year engagement in as a Health Management diversity promotion Brand stemming from our activities for the third OMRON Employee Health consecutive year. Management Declaration (led by senior management) and the OMRON Health White Paper (visualization of employee health). Received the SDGs Strategy/ Awarded Gold rating, the highest Economic Value Award at the Nikkei distinction from EcoVadis, for SDGs Management Grand Prix sustainability for the first time OMRON was OMRON was highly recognized and recognized and awarded awarded for our for our approaches in company-wide efforts environmental fields in to put the OMRON CSR activities. Principles and management based on the OMRON Principles into practice. OMRON Communications Recognized Received the Winners Award at the Ranked No.45 in Best Japan Japan Branding Awards 2019 Brands 2020 We received a high We were included in the Best Japan Brands 2020 evaluation as a Japan business brand “company that evaluation ranking Brand Value implements announced each year by excellent branding” Interbrand Japan for the ¥88.0 ¥87.2 selected by third consecutive year billion billion Interbrand Japan. and our brand was valued 2019 2020 at ¥88.0 billion. Data OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 102 Independent Third-Party Assurances To enhance the reliability of the information presented in Integrated Report 2020, the following information associated with social and environmental performance provided herein has been assured or reviewed by independent third parties*. Data subject to independent assurance Data subject to independent assurance Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial GHG emissions (P23, 32, 96) positions overseas (P32, 96) Net sales to CO2 emissions (P23, 32, 96) Ratio of women in managerial roles (OMRON Data subject to independent review Group in Japan) (P61) Ratio of employees with disabilities (OMRON Environmental contribution (P23, 32, 96) Group in Japan) (P96) * KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd. 103 OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 In Memory of Yoshio Tateishi, Honorary Advisor Yoshio Tateishi, Honorary Advisor and former President and CEO of OMRON Corporation, passed away on April 21, 2020. Tateishi served as OMRON’s third President for 16 years between 1987 and 2003. During his tenure as President, Tateishi established the OMRON Principles, changed the name of the company from Tateisi Electronics Company to OMRON Corporation, and formulated the company’s first long-term vision, Golden ‘90s Plan, among others. Through the globalization of OMRON and the strengthening of its governance, he built the basis for the current growth of OMRON. In 2007, Tateishi became President of Kyoto Chamber of Commerce and Industry and worked to promote the local economy in Kyoto, the city that nurtured OMRON. We would like to express our sincere appreciation for the support and friendship extended to him during his lifetime. <Covered Organizations> As a general rule, this report covers 148 companies in the OMRON Group, consisting of OMRON Corporation, 129 consolidated subsidiaries, and 19 nonconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method (as of March 31, 2020). <Covered Period> Fiscal 2019 (April 1, 2019 through March 31, 2020). However, this report includes some disclosure items and business activities that were initiated after April 2020. <References> This integrated report conforms to the integrated reporting frameworks recommended by the International Integrated Reporting Council and the World Intellectual Capital Initiative and refers to Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation issued by Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Sustainability-related disclosures have been written with reference to the GRI Standards. <Caution Concerning Performance Forecasts Statements> Performance forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on information available at the time, as well as on certain assumptions deemed reasonable by OMRON Group management. Actual results may vary materially depending on a variety of factors. See “Outlook for Fiscal 2020” on page 87 of this report when using the projection of results and conditions of assumptions for the results. In this report, an emphasis was placed on communicating financial information, sustainability information, and content disclosed in various reports posted on our website as well as content that OMRON is working for sustainable enhancement of corporate value in an easy-to-understand manner. Please see the OMRON website for details. Investor Relations https://www.omron.com/global/en/ir/ Sustainability Information Sustainability initiatives https://sustainability.omron.com/en GRI Content Index https://sustainability.omron.com/en/guide_line/ Major Sustainability Data https://sustainability.omron.com/en/performance/ Reports Corporate Governance Report https://www.omron.com/global/en/assets/file/about/corporate/governance/ policy/20200803_governance_report_e.pdf OMRON Corporation Integrated Report 2020 104
