BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 2 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Disclaimer: expectations, these assumptions were made on the basis of the data and information available at the time of writing. Due to currently unforeseeable We have taken the greatest care in collecting and processing all data and events, the statements made may therefore differ from actual events. information provided in this report. Nevertheless, errors cannot be completely We use genderneutral terms such as customers and employees to refer to ruled out. If this report contains statements on future developments or both women and men. 2 CONTENTS 4 HIGHLIGHTS 6 PREFA CE 8 NOTES A ND REPORT LIMITATIONS 9 A PORTRAIT OF BA WAG GROUP 11 CSR STRATEGY 14 STATUS QUO SUSTA INABILITY PROGRAM 15 SUSTA INABILITY PROGRAM 2019 16 ECONOMIC SUCCESS 19 ETHICS A ND INTEGRITY 23 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS 28 SUSTA INABILITY IN CORE BUSINESS 32 SOCIA L RESPONSIBILITY A ND PERSONA L COMMITMENT 34 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION A ND DEV ELOPMENT, DIV ERSITY AND EQUA L OPPORTUNITIES 48 ENV IRONMENTAL A ND CLIMATE PROTECTION 52 A PPENDIX 59 GRI INDEX 67 INDEPENDENT A SSURANCE REPORT 69 UN GLOBA L COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 3 BAWAG P.S .K. CORPORATE S OCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 8 5 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 PREFACE Ladies and Gent lemen, The publication of a sustainability report provides me with headquarters, but also at all BAWAG P.S .K. branch ofthe opportunity to update you on our sustainability initiafices in Austria and our subsidiary in S witzerland. tives and the progress we have made at BAWAG Group.  Our employees are the cornerstone of BAWAG Group’s The past few years were defined by both organic and inorsuccess. Our focus on diversity and equal opportunities ganic growth. Thus, it was im portant for us in 2019 to reis paramount to creating a meritocratic workplace. This view our key sustainability a s well as environmental, social is put into practice by our Human Resources team and and governance (ESG) topics and, more importantly, the is a focus area of the Managing Board and senior leadimpact of our actions. For BAWAG Group, acting sustainaership. Team members from over 40 countries, from difbly means achieving and maintaining the right balance beferent age groups and from a wide range of ethnic and tween economic, ecological and social objectives. Human religious backgrounds work together at BAWAG Group. rights, the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact, the 7 We reached an important milestone in 2019, as the perUN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles centage of women in leadership positions rose to 34%. and the 17 UN S ustainable Development Goals are among We still have a ways to go, but I am proud of the prothe fundamental cornerstones of our sustainability strategy. gress we have made over the years. Our employees and business partners are encouraged to  Within our sales teams, we became the first bank in use natural resources judiciously. We actively support Austria to build up a dedicated team of mobile advisory measures aimed at protecting our natural surroundings and experts. This has generated a new physical channel for the environment. Our goal is to minimize any potential negour advisors, enabling them to serve our customers at ative impacts resulting from our business activities. The their homes. At the same time, we have increased our preservation of the environment as the basis of life for fuonline offerings not only for retail customers, but also for ture generations is one of the fundamental principles of our S MEs. enterprise. BAWAG Group takes our ro le in society and our responsibility to act as a “good corporate citizen” very seri We have seen increased demand from our customers ously. BAWAG Group has been a partner to a large number for investment products that take sustainability factors of non-profit and charitable organizations, which have been into account. We are pleased to offer such products conducting their primary banking business with us for from our partners Amundi and S avity through our varimany years. In addition, we value the personal charitable ous channels. involvement on the part of our employees, and support it through our “Volunteer Days” initiative at the Bank. Understanding sustainability and ESG issues allows BAWAG Group to reduce risks and seize opportunities in underwritIn 2019, we demonstrated the scope of our CS R engageing and investment management. An even stronger focus ment with the launch of various new initiatives – I would on ES G issues over the coming years will support BAWAG like to highlight just a few: Group’s core business and CSR strategy. Our goal is to ensure that we live up to our corporate values, demonstrating  At the beginning of the year, more than 1,200 of our emresponsibility in decision-making and developing a positive ployees moved into our headquarters at Vienna Central relationship with societal stakeholders. By scrutinizing as S tation, where we wanted our new office concept to remany aspects of our value chain as possible from an ES G flect our transformation. We invested a tremendous perspective, BAWAG Group aims to extend its understandamount of effort into examining the daily work routine of ing of inherent risks while also capitalizing on potential our employees and considering their needs. In addition business opportunities for the benefit of our customers, to employee-related aspects, environmental criteria were employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. also an important consideration. The new location uses sustainable electricity supplied by easy green energy, a The Managing Board and senior leadership team is comsubsidiary of easybank. Our electricity is supplied enmitted to embracing sustainability in our work methods tirely by hydropower from Austria. In addition, BAWAG and, more importantly, seeing to it that this is embedded in Group has switched to green electricity not only at its our culture throughout the Bank. We have set up an ES G 6 PREFACE Committee at the Managing Board level, which monitors continue to serve as an ethically responsible corporate citiES G-relevant KPIs, new initiatives and developments. We zen in the many years ahead. have also established a variety of cross-functional working groups with the aim of having team members discuss strategic priorities across the organization, thereby increasing the positive impact of BAWAG Group’s efforts on corporate responsibility. I would like to thank everyone whose commitment to sustainable and responsible business practices has allowed us Anas Abuzaakouk to live up to our values over the years. We hope to build on CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board of BAWAG the great work we did in 2019 and, more importantly, to Group AG 7 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 NOTES AND REPORT BOUNDARIES NOTES In implementation of EU Directive 2014/95/EU, the application level in accordance with core option , including NaDiVeG (S ustainability and Diversity Improvement Act) exsector-specific indicators for financial services) and was panded and specified the reporting obligations for non-fiprepared in accordance with the principles of materiality, nancial information (environmental, social and employee transparency and comparability. concerns, respect for human rights a nd combating corruption) starting in the management report for the 2017 finanThis CS R report includes the GRI Index (from page 59) and cial year. BAWAG Group will again make use of the option the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (from provided by section 267a (6) UGB in 2019 to prepare a page 69). This report is published in an online version only, separate consolidated non-financial report in the present which can be accessed at form.  https://www.bawaggroup.com/CSR The CS R Report 2019 reports in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI S tandards, REPORT BOUNDARIES This report describes our concepts, non-financial risks, due the following companies of BAWAG Group: BAWAG P.S .K., diligence processes and (ongoing) measures, as well as key easybank, easyleasing and start:bausparkasse in Austria, performance indicators for handling and controlling our main S üdwestbank, BFL Leasing, Health Coevo AG and areas of activities (from page 52). In this context, we also start:bausparkasse in Germany, and Zahnärztekasse in explain the new developments and progress made in the field S witzerland. For the most part, the reported figures presented of sustainability in 2019 and follows on from the CSR Report the years 2018 and 2019, but in exceptional cases also the 2018. The internal process to harmonize the key figures year 2017 (environmental and HR figures). The CSR reports presented in this report was implemented and initiated as for recent years as well as the annual and corporate announced in the CSR Report 2018 (see workstream 1, page governance reports provide additional information on the CSR 12). Unless otherwise indicated, this report therefore includes activities of BAWAG Group. 8 A PORTRAIT OF BAWAG GROUP A PORTRAIT OF BAWAG GROUP BAWAG Group AG is the listed holding company of BAWAG savings, payment, lending, leasing, investment, building soP.S .K., which is headquartered in Vienna, Austria, along ciety, factoring and insurance products and services with easybank, easyleasing and start:bausparkasse, through various online and offline sales channels. S üdwestbank, BFL Leasing, Health Coevo and start:bausparkasse are located in Germany, with the Zahnärztekasse Our business segments 1) are Retail & S ME, Corporates & AG factoring business based in S witzerland. With 2.5 milPublic and Treasury. The provision of simple, transparent lion customers, BAWAG P.S .K. is one of the largest banks in and first-class products and services that meet the needs Austria and has a nationally recognized brand. of our customers is at the heart of our strategy in all business areas. We pursue a simple and transparent business model that is geared to low risk, efficiency and, regionally, to Austria, The current ownership structure is available here: Germany and developed markets. We serve retail, small business and corporate customers offering comprehensive  https://www.bawaggroup.com/shareholder-structure STRATEGY Growing in our core markets Drive ef f iciency t hrough operational excellence  Our foundation is Austria with a focus on developed mar Our DNA is to focus on the things we can control … kets “self-help” approach of banking  Focus markets … DACH region, Western Europe and the  S implify, standardize, and automate online and offline United S tates product offerings  Grow into current account market share entitlement of  Create frictionless processes … wing-to-wing digitization up to 20% in Austria across core retail products focus across the Bank  Growth drivers …Partnerships & platforms, enhancing  Continuously optimize our processes, footprint, and techdigital engagement, and pursuing earnings-accretive nology infrastructure M&A meeting our Group RoTCEtargets >15%  Embrace various forms of technological change … will transform banking Focus on cust omer centricity  Build multi-channel and multi-brand franchise from Maint aining a saf e and secure risk profile branches-to-partners-to-brokers-to-platforms-to-digital products across the entire Retail & S ME franchise  Maintaining strong capital position, stable retail deposits and low risk profiles  Physical network focused on high-touch and high-quality advisory  Focus on mature, developed and sustainable markets  Leverage technology to simplify processes and reduce  Applying conservative and disciplined underwriting in complexity markets we understand  Enhance analytical capabilities to improve customer ex Maintain fortress balance sheet perience  Proactively manage and mitigate non-financial risk  New retail partnerships and lending platforms to provide 24/7 customer access 1) Further details on the individual business segments can be found in the Consolidated Annual Report 2019. 9 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 AWARDS AND RANKINGS  In May 2019, easy green energy, a subsidiary of easyblisted company of Austria in October 2019. Among other ank, became the best bidder in the VKI Energy Cost things, the survey determines the likelihood of employS top campaign for the third time and took first place in ees recommending their employer to friends or family all three categories (green electricity, Ecolabelled elecmembers. tricity and gas). easy green energy's top position in all three categories has also already been confirmed for  Also in October 2019, easybank was named the best di2020. rect bank in Austria in the ServiceValue ranking and received the award Service Champion 2019 . easybank  Also in May 2019, easybank received the coveted Reccustomers have given their bank the highest Service ommender Award of the Austrian Financial Marketing Experience S core . Association for the ninth time in a row. According to this award, easybank customers are the most satisfied cus November 2019: BAWAG P.S .K. again won the silver tomers of direct, specialized and private banks in Ausseal for Austria in the Best Recruiters Ranking in 2019. tria and show the highest willingness to recommend The ranking is the largest study in the DACH region on easybank to others. Thus far, easybank is the only bank the quality of personnel recruitment by companies and that has been able to maintain the top position in one of institutions. BAWAG P.S .K. placed third in the industry the categories for such a long period of time. In addition, ranking for Austria, thus demonstrating that it is right at easybank is delighted to have received the seal of apthe top in the war for talents among banks. BAWAG proval for excellent customer orientation again in 2019. P.S .K. ranked 43 rd in the overall analysis of more than 500 domestic employers.  In S eptember 2019, BAWAG P.S .K. (together with Erste Bank) won first place for transparency in the consumer  In addition, S üdwestbank was voted among the elite of test conducted by the Austrian Society for Consumer asset managers in the German-speaking world by the S tudies (ÖGVS) in the category Current Accounts specialist magazine Elite Report and by Handelsblatt for (Branch Banks) . In addition to the terms and condithe twelfth time in November. S üdwestbank was the only tions, an analysis was made of the extent to which financial institution in Baden-Württemberg to achieve banks provide information about current accounts on the top score summa cum laude . their websites and how user-friendly the website is.  Also in November 2019, easybank took first place for  In October 2019, BAWAG Group was named Best Bank the fifth time in a row in the Börsianer ranking as the in Austria for the third time in a row by Global Finance, Best Direct Bank . A total of 13 overall and category a leading magazine for financial and capital market topwinners from five sectors were chosen. ics.  In December, BAWAG P.S .K. took first place in the ÖGVS  In addition, BAWAG Group came in 54 th in Forbes Global study on Online Installment Loans 2019 in the categoThe World's Best Employers 2019 ranking, in which ries Transparency and Application and Comfort . employees of the 2,000 largest companies worldwide Overall, the credit terms and customer services of eight rate their current employer, making it the most highly providers in Austria were tested. 10 CS R S TRATEGY CSR STRATEGY CSR ORGANIZATION AND KEY ISSUES In BAWAG Group, CS R was managed by the CS R CommitIn addition, the CSR structure in BAWAG Group was restructee as a company-wide issue under the responsibility of tured in the fourth quarter. The CSR committee was merged the Managing Board during the reporting period. The comwith the existing Non Financial Risk Committee and remittee consists of representatives of major Group compaplaced by a committee that meets every two months from nies, business segments and specialist departments/units Q4 2019 at the Managing Board level as the Non Financial including Communications, Human Resources, Legal, Risk & ES G Committee (in short: NFR & ES GC) and reports Non-Financial Risk Management & Regulatory Compliprogress at Managing Bo ard level. The Chief Risk Officer is ance, Chief Data & Risk Control Office, Credit Risk Manthe head of this body. In addition, ES G officers have been agement, Operations, Central Purchasing & Real Estate appointed who have voting rights on the committee and are Management, Marketing & Product Management, Digital & responsible for promoting sustainability issues within Development Office, Corporate Customer S ales, and Retail BAWAG Group. and Business Customer S ales. The committee refined and implemented the CS R strategy and the S ustainability ProIn 2018, roughly 300 internal and external stakeholders of gram 2019 on the basis of the Group strategy and reBAWAG Group were surveyed in 2018 on the topic of Corported to the Managing Board of BAWAG Group. porate Social Responsibility in BAWAG Group . The results provided a clear picture of which sustainability issues were The members of the Committee hold senior positions important for our stakeholders and should be given greater within BAWAG Group. They are required to pass on to their consideration. An internal workshop of the CSR Committee teams the CSR issues agreed in the committee and relewas then held to present the survey results and to define the vant to their business or specialist area or department and key CS R issues for the Group. The results of the materiality to implement measures in their area. As key decisionprocess also served as the basis for determining the key makers, they were able to proactively drive forward the imCS R issues that received greater focus in the Group in plementation of the CS R strategy at various points w ithin 2019. Further details can be found in the previous year's rethe Group. port on page 9. The CS R team, which is based in the Communications deAccordingly, the seven areas for action with their respective partment and is responsible for CS R reporting, conducted effects (page 13), which are closely related to the principles the 2019 CS R Committee meetings and drove forward the and goals of the UN Global Compact, the SDGs and the operational development of the CSR strategy, for which principles of the UN Global Compact Women's Empowerworkstreams (see the following section) were launched in ment Principles as well as to human rights, form the founthe second quarter. Two committee meetings were held dation of BAWAG Group's CSR strategy and the with division heads and the Chief Financial Officer. S ustainability Program measures derived from it (page 15). FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE CSR AGENDA The changes in BAWAG Group caused by organic and inor Workstream 1: Integration of the subsidiaries in Gerganic growth, higher public awareness of corporate responmany and S witzerland into the CSR reporting process sibility and the increased regulatory focus were the driving and improvement of data quality forces behind the further development of CS R activities in the Group in 2019. The previous measures were strategi Workstream 2: Further development of sustainable prodcally refined and communicated. During the reporting peucts in the core business and implementation of ES G riod, the CS R team launched four CSR workstreams that criteria in the product implementation process were based on the Sustainability Program 2018 and the key issues of BAWAG Group:  Workstream 3: Evaluation of the implementation of ES G criteria in the investment strategy and risk analysis of BAWAG Group 11 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019  Workstream 4: Increase d employee involvement in volW orkst ream 3 unteer work and strengthened internal communication on sustainability The goal of this workstream was to prepare for the mediumto long-term integration of ES G criteria into the risk and investment policies of BAWAG Group. Cross-divisional W orkst ream 1 working groups were formed and the following topics were considered, taking into account best-in-class approaches: In the course of the acquisition of start:bausparkasse assessment of evaluation methods for sectors and counDeutschland (S eptember 2018), Zahnärztekasse AG tries, potential exclusion criteria, possibilities for imple(March 2019), BFL Leasing und Health Coevo AG (both in menting data anchoring processes, and possibilities for May 2019), it became necessary to integrate the new introducing new categories in data collection and entry. In BAWAG Group subsidiaries into the CSR reporting. In addiaddition to the potential consideration of ES G criteria in tion, an internal process was designed to harmonize the risk and investment policies, possible implications for fukey figures, as the figures of S üdwestbank could not be ture business opportunities that could arise from a busifully presented in the CS R Report 2018. Alongside the exness policy geared towards sustainability were discussed. change of information on CS R activities, the process also included the transfer of knowledge regarding data collection and processing by BAWAG P.S .K. experts to the subW orkst ream 4 sidiaries (for example in the area of facility management). In order to raise awareness for corporate responsibility in A CS R Welcome Package was also added to the M&A inBAWAG Group, communication measures were strengthtegration process in the reporting period. The document ened in 2019, for example in the form of intranet articles, provides an overview of sustainability in the Group and the and a separate CSR logo was developed. requirements of the CSR report. In addition, the CSR team organized a Volunteer Day at the VinziDorf Wien social institution, among other activiW orkst ream 2 ties. These efforts resulted in a gratifying increase in the number of Volunteer Days completed by BAWAG P.S .K. Two priorities were set to strengthen sustainability in the employees in 2019. BAWAG Group's core business. In the future, the issue of sustainability will be integrated into the established prod. uct implementation process and anchored both in the product implementation policy and in the binding product implementation templates, which are an integral part of the product implementation process (page 23). In addition, the existing range of sustainable products and services (from page 28) is to be expanded. An employee event on the topic of sustainable product innovations was held in November 2019 (page 29). Many of the ideas and approaches that are currently being evaluated for implementation or are being implemented serve as a basis for the product management team to expand and develop the sustainable product and service offerings. 12 CS R S TRATEGY CSR MISSION STATEMENT BAWAG Group's CSR mission statement is based on the (S DGs), the principles and goals of the UN Global ComGroup's CSR strategy, which is built on the seven areas for pact, the principles of the UN Global Compact Women's action. This has been translated into the measures of the Empowerment Principles, the guidelines of the Global Resustainability program (page 15). A summary presentation porting Initiative (GRI S tandards) and the concerns acof the individual areas for action with a risk and impact cording to the NaDiVeG can be found in the Appendix analysis as well as the S ustainable Development Goals starting on page 52. Areas for action What it means for BAWAG Group Economic success ... pursue our simple and transparent business model, which is based on low risk, efficiency and a regional focus on Austria, Germany and developed markets. ... contribute to the success of our stakeholders by consistently implementing our strategy and driving forward strategic initiatives. Ethics and integrity ... act according to the ethical values of the Code of Conduct, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the seven principles of the UN Global Compact Women's Empowerment Principles. ... orient ourselves towards the 17 S ustainable Development Goals of the UN Global Compact as a framework for sustainable action. ... ensure the basis for ethical and integrity-conscious behavior of all employees through appropriate policies and guidelines. ... give the topics of anti-corruption and data protection a special status in compliance management. Responsibility towards customers ... give our customers the opportunity to conduct their banking transactions according to their individual wishes, whenever and wherever they wish, through our digital and physical distribution channels. ... conduct successful and long-term business relationships with satisfied customers across all sales channels and platforms. S ustainability in core business ... promote the development of sustainable business areas and provide a diverse range of products and services that are oriented towards ecological, economic and social requirements. ... be a reliable partner for companies and the regional economy and assume ecological and social responsibility. ... support products and services with a sustainable focus and the financing of projects with added value for the regional economy. S ocial responsibility and personal commitment ... promote civic engagement and the social commitment of our employees. S taff promotion and development, ... offer employees a healthy and career-promoting working environment. diversity and equal opportunities ... maintain an open, appreciative relationship with employees and promote their potential. ... actively ensure equal opportunities and diversity in the Bank. Environmental and climate protection ... keep the direct effects on the environment in day-to-day working life and the indirect effects through products and services as low as possible and thus ensure an environment worth living in for future generations. 13 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 STATUS QUO SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM Area of act ion 1: CSR St rategy Goal: Strengthening the CSR activities and the awareness of CSR S tatus Quo Improvement in our rankings from sustainability rating agencies in progress Area of act ion 2: Et hics and int egrity Goal: Ensuring compliance with all guidelines and policies S tatus Quo Focusing on data protection, on information and IT security as well as on fraud prevention achieved Area of act ion 3: Responsibility towards cust omers Goal: Appropriate products and services for every life circumstance and every stage of life S tatus Quo Continuing with the “New Chance” account and with offering sustainable investments ongoing Area of act ion 4: Sust ainability in our core business Goal: Being a reliable financial partner for retail and commercial customers and for the regional Time horizon economy Introducing sustainability criteria in the product implementation process achieved Expanding the range of sustainable offerings in our core business achieved Area of act ion 5: Social responsibility and personal commitment Goal: Strengthening the Volunteer Days and pushing the ES GEHT! Initiative S tatus Quo Expanding opportunity to spend volunteer days to all BAWAG Group employees in progress S creening, selecting and communicating of suitable ES GEHT! projects achieved Area of act ion 6: St aff development and t raining, diversity and equal opportunity Goal: Appreciation and advancement of employees S tatus Quo Increasing the ratio of women in management positions by implementing the Women’s Promotion Plan achieved Raising awareness for and establishing paternity leave, “daddy month” and special vacation for new ongoing fathers S upporting employees with changing working environment due to digitalization, agile way of working achieved and the new headquarters Area of act ion 7: Environmental and climate protection Goal: Reducing our environmental impact so as not to endanger the basis of life for future S tatus Quo generations Relocating to new headquarters and switching to sustainable energy supplier easy green energy achieved S witching to sustainable energy supplier easy green energy at redesigned BAWAG P.S .K. branches achieved Continuing of measures to reduce paper consumption ongoing 14 S US TAINABILITY PROGRAM 2019 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM 2019 Area of act ion 1: CSR St rategy Goal: Strengthening the CSR activities and the awareness of CSR Time horizon Improvement in our rankings from sustainability rating agencies ongoing Redefinition of the internal CSR organization and broadening of CS R responsibilities within the Group ongoing Area of act ion 2: Et hics and int egrity Goal: Ensuring compliance with all guidelines and policies Time horizon Expansion of the training program for employees on the subject of information security Q1 2020 Area of act ion 3: Responsibility towards cust omers Goal: Appropriate products and services for every life circumstance and every stage of life Time horizon Evaluation and implementation of measures to simplify processes for investment products H1 2020 Area of act ion 4: Sust ainability in core business Goal: Being a reliable financial partner for retail and commercial customers and for the regional Time horizon economy Expansion of the sustainable range of products in BAWAG P.S .K .'s home-building and consumer H1 2020 lending business Continuation of the New Chance account and expansion of the range of sustainable investments ongoing Area of act ion 5: Social responsibility and personal commitment Goal: Continuation of the focus on Volunteer Days, ES GEH T! Initiative and measures to increase Time horizon financial education and digital skills Continuation of the commitment in the area of financial education and continuation of measures to ongoing increase digital skills among different age and social groups Raising awareness of volunteer work among BAWAG Group employees ongoing S upport of ES GEHT! crowdfunding projects within the framework of the jö Bonus Club partnership ongoing Area of act ion 6: Employee promotion and development, diversity and equal opportunities Goal: Appreciation and advancement of employees Time horizon Increasing the proportion of women in management positions by implementing the women's ongoing advancement plan S implification of the job application process through the use of innovative recruiting technologies H1 2020 Expansion of employee offerings for individualized learning through new online platforms ongoing Extension of the MbO process to employees of S üdwestbank H1 2020 Area of act ion 7: Environmental and climate protection Goal: Reducing our environmental impact so as not to endanger the basis of life for future Time horizon generations Implementation of measures to optimize energy consumption during branch conversions in Austria (for example replacement of lighting with LED lamps and replacement of air conditioning and heating ongoing systems) Acquisition of electric cars for internal logistics Q1 2020 Continuation of measures to reduce paper consumption ongoing 15 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMIC SUCCESS Economic success is important for being able to take sushigher qualifications and thus fundamentally increases tainable aspects into account when setting the course of their chances not only in the company but also on the job business policy. The more successfully BAWAG Group opmarket. Furthermore, the granting of loans for the purerates, the better it can take into account the interests of chase of homes in particular contributes to several positive various stakeholder such as customers, employees, shareeffects including enabling social advancement (distribution holders, the public sector and society in general. of wealth) and lowering long-term living expenses while providing for higher financial well-being. When it comes to economic success, creating value for stakeholders of BAWAG Group is the top priority. S hareAt the same time, BAWAG Group is exposed to substantial holders benefit from the increase in the value of the comrisks if no significant importance is assigned to economic pany and capital distributions, and employees can be paid success. A lack of economic success can lead to a loss of fairly in line with market conditions. Customers benefit confidence among relevant stakeholders, cause the share from a comprehensive range of products and services, price and the number of customers to decline, lead to inbusiness partners and suppliers receive orders . creased staff cutbacks due to less and less room for maneuver, and consume capital reserves. If economic In addition to the extensive effects along the value chain, success fails to materialize in the long term, the compathe economic success of our Group allows for a number of ny's scope for action would become increasingly limited, positive effects that have an indirect and sustainable imwith potential direct negative effects on various stakeholdpact on the economy. ers. Particularly against the background of our more than 130-year history and the difficult situation encountered in As a bank, we have a great responsibility in maintaining 2006, it is important for us to always build our economic the economic cycle. The more successful BAWAG Group success on a solid and secure business model. This inis, the more new jobs are created directly (for example in cludes our consistent efforts to ensure that our lending the expansion and integration of new companies and marpolicy is geared towards risk -adjusted returns and to purkets) and indirectly (in cooperation with partners). In addisue business opportunities not solely on the basis of voltion, as an attractive employer, we can offer our employees ume, which could be a natural consequence of focusing extensive training and continuing education, which confers on growth considerations alone. 16 ECONOMIC SUCCESS LATEST RESULTS The year 2019 was another successful period for BAWAG The Group has achieved all of its objectives and will conGroup. A strong pre -tax profit of €604 million was genertinue to work on its various operational and strategic initiaated, representing an increase of 6% over 2018. The intives. We will concentrate on what we can control while crease was mainly driven by higher core operating income continuing to work on BAWAG Group of tomorrow. and disciplined cost management. Table: Consolidat es key figures at a glance in million € 2017 2018 2019 Operational core revenues 1,010.0 1,123.3 1,162.5 Profit for the year before taxes 500.4 572.7 604.3 Net profit 449.1 436.5 459.1 Return on common equity 13.6% 12.7% 13.5% Return on tangible common equity 15.6% 14.8% 16.1% Cost/income ratio 47.2% 44.2% 42.7% Risk costs/interest-bearing assets 0.17% 0.12% 0.18% Balance sheet total 46,056 44,698 45,662 Loans to customers 30,793 30,482 30,467 Customer deposits and own issues 36,611 34,620 35,827 Equity (excluding AT1 capital and accrued dividends) 3,518 3,491 3,297 Risk-weighted assets 21,494 20,465 20,385 Common equity tier 1 quote (fully loaded) 13.5% 14.5% 13.3% NPL ratio 1.8% 1.7% 1.7% NPE ratio 2.0% 1.9% 2.0% RATINGS Fitch confirmed its ratings for BAWAG P.S .K. in February agencies during the reporting period, including the IS S2019. The long -term issuer rating, the standalone rating oekom Corporate Rating, the WWF Retail Banking Rating, and the rating for senior unsecured debt remain unthe S ustainalitics ES G Rating and the MS CI ES G Rating. changed at A. S ubordinated debt is rated BBB+ . The rating results were analyzed in detail in 2019 and numerous steps were taken to improve them. In this context, Moody's Investors S ervice confirmed its ratings for the present CS R Report 2019 has been supplemented BAWAG P.S .K. in January 2019. The long -term rating for with detailed descriptions of measures relating to anti-corsenior unsecured debt and the issuer and deposit ratings ruption, data protection and data security ( Ethics and inof the Bank remain at A2 , the standalone rating (Basetegrity , page 19) and new indicators on human resources line Credit Assessment) at Baa1 and the rating for submanagement have been included ( Employee developordinated debt at Baa2 . The additional tier 1 capital of ment and promotion, diversity and equal opportunities , BAWAG Group AG is rated Ba1 . page 34). In addition, the ES G focus was refined by broadening internal responsibilities ( CSR S trategy , page BAWAG Group/BAWAG P.S .K. participated in sustainability 11). rating processes of relevant European and international 17 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 RISK-AVERSE INVESTMENT STRATEGY Liquidity from the core business of BAWAG Group is manfrom Western Europe and North America. As of 31 Decemaged in securities portfolios including the liquidity reserve ber 2019, BAWAG Group had no direct exposure to China, and certain hedging portfolios. The investment strategy foRussia, Hungary or S outheastern Europe. cuses on secured and unsecured investment-grade bank bonds from Western Europe and the USA as well as on seAs of 31 December 2019, BAWAG Group had no exposure lected government bonds and high-quality CLOs for diversifito defense industries, nuclear energy or industries that excation purposes. tract coal or generate electricity from coal. Conversely, the Group finances companies and projects with a sustainable The majority of the securities portfolios are distributed focus. These include businesses in the renewable energy among Western developed economic areas with stable legal sector and social enterprises such as public-sector daysystems: 86% of the securities portfolio consists of issues care, nursing and health care facilities. Table: Indust ry exposure of BAWAG Group Percentage of total exposure of 31.12.2019 BAWAG Group Defense industry 0% Production and distribution of ABC weapons 0% Production and distribution of conventional arms 0% Production and sale of other military services 0% N uclear energy 0% Generation of electricity in nuclear power plants 0% Construction of and nuclear technologies for nuclear power plants 0% Mining and trading of uranium 0% Other ethical risks <0.1% Production of and trade in addictive substances (tobacco, alcohol > 20% by volume) 0% Production, trade and application of green genetic engineering 0% Operation of gambling and betting activities and related services/installations 0.05% Fossil fuels 0.1% Total fossil fuel sector1) <0.1% Coal extraction and electricity generation from coal 0% Extraction of crude oil and natural gas by means of fracking or tar sand <0.05% Climate change 0.3% Renewable energies 0.3% S ustainable mobility 0% S ustainable building 0% Other ethical opportunities 2.8% S ocially oriented companies/projects 0.4% S ocial housing 2.4% Organic farming 0% 1) Filling stations are excluded in the fossil fuel sector figures. 18 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY ETHICS AND INTEGRITY BAWAG Group's corporate culture is based on the followin day-to-day business for our divisions and departments ing guidelines: and thus for each individual employee in BAWAG Group. Non-compliance with laws, internal guidelines or rules can  Respect and teamwork result in a sustained loss of confidence on the part of customers and other stakeholder groups, as well as reputation  Client focus and reputation damage, and corruption and liability risks for BAWAG  Integrity and compliance Group. For this reason, the highest attention is paid to the communication of and training in all guidelines and the BAWAG Group strives for integrity by internalizing legal and monitoring of compliance with them by all employees and company-specific regulations. Guidelines should not only officers. be known but also followed in every situation – in collaboration within the Group and with external stakeholders, Due to the growing complexity of information and commucustomers and other third parties. nication technology (ICT) and the strengthening of data protection regulations in Europe, an increasing focus is beWe not only attach high importance to compliance with leing placed on the management of security and data risks. gal and other binding regulations by every employee and the executive officers, but are also committed to principles The frequency of ICT and security-related incidents (inthat go beyond this. We are committed to the Group-wide cluding cyber incidents and attacks) is increasing in all Code of Conduct, the ten principles of the UN Global Comsectors of the economy. These potentially significant risks pact, the seven principles of the UN Global Compact threaten the operations of financial institutions and could Women's Empowerment Principles and the 17 S ustainable even lead to systemic problems. In order to counter these Development Goals of the UN Global Compact. threats, efficient and effective planning, careful implementation and the use of appropriate security measures are of Our values and principles are anchored in numerous policrucial importance. cies and guidelines that are intended to provide guidelines for legally compliant, transparent and responsible actions RISK CULTURE AND COMPLIANCE Effective compliance and risk management is a crucial asmanagement and enables employees not only to identify pect of a bank's success. In addition to the traditional risk these risks but also to make well-informed decisions. At the types, the management of non-financial risks is becoming core of our risk culture are internal rules and, above all, increasingly important. Group-wide compliance and non-fiopen communication among each other to ensure that all nancial risk management sets the framework within which employees have a broad understanding of the risks to which laws, requirements and standards are complied with and BAWAG Group is exposed. also aims to provide comprehensive protection for investors, customers, employees and the company. Further non-financial risks associated with the effects of business activities or business relationships (within the In addition to the management of operational risks, key obmeaning of S ection 267a (3) of the Austrian Commercial jectives here include the prevention of money laundering, Code) are identified annually in the specialist divisions as the fight against the financing of terrorism, the monitoring of part of the Risk Control S elf Assessments (in short: RCSAs) compliance with sanctions, fraud prevention, data protecand have been incorporated into several sections of this retion, information security, securities compliance and the port. Within the framework of the RCSAs, all divisions and prevention of insider trading, market abuse and conflicts of subsidiaries assess their guidelines and processes accordinterest. ing to defined criteria. In operational risk, various sub-categories such as breaches of health and safety regulations, The risk culture is the general guideline for employees in discrimination, breaches of guidelines and violations of pridealing with the risks in their area of responsibility. A vacy are identified and addressed. The divisions and subhealthy, Group-wide risk culture is the key to effective risk sidiaries must identify and assess their respective risks as 19 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 well as the effectiveness of controls and measures. In addirepeated every two years. As part of this program, employtion, an implemented whistleblowing tool is used to verify ees are familiarized with aspects of business ethics and whether specific cases or increased risks have occurred. In anti-corruption rules, all aspects of compliance and the genaddition to the RCSAs, further non-financial risks are identieral principles of conduct that apply in daily business. The fied and evaluated as part of an internal CSR reporting proCode of Conduct also applies to the Managing Board and cess. No material risks were identified in 2019. the S upervisory Board. It is based on the belief that operational success is achieved through competence, correctAll risk and compliance units of BAWAG Group report to the ness, trustworthiness and integrity. In addition, employees CRO. The separation between market and risk areas is of S üdwestbank are required to participate regularly in webstrictly observed. based training on fraud prevention and anti-corruption. The entire Managing Board is informed monthly and proacOur Code of Conduct is regularly reviewed by the Complitively about the overall risk situation. Non-financial risks are ance Department to ensure that it is up-to-date and of high also reported in the NFR Committee (since Q4 2019 at quality, and is published in German and English on BAWAG NFR & ES GC) and will be subject to mandatory assessment Group's website and intranet. as part of the product implementation process in the future. Know your customer – KYC Quarterly risk and compliance reports are submitted to the respective committees of the Supervisory Board. The risk BAWAG Group takes measures to prevent money laundering policy guidelines are continually reviewed in light of adjustand other illegal activities (including the financing of terrorments to the business strategy, changed regulatory requireism, tax fraud and other illegal tax and fraud activities). We ments and evolving market conditions. support international and national authorities in the fight against such crimes. BAWAG Group has clear guidelines for Violations of legal regulations and internal rules of conduct its employees (AML/TF & S anctions manual and the antican lead to reputational risks and serious consequences fraud policy) and training courses in the form of a self-study such as fines, penalties and disadvantages for BAWAG program with a knowledge check. This training must be Group. Individual employees who are involved in such violacompleted by every employee regardless of position and detions may face fines or imprisonment and disciplinary action partment at the beginning of the employment relationship under labor law, up to and including dismissal. Any attempt and is repeated regularly. to commit a financial crime is considered a serious violation of BAWAG Group's business principles and integrity will be investigated accordingly. Securities compliance Group-wide guidelines govern the requirements for perCode of Conduct sonal securities transactions by employees as well as the handling of compliance-relevant information and the avoidThe Code of Conduct of BAWAG Group is designed to give ance of conflicts of interest. BAWAG Group's Compliance all employees as well as third parties and customers o f Office attaches great importance to employee training. All BAWAG Group an understanding of banking ethics and conemployees therefore were required to complete the Comtains an important set of rules that represents the values pliance and Conduct self-study program in 2019. Complithat we in BAWAG Group consider to be absolutely worthy of ance with the directive is checked in so-called compliance protection: respect, trust, responsibility and our good repuaudits in accordance with an annual plan, for example. tation. This also includes audits in selected subsidiaries of BAWAG Group. It is important that all employees internalize these rules and values, which is why the BAWAG Group employees must complete compliance training. Therefore, a mandatory Compliance & Conduct training course was held at BAWAG P.S .K. and easybank in 2019. The training is revised and 20 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Ant i-corruption identification and access management. To achieve the required security level, the defined measures are implemented BAWAG Group does not tolerate financial crime. This inby certified security experts – both in the CISO office and in cludes any abuse of power, position or resources to gain a the IT S ecurity Operations Team. A particular security focus personal advantage or advantage for third parties and to inwas placed on the development, implementation, operation, fluence the recipient's behavior in a certain way. We thereuse and maintenance of new ICT solutions in order to achieve fore expressly prohibit a ny form of bribery or corruption. compliance with new regulations such as the Payment S ervices Directive 2 (PSD2) and the EU General Data Protection BAWAG Group's anti-corruption guideline governs the acRegulation. ceptance and giving of gifts and complies with the applicable legal provisions. Any attempt at bribery or other unlawful In addition to special organizational security units, BAWAG advantage must be rejected and immediately reported to the Group has established interdisciplinary committees and workCompliance Office and the relevant department informed. ing groups to ensure the comprehensive and consistent imWe take decisive action against attempts at corruption in all plementation of security measures, such as the Committee for our business areas. Compliance with the directive is moniFraud and Information Security a nd the Cyber Crime Working tored in the context of the aforementioned compliance auGroup. dits according to an annual plan, among other ways. The compliance with the guideline is monitored, for example, as BAWAG Group regularly conducts penetration tests (security part of the Compliance Audits and in 2019 as part of the tests) with the help of specific expert companies, especially Compliance and Conduct training sessions of BAWAG P.S .K. for Internet-based systems (such as our digital banking soluand easybank employees (see “Code of Conduct” parations). Penetration tests are prescribed in BAWAG Group not graph), which occur at regular intervals. This program inonly by financial market regulations, but also by the internal cluded all aspects of the Group-wide anti-corruption Penetration Testing S tandard policy. The results of the peneguideline, which was updated in 2019, such as relevant letration tests are used to further improve the security of the gal definitions and provisions on what constitutes acceptatested systems. For internal systems, BAWAG P.S.K. not only ble behavior, particularly in connection with the acceptance conducts specific penetration tests but also monthly scans to or awarding of grants and the legally compliant treatment of detect weaknesses in the internal IT landscape. Identified public officials. In addition, all employees of S üdwestbank weaknesses are rectified in good time according to their critiare required to participate regularly in web-based training cality. In addition, organizational measures are implemented courses on fraud prevention and anti-corruption. such as regular security awareness training for employees and security information blogs for employees and customers No cases of corruption were reported in 2019 at BAWAG (on our public BAWAG P.S.K. security portal). Group. In order to validate our comprehensive cybersecurity apBAWAG P.S .K. has been a member of the Austrian Chapter proach, we commissioned an audit by a renowned cyberseof Transparency International since 2012. An industry event curity rating service, which confirmed the comparably good on legal and ethical compliance was held in 2019. BAWAG cybersecurity position of BAWAG Group (including our interP.S .K. is a member of one of the relevant working groups. national units). BAWAG Group has always been committed to high data protection standards, which was also reflected in the timely implementation of the General Data Protection Dat a protection and information security Regulation and the Austrian Data Protection Act. The Group Data Protection Officer advises the relevant stakeholders The Chief Information Security Officer of BAWAG Group within BAWAG Group. The Data Protection Department is instrives to protect the valuable information, the ICT systems tegrated into the Non-Financial Risk & Regulatory Compliand the interests of employees, customers and other stakeance department and reports to the CRO, when a particular holders in terms of confidentiality, integrity and availability. occasion arises. In addition, data protection and information security issues are dealt with in the NFR & ESG as required. BAWAG Group has introduced a series of security guidelines that cover both general and specific security issues such as A comprehensive privacy policy applies to all employees. For training purposes, a compulsory self-study program has been 21 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 introduced and is updated on an ongoing basis. All emBAWAG Group focused on the further implementation and ployees must complete this self-study program. In addiestablishment of a Group-wide data protection and infortion, contact persons with in the Group help to raise mation security compliance program in 2019. awareness for the confidential treatment of the personal data of our customers and employees. W hist leblowing BAWAG Group is obligated to comply with the rights of its customers and employees to information about and access An open dialogue between managers and employees is to their data as well as their rights to rectification, erasure, very important for us. Em ployees may at any time provide restriction of processing, data portability and their right to their managers with information about suspicious circumobject. Customers are informed about the collection, use, stances. If desired, employees can also submit such retransfer and storage of data (including the transfer of data ports anonymously and confidentially via the to third parties). Third parties to whom data is to be diswhistleblowing system, because well-founded information closed must comply with the company's guidelines and helps us to im prove ourselves as a company and as a conclude agreements on processing and confidentiality. team. Data protection breaches are reported to the Data ProtecThe whistleblowing policy lays down rules for the careful tion Authority in accordance with the General Data Protechandling of reported cases and provides guidelines on how tion Regulation. An online inquiry form for customers and the reporting person can be protected against disaddetailed information on data processing are available on vantages and negative consequences. The whistleblowing the websites of the Group companies. Those affected are process is part of the Compliance and Conduct self-study notified in good time of changes to the guidelines or data program, which was mandatory in 2019. protection violations. Detailed information on the process can be found in the Issues relating to ICT and privacy risks are regularly disGroup-wide whistleblowing policy, which is easily accessicussed in the Non-Financial Risk & ES G Committee, a ble to employees in German and English. All whistleblower Managing Board committee. reports are handled according to a predefined matrix, documented in detail and reported anonymously to management. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code of Corporate Governance comply with the Austrian Code of Corporate Governance. The latest available consolidated corporate governance reThe Code of Corporate Governance pursues the goal of report is available here: sponsible management and control of companies and groups of companies, geared towards sustainable and long https://www.bawaggroup.com/corporate-governance-reterm value creation. BAWAG Group AG has undertaken to ports 22 RES PONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS BAWAG Group has always pursued the approach of meetat BAWAG P.S .K. were expanded during the reporting peing the needs of its customers and providing access to riod and targeted customer surveys were conducted to imbanking services to as many people as possible. The prove processes. needs of the customers have top priority. Their behavior and needs are constantly changing, partly due to the inA lack of a sense of responsibility for the needs and wishes creasing digitalization of everyday life. Accordingly, cusof customers could be disadvantageous for the customers tomer expectations of a bank's products and services are of BAWAG Group in many ways: For example, banking serchanging rapidly. Our customers now carry out 90% of vices may not meet the expectations and information their transactions online or in self-service zones. At the needs of customers. Product quality could decline due to same time, there is a desire to have a personal advisor in a lack of customer orientation, thus impairing the competithe bank for important fina ncial decisions. tiveness of the product range. This in turn could lead to damage to the reputation of BAWAG Group, loss of confiImproving our product range and deepening customer redence on the part of customers and, as a consequence, to lationships across all sales channels is a high priority for a loss of business for BAWAG Group. In addition, it is imus. In 2019, BAWAG Group therefore focused on restrucportant to remember that inadequate access to banking turing BAWAG P.S .K. branch network, building a mobile services would have various consequences for our clients . team of advisors, launching retail partnerships and exThe effects range from limited ability to conduct financial panding the digital offerings for retail customers and transactions to fewer opportunities to build up long-term S MEs. In addition, the possibilities for customer feedback wealth. PRODUCT IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS The product implementation policy plays a central role in product launch. The defined stakeholders in the product the development of new markets, products and services implementation process will also have to evaluate these as well as important changes to existing markets, prodeffects using a sustainability scorecard that will be inteucts and services. All risks suc h as credit risk, strategic grated into the product implementation templates. As part risk, compliance risk and operational risk must be taken of the assessment, the approval of individual stakeholders into account during product development. For this reacan be made subject to conditions if potential risks exist. son, different areas are involved at an early stage. In the event of deficiencies in the product implementation process, a four-stage escalation process is provided for, In addition to this, our customers are extensively interwith the NFR & ES G Committee as the final stage. viewed in advance when significant innovations are to be implemented. Pilot phases and comprehensive training In this context, ES G information was added to the product courses are also used to familiarize our employees with implementation policy. This is in line with our principle of innovations in order to ensure that each product launch is offering products and services that have a particular soas smooth as possible. cial, environmental and real economic benefit and minimizing the range of products that pose risks to society or BAWAG Group's product implementation process was exthe environment or that are associated with negative impanded in 2019 to include the mandatory consideration pacts. Both the expansion of the product implementation of social and ecological concerns. In the future, w hen process and the sustainability scorecard are in the final new product ideas are developed and during the subsestages of implementation and will be launched in Februquent mandatory product implementation process, prodary 2020. uct managers will have to state positive as well as potentially negative social and ecological effects of the 23 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CUSTOMER ORIENTATION Our products and individual advisory services are designed Expansion and improvement of t he digital customer experience to support our clients in all financial matters. In doing so, we strive to achieve maximum customer satisfaction in all sales BAWAG P.S .K.'s new digital banking app klar was channels. launched in 2019 with improved and additional functions. The basis for this was provided by 80 customer interviews With 2.5 million customers, respectful dialog is one of the that were conducted in the run-up to the go live . The app basic requirements of day-to-day work in BAWAG Group. We functions are still being continuously expanded. S ince the communicate proactively with our customers on the one launch, 15 updates have already been offered with improvehand, and we offer them the opportunity to make enquiries ments and enhancements. and provide feedback via various channels in line with our omni-channel approach on the other. In addition to the emThe following figures show that the new digital banking app ployees who work in customer service in the branches, cusis well received by customers (as of October 2019): tomer service center and complaints office, the social media are important feedback platforms.  On average, a transfer with klar is made every 10 seconds. Thus, 38% more mobile payments are made than with BAWAG P.S .K.'s previous digital banking app. Implement ation of an independent BAWAG P.S.K. branch network  On average, a customer logs in to the klar app every Following the expiration of the sales cooperation agreement 1.5 seconds. The usage rate is 10% higher than for the with Austrian Post, BAWAG P.S .K. began implementing its previous version. branch network with 88 independent, newly designed branches throughout Austria in 2018. The new concept ofBAWAG P.S .K. also successfully launched its sales cooperafers more space for high-quality financial advice in a modtion with MediaMarktSaturn Austria at its 52 sales outlets ern atmosphere. 27 independent branches with the new and online shops in 2019. The innovative design of the design were opened across Austria in 2019. The bank hancustomer experience enables customers to process their fidles all financial services itself in the branches and focuses nancing more quickly and conveniently than before. All on individualized customer advice. processes have been fully digitalized, saving more than 32 tons of paper in 2019. BAWAG P.S .K. is present in all Austrian provinces. The new branch network allows 77% of the Austrian resident populaBAWAG P.S .K. launched Express Financing , which fotion 1) and 88% of BAWAG P.S .K. customers to reach a cuses on the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises branch within a maximum distance of 25 km, while 83% of in Austria for short-term and quickly available financing, in Austrians and 91% of customers need travel no farther than 2019. The fully digital loan application can be completed at 30 km. We also offer the services of our mobile retail cusany time and from anywhere. The development of the prodtomer experts (page 25) from a driving distance of 25 km uct was preceded by telephone surveys of more than 2,000 and thus achieve a very broad coverage of the demand for business customers. A simple and fully digital loan applicabanking services in Austria. tion process was perceived by the majority of those surveyed as making everyday business life easier. Customer feedback also played a major role in the redesign of the branches. More than 50 interviews were conducted ExpressFinancing is also a core product of our cooperawith customers who had received a consultation in one of tion with METRO Cash & Carry Austria, under which we ofthe redesigned branches in 2019. More than 73% of those fer new and innovative products to small and mediumsurveyed had a (very) good impression of the branch, 79% sized companies – strengthening our commitment to this praised the design and visual appearance. Eight out of ten important pillar of the Austrian economy. Account and respondents rated the new concept as very positive and felt credit card products appropriate to the target group round that they were in good hands. For 78%, the new branch out our range of products. concept conveyed an appreciative and welcome feeling. 24 1) Austrian resident population is defined as the number of persons having their main residence in the country. Data status: 2016, source: Statistics Austria. RES PONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS The acquisitions completed in 2019 (BFL Leasing, Health Access t o banking services in rural areas Coevo AG and Zahnärztekasse AG) strengthened the Group's SME business franchise. The companies have a In restructuring its branch network, BAWAG P.S .K. placed leading role in their market segments (office equipment a large focus on ensuring access to banking services in leasing, dental factoring) supporting S MEs, entrepreneurs, Austria's rural regions. As of 31.12.2019, 88 branches medical facilities and professionals in Germany and S witwith self-service zones (24/7), 1,100 ATMs (outside the zerland. We target business growth in these niche business branches) and 25 mobile retail customer experts were segments, driving value for our customers, offering best-inavailable throughout Austria. Telephone customer services class service to our customers and partners, while rolling and online offers round out the service portfolio. In our new product, distribution and technology platform soluCarinthia, the province with the lowest population density tions. (58.9 inhabitants per square kilometer; Austrian average: 106.1), 111 ATMs, six branches and three mobile retail easybank and BAWAG P.S .K. expanded their range of secustomer experts were available for three regions1) . 70 curities services in 2019 and, as part of their partnership BAWAG P.S .K. sales employees were available to customwith S avity Vermögensverwaltung, are offering customers ers in Carinthia in 2018, the number was increased to 76 access to digital, professional asset management starting in 2019 (+9%). at an investment of €10,000. The key focus in 2019 was building up a fleet of mobile retail banking experts to provide customers in 36 rural reNew cust omer service live chat function gions with access to banking advice and services2) . A further expansion of mobile retail banking experts is S ince May 2019, it has been possible for customers who planned. They offer the usual banking services and act as fill out an online loan application on BAWAG P.S .K.’s weba link between the branch and the region. Thanks to their site to contact customer service via live chat. Questions flexibility in terms of time and location, they are also availaabout the loan application can be answered directly and ble as contact persons for customers in rural areas outside quickly. normal business hours and on S aturdays. The retail banking experts provide banking services at a location of the customer's choice. Inf ormat ion events in t he branches BAWAG P.S .K. also offers the possibility of withdrawing The Digital Hour event series that was successfully cash when paying for purchases at BILLA, BIPA, Merkur launched in the previous year was further developed into and Penny cash registers throughout Austria. the see clearly hour over the course of 2019. The aim was to enable as many customers as possible to participate in the digital revolution. More than 170 see clearly Cash service events were offered free of charge throughout Austria in 2019. At each of these, BAWAG P.S .K. bank advisors in BAWAG P.S .K. customers who find it difficult to get to the the branches informed interested parties about the adnearest branch or ATM can have cash delivered to their vantages of digital banking along with important issues homes on the day of their choice. Any customer residing such as security and the various functions. in Austria can place a domestic cash order from their account. Two information events with around 90 guests were held in cooperation with the Austrian women's magazine WOMAN in 2019 to specifically address the target group of female Barrier-f ree self-service zones bank customers. The goal was to encourage women to exchange information on financial matters and to take their As of 31 December 2019, BAWAG P.S .K. had equipped 88 finances into their own hands in order to build up long locations with self-service zones. All these self-service term wealth. zones are barrier-free for the hearing and visually impaired. The necessary functions were implemented according to the requirements of the Austrian Association of 1) Source: Statista 2020 25 2) A region was defined by a driving distance of 25 km or more to the nearest BAWAG P.S.K. branch. BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 the Blind and Visually Impaired. Visually impaired users the branches, and outside opening hours in 91% of the locan operate the devices according to their needs, includcations. Access to safes is barrier-free during opening ing increasing screen contrast, selecting larger fonts, and hours in 59% of the branches. In 33% of the self-service turning off images and animations. The audio function can zone, it is also possible for wheelchair users to drive unbe used for account balance queries, cash withdrawals der the ATMs, which makes the operation of the machine and PIN management. much easier for this customer group. Barrier-free access to BAWAG P.S .K. branches with selfAll S üdwestbank branches offer wheelchair accessible faservice zones is possible during opening hours in 95% of cilities and 45% offer handicapped-accessible toilets. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION The satisfaction of our customers has the highest priority 76% were satisfied with a short consultation. After visiting a and depends strongly on the quality of our produc ts, sercheckout and transaction area, 82% of those surveyed were vices and processes. The analysis of customer feedback very satisfied to satisfied with the service, while 79% were across all channels makes it possible to identify improvesatisfied in the self-service area. ment measures at an early stage. With the establishment of the Customer Experience department in 2018, an important step was taken in the professionalization of this Improvement of customer processes discipline. Through ongoing monitoring and systematic analysis, customer feedback contributes to the long-term Measures were implemented in cross-divisional and crossimprovement of banking products and services. The redepartmental cooperation throughout 2019 to improve the finement of measures in this area moved forward in 2019. customer experience at BAWAG P.S .K. This includes the Targeted customer surveys allowed us to make specific analysis of the housing loan application process from the process improvements. customer's perspective as well as cross-departmental collaboration for the entry into force of PS D2 (Payment S ervice Directive) and the associated changes for customers’ Expansion of cust omer satisfaction monitoring digital banking transactions. The customer satisfaction monitoring system for our various The feedback from our customers through touchpoint surtouchpoints with customers was expanded further in veys and the analysis of these are presented to the BAWAG 2019. In the case of customer complaints, the decisionGroup Managing Board members responsible for these acmakers (such as divisional managers or branch managers) tivities at regular meetings. In addition, quarterly meetings for whom the complaint is relevant are informed. are held with BAWAG P.S .K. division and department heads to discuss the results of the analysis. In addition, the so-called touchpoint surveys , which have been carried out after a consultation in branches and customer service center calls to customers, were extended to Reliable invest ment advice customer contacts at the transaction counter and self-service zone in 2019. After each contact between a customer In 2018, S üdwestbank received the certificate for compeand a BAWAG P.S .K. consulting or service center, the custent and reliable investment advice from TÜV S aarland. tomer's opinion of the quality and satisfaction of the service The TÜV assessors examined whether the processes are is collected. customer-oriented and tested specific aspects such as the procedures and the technical competence of the consultThe results of the touchpoint surveys for 2019 show the ants. The consulting environment, means of communicahigh level of customer satisfaction: 92% were very satisfied tion, conditions and fees were also included in the to satisfied with a detailed consultation in a branch, and evaluation. The certificate was reconfirmed in 2019. 26 RES PONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER SERVICE Dealing responsibly with our customers is important to us  To counteract long-term credit risk for customers, we offer and is described in the Group-wide Code of Conduct. Comspecial insurance packages in the event of illness or unpliance with the extensive pre-contractual and contractual inemployment when taking out a loan. This service is not formation obligations that apply in dealing with customers for required by law, but is provided by BAWAG P.S .K. for the nearly all products is indispensable in this context. These inbenefit of its customers. formation requirements are laid down in the Consumer Payment Account Act (VZKG) and the Mortgage and Real Estate  BAWAG P.S .K. customers are invited to an annual finanCredit Act (HIKrG), for example. cial check in the branches, where they speak with a personal customer advisor and define their short-term and Through continuous monitoring and analysis of customer long-term financial goals. An individual financial plan is feedback, we know that our customers value good service. In then drawn up on this basis. This goes beyond the proviaddition, it is essential to establish a trusting relationship with sions of the law. a personal and competent consultant. Our customers want products that are tailored to their needs. For us, all this  Depending on the account model, BAWAG P.S .K. proaccomes together in the concept of financial well-being . In tively informs its current account customers of new fee their daily work, consultants and the customer service and schedules by monthly or quarterly e -mailbox message. In complaints management departments strive to find satisfacthis way, the bank wants to ensure that customers are altory solutions for the benefit of our customers. ways kept up to date on conditions. This measure goes beyond the legal requirements, which only specify such BAWAG Group cultivates a responsible approach to customcustomer notifications once per year. ers:  BAWAG P.S .K. is investing more time in the insurance  Only those BAWAG P.S.K. customers who we believe to be training of its advisors to ensure a high quality of advice. in a suitable financial situation to take out the advertised Instead of the 15 hours the training comprises a total of financial services product are proactively approached 17 hours. through marketing campaigns.  As a reliable financial partner, BAWAG P.S.K. wants to  The use of overdraft facilities by BAWAG P.S .K. customers provide its customers with transparent information about is subject to ongoing monitoring. If we notice that a cusall relevant advantages and disadvantages. S ince 2019, tomer is approaching the upper limit of his or her facility customer information that was previously shown in fine and remains there for a longer period of time, we will conprint in the footnotes has been printed in the same size as tact him or her and offer an alternative to an overdraft, if the rest of the text under the heading Fair to know , parnecessary. In this way, customers can not only save on ticularly in the case of advertising material for investment debit interest, but also have the opportunity for clear, products. This is intended to present important customer structured debt reduction. This service goes beyond the information in a more transparent manner. legal requirements because eligible customers are addressed proactively and the criteria BAWAG P.S .K. uses to define the relevant customer group are more comprehensive than specified by law. 27 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY IN CORE BUSINESS It is important to us to promote the development of susinterested in making selective improvements in individual tainable, resource-saving and environmentally friendly areas, but also in finding long -term solutions to ecological, business fields and technologies. Together with our parteconomic and social problems. In terms of social issues, ners, we want to provide our customers with a diverse the New Chance account that was launched in 2009 is range of products and services that are geared to ecologia showcase project that continues to be a great success. cal, economic and social requirements. We value dialogue The easybank subsidiary easy green energy is a good exwith our stakeholders to identify where innovative and ample of a Group company with an environmentally sustainable products are needed. Partnerships are an esfriendly product. sential pillar of our retail strategy. Therefore, our cooperation partners are also committed to simple, transparent As a bank, we are in a unique position to shape sustainaand best-in-class products and services as well as to reble and future -oriented development by granting loans, sponsible action, such as Wüstenrot, BAWAG P.S .K. Versiinvesting customer deposits and giving customers access cherung, MediaMarktSaturn Österreich and Generali to payment services. In the future, we therefore want to Versicherung, focus increasingly on products and services that create social, ecological and real economic benefits for society The 2015 Paris Agreement marked a groundbreaking and the environment and minimize the range of products turning point in international climate policy. To counter that pose risks or that are associated with negative imthe climate crisis, the Paris Agreement provides for interpacts on society or the environment. national financial flows to be brought into line with climate targets – and thus away from CO 2-intensive investments. By focusing on the essential topic of sustainability in core In addition to the physical risks that describe the direct business , we are responding to changing customer reconsequences of climate change, the financial sector quirements, which increasingly emphasize the use of susmust address the associated transformation risks associtainable products and services. At the same time, BAWAG ated with political and regulatory measures. Group wants to live up to its responsibility for sustainability – as opposed to achieving its economic goals at the exIt can therefore be assumed that the global switch to a clipense of ecology and social contributions. mate-friendly energy system will lead to lower demand for fossil fuels. At the same time, climate protection An exclusive focus on economic goals without taking ecomeasures also bring with them great potential for attraclogical and social issues into account would mean, for extive investment opportunities and products. The EU Green ample, that we finance CO2 intensive projects without Deal and the EU action plan for financing sustainable taking environmental criteria into account, that we do not growth will play a decisive role for the financial sector in take issues such as child labor into account when selectthis transformation. With the proposed taxonomy, a uniing our suppliers, or that we do not orient access to bankform classification system for sustainable projects has ing services to customer needs, which could exclude been defined for the first time. visually impaired or mobility-impaired people from active financial life, among other things. We may also make inBAWAG Group also tries to take these developments and vestment decisions that could benefit countries with huchanges into account in its business models and prodman rights violations or industries and companies in ucts. In particular, investments and new financing and incontroversial business fields, or that could have a negavestment products on the sustainable projects defined by tive impact on the climate or the environment. the EU taxonomy are of particular importance in future . As a matter of principle, we in BAWAG Group are not only 28 S US TAINABILITY IN CORE BUS INESS FINANCING PRINCIPLES The employees and business partners of BAWAG Group advantage of specific growth opportunities that are linked are required to use natural resources sparingly. We acto ecological and social developments. Examples include tively support measures to protect nature and the environthe transition to a resource-friendly economy and the need ment. The aim is to keep minimize the negative effects of for greater environmental protection and social inclusion. our business activities to the greatest extent possible. The preservation of an intact environment as the basis of life BAWAG Group is aware of the sensitivity of specific busifor future generations is one of the fundamental principles ness segments and takes into account possible negative of BAWAG Group. These requirements are anchored in the effects in its financing decisions. Group-wide Code of Conduct (page 20). In accordance with the risk-averse strategy of BAWAG During the reporting period, BAWAG Group's strategy was Group, the majority of the loan portfolio is geared to Westupdated and supplemented by an ES G approach. A ern economic areas with stable legal systems. As of 31 Destronger focus on ES G issues is planned for the coming cember 2019, 74% of customer loans are in the DACH years. By taking a broad view of the value chain from an region, 78% of which are in Austria . In terms of total cusES G perspective, BAWAG Group aims to broaden its untomer loans, 58% have been extended in Austria. derstanding of risk and exploit potential business opportunities for the benefit of its shareholders, customers and Retail customers who would like to finance a home are inother stakeholders. In addition to the ES G risk manageformed of adequate public subsidy programs (including in ment approach, BAWAG Group also sees certain ES G-reparticular the use of favorable financing options for low-enlated trends as business opportunities. We want to take ergy houses) and advised accordingly. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Product development: Trend_Lounge on t he subject of sust ainlarge number accelerated the expansion and improvement abilit y of infrastructure in rural areas throughout Austria. The individual loans extended in 2019 ranged between €0.5 milThe first Trend_Lounge on the topic of sustainability was lion and €20 million and went to the following projects: held at the BAWAG Group headquarters in 2019. A total of 21 ideas were submitted in advance by employees for the  Education: BAWAG P.S .K. finances many educational internal innovation event format, 13 of which were preinstitutions in Austria. These include various facilities sented. Each idea served the further development of serranging from educational campuses to schools and vices and products in the sense of sustainability. Each daycare centers contribution was rated at the event by way of online voting. The ideas are currently being implemented or examined  The second major area is water management, where as possibilities for expanding the sustainable product and both water supply and wastewater treatment (filtration service offerings. With over 130 internal participants, this systems, decarbonization) are financed. Trend_Lounge was one of the most successful to date, which illustrates the growing interest in CS R issues within  Health care: hospital financing and public a nd private the Group. care facilities  S ocial infrastructure: sports halls, regional indoor swimLending wit h added value f or t he region ming pool Numerous companies, municipalities and public sector  S ocial housing: contribution to securing affordable entities place their trust in BAWAG P.S .K. when it comes to housing (largest project: refinancing of state loans in financing and implementing projects. Of the infrastructure the amount of €50 million, with which the rent level for projects that the Bank has (co-)financed in recent years, a 29 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 some 1,000 – 1,200 apartments in S alzburg could be Amundi Ethik Fonds is one of the three funds with the sustainably reduced) highest sales in 2019, and the total volume of Amundi Austria in socially responsible investments (SRI funds)  Public transport: working capital financing for the two amounted to approximately €4.4 billion at the end of major railway companies, financing of locomotives for a 2019. The investments in Amundi Ethik Fonds , Am undi private-sector rail operator Öko S ozial Rent , Amundi Öko S ozial S tock and Amundi CPR Climate Action 1) reached the sums of €894 million,  Wood processing €260 million, €258 million and €45 million, respectively, as of 31 December 2019. A total of about €2.6 billion is in Waste separation plants and recycling vested in 20 special mandates, six of which also bear the Austrian Ecolabel for sustainable financial products. BAWAG P.S .K.'s corporate customers also include companies that promote the expansion of alternative energy generation facilities, build important health care facilities, Savit y Green: green, digital asset strategy contribute to the preservation of Austria's flora and fauna, drive the progress of electromobility and provide continuS ince 2019, BAWAG P.S .K. and easybank customers have ing education and training for handicapped and hard-tobeen able to choose a digital and sustainable asset manplace people. agement product. By selecting the Savity Green investment strategy, they invest their money only in sustainable companies and sectors that take ES G principles into acSust ainable investment funds count. With the stocks in its portfolio, the product has significantly lower CO2 emissions than conventional globally As a bank, it is important to assume social and ecological diversified equity portfolios without ESG filters: For S avity responsibility, especially with regard to investments. With Green , the figure for Q4 2019 was around 90 tons of the Amundi Ethik Fonds , Amundi Öko Sozial Rent and CO 2/$ million turnover, while this figure was around 144 Amundi Öko Sozial Stock from our cooperation partner tons of CO 2/$ million turnover for typical globally diversified Amundi Austria, BAWAG P.S .K. offers three investment equity portfolios without an ES G filter. The shares in the funds that focus on ethical, ecological and social aspects. S avity Green portfolio therefore generate 38% less CO 2 The selection of individual securities and international isemissions. suers in the funds is based on strict ethical and ecological exclusion criteria to ensure the sustainable, ecological and As of 31 December 2019, more than half of those BAWAG social orientation of the investments. All three funds bear P.S .K. and easybank customers who have chosen a S avity the EUROS IF transparency logo for sustainability funds product have chosen the green investment strategy. About and have been awarded the Austrian Ecolabel for sustain51% of these BAWAG P.S .K. customers and about 50% of able financial products. these easybank customers have opted for the Savity Green product. Investments by BAWAG P.S .K. customers in the three retail funds Amundi Ethik Fonds , Amundi Öko Sozial Rent and Amundi Öko S ozial S tock increased significantly in easy green energy 2019. The three funds reached a total volume of €118 million (2018: €23 million) in 2019 and thus accounted for The Austrian electricity and gas supplier easy green en4% of the overall fund portfolio (2018: 1%). The volume of ergy is a subsidiary of easybank that was founded in 2015. the three sustainable investment funds in the retail segThe company supplies around 125,000 customers ment already accounted for 12% of total fund sales in throughout Austria with green electricity and gas. The 2019. The notable increase in sustainable investment company's offerings have been certified by the Austrian funds thus underlines the great interest of customers and Ecolabel since the year of its foundation. easy green enthe need for socially, ecologically and ethically sensible inergy is a prime example of a Group company with a susvestment opportunities. tainable and award-winning product range. 30 1) Fund start: 18.11.2019 S US TAINABILITY IN CORE BUS INESS In February 2019, employees of BAWAG Group again had Mort gage loans the opportunity to receive an exclusive employee bonus when they switched their previous energy supplier to easy BAWAG P.S .K.'s Förderlandkarte funding map provides green energy. customers and interested parties with a simple overview of existing subsidy opportunities, including regional options. As a result, persons applying for construction permits are New Chance account increasingly taking aspects such as multi-family buildings, the use of alternative energies, barrier-free designs and The number of New Chance customers continued to rise energy-saving measures into account. The Förderlandslightly in 2019. BAWAG P.S .K.'s New Chance account is karte is a fixed and indispensable component of financing designed for people who would otherwise be excluded advice. In addition, BAWAG P.S .K. will reimburse its cusfrom payment transactions through a bank. Neither the tomer for the costs of an energy certificate up to €250. account number nor the bank sort code indicate that this is a credit-based account. This prevents customers from being directly or indirectly stigmatized in the course of carEnvironment al loans rying out their financial transactions. S ome 3.4% of all current accounts with BAWAG P.S .K. are New Chance start:bausparkasse offers a special environmental loan accounts. without entry in the land register for the thermal refurbishment of buildings. This loan can be granted quickly and In addition, our VZKG account offers everyone low-cost acunbureaucratically for optimal thermal insulation. Energy is cess to a bank account. Especially needy persons receive therefore only used to the extent necessary and energy this flat-rate account including an account card for €40 per costs are reduced at the same time. year. 31 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT BAWAG Group strives to assume social responsibility and standing engagement of the employees of BAWAG Group. commit itself to addressing socio-politically relevant issues. We are proud to be able to count on the commitment of Concentrating on the areas of education, culture and soour employees, which was reflected in the ir increased incial affairs significantly enhances the positive reputation of volvement in the form of Volunteer Days in 2019. We are BAWAG Group. We see ourselves as a respectful partner, convinced that working together on social projects boosts actively shaping partnerships and projects. It is important the sense of community in the company and helps to into us to support projects and commit to initiatives over the crease awareness for social responsibility. long term. For this reason, many of our activities and measures have a long tradition. Neglecting social responsibility as a company and a lack of support for the personal commitment of our employees BAWAG P.S .K.'s commitment to Licht ins Dunkel, the can therefore lead to reputational risks for BAWAG Group blood drives and its support for various social projects as well as a loss of attractiveness as an employer for existthrough www.crowdfunding.at have been fixed points in ing and potential employees. the Bank's social roadmap for years and were also pursued and further developed in 2019. BAWAG P.S .K. supIf BAWAG Group did not fulfil its social responsibility, variported smaller associations and individual initiatives in ous social projects and initiatives that the Group has sup2019, as well. For it is precisely these that make a signifiported for years would have to look for new financing cant contribution to strong local and regional social cohepartners. This could delay the implementation of social sion in Austrian society. BAWAG P.S .K. donated a more projects. S ociety in general would also lack a partner who than €103,000 to initiatives, institutions and projects in the is willing to support social projects in various sectors, build social sector during the reporting period. Among them was prosperity and create social balance. In addition, a lack of Licht ins Dunkel with a contribution of €50,000. support for voluntary work by the Group could reduce awareness of the importance of social commitment. It should be emphasized that many projects and initiatives would not be possible without the personal and longINITIATIVES AND MEASURES www.crowdfunding.at becomes part of t he jö Bonus Club The most successful project to date is hectares of nectar . The project strives to stop the high bee mortality rate by In 2014, BAWAG P.S .K. became the first bank in Austria to bringing companies and beekeepers together. The initial begin providing financial support for social projects of indiequipment and bee colonies for 38 young beekeepers could viduals and private organizations through crowdfunding be financed through www.crowdfunding.at, thus contribwith its platform www.crowdfunding.at. S ince its launch, fiuting to the growth of the bee population. The project also nancing totaling €700,000 has been collected, with received BAWAG P.S .K.'s 2019 Better Answers Award , €200,000 being committed in 2019 alone. S ocial projects which includes a €3,000 cash prize. in the fields of work, housing, education, health, culture and technology are put in the spotlight and supported with financing. Volunt eer Days BAWAG P.S .K. brought the crowdfunding.at project into the BAWAG P.S .K. employees can use up to two working days partnership with the jö Bonus Club in 2019 and continues per year to volunteer for non-profit organizations and proto manage the social projects. jö Bonus Club customers jects without having to take holiday leave. A team of nine can invest the bonus points they collect in local social proemployees helped in the VinziDorf Wien , a facility for the jects. In this way, BAWAG P.S .K. enables an even broader homeless, in 2019. In addition, employees were involved in public to support social projects in Austria and wants to the charitable institution 's Häferl and GhostRun, the prohelp raise awareness for social and personal commitment ceeds of which benefit children with pulmonary hypertenin the country. sion and their families. 32 S OCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT Table: Volunt eer work completed by employees for social proZoohackat hon ject s 2019 2018 BAWAG Group donated €1,500 to the Zoohackathon in Total hours 312 48 2019 and was at the event with mentors. The international event was held in Vienna for the first time and aims to deThe expansion of Volunteer Days to include all BAWAG velop technology solutions to curb the global wildlife trade. Group employees in Austria as part of the sustainability The event was organized by the U.S . Embassy in Vienna in program (Status Quo S ustainability Program, page 14) is cooperation with S chönbrunn Zoo and the Austrian Fedcurrently being implemented and is scheduled to be finaleral Ministry of Digital and Economic Affairs. ized in Q1 2020. Employee projects f or resource conservation Blood drives Health AG's sustainability project group organized internal The blood drive of the Austrian Red Cross at two central initiatives to encourage employees to use resources more locations of BAWAG Group was again a success in 2019. consciously in 2019. Action days were held on the subject Employees donated a total of 76 blood units for sick and of waste separation and food waste, and a clothes exinjured people. change was organized. In addition, Health Coevo AG took part in the Germany-wide Cycle to Work campaign and motivated employees to cycle to work, thus using a CO 2 Giving Tuesday dedicat ed to a mobile school on t he bus neutral means of transport. Giving Tuesday as a worldwide day of action at the BAWAG Group headquarters was dedicated to the A moVienna Children’s Universit y sponsorship bile school in a bus project. Employees were able to shop for Christmas and donate to the project at a pop-up ChristBAWAG Group donated €2,500 to the Vienna Children’s mas store. The aim of the school project is to give children University project in 2019, enabling 50 children from in the Chennai region of India access to education. Over families living in poverty or at risk of poverty to take a day €2,400 was donated. trip to the Vienna Children’s University. In addition to the day tickets, the children received individual university packages , which were packed by BAWAG Group employMeasures t o promot e education and t he arts ees and included personal greetings. The S üdwestbank Prize for outstanding scientific achievements in the field of economics at the University of HohenPart ner f or non-profit organizations heim was awarded again in 2019. The bank also awards scholarships for students and supports scientific work at BAWAG P.S .K. has managed the main bank account of nuthe Walter Eucken Institute in Freiburg. merous charitable organizations in Austria for decades. Around 150 non-profit and non-governmental organizaS ince 1988, S üdwestbank has also supported one exhibitions are among its long-standing customers. tion per year, mainly of artists from the region of BadenWürttemberg, and offers the opportunity to present works BAWAG P.S .K. offers special terms for the payment of doat vernissages and evening events on its premises. In adnations. For years, the preferential fee for cash deposits at dition, S üdwestbank is a long -standing cooperation partner BAWAG P.S .K.'s branches for numerous donation purof the S tuttgart artist and gallery world. The bank supports poses has been €0.55 per transaction. important art institutions in Baden-Württemberg such as the S taatsgalerie S tuttgart or the Kunststiftung BadenWürttemberg. It is also an art partner of the S tadtmuseum S tuttgart. 33 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES A key to the success of BAWAG Group is its dedicated BAWAG Group strives to offer its employees a working enand highly qualified employees. BAWAG Group places vironment that fosters a sense of responsibility. For this great importance on promoting the professional and perreason, risks to employees are analyzed and measures sonal training and advancement of employees through a are taken to minimize them. In order to avoid unequal work environment that is appreciative and promotes their treatment, a balanced distribution between women and careers, as well as through programs that are tailored to men is taken into account in the selection of participants the needs of specific target groups and individual develfor the various programs and training opportunities. opment measures. BAWAG P.S .K. women's mentoring is targeted specifically at the advancement of female employees. BAWAG Group A wide range of training and development opportunities firmly believes that actively ensuring diversity and equal offer employees extensive support for their individual opportunities has a positive impact on business processes skills. Cooperation between the human resources departand thus on the G roup's economic success. ments, especially HR Development, and the direct managers of the employees is particularly important in order Increasing digitalization is leading to changes in working to ensure that tailor-made programs and training courses methods and the working environment. To support emare selected for each person. A variety of key figures is ployees in this, a specific training program is available used to track the success of various training and continuand is supported by targeted communication measures. ing education measures. This includes for example the number of training days per year. It is gratifying that the Various offers for parents are intended to help balance number of training days co mpleted in 2019 increased by work and family more easily and counteract possible caaround 3% compared with the previous year. Female emreer disadvantages. ployees even completed 10% more training days in the period under review than in 2018. Defined processes for performance management such as management by objectives (MbO) and the sales talent Diversity and equal opportunities for all employees are management process are used to minimize the risk of unkey success factors for BAWAG Group. These issues are equal treatment. therefore the responsibility of the Managing Board, are implemented operationally by Human Resources and are Active workplace health promotion has been put into actively ensured by the Bank's managers and employees. place to counter health risks arising from day-to-day work. People from 4 different nations, age groups and faiths Neglecting measures in this area could reduce the atwork together in BAWAG Group. Around 20% of the worktractiveness of BAWAG Group among active and potential force was under 30 years of age and just less than 47% in employees. This would not only make it more difficult to the 30–50 age group in 2019. The group of people over recruit new, qualified employees, but a lack of motivation 50 years of age was nearly 33%. The increase in the could have a negative impact on work processes and number of employees outside Austria (2018: 18%, 2019: procedures. 23%) is partly due to the inorganic growth measures in 2019. 34 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Table: Development of t he number of employees He adcount 2017 2018 2019 Number of employees as of 31.12. 3,520 4,046 4,353 The fluctuation rate in 2019 was 8% (2018 also 8%)1). Table: Ext ent of t he employment relationship 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Full time 2,712 2,470 Women 1,266 1,144 Men 1,446 1,326 Part time 1,641 1,576 Women 1,221 1,147 Men 420 429 Table: Type of employment contract 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Permanent 4,244 3,739 Women 2,416 2,133 Men 1,828 1,606 Fixed-term 109 307 Women 71 158 Men 38 149 A breakdown of employment relationships (permanent and fixed-term) by country is given in the Appendix (page 58). Table: Gender dist ribution in % as o f 31.12. 2017 2018 2019 Women 57% 57% 57% Men 43% 43% 43% Proportion of women in management positions 27% 28% 34% 1) Not including terminations by the employer and employee departures under the social plan and retirements. The calculation is based on fulltime 35 equivalents. BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES BAW AG P.S.K. W omen's Advancement Plan and through workshops and individual coaching). In addition, the exchange with experienced managers is to be The Women's Advancement Plan, which has been in place promoted and the company's own network expanded (for since 2012, serves as a binding framework for promoting example through internal mentoring and networking equality and ensuring equal opportunities for women and events). men in the company. The success of the W omen's Advancement Plan is evaluated by HR every two years. The In the 2019 round, Austrian top managers and female plan is based on four principles and concrete measures managers from various industries and institutions were stemming from them: available to 12 female managers and high-potential employees of BAWAG Group as mentors for one year. During  Awareness-raising (measures include: publication of the the mentoring year, mentees participated in workshops Women's Advancement Plan on BAWAG P.S .K.’s intraand networking events such as the new three-day Businet, information on the promotion of women and equal ness Academy. During these three days, participants had opportunities in BAWAG P.S .K.’s management handthe opportunity to talk to internal experts on the topics of book) finance, risk and retail. Business talks, including with  Equal career opportunities (measures include: striving members of the BAWAG Group Managing Board, were also for a 50:50 ratio in the talent and trainee program, a on the agenda again. balanced ratio [at least 40:60] for team assignments, open application requests for internal appointments to The success of these initiatives is illustrated by the inmanagement positions at the group leader, team leader crease in the proportion to 34% of female managers (genand branch manager level). der distribution table, page 35). One participant (out of a  Financial equality (one measure is the implementation total of 15) of the 2018/2019 program became a manager of the monitoring of balanced salary measures by HR) for the first time, and another participant was promoted  Promotion of a better work-life balance for parents from the position of group leader to department head. (measures include: organization of the welcome back event, targeted information for parents before, during and after parental leave) Award of t he seventh BAWAG P.S.K. W omen's Prize This year's BAWAG P.S .K. Women's Prize focused on eduBAW AG P.S.K. W omen's Init iat ive cation as the best investment in the future and was awarded by BAWAG P.S .K. Women's Initiative for the sevBAWAG P.S .K. Women's Initiative is a network of experts enth time in October 2019. The award recognizes innovaand female managers from all areas of the Bank and is tive projects in various fields that are headed by supported by the Managing Board. The initiative aims to courageous and committed women. promote gender equality in the Bank. This involves achieving career goals in the form of management or expert posiKaroline Iber, managing director of the Children's Office at tions and financial equality, as well as maintaining a the University of Vienna and founder of the Vienna Chilhealthy balance between family and career. dren's University, received the BAWAG P.S .K. Women's Prize, which includes a grant of €5,000, for her work in the education sector. The Children's University Vienna ofBAW AG P.S.K. W omen's Ment oring Program fers innovative childcare and designs and implements projects in the fields of science communication and science BAWAG P.S .K. Women's Mentoring Program was first imeducation. plemented in 2013 and successfully launched a new round in October 2019. The program is designed to help participants develop their personalities and identify individual potential (for example by creating personality profiles 36 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Tables: W orkforce/executive officers by age group and gender Age group 31.12.2019 <30 30–50 >50 Number Managing Board 6 6 Division management / senior management 31 11 42 Regional division or sales management / sales management / 66 34 100 Men department management Branch management / group management / 12 114 43 169 team management No managerial function 309 610 630 1,549 Total (men) 321 827 718 1,866 Managing Board Division management / senior management 6 1 7 Regional division or sales management / sales management / 2 46 7 55 Women department management Branch management / group management / 6 69 22 97 team management No managerial function 560 1,087 681 2,328 Total (women) 568 1,208 711 2,487 Total 889 2,035 1,429 4,353 Age group 31.12.2018 <30 30–50 >50 Number Managing Board 6 6 Division management / 25 10 35 management Regional division or sales management / sales management / 73 25 98 Men department management Branch management / group management / 12 120 43 175 team management No managerial function 238 577 626 1,441 Total (men) 250 801 704 1,755 Managing Board Division management / 4 4 management Regional division or sales management / sales management / 2 33 3 38 Women department management Branch management / group management / 6 60 14 80 team management No managerial function 480 1,026 663 2,169 37 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Age group 31.12.2018 <30 30–50 >50 Number Total (women) 488 1,123 680 2,291 Total 738 1,924 1,384 4,046 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 S upervisory Board 1) 6 9 thereof men 4 6 thereof women 2 3 1) Supervisory Board age groups 2019: 1 member female 30–50 years old ( 17%) , 5 members male/female > 50 years old ( 83%) ; proportion of women on the Supervisory Board in 2019: 33%; Tables: W orkforce by nationality 31.12.2019 Austria Germany Other Managing Board 1 1 4 Division management / senior management 28 13 8 Regional division or sales management / sales management / 105 37 13 department management Branch management / group management / team management 216 41 9 No managerial function 2,988 606 283 Total 3,338 698 317 31.12.2018 Austria Germany Other Managing Board 1 1 4 Division management / management 25 5 9 Regional division or sales management / sales management / 108 20 8 department management Branch management / group management / team management 207 42 6 No managerial function 2,980 426 204 Total 3,321 494 231 Further key figures on departures and new hires in 2019 can be found in the Appendix starting on page 56. JOB AND FAMILY As a responsible employer, it is important to BAWAG part-time models. This opportunity is also offered to exGroup that the different phases of the lives of its employecutives depending on the management position. HR ees can be reconciled with their work in the Group and supports them in agreeing individual part -time models their families. BAWAG Group continually works on offerand clearly defined structures and responsibilities. ing a flexible and family-friendly working environment. BAWAG P.S .K. committed itself to a healthy balance beAt the employee's request, it is possible at BAWAG Group tween work and family life in 2013 as part of a structured in Austria to remain marginally employed during parental auditing process and received three-year certification as leave. This model is intended to make it easier for people a family-friendly company. The certificate was confirmed on parental leave to return to work. After parental leave, in 2016 and is still valid. the Group offers employees flexible working time a nd 38 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Daddy mont h and special leave days fresh meals daily. In 2019, 38 children were enrolled at this site. S ince 2014, all fathers at BAWAG P.S .K. have been given two daddy days . These are two special leave days immediately after the birth of their child in addition to the two Inf ormat ion event for parents-to-be special leave days to which the collective agreement entitles them. This gives fathers four days in total for their famAll expectant mothers and fathers of BAWAG Group in Ausily. tria are invited to a biannual information event on the subject of parental leave management and re-entry into the company. A total of 31 employees participated in 2019. Company daycare cent er at central locations BAWAG Group offers parents childcare places for their W elcome back event children in the company daycare center at two central locations in Vienna. Part-time employees, single parents and Human Resources and the BAWAG P.S .K. works council employees with special working time arrangements are have been organizing a welcome back event since 2009. given preferential treatment in the allocation of childcare All employees of BAWAG Group in Austria who return from places. parental leave after the date of the last welcome back event up to and including 31 December of the following The company daycare center at the Georg-Coch-Platz site year are invited to inform themselves about changes and was relocated to THE ICON VIENNA in 2019. The facility new developments in the Group. Fourteen employees took has around 750 m 2 of spacious and bright group rooms part in the information event in 2019. and child-friendly sanitary facilities. The children receive Table: Parent al leave 31.12.2019 Total number of employees who took parental leave during the reporting period 265 Women 239 Men 26 Total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave during the reporting period 86 Women 69 Men 17 Total number of employees who returned after parental leave and were still employed 12 months 89 later Women 75 Men 14 Return rate1) Women 82% Men 81% 1) The return rate were calculated in accordance with the method specified in GRI Indicator 4013. It is planned to report the retention rate in the CSR Report 2020. 39 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 FLEXIBLE WORKING TIME MODELS Most organizational units offer variable working times with  S abbatical: a combination of a savings phase , during defined function times. Teleworking arrangements are enwhich the employee receives only part of the usual couraged taking into account the operational requirements monthly salary, and a leave phase. and involve at least one day of office presence per week. Individual time models can be agreed upon, including the pos Part-time reintegration: reintegration on a part-time basis sibility of a reduced daily working time or a specific number after a long period of sick leave for an agreed period of 1– of hours accumulated during a specific number of days per 6 months, with the possibility of an additional three-month week. extension BAWAG Group offers various models and options for employ Family hospice leave for three months with extension posees who wish to take career breaks or reduce their working sibilities and special conditions for seriously ill children hours due to personal obligations. These include:  Nursing leave for one week per year, a second week for  Education leave for 2–12 months the necessary care of a sick child under 12 years of age  Part-time education leave for 4–24 months  Nursing leave/part-time nursing leave for 1–3 months CHANGES IN EVERYDAY WORK Successf ul headquarters relocation Newsletters are also sent out regularly to internal target groups ranging from Group-wide communications (the In March 2019, BAWAG Group completed the relocation of CEO newsletter) to Managing Board-related information more than 1,200 employees to the new BAWAG Group (for example the risk newsletter) and division-specific headquarters at Vienna Central S tation. S pread over newsletters (for example the COO newsletter). 28,000 m² and 17 floors, BAWAG Group has created a new open office concept with fixed workplaces for each employee. The good accessibility by public transport, the Ideas exchange infrastructure with numerous shops with extended opening hours, food courts and a fitness studio contribute to the atBAWAG Group employees have the opportunity to comtractive and convenient w orking environment. municate internal feedback and innovative ideas quickly and easily. For example, employees can contribute to the A total of 45 nationalities work together every day in the further development of the Group by a digital submission modern office tower of BAWAG Group. A specially created form on the intranet. intranet section called ICON Corner provides employees with current information on relevant topics. S o far, some 230 ideas have been submitted on the following topics: Employee communication  Health and social affairs  Working environment and safety The employees of BAWAG Group receive news from the  Products and services Group through vario us channels. In addition to BAWAG  Customer experience and satisfaction P.S .K. intranet, which can be accessed by all subsidiaries  Efficiency and cost reduction in Austria and BFL Leasing, this also includes the BAWAG  Image and competitiveness P.S .K. sales platforms for retail and corporate employees and the easycorner for easybank and PayLife employees. 40 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION, TALENT PROMOTION, SUCCESSION AND CAREER PLANNING In order to deploy employees according to their qualifications methodically in combination with social learning (learning and strengths and offer them structured development opporwith and from each other). tunities, the focus in 2019 was again on target group-oriented training and continuing education. Particular attention In coordination between the relevant divisional management was paid to training to meet regulatory requirements – with and HR, high potentials are supported in their professional specially developed self-study programs and corresponding development including participation in national and internaquick checks . tional conferences and training courses, external education to deepen their professional expertise (for example for interBAWAG Group help its employees master the challenges of nationally recognized certification), and in part for master's their daily work through targeted training that enables them and MBA programs. to grow on a professional and personal level. This includes not only the expansion of specialist knowledge but also topIn S üdwestbank, employees are able to take advantage of inics such as time and stress management. Various project ternal and external seminars on various topics such as permanagement, IT, English, German and first aid courses are sonality training, technical training and specialist and sales also offered. training. After the courses, satisfaction with the respective training measure is evaluated. S üdwestbank attaches great BAWAG P.S .K. also makes use of HR ONE . This training importance to needs-oriented personnel development. The and performance management platform supports the sales personnel development department plans measures for the talent management process and is continuously expanded continuous and systematic building of employee skills in with self-study programs and tutorials. Blended learning as a close cooperation with management and the department combination of online and face-to-face training is used here heads. Tables: Training days by gender Total Average days 31.12.20191) days Women 8,850 4.4 Men 10,242 6.5 Total 19,092 5.4 1) The figures include the number of training days of active employees of BAWAG P.S.K., easybank, start:bausparkassen Austria, Südwestbank, start:bausparkasse Deutschland, BFL Leasing and Health Coevo AG. The figures for Zahnärztekasse were not surveyed in the reporting period. The presentation of the missing data is planned for the CSR Report 2020. Total Average days 31.12.2018 days Women 7,742 3.8 Men 10,491 5.8 Total 18,233 4.8 41 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Tables: Training days by position Total Average days 31.12.20191) days Management Women 830 6.8 Men 1,707 5.4 Sales representatives Women 5,301 8.4 Men 6,403 14.2 Employees in central departments Women 2,719 2.2 Men 2,132 2.6 1) The figures include the number of training days of active employees of BAWAG P.S.K., easybank, start:bausparkassen Austria, Südwestbank, start:bausparkasse Deutschland, BFL Leasing and Health Coevo AG. The figures for Zahnärztekasse were not surveyed in the reporting period. The presentation of the missing data is planned for the CSR Report 2020. Total Average days 31.12.2018 days Management Women 915 6.7 Men 2,540 7.6 Sales representatives Women 4,493 6.9 Men 5,731 10.2 Employees in central departments Women 2,334 1.9 Men 2,220 2.4 The key to the success of BAWAG Group is its committed group leaders discuss high potentials at employee level and highly qualified employees, who are constantly refintogether with experts from the HR department. Based on ing their skills. this, potential assessments are carried out in which all department heads and other direct managers in each diviFacilitating the professional and personal training and adsion are discussed by division managers and experts from vancement of employees through an appreciative and caHuman Resources. reer-promoting working environment as well as through target group-oriented programs and individual developFinally, the results are discussed with the members of the ment measures is a high priority in BAWAG Group. Managing Board in the talent reviews, and career opportunities and paths for potential successors for key funcHigh potentials and potential successors for key functions tions are formulated in the context of strategic succession are identified in a defined, annual potential assessment planning. process. The management role is a permanent development proHigh potentials are promoted in a structured manner cess. Accordingly, the training of managers comprises a within the framework of constructive HR programs and diverse range of topic-specific courses. The focus here is discussed at all functional levels: We start with so -called on a high level of practical relevance, targeted developpersonal development meetings. For each unit, division ment of management and leadership skills, sharpening of managers and department heads as well as team and self-reflection, and employee support and development. 42 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Employee f eedback process various subject areas, but also became familiar with the Bank's procedures and processes, thus laying the foundaBAWAG Group remuneration policy is designed to strike a tion for a possible successful career in the Group later on. balance between remuneration for services rendered, competence and the degree of responsibility. The manThe Start & Move trainee program agement by objectives (MbO) process remains an important management tool for supporting the business The S tart & Move trainee program is offered to attract strategy. With the start of the annual performance review young, academically trained talent to the Group. During process, company objectives that are important for the dethe one-year program, the trainees gain comprehensive invelopment of the Bank and each individual employee are sight into the company and can build up their first internal defined. The assessment of each employee's performance network. There were eight female and eight male particireflects the professional and social competence of the inpants in the 2019 program. dividual as well as the achievement of personal and defined Group goals. The MbO meetings are conducted from the top down, which ensures that all set goals are consistThe forTalents junior management program ently discussed at all functional levels. Two MbO meetings are the cornerstones of the process, but the flat hierarchy The one-year forTalents talent program was launched in allows for ongoing coordination meetings between employ2012 to build up the next generation of managers and exees and their immediate supervisors. perts. The focus is on the enhancement of social, technical and methodological competencies. The participants The MbO process currently applies to all subsidiaries of are supported in their professional and personal developBAWAG Group in Austria and is to be expanded to include ment and the network within the Bank is expanded further. employees of S üdwestbank in 2020. In addition, an expansion to further subsidiaries in Germany is being evaluThirteen of the 23 participants in the current course are ated. female. Of the 139 participants so far, 67 were women, 36 of whom had management responsibilities. Training and cont inuing education programs for employees in The forTalents Alumni Day was also held for the first time t he cent ral departments in 2019. A total of 44 participants attended the one-day workshop for all former and current participants in the proH oliday work placements gram. A total of 149 secondary school and university students made optimal use of their time in the summer months of The LEAD management program 2019 and gained their first professional experience in BAWAG Group. For up to three months, they supported The LEAD program is designed to help new managers in colleagues in the branches and in the central departments the central divisions to develop their skills after gaining iniand got to know day-to-day work and processes in a bank. tial experience in the ir new function and lasts a total of six months. In addition to tools to support them in their new tasks, measures for self-reflection are taught. A focus is The Come & Learn internship program also placed on dealing with possible leadership challenges. Participation includes a potential analysis of one's To give students interesting and varied insights into workown communication behavior, individual coaching with exing life, BAWAG P.S .K. offered 37 students the opportunity ternal coaches, mentoring units and exchange w ith sparto get to know the company for up to six months and to ring partners in the Bank. There were ten male and nine actively participate in projects and tasks. In this way, the female participants in the LEAD program in 2019. interns not only gained valuable practical experience in 43 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Special t raining programs f or employees in t he central departRisk Center of Excellence ment s Within the risk area, the new Risk Center of Excellence Finance Days program supports high potentials and junior staff in their development under the guidance of mentors and prepares The Finance Day was held twice in 2019 with 38 internal them for broader future tasks in BAWAG Group. The proparticipants from various departments of BAWAG P.S .K. In gram includes job rotations, an internal knowledge acadaddition to presentations on strategy, M&A, accounting emy, regular meetings with senior management and the and controlling, a Q&A session with the CFO of BAWAG supervision of a risk project. Group gave the participants a good overview of the interfaces within the company. S elected employees of S üdwestbank are also invited to the Finance Day . Training and cont inuing education programs f or BAWAG P.S.K. sales st af f Risk Day The goal of the training and continuing education program for sales staff at BAWAG P.S .K. is to define the training The Risk Day was organized for the first time in 2019 needs in retail sales, find potential employees for specific and had 26 internal participants from various departments functions, filter out individual measures and thus to enable that deal materially with risk. The focus was on risk govtargeted training and succession planning. ernance, cooperation sales and risk, key risk ratios, IT systems and risk applications and information security. The event, which will take place regularly in the future, served Sales Talent Management to give participants a good overview of BAWAG P.S .K.'s strategy, the associated risk strategy and the interfaces The S ales Talent Management process is a structured within the company. S elected employees of S üdwestbank competence assessment method for all employees and are also invited to the Risk Day . managers in BAWAG P.S .K.'s retail sales department. The implementation takes place via the online tool HR ONE. Once a calendar year, an assessment of the sales criteria Launch of the Digital Academy is carried out for sales employees along a predefined requirement profile along with potential assessments with reBAWAG Group launched the Digital Academy in cooperagard to further training opportunities for an expert or tion with University of Applied S ciences Technikum Wien management position. Each employee and his or her manin 2019. Employees have the opportunity to acquire certifiager independently assess the abilities and potential of the cates in the fields of business analysis, development, user employee and document this in HR ONE. The assessexperience and quality management. S ince its inception, ments are discussed in a subsequent meeting. Based on more than 50 BAWAG P.S .K. employees have completed this, development measures are worked out individually for the first of three levels in this training program. each employee. The aim of this process is to promote the discussion of Continuing education measures for the Customer Service sales and personal skills between managers and employCenter ees, to agree on concrete development measures and to create the basis for structured succession planning in All employees of the Inbound and Outbound Customer branch sales. S ervice Center completed various training measures during the reporting period to provide them with appropriate support in their professional activities. The training proSales Academy gram was designed to cover a wide ra nge of topics from the basics of communication on the phone to challenging The measures agreed between sales staff and managers conversations and live , on-the-job coaching. during the S ales Talent Management process can also include the completion of training courses at the 44 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES BAWAG P.S .K. S ales Academy . The training program for at the S tuttgart Cooperative State University with the aim of sales staff is based on three main pillars: obtaining a bachelor of arts degree in business administration and banking. The dual study program lasts six semes S pecialist knowledge: well-founded specialist training, ters and is divided into a theoretical phase at the Stuttgart for example in the topics of securities, insurance and Cooperative State University and a practical phase in housing loans branches and departments of S üdwestbank. S tudents can thus put theoretical curriculum content directly into prac S ales: continuing education in the area of sales training tice.  Leadership: training of managers and prospective managers, targeted training offers specific to the manageThe Leader's Basics junior management program ment role and management experience (for example: Leader's Basics or Leader's Premium) The Leader's Basics program facilitates the development of future managers in sales and allows for the rapid and targeted internal filling of management positions. During the Apprenticeship training course, the candidates develop leadership skills and learn to use sales management instruments and recognize interBAWAG P.S .K. has been training apprentices for many relationships. The main focus is on imparting practical years and has received numerous awards for this work skills with the help of the direct supervisors. The course is throughout the past. This includes the Staatspreis Beste concluded with an examination by a commission. There Lehrbetriebe – Fit for Future certificate. Giving young peowere nine male and four female participants in 2019, and ple goals and prospects for the future was a task that was all successfully completed the course. again taken very seriously in 2019. BAWAG P.S .K. had 37 apprentices during the year. The Bank's apprenticeship A new run with seven female and five male candidates will program provides high-quality training with the goal of bestart in 2020. S ince 2018, a meeting has also been held ing taken on as a qualified customer advisor at the end of once a year to which the participants in the last three the apprenticeship. Through a well-structured training plan, courses are invited. This workshop focuses on a current course work at vocational school and support in the leadership topic. branches, apprentices are optimally prepared for the demands they will face later. Nine apprentices successfully completed their apprenticeship in 2019, five of them with The Leader's Premium management program honors. In addition to this extensive training, the bank supports and promotes the optional apprenticeship program S ales managers at BAWAG P.S .K. are offered a wide range that confers not only vocational qualifications, but also uniof opportunities for personal development, leadership and versity entrance qualifications. In autumn 2019, several specialist topics. This is intended to provide them with the new apprentices started their training in Vienna, Linz, S alznecessary tools to lead their teams to success. S ales manburg and Graz. agers are offered elective modules on the topics of leadership and personality development. With the elective As part of a cross-bank project, all first-year apprentices modules, each manager can independently choose the opalso took part in the 2019 Finance Guru competition in cotimal further training measure in order to be well equipped operation with the Vienna Vocational S chool. A BAWAG for day-to-day management. The latest offerings can be acP.S .K. apprentice won first place in the competition in cessed through the HR ONE training platform. 2018. The closing event in 2019 took place at the BAWAG Group headquarters with about 90 guests. Young people The Bank also offers the Leader's Premium course. This explain complex financial topics with creative videos on the program promotes a collegial learning atmosphere and prowebsite www.finanzguru.at. vides the opportunity to expand one's own network and reflect on one's own leadership behavior. In the four As of 31 December 2019, there were four apprentices at modules, particular emphasis is placed on a balanced mix S üdwestbank, three of whom were male and one female. of different learning methods. Leader's Premium was first Two were trained as bank clerks and the other two studied offered in 2018. The 2019 course was attended by ten 45 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 male and four female branch managers. Especially netThe After Work Management Forum was successfully working at the management level represents a great added continued in 2019 with networking events for all managers value for the participants. in spring and autumn, offering a platform for exchange. The participants were familiarized with new leadership trends. WORKPLACE HEALTH PROMOTION An essential cornerstone of workplace health promotion is Evaluat ion of mental st ress at t he workplace the services offered by the company health offices, which provide the following services: The prevention of work -related mental stress is carried out separately for each subsidiary or division. An online survey  Examinations and assessments by a company doctor by the external occupational psychologist of the occupa Treatment of acute illnesses tional medical service did not take place in 2019 due to  Vaccination campaigns the relocation to the new Group headquarters. In 2020,  Medical first-aid services the survey of employees is to include the new space con Free annual medical check-ups cept in THE ICON VIENNA.  Occupational psychologist  Massage therapist at the company health offices The most recent survey took place in 2018 at easybank, in which possible negative impacts were defined in the areas Measures in 2019 included the third BAWAG P.S .K. Health of social and organizational climate , working environDay , the Fit & Focused at Work workshop series, eye exment and work equipment and work processes and work aminations for employees in central departments, workorganization . Among other things, potential for improveshops on quitting smoking and subsequent Healthy into ment was identified in the areas of continuing education Autumn mental coaching with concrete tips on how to quit and advancement opportunities. smoking. BAWAG P.S .K. has also offered its employees support and advice in the area of occupational psychology since 2010. This offer can also be used in the form of individual consultations. 46 EMPLOYEE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Ot her company social benef its services at its Austrian locations including support for families, lunch, recognition of employment anniversaries and In addition to the benefits provided by the co mpany health the company daycare center. promotion program, BAWAG Group offers numerous other Table: Ot her company social benefits1) in € tho usand 31.12.2019 Travel allowances 424 Pension fund contributions 7,903 Anniversary bonuses 2,812 Allowances (especially for marriage / birth / death, WAFF) 201 Accident insurance 230 S upplementary health insurance allowance 235 Company cafeteria (meals / personnel / vouchers) 1,143 Company doctor and health programs 167 Company daycare center 350 S taff events (especially Christmas vouchers / Christmas dinner / excursions) 373 S ubsidy for the works council (vaccination campaigns, holiday rooms, sports club etc.) 300 Total 14,138 1) The figures shown include benefits for employees of BAWAG P.S.K., easybank, start:bausparkasse in Austria, Südwestbank and Zahnärztekasse AG. No figures were available for Health Coevo AG, start:bausparkasse in Germany and BFL Leasing for the reporting period. The presentation of the missing data is planned for the CSR Report 2020. All social benefits listed apply to fulltime, parttime and temporary employees, with the exception of allowances (only fulltime and parttime employees) and pension fund contributions ( from 1 year of employment) . Rounding of decimal places may cause minor deviations. 47 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION Even though the direct environmental impact caused by have a negative impact on the performance of employees, banks is very limited, BAWAG Group is aware of its indiand the energy required for air conditioning at our sites rect responsibility and carefully considers the potential could increase. In addition, company sites could be dirisks to the environment arising from its financing busirectly threatened by changing environmental conditions ness. Climate risks not only have a direct impact on our such as more frequent extreme weather events. business activities as BAWAG Group, but also pose risks to the business models and profitability of our customers. Altered conditions in the wake of climate change can also pose risks to our clients' business activities, which can BAWAG Group wants to minimize negative environmental impact their profitability. In the case of customers in the impacts from products and services and the daily work of agricultural sector, increased dry periods can lead to crop all employees. Regular monitoring and optimization of enfailures and thus to a loss of business. In the case of ergy consumption and the most sparing use of energy mortgage collateral, climate changes could lead to a shift possible are to contribute to reducing environmental imin the hazard zone map (for example due to flooding or pacts so as not to endanger the basis of life for future mudslides) and thus have a negative impact on the value generations. of collateral. BAWAG Group could also be indirectly affected by climate risks in its business activities, for examOur consistent efforts to improve the Group's ecological ple through the scarcity of necessary materials and footprint and to contribute to environmental and climate through delivery delays. For these and other reasons, we protection were demonstrated in 2019 by the successful consider a proactive approach to these issues to be imswitch to green energy and gas suppliers at all sites in portant and implement resource-saving measures. Austria and two sites in Germany. With the relocation of the Group headquarters to an energy-efficient and modIn order to keep transport distances short and thus reern office building in 2019, BAWAG Group also took a deduce CO 2 emissions, BAWAG Group also relies on coopercisive step towards reducing its CO2 footprint in Austria. ation with local suppliers and service providers in the Energy efficiency measures were also implemented in the DACH region. If BAWAG Group did not promote cooperacentral offices and branches. tion at the local level, this could lead to a reduction in orders and sources of revenue for businesses in the region. If we did not take environmental and climate protection This could then lead to less willingness to invest on the into account, we could endanger the foundations of future part of local companies, which in turn could mean regenerations due to natural resources not being used susduced demand for financing from BAWAG Group. tainably. Rising temperatures and more hot days could Chart : Share of green electricity in total elect ricity consumption in 2019 (in %)1) Non renewable energy Renewable energy 48 1) Total consumption in 2019: 16,413,990 kWh; Renewable energy consumption in 2019: 15,970,421 kWh; This figure includes the consumption of the BAWAG Group headquarters ( including easybank and start:bausparkasse in Austria) , another central location, Südwestbank, Zahnärztekasse AG and Health Coevo AG and 77 per cent of the BAWAG P.S.K. branch locations. ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION Table: Environmental indicators1) Unit 2017 2018 2) 2019 Material consumption Paper consumption kg 162,446 161,847 840,643 Bank statement envelopes piece 6,670,433 7,034,210 11,008,672 Energy consumption Total electricity consumption3) kWh 17,365,563 19,768,857 16,413,990 Heating4) Gas kWh 2,195,801 3,273,929 2,487,469 District heating kWh 7,411,962 8,138,831 6,275,751 Total heating kWh 9,607,763 11,412,760 8,763,220 District cooling5) kWh 968,059 Vehicle fleet / mobility Vehicle fleet gasoline kWh 236,663 167,044 381,316 Vehicle fleet diesel kWh 2,864,420 889,966 1,906,333 Air travel kWh 1,950,556 2,473,922 4,410,288 Total energy consumption kWh 32,024,965 29,303,848 32,843,206 CO2 emissions6) S cope 1 – direct emissions Vehicle fleet t CO 2-e 696 275 731 Heating (gas) t CO 2-e 527 614 674 S ubtotal Scope 1 t CO 2-e 1,223 889 1,405 S cope 2 – indirect emissions from energy procurement 7) Electricity t CO 2-e 5,244 5,674 332 District heating / District cooling t CO 2-e 1,416 1,781 1,320 S ubtotal Scope 2 t CO 2-e 6,660 7,456 1,652 S cope 3 – other indirect emissions Air travel t CO 2-e 1,200 1,718 3,086 S ubtotal Scope 3 t CO 2-e 1,200 1,718 3,086 Total CO2 emissions (Scope 1–3) t CO 2-e 9,083 10,063 6,143 1) The energy consumption data is shown on the basis of current billing information. It is not possible to show figures as of the balance sheet date due to different settlement periods. The figures presented for 2017 and 2018 cannot be directly compared with the figures of 2019, as the companies included are different. 2) The environmental indicators for 2018 relate to BAWAG P.S.K., easybank and start:bausparkasse in A ustria. Electricity consumption, heat consumption and Scope 2 were also supplemented with data from Südwestbank. 2) Electricity consumption: Due to a relocation, the electricity consumption of start:bausparkasse in Germany and BFL Leasing could not be included this year. 23% of the BAWAG P.S.K. branches are also not included in the calculation, because they were opened during the year and no data was available. It is planned to expand the data basis in the CSR Report 2020 and to include the missing data. 3) Heating consumption: Due to a relocation, the heating consumption of start:bausparkasse in Germany and BFL Leasing could no t be included this year. Furthermore, the data of Zahnärztekasse AG and Südwestbank’s branch in Reichenau are not included either. Newly opened BAWAG P.S.K. branches and branches whose consumption is charged in the operating costs are also not included ( coverage rate: 39% of all branches) . It is planned to expand the data basis in the CSR Report 2020 and to include the missing data. 5) District cooling consumption applied exclusively to BAWAG Group headquarters and is reported for this reporting period the first time. 6) Rounding of decimal places may cause minor deviations. The calculation method for the CO2 balance is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and refers each year to the currently published emission factors of the Austrian Federal En vironment Agency, myclimate.de and the electricity labels of different electricity suppliers. When balancing greenhouse gases ( GHG) , not only CO2 but also all other gases with GHG potential including methane and nitrous oxide are considered according to their climate impact. 7) The Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the marketbased method. 49 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES Suppliers tekasse AG in S witzerland has been powering its site completely with green energy since 2014. Health Coevo AG and The S upplier Code of Conduct defines our expectations of start:bausparkasse Deutschland have also been powering suppliers with regard to environmental protection. The their offices with sustainable electricity since January 2020. guidelines must be signed by every supplier of BAWAG The headquarters of S üdwestbank also run entirely on P.S .K. before a business relationship can be started. In this emission-free and renewable electricity from hydropower way, we obligate our suppliers to respect the fundamental plants in the Alps. This accounts for about 81% of the total rights, health and safety of their employees and make referelectricity consumption of S üdwestbank. ence to anti-corruption regulations. In the course of supplier evaluations, commercial, professional/technical, legal and general parameters relating to future cooperation are Digit alization of processes comprehensively examined and evaluated. The harmonization process to ensure a uniform approach in all other S everal BAWAG Group companies digitalized processes in BAWAG Group subsidiaries is currently under way. 2019 and continued to reduce their paper consumption: Procurement Governance is also addressed at all employ BAWAG P.S .K. encouraged its customers to switch to ees of the Group and is a guideline for procurement prodigital current account statements in 2019 with advercesses. In the award of contracts for all external services, it tising campaigns and a bonus, thereby contributing to stipulates that sustainable companies with the same the sparing use of natural resources. More than 9,000 price/performance ratio a re given preference in invitations customers have switched. This number of customers to tender. would consume more than 443,000 pages of A4 paperbased account statements per month. These can thus In general, about 78% of all spending by the m ain banking be saved in the future. subsidiaries of BAWAG Group in Austria (BAWAG P.S .K. and easybank) in 2019 went to local suppliers1) . The pri The implementation of the paperless branch project in mary goods and services procured are in the areas of softthe redesigned BAWAG P.S .K. branches led to savings ware and information services, marketing, rental and of more than 76,000 payment transaction receipts and insurance. over 130,000 A4 pages in product transactions in BAWAG Group worked with local suppliers and service pro2019. Unless customers expressly request it, docuviders in the DACH region throughout 2019 in the procurements are not printed out but transmitted electronically. ment of office equipment and for renovation, repair and Contracts are also signed electronically. maintenance work (including for the fixtures and furnishings of the new BAWAG Group headquarters and another  start:bausparkasse Österreich eliminated paper-based Vienna location and the redesign of the BAWAG P.S .K. building society contracts in 2019 and completely digibranch network). talized the process. This means that approximately 395,400 pages of A4 paper can be saved annually. In addition, all BAWAG Group locations in Austria were successfully converted to easy green energy, a subsidiary of  S ince the relaunch of the easybank website in 2018, easybank, as of 1 January 2019. This includes all BAWAG customers have been able to process product applicaP.S .K. branches and all central locations of BAWAG Group tions completely digitally and no longer need to print in Austria. The electricity is certified with the Ecolabel out documents. This saved over 62,500 A4 pages in UZ46, is produced in Austria and comes entirely from hy2019. dropower and renewable energy sources. As of 1 May 2019, the gas supply contracts were also bundled with the  S üdwestbank completely digitalized the internal docuprovider easy green energy, which means that all locations mentation of its credit transactions in 2019. This means of BAWAG Group in Austria that are heated with gas are that about 120 A4 pages can be saved per file in the fusupplied with certified and climate-neutral natural gas. ture. The commitment to green energy suppliers is also evident Efforts to digitalize processes and the sparing use of matein our subsidiaries in Germany and S witzerland. Zahnärzrials helped BAWAG Group in Austria to reduce its paper 50 1) Suppliers are considered local if their main location is in Austria, Germany or Switzerland. International companies whose branches are located in these countries and which submit invoices to BAWAG Group from these branches are also classified as local in these figures. ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION consumption by about 24,000 kg (14%) in 2019 as comTHE ICON VIENNA building continues to strive for the highpared with 2018. est Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification Platinum and the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method certifiGreen post al and courier services cation Excellent . The application process for the confirmation of the se certifications continued in 2019. Austrian Post delivered all BAWAG P.S .K. mail items in 2019 in a CO 2-neutral manner. S üdwestbank also uses an electric vehicle for courier travel within the city. Energy efficiency measures at the sit es S üdwestbank sent all letters and parcels in a climate-neuAt the central location in Buchengasse Vienna, the refurtral manner with GOGREEN in 2019. With the help of an inbishment measures to increase energy efficiency that were dependent measuring system, the CO2 emissions of all started in 2018 were completed in 2019. The measures inshipments are precisely measured. Greenhouse gases are cluded replacing all ceiling lights in the offices and corrineutralized by supporting various climate protection prodors with the latest generation of LED lights. The jects. emergency lighting was also converted to LED. In addition, the installation of reed contacts in the windows was implemented so that when a window is open, both the air condiNew energy-efficient headquarters tioning and the heating are switched off in the room. The lights in the offices and corridors are also switched on and The new offices in THE ICON VIENNA offer modern comoff automatically by means of occupancy sensors. The refort, improved energy efficiency and a contemporary workplacement of manual radiator regulators with electric reguing environment for our employees. All workplaces at the lators that work in concert with room thermostats results in new BAWAG Group headquarters, at another location in Vifully automatic individual room control. This should not only enna, and the newly designed BAWAG P.S .K. branches in optimize operating costs (electricity, heating, air conditionAustria were created using sustainable production methods ing) over the long term, but also minimize the ecological that meet international environmental, quality and ergofootprint of this building. nomic standards. BAWAG Group also uses energy-efficient and resource-savThe move also represents a milestone for heating coning equipment for its IT infrastructure. The around 2,500 sumption. In the new, energy-efficient building, heating enlaptop and desktop computers, tablets and workstations in ergy consumption in 2019 was around 89% lower than at BAWAG Group in Austria are Energy S tar certified and are the old location in 2018. therefore more energy efficient than standard devices. 51 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX Key issues / areas of act ion of BAWAG Group This section gives a presentation of individual key areas of Empowerment Principles, the guidelines of the Global Reactivity of BAWAG Group, including a risk and impact porting Initiative (GRI standards) and the requirements of analysis as well as the S ustainable Development Goals the NaDiVeG. The information provided is exemplary and (S DGs), the principles and goals of the UN Global Comthere is no claim for completeness. pact, the principles of the UN Global Compact Women’s Tables: Key issues of BAW AG Group Area for action 1: Economic success S ignificant effects ...creating value for stakeholders: shareholders (dividends), employees (remuneration in line with market conditions), suppliers and business partners, customers, public authorities (taxes and duties) ...indirect economic effects: financial sector stability, functioning economy, jobs, prosperity, distribution effects Potential risks for BAWAG Group Economic risk Approach / significance for BAWAG Group ... pursue our simple and transparent business model, which is based on low risk, efficiency and regional focus on Austria, Germany and developed markets. ...contribute to the success of our stakeholders by consistently implementing our strategy and driving forward strategic initiatives. Due diligence processes (ongoing measures) Controlling, Auditing and review S DGs S DG 1, S DG 4, S DG 5, S DG 8 UN Global Compact No reference UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment No reference Principles GRI 201-1, 201-4, 202-2 NaDiVeG reference No reference 52 APPENDIX Area for action 2: Ethics and integrity S ignificant effects ...creating a positive environment for lawful conduct inside and outside the company ...strengthening the trust of stakeholder groups (customers, employees, business partners, investors) ...increasing self-responsibility among employees and business partners ...indirect economic effects: prevention of corruption, fair competition, stability of the financial sector, functioning economy Potential risks for BAWAG Group Reputation risk, corruption risk, liability risk Approach / significance for BAWAG Group ...act according to the ethical values of the Code of Conduct, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the seven principles of the UN Global Women's Empowerment Programme ... orient towards the 17 S DGs of the UN Global Compact as a framework for sustainable action ... ensure the basis for ethical and integrity-oriented action by all employees through appropriate policies and guidelines ...give special priority to anti-corruption and data protection in compliance management Due diligence processes (ongoing measures) Code of Conduct, S upplier Code of Conduct, compliance and data and review protection organization, employee and supervisory body training, whistleblower hotline, data protection a nd corruption incidents S DGs S DG 8, S DG 9, S DG 16 UN Global Compact Principles 1–6, principle 10 UN Global Compact Women’s Principles 1–7 Empowerment Principles GRI 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 206-1, 415-1, 418-1, 419-1 NaDiVeG reference Respect for human rights, fight against corruption and bribery 53 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Area for action 3: Responsibility towards customers S ignificant effects ...improved customer information and competence (for example regarding risks associated with products) ...increased transparency and security for customers ...increased understanding of and competence with financial products (including risks) ...better understanding of the concerns and wishes of the customers (know your customer) ...fostering greater confidence among customers ...larger customer base increases economic success and indirect economic effects (see area for action above) Potential risks for BAWAG Group Loss of trust and customers, loss of market share, economic and financial risk Approach / significance for BAWAG Group ...give customers the opportunity to conduct their banking transactions according to their individual wishes, whenever and wherever they want, via digital and physical distribution channels ...conduct successful and long-term business relationships with satisfied customers across all sales channels and pla tforms Due diligence processes (ongoing measures) Customer feedback, customer surveys, market shares, customer base, and review product implementation process S DGs S DG 8 UN Global Compact Principle 8 UN Global Compact Women’s No reference Empowerment Principles GRI 417-1, 417-2, 417-3 NaDiVeG reference No reference Area for action 4: Sustainability in core business S ignificant effects ...redirection of financial flows (allocation of capital) towards more relevance for sustainability ...increasing sustainability orientation of financial products ...stability of the financial sector ...impetus for sustainable business approaches and activities ...value creation and prosperity without negative effects on the environment or society Potential risks for BAWAG Group Reputational risk, economic risk (new business areas), risks caused by clime change Approach / significance for BAWAG Group ...promote the development of sustainable business areas and provide a diverse range of products and services that are oriented towards ecological, economic and social requirements ... be a reliable partner for companies and the regional economy and assume ecological and social responsibility ...support products and services with a sustainable focus and finance projects with added value for the regional economy Due diligence processes (ongoing measures) S ustainability ratings, product implementation process, expansion of the and review range of sustainable products, sustainable investments S DGs S DG 4, S DG 7–9, S DG 13 UN Global Compact Principle 1, principles 4–5, principles 7–9 UN Global Compact Women’s No reference Empowerment Principles GRI FS 7, FS 8, FS 10, FS 11, 203-1, 204-1, 412-3 NaDiVeG reference Environmental and social concerns, respect for human rights 54 APPENDIX Area for action 5: Social responsibility and personal commitment S ignificant effects ...increased awareness of social issues ...promotion/maintenance of positive social values ...reduced inequality and poverty ...strengthened civil society ...strengthened regional economic cycles and social structures Potential risks for BAWAG Group Reputation risk, loss of confidence Approach / significance for BAWAG Group ...promote the civic and social engagement of employees Due diligence processes (ongoing measures) S ustainability ratings, employee volunteer activities in the context of and review volunteer days S DGs S DG 1, S DG 4–5, S DG 8, S DG 16 UN Global Compact Principle 1 UN Global Compact Women’s No reference Empowerment Principles GRI FS 13, FS 14 NaDiVeG reference S ocial concerns Area for action 6: Employee promotion and development, diversity and equal opportunities S ignificant effects ...employee satisfaction ...motivation and sense of meaning ...physical and mental health ...influence on diversity (especially gender equality) ...opportunities from higher level of education ...job creation ...increased economic success and indirect economic impacts (see area for action above) Potential risks for BAWAG Group High fluctuation rate, increased sick leave, loss of confidence, lack of skilled workers, recruiting, problems conducting business Approach / significance for BAWAG Group ...offer employees a healthy and career-promoting working environment ...cultivate open, respectful interaction with employees and promote their potential ...actively implement equal opportunities and diversity in the company Due diligence processes (ongoing measures) Employee feedback and surveys, evaluation platforms, sustainability and review ratings, talent and training programs, MbO process, women's advancement plan S DGs S DG 1, S DG 4–5, S DG 8 UN Global Compact Principles 3–4, principle 6 UN Global Compact Women’s Principles 1–7 Empowerment Principles GRI 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1, 406-1 NaDiVeG reference S ocial and labor concerns, respect for human rights 55 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Area for action 7: Environmental and climate protection S ignificant effects ...setting an example for employees and other companies ...preservation of the natural basis of human life ...promoting an intact environment and nature ...mitigating climate change, contributing to the Paris objectives ...promoting the recycling economy Potential risks for BAWAG Group Risks due to climate change, financial risks, reputation risks Approach / significance for BAWAG Group ...reduce the negative direct effects on the environment in day-to-day work and the negative indirect effects through products and services as much as possible and thus ensure an environment worth living in for future generations Due diligence processes (ongoing measures) Environmental and resource management, sustainability ratings, supplier and review assessments S DGs S DG 7, S DG 13 UN Global Compact Principles 7–9 UN Global Compact Women’s No reference Empowerment Principles GRI 301-1, 302-1, 302-2, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5 NaDiVeG reference Environmental issues Addit ional tables t o “Employee promotion and development, diversity and equal opportunities” Table: Depart ures (number of employees) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 By country Austria 305 449 Germany 127 251 Other 16 2 By age group <30 170 185 30–50 233 300 >50 45 217 By gender Women 224 360 Men 224 342 56 APPENDIX Table: Depart ures (in %) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 By country Austria 68% 64% Germany 28% 35% Other 4% 1% By age group <30 38% 26% 30–50 52% 43% >50 10% 31% By gender Women 50% 51% Men 50% 49% Table: New hires (number of employees) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 By country Austria 543 581 Germany 77 22 Other 15 10 By age group <30 380 374 30–50 219 198 >50 36 41 By gender Women 312 331 Men 323 282 Table: New hires (in %) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 By country Austria 86% 95% Germany 12% 4% Other 2% 1% By age group <30 60% 61% 30–50 34% 32% >50 6% 7% By gender Women 49% 54% Men 51% 46% 57 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Table: Type of employment contract by country (number of employees) 31.12.2019 Permanent Austria 3,575 Germany 626 Other 34 Fixed-term Austria 97 Germany 21 Other Table: Perf ormance assessment by position and gender (in %) 31.12.2019 Management Women 87% Men 82% Sales representatives Women 95% Men 95% Employees in central departments Women 87% Men 89% 58 GRI-INDEX GRI INDEX This GRI Index was compiled in accordance with the In the course of the materiality process, BAWAG Group guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative 2016 (GRI identified the main areas for action. These were assigned S tandards, application level in accordance with core opto the individual GRI topics. The following table provides tion , sector-specific set of indicators for financial seran overview of the main topics and the corresponding GRI vices). All data refer to the year 2019 or 31 December indicators according to the GRI S tandards. 2019 unless otherwise stated. Areas for action GRI topics (codes) Economic success 201-1, 201-4, 202-2 Ethics and integrity 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 206-1, 415-1, 418-1, 419-1 Responsibility towards customers 417-1, 417-2, 417-3 S ustainability in core business 203-1, 204-1, 412-3, FS 7, FS 8, FS 11 S ocial responsibility and personal commitment FS 13, FS 14 Employee promotion and development, diversity 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1, 406-1 and equal opportunities Environmental and climate protection 301-1, 302-1, 302-2, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 102-1 Name of the organization p. 71 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services p. 9 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 71 102-4 Location of operations https://www.bawaggroup.com 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 9 102-6 Markets serves p. 9 As of 31 December 2019, BAWAG Group had one central 102-7 S cale of the organization location, six other locations and Organizational profile 97 branches in the DACH region. p. 34ff, 56f (no significant 102-8 Information on employees and other workers proportion of non-salaried employees) 102-9 S upply chain p. 50 S ignificant changes to the organization and its supply No significant changes during 102-10 chain the reporting period 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 19ff 102-12 External initiatives p. 19ff 59 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks Transparency International (Austrian Chapter), UN Global Organizational profile 102-13 Membership of associations Compact, UN Global Compact WEP S trategy 102-14 S tatement from senior decision-maker p. 6f Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour p. 19ff https://www.bawaggroup.com/B AWAGGROUP/IR/EN/ESG; Governance 102-18 Governance structure Consolidated Annual Report 2019 (p. 24–35) 102-40 List of stakeholder groups CS R Report 2018, p. 9 92% of BAWAG Group employees are covered by 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements collective bargaining agreements 12 stakeholder groups were defined through an analysis by the CS R team and external consultants (CSR Report 2018, 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 9) in 2018 in the course of the materiality process. This selection was also used for discussions in the reporting S takeholder period. engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement CS R Report 2018, p. 9 In the 2018 materiality analysis, the stakeholder groups of BAWAG Group rated data protection, anticorruption/compliance and economic success as the three 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised most important topics. Accordingly, these were taken into account as significant issues in the discussion process and have been included in the materiality analysis. p. 8; Group Management Report 2019 (Note 48), Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 available at statements https://www.bawaggroup.com/ Financial-Results 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries p. 8, 11ff Reporting practice 102-47 List of material topics p. 13 102-48 Restatements of information p. 8 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 8 102-50 Reporting period p. 8 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 60 GRI INDEX GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 71 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 p. 8, 59 S tandards 102-55 GRI content Index p. 59 102-56 External assurance p. 67f MANAGEMENT APPROACHES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Area f or action 1: Economic success GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 16ff Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 16 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 16ff p. 17; Group Management Report 2019 (p. 40–42), 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed available at Economic performance https://www.bawaggroup.com/Fi nancial-Results 201-4 Financial assistance received from government None 94% of the employees with managerial functions in BAWAG Group (table Staff by nationality p. 38) were Proportion of senior managers hired from the local Market presence 202-2 recruited from the countries in community which BAWAG Group has its main business locations (Austria, Germany and S witzerland). Area f or action 2: Ethics and integrity GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 19ff Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 19 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 19ff Compliance with the anticorruption guidelines is checked in compliance audits for example, which include the Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption topic of anti-corruption. In 2019, 10 audits were conducted at divisions of BAWAG Group in Austria. 61 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks p. 20f; 100% of the supervisory body and 97% of BAWAG P.S .K. and easybank employees in the central departments were informed and trained in 2019. The fraud prevention manual is available in the information portal for all employees of S üdwestbank. In addition, regular training courses are held. For example, the web-based fraud prevention training must be Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2 completed by all employees policies and procedures Anti-corruption every three years (including the Managing Board). The three members of the Managing Board and 182 employees of S üdwestbank completed the wbt fraud prevention training course. The Supplier Code of Conduct includes a nticorruption provisions. This must be signed by all BAWAG P.S .K. suppliers before entering into a business relationship. Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents in the reporting 205-3 period Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, No incidents in the reporting 206-1 behavior and monopoly practices period No contributions during the Public policy 415-1 Political contributions reporting period No complaints classified as justified in the reporting period, but 4 inquiries from supervisory authorities and 20 cases of data S ubstantiated complaints concerning breaches of leaks, data theft and data loss Customer privacy 418-1 customer privacy and losses of customer data at BAWAG P.S .K. and easybank with 4 reports to authorities. Measures to improve processes were derived from this. S ocioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social No incidents in the reporting 419-1 compliance and economic area period 62 GRI INDEX Area f or action 3: Responsibility t owards customers GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23ff Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 23 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach P. 23ff Requirements for product and service information and 417-1 p. 27 labelling 2 court rulings on proceedings by employee and consumer protection organizations against BAWAG P.S .K. and easybank (PayLife); BAWAG P.S .K.’s lack of product information on new account models and easybank’s Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and Marketing and labeling 417-2 existing clauses in the general service information and labeling terms and conditions of PayLife were declared illegal. The rulings were immediately taken into account and solution for the affected customers were implemented together with the organizations. Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing No incidents in the reporting 417-3 communications period; see GRI code 417-2 Area f or action 4: Sustainability in core business GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 28ff Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 28ff The percentage of the total Monetary value of products and services designed to value is shown for specific FS 7 deliver a specific social benefit for each business line products ( New Chance broken down by purpose account) in the report on p. 31. S ector-specific discloThe percentage of the total sures: product portfolio value is shown for specific investment products (Amundi Monetary value of products and services designed to funds, S avity Green) in the FS 8 deliver a specific environmental benefit for each report on p. 30. Financing business line broken down by purpose products with an environmental bonus will be presented in the reporting year 2020. The information is not available in the reporting period. Upon S ector-specific disclothe implementation of the new sures: active ownership Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative product implementation FS 11 approach environmental or social screening process (February 2020), all new products and services will be assessed for environmental and social aspects. Indirect economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported p. 29f impacts 63 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 50 The Code of Conduct sets out the standards for compliance with human rights that are mandatory for all business activities. This also includes the conclusion of contracts. Aside S ignificant investment agreements and contracts that from this, there are currently no Human rights 412-3 include human rights clauses or that underwent human human rights clauses in assessment investment rights screening agreements/contracts. The S upplier Code of Conduct, which is mandatory for suppliers, covers human rights aspects such as equal treatment, child labor, forced labor, etc. Area f or action 5: Social responsibility and personal commitment GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 32ff Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 32 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 32ff Access points in low-populated or economically FS 13 p. 24f Local disadvantaged areas by type communities Initiatives to improve access to financial services for FS 14 p. 25 disadvantaged people Hours completed for volunteer work by employees p. 33 Area f or action 6: Employee promotion and development, diversity and equal opportunities GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 34ff Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 34ff 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 35, 56f Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Employment 401-2 p. 47 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave p. 39 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 41f 64 GRI-INDEX GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 89% of employees in BAWAG Group received a performance Percentage of employees receiving regular performance review in 2019. A presentation Training and education 404-3 and career development reviews of the performance assessment by position and gender is given in the Appendix (p. 58). Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 35, 37f opportunities No incidents in the reporting Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken period Area f or action 7: Environmental and climate protection GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (core) Reference/remarks 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 48ff Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 48 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach P. 48ff 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 49 Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization p. 49 305-1 Direct (S cope 1) GHG emissions p. 49 p. 49; The calculation of indirect GHG emissions Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (S cope 2) GHG emissions according to the locationbased method is planned for the CS R Report 2020. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 49 65 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 13 March 2020 Anas Abuzaakouk David O’Leary Chief Executive Officer Member of the Managing Board Enver S irucic Andrew Wise Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board S tefan Barth S at S hah Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board 66 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT We have performed an independent limited assurance enand perform the engagement to enable us to express a gagement on the consolidated non-financial report” (“NFIconclusion with limited assurance, taking into account mareport”) for the financial year 2019 of teriality. BAW AG Group AG, An independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with limited assurance is sub(“the Company”) stantially less in scope than an independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with reasonable assurance, thus providing reduced assurance. Management ’s Responsibility In spite of conscientious planning and execution of the engagement it cannot be ruled out that material mistakes, unThe Company's management is responsible for the proper lawful acts or irregularities within the non-financial preparation of the NFI-Report in accordance with the rereporting will remain undetected. porting criteria. The Company applies the legal requirements of the Austrian S ustainability and Diversity The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment Improvement Act (§267a UGB) and the sustainability reand included the following procedures in particular: porting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI S tandards, Option “Core”) as reporting criteria and pub Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, which are lishes the NFI-report as “BAWAG Group Corporate S ocial responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain Responsibility Report 2019”. an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting The responsibility of the legal representatives of the comboundaries of the Company; pany includes the selection and application of reasonable methods for non-financial reporting (especially the selec A risk assessment, including a media analysis on tion of material topics) as well as the use of assumptions relevant information concerning the sustainability and estimates for individual non-financial disclosures that performance of the Company in the reporting period; are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, the Evaluation of the design and implementation of the responsibility includes the design, implementation and systems and processes for the collection, processing maintenance of systems, processes and internal controls and control of the disclosures on environmental, socialrelevant for the preparation of the sustainability reporting in and employees matters, respect for human rights and a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material anti-corruption and bribery, including the consolidation misstatements. of the data;  Inquiries of personnel on corporate level responsible for Audit ors‘ Responsibility and Scope of t he Engagement providing and consolidating and for carrying out internal control procedures concerning the disclosures on Our responsibility is to state whether, based on our proceconcepts, risks, due diligence processes, results and dures performed, anything has come to our attention that performance indicators; causes us to believe that the NFI-Report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Aus Inspection of selected internal and external documents trian S ustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§267a in order to determine whether qualitative and UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the quantitative information is supported by sufficient Global Reporting Initiative (GRI S tandards), Option “Core”, evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced in all material respects. manner; Our engagement was conducted in conformity with the In Inquiry of employees as part of site visits at Stuttgart ternational Standard on Assurance Engagements (S üdwestbank AG) to assess local data collection and (IS AE 3000) applicable to such engagements. These standreporting processes and the reliability of the reported ards require us to comply with our professional requiredata; ments including independence requirements, and to plan 67 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019  Analytical evaluation of the data and trend explanations This assurance report is issued based on the assurance of quantitative disclosures regarding the GRI S tandards agreement concluded with the Company. Our responsibility listed in the GRI-Index, submitted by all sites for and liability towards the Company and any third party is consolidation at corporate level; subject to paragraph 7 of the General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions. The respective  Evaluation of the c onsistency of the for the Company latest version of the AAB is accessible at applicable requirements of the Austrian S ustainability http://www.kpmg.at/aab. and Diversity Improvement Act (§267a UGB) and the GRI S tandards, Option “Core” with disclosures and indicators of the NFI-report; Conclusion  Evaluation of the overall presentation of the disclosures Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to by critical reading of the NFI-report.; our attention that causes us to believe that the NFI-Report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requireThe procedures that we performed do not constitute an auments of the Austrian S ustainability and Diversity Improvedit or a review in accordance with Austrian professional ment Act (§267a UGB) and the GRI S tandards, Option guidelines, International Standards on Auditing (IS A) or In“Core” in all material respects. ternational Standards on Review Engagements (IS RE). Our engagement did not focus on revealing and clarifying of illegal acts such as fraud, nor did it focus on assessing the efficiency of management. Furthermore, it is not part of our engagement to review future-related disclosures, figures from previous periods, statements from external inforVienna, 13 March 2020 mation sources and expert opinions and references to additional external reporting sources of the company. KPMG Austria GmbH Disclosures which were audited within the scope of the AnWirtschaftsprüfungsund S teuerberatungsgesellschaft nual Financial Statement were assessed for correct presentation (no substantial testing). Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFI-Report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§267a UGB) and the GRI S tandards, Option “Core” in all material respects. 68 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, BAWAG Group is Empowerment Principles (WEP) in 2015. The present CSR committed to adhering to the ten principles with a focus on Report 2019 is therefore also a report in the sense of the labor rights, human rights, environmental protection and annual Communication on Progress (COP). For each prinanti-corruption, and has been committed to adhering to the ciple, examples have been given of how they were a nd are seven WEP since signing the UN Global Compact Women's being implemented in BAWAG Group. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND EXAMPLES OF IMPLEMENTATION The 10 principles Examples of implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international p. 19ff human rights within their sphere of General/principles/guidelines: Code of Conduct, S upplier Code of Conduct influence (COP 1) Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that p. 19ff they are not complicit in human rights General/principles/guidelines: Code of Co nduct, S upplier Code of Conduct abuses (COP 2) Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the General/principles/guidelines: Freedom of assembly and the authorization of freedom of association and the effective trade unions are enshrined in law in Austria, Germany and S witzerland. recognition of the right to collective There is an ongoing exchange of information between management and the bargaining (COP 3) works council, and new works agreements are concluded regularly. p. 19ff, 50 General/principles/guidelines: S upplier Code of Conduct; the majority of our Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the suppliers come from the DACH region. The topics of freedom of negotiation, elimination of all forms of forced and forced labor, working hours and salaries are part of the S upplier Code of compulsory labor (COP 4) Conduct in item 3 Respect for fundamental rights, health and safety of employees . Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the p. 19ff effective elimination of child labor (COP 5) General/principles/guidelines: S upplier Code of Conduct p. 19ff, 34ff Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the General/principles/guidelines: Code of Conduct, S upplier Code of Conduct, elimination of discrimination in respect of Recruiting policies, Women's Advancement Plan, Women's Mentoring employment and occupation (COP 6) Program Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental p. 28ff, 48ff challenges (COP 7) Principle 8: Businesses should undertake p. 48ff initiatives to promote greater environmental Energy-efficient locations, paperless branches, digitalization of processes, responsibility (COP 8) expansion of online services, promotion of paperless bank statements Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of p. 28ff environmentally friendly technologies (COP Financing of sustainable projects 9) 69 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 p. 19ff General/principles/guidelines: Code of Conduct, S upplier Code of Conduct, Principle 10: Businesses should work anti-corruption and gift acceptance policy, conflict of interest policy. The against corruption in all its forms, including Non-Financial Risk Management & Regulatory Compliance unit ensures extortion and bribery (COP 10) compliance with the regulations. All new hires must successfully complete training in the prevention of money laundering. All employees must complete regular training courses. THE 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES AND EXAMPLES OF IMPLEMENTATION The 7 principles Examples of implementation p. 36ff Principle 1: Establish high-level corporate Women's Advancement Plan, Women's Mentoring Program, flexible working leadership for gender equality. time models, key topic in management programs p. 36ff Principle 2: Treat all women and men fairly Recruiting policy, Code of Conduct, flexible working models, S upplier Code of at work – respect and support human rights Conduct, Women's Advancement Plan, parental leave, daddy month and nondiscrimination. For further indicators, see: 405-1, 406-1 p. 36ff Principle 3: Ensure the health, safety and Career and family audit, information events for parents-to-be, welcome back well-being of all women and men workers. events for parents returning from parental leave, company daycare centers at two locations, company health promotion p. 36ff Principle 4: Promote education, training Women's Advancement Plan, Women's Mentoring Program, specific seminars and professional development for women. for the further development of women Principle 5: Implement enterprise p. 36 development, supply chain and marketing Women's Prize practices that empower women. Principle 6: Promote equality through p. 36ff community initiatives and advocacy. Women's Prize, Women's Initiative p. 69 Principle 7: Measure and publicly report on Report on measures, objectives and goal achievement in the context of the progress to achieve gender equality. annual CSR report and the Communication on Progress (COP) 70 PUBLICATION DETAILS Get in touch with BAWAG Group: BAWAG Group CS R Team E-mail: csr@bawaggroup.com PUBLICATION DETAILS BAWAG Group AG Wiedner Gürtel 11, A-1100 Vienna FN: 269842b EU VAT no.: ATU72252867 Phone: +43 (0)5 99 05-0 Internet: www.bawaggroup.com Investor Relations: investor.relations@bawaggroup.com Media: communications@bawaggroup.com Typesetting: In-house, produced with firesys 71 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE S OCIAL RES PONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 www.bawaggroup.com 70
