Futerra GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – SME VERSION Company Name Futerra Sustainability Date 18th December 2020 Communications Address 3rd Floor Membership date 21 February 2007 39 Tabernacle Street (date of first COP) EC2A 4AA Country England Number of Employees 49 Contact name Karen Brennan Sector Consulting Contact Position Group CFO / COO Contact telephone no. +44 (0)20 7549 4700 Brief description of the nature of our business At Futerra we work with clients to create positive change through their brands, businesses and communications. Futerra isn’t just a logical sustainability consultancy, or a magical creative agency; we are both. We work with organizations who believe they can turn the sustainability imperative into the greatest entrepreneurial opportunity for a generation. Our clients are building brands that are symbols of positive change. They are unleashing progress that has purpose. Together with our clients we make sustainable development so desirable it becomes normal. Futerra has worked with some of the world’s biggest brands, NGOs and governments. We are headquartered in London, with offices in New York, Stockholm and Mexico City. We are a proud founding member of the B Corp movement in the UK. www.wearefuterra.com Statement of Support Futerra wholeheartedly supports the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we have been a proud contributing member for 13 years and remain committed to living out the principles as a business internally as well as with the work we do for clients. Futerra is personally and professionally committed to sustainable development, and as part of that commitment we remain a Founding Member of the B-Corp movement in the UK. This year we have calculated our Carbon Footprint from 2003-2020 as 2028.8 tonnes CO2e, we are committed to off-setting in full. We commit to remain carbon neutral beyond 2020, and work towards being carbon positive. We continue to recognise that our contribution goes beyond our footprint, and will continue to amplify the butterfly effect of our brain print, through the work we do with our clients to set best practice in this space, providing freely available Thought Leadership for our industry as well as the work we continue to do with the UN on campaigns such as the ‘Good Life Goals’ that focuses on providing an every day connection for people and business to connect with and supports the 17 SDG’s. Our business promotes ethical practices, particularly for environmental and social responsibility in business but also more generally in the interest of international justice and human rights. We therefore look forward to improving our action in these areas and further integrating the compact principles into our business. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders. We firmly believe that belonging to the UNGC is helpful to our business and are proud to be part of such an impactful initiative. Lucy Shea Signature Date Chief Executive 18th December 2020 Human Rights Principle 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Futerra has no direct experience of human rights abuses and no specific mechanism to monitor this. Nevertheless, we are committed to respecting the human rights of all our stakeholders. Our Constitution is a clear articulation of both our values and our purpose and is freely available for viewing on our website www.wearefuterra.com/about. We strive to treat people with respect at all times. Avoiding discrimination, promoting tolerance and encouraging freedom of expression. We adhere to the principles of paying a living wage to all our staff and we have successfully renewed again our accreditation as a “Living Wage Employer” with the Living Wage Foundation organised by the Citizens UK (www.livingwage.org.uk). It remains company policy to buy second hand, repurposed, recycled, long life or low energy equipment and to buy Fair Trade or from independent retailers whenever possible. We strive to continually improve our working environment for all our employees and suppliers. We actively encourage employees to be more social and work collaboratively, through both the office design and our corporate culture. During COVID-19 we implemented a company wide work from home protocol, and are committed to working with our team to continue to work more flexibly even after the crisis has passed. We have offered emergency crisis loans, increasing benefits to include Group Income Protection and enhanced life insurance plans – to provide peace of mind. We provided funds for staff to invest in new equipment to set up work from home offices, and will continue to invest in software to enable our employees to choose their own preferred working style, with the aim to reduce work related stress. Futerra permanent employees are automatically registered for annual health insurance cover. This promotes wellbeing by encouraging healthy lifestyles and a healthy work-life balance through various incentives and rewards schemes. During COVID winter working hours we also rolled out a ‘no meeting 2hr lunch period’ to ensure that all employees took time to be outside and exercise. We actively encourage a healthy commute, supporting both the CycleScheme (http://www.cyclescheme.co.uk) and Ride2Work (http://www.bike2workscheme.co.uk) programmes in the UK. All employees in the US and UK also have access to a 24hr Employee Assistance Programme. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. Human Rights Principle 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Further to our company mission to make sustainable development so desirable it becomes normal, it is company policy to only work on projects which we believe to be contributing to that mission. Being complicit, actively or passively, with human rights abuses would undermine our mission and core business values. We remain under scrutiny from our clients and other stakeholders in this regard. We discuss potential areas of controversy internally to ensure that we do not conflict with this policy. We use guiding principles that help employees decide whether projects align with our business ethics and encourage open debate to ensure that we are true to this principle. We continue to refer to the UNGC, including the issue of human rights, in both our procurement and our environment policy, to ensure that we are not complicit in abuses of human rights. Our Employee Handbook, as well as our recruitment and equal opportunities policies continue to ensure that we safeguard the human rights of all who are connected with our work. Further to the policies in place, our employees also benefit from internal processes and feedback mechanisms to ensure the company supports them in their progression. These include individual line management dedicated to professional and personal development with monthly progress meetings, weekly team and management meetings, daily catch-ups and regular coaching. Futerra chooses to take on certain projects, on a pro-bono or reduced fee basis, to further support the eradication of all human rights abuses, forced and compulsory labour. We continue to support Fashion Revolution Week, and our CEO is a Trustee, (fashionrevolution.org), Fashion Revolution is an initiative by a global board of fashion industry leaders, campaigners, press and academics, who together are campaigning against the tragedy at Rana Plaza in Bangladesh on 24th April 2013. We will continue our support of Fashion Revolution to help educate consumers and create better working conditions for garment workers worldwide. Our CFO also sits on the Board of the Ethical Fashion Group, who through their tech platform (commonobjective.co) are providing connections and dedicated resource to finding solutions to global fashion related issues. Other key projects our team have been involved in include a micro-finance NGO in Nigeria (groomingcentre.org ) their aim is to address the near absence of financial services to people engaged in small trading and micro productive activities in Nigeria. Promoting financial inclusion and empowering members with innovative microproducts that changes lives, serving over 670,000 Members Over the next year we’ll continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. Labour Principle 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are fundamental rights, enshrined by law in the countries in which we operate. We are committed to fulfilling and surpassing these requirements. If we were to become aware of any individual or organisation in our sphere of influence to be acting in violation of these principles, we would act immediately to remedy the situation. There are multiple formal and informal wage bargaining mechanisms including employee six month and annual reviews on performance and salary respectively. Our HR team also undertake an annual benchmarking process to ensure that we are fairly remunerating our team in line with market rates. All permanent employees are entitled to join a union at their own discretion. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. Labour Principle 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Eliminating forced and compulsory labour is a vital element of equity in the context of sustainable development. We are committed to fulfilling this principle by promoting awareness of it to all in our sphere of influence. If we were to become aware of any individual or organisation linked to us to be acting in violation of these principles, we would act immediately to remedy the situation. We monitor working hours electronically using a cloud based studio management system as well as monitoring all other absences using an online HR platform, to ensure our employees’ manage their workloads throughout the year and to encourage a healthy work/life balance and promote well-being, we monitor out of hours working and provide Time Off in Lieu, and actively manage these hours with HR and line managers . We follow best practice in the regions that we operate. By way of example, all permanent employees in the UK are on a contract that states their terms and conditions of employment and we have an Employee Handbook that explains their benefits along with all Human Resources policies and procedures. In the US we follow Employment at Will principles, and where appropriate we take the Group view on best practice in terms of Benefits and Staff Wellbeing. All permanent employees are encouraged to access online and offline training in line with their personal development plans and are entitled to take up to five day’s paid leave for volunteering each year to broaden their skills and experience. This is in addition to their contracted annual leave. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. Labour Principle 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Abolishing child labour is a core part of the social element of sustainable development, which we strongly believe in. We are committed to fulfilling this principle by promoting awareness of it to all in our sphere of influence. If we were to become aware of any individual or organisation linked to us to be acting in violation of this principles, we would act immediately to remedy the situation. Principle 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION We seek to avoid discrimination in our recruitment procedures, be it on grounds of religion, race, sex, age, sexual orientation, gender identity or any other form. All external recruiters are made aware of our recruitment policy and interview questions are set so as to comply with it. Decisions are made on the basis of ability and nothing else. This extends to decisions about status within the company, salary, bonuses and promotions. We continue to have a degree of diversity in the workforce which may not be a direct result of our policies but feel that it reflects positively on our commitment to this principle. Our executive board is majority female and our ownership is majority female. We operate an open and transparent culture to discuss issues and have a grievance procedure in place outlined in our Employee Handbook and referenced in our employment contracts. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current policies and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. Environment Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Futerra has two main areas of environmental impact. These include the client projects we create and deliver and our own personal and collective environmental footprint. Our own footprint We operate an ethical purchasing policy which continues to include a strong environmental element. In practice, the leadership of Futerra seeks to promote a corporate culture which respects the environment. Futerra offices are regularly assessed by our operations team to further reduce our environmental footprint. This includes, but is not limited to: Saving paper As a creative company, we use large amounts of paper for brainstorms, meeting notes and printing. We buy recycled and FSC certified paper for office use and encourage the use of chalkboards and mobile magnetic white boards over flipcharts. To further discourage wasteful printing we use printing passcodes for all employees to reinforce the need to be mindful of the resource we use when printing. We continue to monitor employee printing levels, so we can better understand our printing habits and attempt to reduce the amount of paper we use even further. Recycling We actively recycle all waste that can be, and send other items we no longer need to an ethical recycling companies in each of our respective offices. This includes crockery and kitchenware, which is often passed on to homeless charities for instance. Redundant computer equipment is also recycled, with certified specialists who are fully WEEE compliant and certified. Futerra is committed to our recycling policies and will continue to recycle at every opportunity over the next year. Furniture Where possible we do not purchase new furniture. Instead it is sourced from either an office clearing company or is constructed from repurposed materials. Futerra will continue to look for sustainable substitutes for our office furniture needs. We continue to showcase new innovative office furnishing solutions. Waste We send no waste to landfill this includes paper, cardboard, plastic and metals. Waste that is not recyclable gets sent to a local incinerator to produce energy. Where it is feasible, the Futerra offices also composts food waste through an ethical recycling company, this has been achieved by both the London and Stockholm offices and we remain committed to rolling this out to all our offices. Environment Principle 7 cont Energy We strive to increase energy efficiency in the office. In the UK, we have low energy fluorescent lighting fitted throughout the workspace, on movement sensor to reduce unnecessary usage. With two office moves we have moved on to Landlord supplied energy providers, we continue to lobby for the buildings to transition to renewable energy, and will provide an update next year on our progress. We are working towards this standard for all our international offices. Futerra actively engages all our employees on energy efficiency issues in the workspace to further reduce our impact. Travel We actively encourage the use of video conferencing facilities, where possibly using TEAMS or ZOOM to reduce unnecessary journeys. To help minimise the impact of our local travel in the UK we offer employees the chance to participate in one of two government-subsidised schemes ‘Cycle to Work’ and the ‘Ride2Work’. The company covers all the upfront cost of a bicycle and equipment, and the employee repays through monthly salary deductions. IT Equipment We regularly upgrade our IT equipment and use leased technology directly from the manufacturer. The leasing model motivates companies to consider the life of the product once returned. By looking beyond point of purchase, leasing encourages environmental stewardship and the recycling of existing resources. Client work We are committed to promoting respect for the environment in our work for clients, encouraging pro-environmental behaviour through innovative communications. The impact of our client work on the environment is hard to quantify but most of our projects aim to have a direct or indirect positive impact on the environment – from internal communications campaigns to large scale national communication strategies. Printing We’re aware that the production of printed materials for our client projects remains one of our biggest impacts. We encourage our clients to look at alternatives to printed materials by activating projects in a digital space. Where printing is unavoidable we ensure that our suppliers use FSC certified paper and use non-harmful solvents to keep our impact as low as possible . Travel Travel is an inevitable part of our business. When employees do have to fly to reach international destinations, we strive to minimise this where possible by hosting conference calls via Teams or ZOOM and we have implemented a European Slow Travel Policy to encourage train travel. Employees attend local meetings by public transport and use a ‘green’ taxi company that uses a fleet of hybrid and EV vehicles when possible. We continue to encourage a ‘No Travel Friday’ policy to remind employees to be mindful of their travel and reduce journeys where possible. Measuring our wider impact We continue to explore new ways to measure the process, outcome and impact of all our work. Futerra believes in setting ambitious targets on progress, not only for our clients but also for our company. We continue this journey, as we look at ways to measure this impact. Environment Principle 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Futerra is committed to furthering sustainable development by everything we do, environmental responsibility forms a major part of that. Our policy is to seek sustainability and we do so by promoting an understanding of the relationship between public behaviour, the environment and corporate responsibility. As part of this commitment we co-created a report on the Contribution of Motorsport to Health, Safety & the Environment with the FIA, as well as embracing the digital only world of 2020, with a focus on shorter-form digital content this year. Launching the online Imagine Better Series (wearefuterra.com/202/03/the-imagine-better-series) encouraging people to dial in during lockdown with Going Net Zero (wearefuterra.com/202/04/goingnetzerohighlights ), the Honest Generation (wearefuterra.com/2020/04/highlights-fromthe-honest-generation), Sustainable living in a pandemic world (wearefuterra.com/2020/05/the-imagine-better-series-sustainable-living-in-a-pandemic-world), Harnessing the power of creativity for the climate movement (wearefuterra.com/2020/11/the-imagine-better-series-harnessing-the-power-of-creativity-for-the-climate-movement) and most recently, addressing single use plastic during a pandemic www.wearefuterra.com/2020/12/addressing-single-use-plastic-during-a-pandemic) We also launched a training offer, futerratraining.com , gathered Fashion Revolutionaries, (wearefuterra.com/2020/04/futerra-fashion-revolutionaries-2020) and supported the UN open call to creatives for a Covid19 public health messages (wearefuterra.com/2020/05/creative-designed-to-inform-inspire-and-united-the-world-in-a-pandemic). We pushed for a conversation about Intersectional Environmentalism at Climate Week2020 https://twitter.com/futerra/status/1308461679223730176) and we continued what we started with the Client Disclosure Reportencouraging our peers and clients to join us and take a stand to use creative to solve environmental issues, not perpetuate them (creativeandclimate.com/disclosurereports) Our thought leadership is available for download from www.wearefuterra.com/ideas/. All our reports and client projects can be viewed at www.wearefuterra.com. We continue to speak on public platforms and at educational institutions about the importance of sustainable development, lifestyles and greater environmental responsibility. Supported by our thought leadership and client case studies we aim to leave delegates with tips, tools and tactics to implement strategies in both their professional and personal lives. Creating positive messaging to promote sustainable behaviours in an engaging way. We continue to focus on our own environmental footprint, this is a continuous and evolving process. We have calculated our carbon footprint from incorporation March 2003 to December 2020 as 2028.8 tonnes CO2e, and will purchase credits to sequester this carbon. For 2021, we will aim to be carbon positive in the year. Futerra furthers the promotion of pro-environmental behaviour amongst its workforce. Encouraging cycling, using the roof terrace in the London office to grow vegetables, we recycle and run a compost system with our cleaning company (thefirstmile.co.uk). As an office based company we have relatively low emissions and all harmful chemicals are listed in our COSH document. The company owns no vehicles and encourages the use of public transport. We actively promote and encourage employees to eat local, organic food, freshly prepared by independent retailers to reduce the consumption of packaged and high embodied energy foods whilst supporting local commerce. Environment Principle 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Whilst Futerra’s core business is in service provision and not in environmental technology, we do integrate the diffusion of green technical innovations wherever possible. Futerra’s role is to actively assist in embedding these innovations into clients’ mainstream corporate strategy. In our own buildings, we use low energy fluorescent lighting on sensors where possible throughout and with only one printer in each of our very busy offices for all printing, we active discourage excessive printing. The defaults are set for Black & White, double sided, and eco-quality printing to reduce resource waste. We continue to innovate working out ways to collaborate paper free, whether that be sharing documents in TEAMs or moving to online approvals and processing for annual leave or expenses. We have an online real time project cost account solution, which reduces the need to print reports as they can be reviewed electronically on dashboards in real time. We have also moved to electronic filing in finance, reducing the need to print and store receipts and invoices We continue to actively investigate new cloud and sharing technologies, whether they are provided from secure shared facilities and / or internally from our own internal current infrastructure. The aim is to reduce the need to invest in any additional redundant hardware that could be better maintained and provided in a more energy efficient way from a shared resource, while still providing the strong support services for our team to ensure they can continue to deliver a high quality and efficient service to all our stakeholders. Anti Corruption Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Futerra is committed to the fight against corruption . We believe it is core to building a fair business environment, whereby everyone can have access to free markets. We are committed to fulfilling this principle by promoting awareness of it to all in our sphere of influence. If we were to become aware of any individual or organisation linked to us to be acting in violation of this principle, we would act immediately to remedy the situation In January 2013, a third party supplier successfully completed an internal Bribery Risk Assessment Audit for Futerra. The findings revealed Futerra is a low-risk business from a corruption perspective. The nature of our business activities and of the individuals it employs, mitigates us against being involved in incidents, that could potentially expose the business to liability under either the US or UK statutes. Our Mission Making sustainability so desirable it becomes normal LONDON STOCKHOLM NEW YORK MEXICO CITY Contact 3rd Floor Skeppsbron 28 vån 2 30 East 23rd Str 8th Floor Arbol 45, San Angel hello@wearefuterra.com 39 Tabernacle Str 1130 Stockholm New York Ciudad de México www.wearefuterra.com London 11130 NY 10010 México 01000 EC2A 4AA Sweden Copyright © 2020 Futerra Sustainability Communications. All rights reserved.
