UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report “I felt like Sleeping Beauty but there was no prince to rescue me. I would walk around crying on the inside because I could not be there for my husband and children.” UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report Melanie Baybut Melanie is 51 and resides in South Africa’s Western Cape where she lives with her husband and two children. South Africa Previously, Melanie was physically so tired that she would get up for work just so that she could come back home and sleep again. The condition greatly affected her personal life leaving her in a near constant state of feeling sad and out of control of her body. About a week after receiving a diagnosis of Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, her house doctor recommended antidepressants and Melanie is now back to a full, active life. 2 Contents 4 11 16 Executive statement Good business partner Responsible business conduct 5 12 18 Our business model and Health and safety at work Key performance sustainability strategy indicators 8 14 20 Access to brain health Materials use and waste Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report 10 15 Diversity and inclusion Climate action REPORT SCOPE AND Lundbeck’s strategy and the UN Global Compact principles set out the framework for our business The scope of the report comprises our corporate headquarters in Denmark and global affiliates. METHODOLOGY conduct. We have assessed that Lundbeck The Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) data directly supports six of the UN Sustainable only covers our headquarters and larger Development Goals and several of the underlyaffiliates with research, development and ing targets. This report represents Lundbeck’s manufacturing activities. A detailed 11th annual Communication on Progress to the HSE reporting practice is available at UN Global Compact and our non-financial https://lundbeck.com/global/sustainability/ report on sustainability according to the Danish environment/reporting. Financial Statements Act. The key performance indicators for 2019 The report describes Lundbeck’s global activities presented on page 18 and the proportion of the and progress in 2019 (1 January to 31 Decemunderrepresented gender at the other manageriber), and contains descriptions of planned al levels presented on page 10 have been activities and targets for 2020. The report has assessed by Deloitte in accordance with the ISAE been developed without direct engagement of 3000 standard to obtain limited assurance. The external stakeholders. assurance statement is found on page 20. 3 Executive statement The past year has brought many exciting developments of Lundbeck’s sustainability strategy. Our commitment to the UN Global Compact is firm and this year’s communication on progress reflects our increasing level of ambition across the ten principles. I am pleased to express our continued support to the UN Global Compact that Lundbeck became a signatory to in “We are determined to integrate sustainability September 2009. We recognise our corporate responsibility to respect human and labour rights, to commit to environmental protection and to work against corrupt behaviour. We have updated our sustainability strategy following a as a strategic imperative.” careful assessment of our current initiatives against external reference points including the Sustainable Development Goals. As a result, we are taking new initiatives to pursue our Not everything has gone our way in 2019. We did not meet UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report targets for 2020 and long-term aspirations for 2030. We are three of our nine sustainability targets for 2019. While we are determined to integrate sustainability as a strategic relieved that this did not lead to any serious consequences, imperative. our ambition is to keep improving. Our target for solvent recovery is lower than previous years, since we have extended This is expressed in the acceleration of our climate strategy. the target to include all chemical production sites. We have joined the “Business Ambition for 1.5°C” initiative of leading companies who are aligning their business actions I hope you will enjoy reading more about these and other with the most ambitious aim of the Paris Agreement. We are initiatives in the report. acting fast to transition our electricity supply to renewable sources and will engage with our largest suppliers to ensure we share climate ambitions. Another example is our decision to establish an Access to Brain Health Strategy supporting our four aspirations for 2030 referencing the World Health Organization’s right to health principles. We are acting through partnerships to Deborah Dunsire enable change and making the needed improvements. President and CEO of Lundbeck 4 Our business model and sustainability strategy According to the World Health Organization more than 700 million people live with psychiatric and neurological disorders globally. Psychiatric and neurological disorders are serious tirelessly to advance neuroscience, develop new We have production facilities in Denmark, France and life-threatening diseases that affect the and innovative treatments and support patient and Italy and our research centres are based in quality of life of the patients as well as of their communities. Everything we do serve our overall Denmark and the United States. We have relatives. As these diseases also involve major purpose of restoring brain health and transformemployees in more than 50 countries and our socio-economic costs, it is imperative for the ing the lives of the millions of people living with products for the treatment of brain diseases are general society that new and innovative brain diseases. registered in more than 100 countries. We pharmaceuticals are developed. Over the past employ approx. 5,500 people worldwide. You 50 years, new pharmaceuticals have revolutionOur focus on R&D is the most important pillar in can read more about our business activities in ised the treatment options, but a large unmet Lundbeck’s ambition to improve treatment of Lundbeck’s Annual Report 2019 and on need for new and innovative therapeutics brain diseases. We are specialists in our area and www.lundbeck.com. remains. have approx. 900 employees working within R&D. We cooperate closely with strategic Despite the challenges associated with partners all over the world, ensuring the best understanding the biology and science of brain possible foundation for innovation and the science, Lundbeck remains committed to deliver development of new treatment solutions. the innovation that patients need. We work Tirelessly dedicated to restoring brain health, so every person can be their best PARTNERING DEDICATED TO PURSUING A ZERO FOR IMPACT RESTORING EMISSIONS FUTURE BRAIN HEALTH USING OUR INFLUENCE TO PROMOTE CHANGE 5 “The sustainability strategy aims to ensure that our business activities are conducted in a way that supports the UN Global Compact Principles and the SDGs and mitigate significant risks and adverse impacts.” Sustainability strategy and that monitoring is used to ensure the needed improveExecutive Management has reviewed Lundbeck’s sustainabiliments are made. Similarly, our HSE policy and management ty strategy, aspirations and short-term actions. The review system set clear priorities and deliver continuous improvewas based on a thorough analysis of Lundbeck’s impact on the ments within Health, Safety & Environment. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our sustainability actions are integrated into Lundbeck’s strategy that has Collectively, these governance structures aim to: significant impact on six of the 17 Goals. In addition, we are • Maintain ethical conduct, free from conflict of interests and UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report seeking partnerships with others to enable change and corruption in any form maximize impact across our sustainability efforts. • Uphold legitimate and transparent interactions with healthcare professionals without any inducement to Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being is closely linked to our prescribe our medicine corporate purpose and dedication to restore brain health, so • Respect human and labour rights, minimise environmental every person can be their best. Goal 13 Climate Action will impact and prevent corruption in our interactions with drive our efforts to prepare for a zero emissions future. We will suppliers and third parties use our influence and act to promote Goals 5, 8, 12 and 16. • Provide decent, safe and healthy working conditions to our employees globally The sustainability strategy aims to ensure that our business • Optimise our use of resources and minimise adverse impacts activities are conducted in a way that supports the UN Global on the environment Compact Principles and the SDGs and mitigate significant risks and adverse impacts. Every year, Executive Management evaluates our sustainability performance and establishes targets for the coming year to Our Code of Conduct compliance structure is pivotal in contribute to solving societal challenges where we can and to ensuring that relevant risks are identified, that procedures to enhance our risk mitigation. The result of the evaluation and manage them are established, understood and being followed, the new targets are shown in the following table. 6 SDG Sustainability targets 2019 Sustainability targets 2020 Good health and well-being Conduct actions to support SDG Engage all Lundbeck offices in local Read more on page 8-9 3 and engage our global affiliates World Mental Health Day activities in suicide prevention at the World Mental Health Day ( ) Establish a product donation partnership Gender equality Strive to maintain an overall equal Read more on page 10 gender split for people managers globally Decent work and Implement the updated global due Reduce lost time accident economic growth diligence and monitoring process frequency ≤ 5 Read more on page 11-13 for suppliers and third parties in scope ( ) Lost time accident frequency ≤ 5 ( ) Occupational diseases < 2 ( ) Responsible consumption Recycling of 75% of the 10 most Recycle 55% of the solvents used and production used solvents ( ) in chemical production Read more on page 14 Zero environmental incidents Climate action Reduce CO2 emission by 3% in 2019 Reduce CO2 emission by 4% in Read more on page 15 compared to 2018 ( ) 2020 compared to 2019 Zero environmental incidents with Obtain ‘Science Based Targets an impact on the environment ( ) initiative (SBTi)’ approval of new climate target Peace, justice and strong Implement the updated Code of Annual Code of Conduct training institutions Conduct and provide training for all completed by all employees at Read more on page 17 employees globally ( ) work globally Update global procedures for Work to increase proportion responsible and transparent of healthcare professionals interactions with Healthcare supporting disclosure of Professionals and patients ( ) collaborations compared to the previous reporting year Achieved Not achieved An overview of key indicators for Lundbeck’s sustainability performance is provided on page 18. 7 Access to brain health We are dedicated to improving access to brain health in accordance with the World Health Organization’s right to health principles. We advance our research to make innovative medicines available and address barriers to accessibility. We act to increase acceptability of brain diseases and safeguard the quality of our medicines. Building on more than 70 years’ experience in the research, Suicide prevention development and manufacture of medicines for treatment of The Sustainable Development Goal 3, Good Health and brain diseases, Lundbeck is consolidating its corporate actions Well-being has defined a target for 2030 to “reduce by one into an Access to Brain Health Strategy. This reflects WHO’s third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases right to health principles: Availability, Accessibility, Acceptathrough prevention and treatment and promote mental bility and Good Quality. health and well-being”. One of the indicators for Goal 3 monitor suicide mortality rates. We share the societal concern We have defined our aspirations within each of these that suicide is the second leading cause of death among principles. We will build on our current actions with new young adults between the ages of 15 and 29, and that mental initiatives over the coming years: illness too often leads to suicide. Our actions in 2019 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report underpin our aspiration to contribute more within suicide • Availability: We leverage our specialist knowledge to prevention. address the burden of brain diseases and continue to make medicines available. To drive Lundbeck’s global engagement and educational • Accessibility: We promote the accessibility of our medicines efforts on suicide prevention, we published ‘Mental Health by addressing discriminatory, physical, economical, and and Suicide Prevention – Lundbeck’s Recommendations and informational barriers. Commitments’ in June 2019. The booklet was drafted in • Acceptability: We improve mental health parity, reduce consultation with experts in the field and it aims to raise stigma, support national suicide prevention efforts, and awareness and support education in suicide prevention. We enhance cultural acceptability of brain diseases. are using the booklet to promote the dialogue with stakehold• Good Quality: We provide high-quality medicinal products, ers on this devastating societal issue and encourage readers to safeguard patient safety and combat counterfeit medicine. access it on our Corporate website. Lundbeck has ongoing actions within the four principles and these will be supplemented with new initiatives in the coming Partnerships for mental health years. Some of these will be taken in partnerships to enable As part of our commitment and involvement in mental and accelerate the needed improvements. health, Lundbeck have established partnerships with advocacy 8 SDG targets 3.4 | 3.9 | 3.b | 3.c Aspiration for 2030 • Leverage our specialist knowledge to address the burden of brain diseases and continue to make medicine available • Promote accessibility of our medicines by addressing discriminatory, physical, economical and informational barriers groups, including the International Association Health Day. We aim to engage all Lundbeck for Suicide Prevention and the World Federation offices in local WMHD activities on 10 October • Improve mental health for Mental Health, GAMIAN-Europe and 2020 that has the common theme “Mental parity, reduce stigma, EUFAMI. Our partnership with the International Health for All – Greater Investments – Greater support national suicide Association for Early Interventions on Mental Access”. prevention efforts and Health aims to promote the #ChatSafe enhance cultural Guidelines for online communication about acceptability of brain suicide prevention. Establishing donation partnership diseases Providing donations and grants is one way of confirming our responsibility towards society • Provide high-quality World Mental Health Day 2019 and helping people living with brain disease to medicinal products, Lundbeck was proud to partner with the World access health provision. We have established a safeguard patient safety Federation for Mental Health to support the process for assessing requests for donations or and combat counterfeit World Mental Health Day (WMHD) once again. grants that are designed to ensure we can medicine On 10 October 2019, everyone working to provide these types of contributions without promote the mental health agenda focused their obtaining any benefits in return. attention on suicide prevention. In 58 countries, Lundbeck’s employees and business partners Contributions we consider include financial or 2020 targets engaged in national WMHD activities. Some in-kind donations, medical educational grants, • Engage all Lundbeck were directed at policymakers and healthcare compounds for research purposes or Lundbeck offices in local World professionals, while other activities targeted medicinal products for specific needs. During Mental Health Day advocacy groups, media and the public. The 2020, we plan to finalise a partnership to activities activities put the iconic green WMHD ribbon on manage product donations in low income show in educational workshops, meetings, countries that can be used when there is an • Establish a product videos and social media campaigns. In 2020, we expressed need that cannot be fulfilled donation partnership will be partnering with World Federation for otherwise. Mental Health to support the World Mental 9 Diversity and inclusion We are a diverse company determined to build an inclusive high-performance culture that allows all employees to enrich their professional skills and career without discrimination. We believe this is the best way to ensure creativity, innovation, progress and mutual enrichment. SDG targets The variety in our employees’ ideas, perspectives awareness campaign. The findings and recomand experiences is a valued and necessary part of mendations will continuously be discussed with Lundbeck’s competitive advantage. Diversity and our Executive Vice President of People and inclusion are contained in our Code of Conduct Communication to ensure support from along with a commitment to avoid discriminaExecutive Management. tion. We are committed to creating an inclusive workplace for diverse employees across multiple The Diversity and Inclusion Policy explicitly parameters, including gender. We continuously commits to building an inclusive culture in offer equal opportunities for men and women Lundbeck for people living with brain diseases. 5.1 | 5.5 across the organization in accordance with our We are confident that this perspective will helps employee policies and guidelines. In 2019, our us deliver on our corporate strategy. Board of Directors approved our revised corporate policy on diversity and inclusion. Aspiration for 2030 Maintaining gender equality • Recognised by employImplementing the revised policy as key element In accordance with Danish legislation, we have ees and externally as a in our efforts to support Sustainable Developfor some years been measuring the gender distriworkplace with an ment Goal 5, Gender Equality. bution in managerial positions. The measureinclusive culture that ment includes all managers globally who have offers equal opportunipeople management responsibilities. Until now, ties for all Making revised policy come alive the aim has been to ensure that the proportion UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report The objective of the revised policy is to enhance of the underrepresented gender is at least 40% • Influence the public focus on diversity and inclusion by providing a globally. The proportion of female managers was debate on equality and foundation for discussions on these topics 44% in 2019. One of the tasks for the Diversity inclusion by setting among employees and management in the over and Inclusion Forum will be to explore how this ambitious targets, 50 countries where we operate. To ensure this distribution can become more equal. We have enhancing data happens in an engaging way, we are establishing established a target to maintain an overall equal transparency and a Diversity and Inclusion Forum with approx. 25 gender split for people managers globally to communicating actively representatives from all regions and our drive the development. headquarters. According to our target regarding diversity at During 2020, the members of the forum will Board of Directors level, at least one of the 2020 targets gather knowledge about opportunities and members elected by the shareholders should be • Strive to maintain an challenges within diversity and inclusion. They of the underrepresented gender. In 2019, we had overall equal gender split will conduct interviews to identify ideas and one female board member out of six members for people managers develop local and global initiatives to ensure elected by the shareholders and one female globally implementation of the policy. The efforts will be board member out of three members elected by supported by an internal communication and Lundbeck’s employees. 10 Good business partner We engage suppliers and third parties when providing innovative treatments to patients. To ensure that these collaborations add value to local economies with the most positive outcomes, we apply systematic and risk-based procedures to respect human and labour rights, ensure environmental protection and prevent corruption. For decades, we have used quality processes to Global Compact Principles and OECD Guidelines ensure the regulatory compliance of our on Multinational Enterprises. They also support suppliers and third parties within research, Sustainable Development Goal 8, Decent Work development and manufacturing. In 2005, we and Economic Growth. extended our assessment of contract manufacturers to include human and labour rights, health and safety and environmental obligaMaintaining global obligations tions. Since establishing our Code of Conduct in Across our global organization, our senior 2010, these procedures have evolved into a management follows consistent procedures to pivotal element within our compliance and identity and mitigate specified risks before any sustainability framework. contractual commitments are made. The SDG targets operational process is supported by agreement templates containing relevant requirements and Enhanced process implemented access to guidelines, training and expert advice. By the end of 2018, we consolidated years of experience and ideas for enhancements into a Our experts use professional databases and simplified global due diligence and monitoring public sources to perform an objective and procedure. In 2019, we implemented this documented assessment of relevant risks and procedure through a series of instructor led topics. Before engaging in sensitive collaboratraining sessions for global affiliates and tions such as chemical manufacturing, we headquarters. conduct onsite visits and compliance audits. Today, we have systematic due diligence and 8.5 | 8.8 monitoring procedures for business collaboraPartnering to minimize CO2 emissions tions, aimed at identifying and mitigating Continuous dialogue with our suppliers and third specific risks: parties is essential to maintaining trust and good collaboration. In the coming years, we will Aspiration for 2030 • Conflicts of interest expand on this dialogue to include climate • Assessment of key • Financial crime (including bribery, tax evasion change with the suppliers and third parties who business partners and violations of trade sanctions) have the highest CO2 emission. We will be using strengthens the • Promotional misconduct our CO2 emission inventory to prioritise and collaboration, promotes • Human and labour rights violations define our approach. business ethics and • Significant environmental impact conditions respecting It is our ambition to obtain ‘Science Based human rights and labour These procedures are particularly important for Targets initiative (SBTi)’ approval of our new rights collaborations involving chemical manufacturclimate target in 2020. This means that, within a ing, customs clearance, price negotiations, defined timeframe, we need to reach an • Commitment to obtaining product marketing authorizations, agreement on addressing climate change with minimise key business organizing promotional or educational events the suppliers and third parties who collectively partners’ CO2 emissions and selling products. represent two-thirds of the CO2 emissions from reflected in relevant our value chain. The planning of this greatly agreements Besides protecting Lundbeck, the procedures are challenging task has started. essential to fulfilling our commitment to UN 11 Health and safety at work We offer our employees a sound physical and mental work environment. Staying healthy and safe at work is a fundamental right. We take systematic and preventive actions to continuously improve working conditions, with regular assessments, collaboration and expert advice. Lundbeck employs approx. 5,500 people worldwide and we hygiene programmes are vital to eliminate or minimize the risk promise every one of them healthy and safe working of injury or illness in our laboratories and manufacturing. conditions. Managers and employees collaborate to create the best working conditions, with support from internal specialists. Lundbeck’s Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy From OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 sets out a common framework for ensuring sound physical We are certified to the OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety and mental work conditions globally. Management System at our corporate headquarter and within our larger research, development and manufacturing facilities. These actions underpin our commitment to the UN Global Through this we set defined annual targets and deliver Compact and show our contribution to Sustainable Developprioritized and continuous improvements. Through systematic ment Goal 8, Decent Work and Economic Growth. root cause analysis, we minimize work-related accidents, and conduct internal audits to monitor system performance and identify improvement areas. Senior management reviews Identifying risks and hazards system performance annually. UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report We systematically assess the hazards that could arise in a working situation and perform risk assessments before making In 2020, we will be ready to replace the current OHSAS 18001 any physical or organizational changes. We also provide training certification with the new ISO 45001 standard. and advice to managers and employees to help them enhance their physical and mental work environment. We include indicators for the physical and mental work environment in our Commitment to improve anonymous annual employee satisfaction survey. We take Our systematic approach to risk assessment has kept the corrective and preventive actions through workshop discussions number of work-related diseases very low in recent years. Two and follow-up meetings. wrist attritions caused by manual handling were the only recognized occupational diseases in 2019. Our dedication to brain health extends to our own working environment. We prioritize a healthy work-life balance and Several preventive efforts have reduced the overall accident encourage continuous dialogue between employees and frequency to 6.2 work-related accidents per 1,000,000 managers to prevent work-related stress. working hours in 2019 from 7.5 in 2018. Chemical Production in Denmark performed an analysis of operating procedures, The physical work environment varies with job functions. While conducted surveys and workshops to assess the safety car safety is important in the sales organization, industrial culture. Prioritized action plans with enhanced communica12 tion and follow-up led to 27% fewer accidents in molecule that potentially could be developed 2019. Our pharmaceutical production in France into a medical treatment. The further developSDG targets improved the safety culture and reduced their ment of the chemical synthesis and hazard accident rate slightly by conducting systematic analysis is a collaboration between our chemists audits and training of managers in safety issues. and HSE specialists. Wherever possible undesirable substances, for instance toxic or We experienced an increase in work-related carcinogenic substances, are substituted with accidents with low severity at our corporate less dangerous alternatives. headquarters in Denmark. This explains why we did not reach our target of having maximum 5 We have since 2014 been modifying work work-related accidents per 1,000,000 working processes in chemical production in Denmark hours. We are determined to achieve this target and Italy to meet the requirements for Strictly in 2020 and avoid occupational diseases by Controlled Conditions (SCC) with closed or maintaining our systematic and preventive contained processes. These conditions provide 8.5 | 8.8 efforts. our employees with an even higher health and safety standard and protects the surrounding environment. The SCC-status provides many Award-winning initiative other advantages, including greater flexibility Aspiration for 2030 Heavy lifting and inappropriate working posture due to safe handling of more potent substances, • Recognised as a are potential risks in the Solid Bulk Production. faster registration process and higher predictaworkplace that fosters To reduce the risks and limit the number of lifts bility of substance supply. physical and mental for the operator, the local HSE group and well-being management initiated a mapping of work processes, re-arranged vacuum lifts and Engaging health initiatives • Showing leadership to automated the washing processes. Adjusting the At our headquarters in Denmark, we assessed promote mental health working postures and retraining operators in the effect of the current health initiatives in with preventive actions lifting techniques contributed to significantly 2019. This showed an opportunity for increasing at our workplaces improving the working situation for the awareness of existing initiatives and information globally operators. Solid Bulk Production was awarded about preventing and handling illness. We the best Lundbeck Health & Safety Initiative initiated a seasonal awareness campaign that 2019 for taking this initiative. resulted in broader engagement, higher participation rates and more social interaction 2020 targets across functions. The number of participants in • Reduce lost time Substituting harmful substances the Danish initiatives DHL Run and Bike to Work accident frequency ≤ 5 The first HSE risk assessments are performed increased 20% and 36% compared to last year. when our researchers have identified a new The awareness campaign will continue in 2020. 13 Materials use and waste As a research-based company we develop most of our manufacturing processes. This offers opportunities to minimise materials use, replace unwanted substances and increase recycling. We rely on suppliers to deliver materials and handle waste. Environmental impacts from the end-use of our medicines are assessed and managed. Lundbeck’s research, development and manufacsites in Denmark and Italy, which explains why turing activities are mostly based on chemical the target recovery percentage is lower than synthesis. Consequently, we use considerable previous years. amounts of organic solvents, energy and generate waste and emissions to the air. We manage our environmental impacts through an integrated Circular economy principles applied approach to Health, Safety & Environment (HSE). By combining continuous production with The overall priorities are defined annually in our recycling principles, we can create a circular HSE Strategy and transformed into actions and economy, integrating different manufacturing SDG targets measurable targets that are managed through our processes and reusing materials across different HSE management system. processes. Our new Sustainability Strategy contains a circular economy aspiration to move away from the traditional linear ‘take-make-disEnhancing production processes pose’ manufacturing model to a more regeneraWe partner with universities to develop and tive model. This is in line with the Sustainable introduce new working methods, for instance Development Goal 12, Responsible Consumption continuous processing. Here the product is and Production. produced in continuous flow in significantly smaller equipment than used in traditional batch Our pharmaceutical production in Denmark processes where large reactors are filled, emptied advanced their actions to reduce waste, increase and cleaned between each process step. This reuse and recycling. During 2019, cyclic planning 12.1 | 12.4 | 12.5 offers great benefits in raw material and energy was introduced, which is a planning setup that 12.6 | 12.8 usage. ensures a more stable and predictable execution of production. This reduces the use of materials Over the years, our chemical production in and the amount of waste generated in producDenmark has refined their skills and technical tion. In our liquid product production, we reduced Aspiration for 2030 capabilities to increase recycling of organic packaging waste by 83% compared to 2018. This • Establish manufacturing solvents. Every year this eliminates the need for is equivalent to 1.4 million pieces less waste in the processes based on thousands of tonnes of virgin materials and saves form of cartons, labels or leaflets. In 2020, circular economy resources for production, transportation and preparations will be made for implementing the principles to limit waste management. In 2019, we managed to new planning concept for our solid products materials use, waste and UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report recover 67% of the most used solvents. This where the reduction potential is even greater. CO2 emissions eliminated the need to purchase approx. 4,400 tons new solvents, which is equivalent to 145 Our technical staff at the chemical production in • Expand application of road tankers. However, this is a drop in solvent Padova (Italy) improved the cooling system water circular economy recovery compared to 76% in 2018, and we did circuit. This brought the consumption of principles to key partners not fulfil the target of recycling 75% of the 10 unfiltered water 49% down from approx. 176,000 most used solvents. The explanation for the m3 in 2018 to 90,000 m3 in 2019. reduction is that the possibilities for recycling vary with the production processes. At our production In 2019, Lundbeck recycled 59% of the non-dan2020 targets site in Italy, 55% of the used solvent was recycled gerous waste. By analysing waste streams and • Recycle 55% of the in 2019. This was done by an external contractor. training employees in waste separation, we solvents used in continuously identify new possibilities for chemical production We remain dedicated to exploring solvent increased recycling. At our headquarters’ recovery possibilities and will develop best packaging facility, we increased the sorting of • Zero environmental practices across our two chemical production waste and sent 27 tons of paper for recycling incidents sites. Our target for 2020 is to recover 55% of the compared to 9 tons in 2018. solvents used in chemical production across our 14 Climate action Saving energy and reducing CO2 emissions are longstanding and strategic priorities for Lundbeck. Today, we use 35% less energy and emit 68% less CO2 than in 2006. We are committed to expand and align our actions with the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) scenarios limiting global temperature increase to 1.5°C. SDG targets Lundbeck was one of the first Danish companies in Scope 1, 2 and 3. We will use our experience to have its CO2 reduction target approved by the and the increasing attention to climate change independent Science Based Target initiative to motivate actions in areas that lie outside our (SBTi). We have been acknowledged several direct control. times as a leading company by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) who rates organisaIn 2019, we continued our focus on saving energy. tion’s disclosure and management of climate For instance, the cooling facility serving our change risk. For more than a decade, we have headquarters, research and manufacturing in reported reductions in both energy consumption Denmark was refurbished with six new degassing and CO2 emissions. Our current target commits units. This saves 300 MWh annually equivalent to 13.2 us to reduce CO2 emissions by 70% in 2035 the energy consumption of approx. 12 housecompared to 2016. holds. Other initiatives have delivered energy savings by simplifying processes and improving We still have a long way to go and taking bold controls. In total, we reduced the energy Aspiration for 2030 actions in the next decade is critical. Therefore in consumption by 1% and our CO2 emissions by • Deliver on the “Business 2019, we decided to accelerate our actions and 4% compared to 2018 (Scope 1 and Scope 2). Ambition for 1.5°C” join the global movement “Business Ambition pledge for 1.5°C” of leading companies aligning their business actions with the most ambitious aim of External recognition • Transition electricity supthe Paris Agreement. This commitment clear Our continued efforts to reduce energy consumpply to renewable sources expresses our support to Sustainable Develoption and CO2 emissions have been acknowledged ment Goal 13, Climate Action. by the leading global environmental benchmark • Manage two-thirds of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). They rate value chain CO2 To make this a reality, we will increase our pace companies’ ability to disclose and manage their emissions equally of change and expand the scope of action to greenhouse gas emissions. In 2019, Lundbeck was effective as internal CO2 include CO2 emissions from our value chain. We included in CDP’s Climate A-list, the highest emissions have achieved excellent results within our direct possible rating awarded to only the top 2% emissions (Scope 1) and purchase of electricity percent of the more than 8,400 companies and heat (Scope 2). However, more than 90% of surveyed by CDP. our total CO2 emissions are derived from our 2020 targets value chain (Scope 3). This includes where the Further, in 2019 Lundbeck was invited to be part • Reduce CO2 emission by goods and services we need are produced, the of the Danish government’s Climate Panel for 4% in 2020 compared to distribution of our products to patients, when Life Science and Biotech to help provide 2019 our employees travel, and how our waste is industry-wide climate recommendations. These treated. and recommendations from other sectors will be • Obtain ‘Science Based presented in 2020 and form the basis for the Targets initiative (SBTi)’ Danish government’s climate action plan, which approval of new climate Increased ambition and scope aims for 70 percent greenhouse gas reduction by target We are committed to obtain the SBTi approval 2030. of a climate target to reduce our CO2 emissions 15 Responsible business conduct We pursue our business purpose guided by applicable regulatory requirements, the principles in our Code of Conduct and the aspirations in our Sustainability Strategy. Our sense of responsibility is underpinned by five core beliefs: Patient-driven, Courageous, Ambitious, Passionate and Responsible. Lundbeck’s ethical standards are defined by Executive Our annual compliance and ethics training conducted in 2019 Management with support from a dedicated Compliance aimed at establishing a good understanding of how risks are Committee representing key business functions. The identified and managed locally. All employees were asked to committee continuously evaluates our ethical performance complete a risk survey with three questions. The provided and initiates needed improvements. Our Chief Compliance input was used to prepare local workshop discussions facilitatOfficer provides regular updates on ethics and compliance ed with simple guides and visual aids. The risk results and key matters to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. reflections from the discussions were provided to the We have anchored our corporate support to Sustainable compliance function in our headquarters. In addition to the Development Goal 16, Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions local face-to-face discussions, the annual Code of Conduct at the highest possible level. eLearning was taken, and a concluding test was passed by all employees globally. Updated Code of Conduct implemented Our Code of Conduct is the backbone of our ethics and Transparent collaborations UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report compliance culture. It conveys our commitments and To develop and deliver innovative treatment of brain disease, expectations to our employees for areas critical to the we work with a range of stakeholders. These include pharmaceutical industry. All employees and third parties healthcare professionals, patients and their respective working on Lundbeck’s behalf are obliged to observe the Code organizations. We collaborate on research, clinical developof Conduct and any stricter local regulations. ment, exchange of scientific information, marketing and sales activities. First established in 2010, we update our Code of Conduct regularly. The most recent update in 2019 reflected changes These interactions are well-regulated by the national laws and to internal and external requirements, including the industry association regulations that we integrate into our International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufactures and working processes, training and guidance. Associations (IFPMA) Code of Practice 2019, enhancing regulation in how pharmaceutical companies interact with We are committed to transparency and our disclosed healthcare professionals. Other updates of the Code of information follows the current laws or regulations from the Conduct aim to provide additional clarity for instance industry associations we have joined, such as the European regarding the use of Social Media, handling of personal data Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and promotional activities. We reflect such changes in our (EFPIA). As a result, anyone can access information about operational procedures to encourage good practice. Lundbeck’s interactions with healthcare professionals and 16 SDG targets 16.2 | 16.5 | 16.b patients, including exchanges of scientific sales organisation. We have focused on information, support to patient advocacy implementing the strengthened local compligroups, educational and promotional activities ance programme and conducted extensive on www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability. training. Aspiration for 2030 • Demonstrate that the We believe that increased transparency will help Our Compliance Hotline has been in place since Code of Conduct promote the acceptance of these professional 2014 allowing both employees and external Compliance Structure relationships and their value to the enhance parties to report legal and other serious and organisation works patient care. In 2019, we conducted series of concerns in a confidential manner. We regularly i.e. sustains an ethical training sessions for key people in all sales communicate about the importance of having culture and prevent any affiliates to ensure a successful implementation an open dialogue on ethics and compliance. This form of corruption of our global procedure for interactions with includes awareness campaigns on the CompliHealthcare Professionals and patients, which has ance Hotline. In 2019, we launched our • Protect the integrity of been enhanced. Compliance Hotline App as a standard the healthcare profesinstallation on company smart phones to ease sionals we work with and the reporting of concerns. Lundbeck Compliance use transparency as an Maintaining the right understanding Hotline App is available on Apple’s App Store asset Lundbeck’s comprehensive monitoring and Google Play. programme is built on systematic collection of information and communication with our global In 2019, we have received 28 reports and business units, focused discussions, audits and completed 21 of the initiated investigations. 2020 targets investigation of reported concerns in our Seven of these investigations have been • Annual Code of Conduct Compliance Hotline. substantiated due to breaches of Lundbeck’s training completed by all Code of Conduct or related internal procedures. employees at work Skilled auditors from our assurance functions Corrective and preventive measures have been globally conducted 132 internal audits that covered taken as appropriate. Seven investigations are research, development, manufacturing, health, still ongoing and will be concluded in early 2020. • Work to increase safety and environment, marketing, sales, IT and proportion of healthcare finance in 2019. They also conducted 182 audits All reports received are handled in accordance professionals supporting at suppliers and partners. Audits are documentwith our investigation procedure, applicable data disclosure of collaboraed in accordance with Lundbeck’s procedures privacy requirements and Lundbeck’s non-retalitions compared to the and appropriate actions are taken. The reduced ation policy, which does not allow discrimination previous reporting year number of internal audits compared to 2018, is against anyone reporting a concern in good mainly driven by fewer audits within our US faith. 17 Key performance indicators We consider the data presented here key indicators for Lundbeck’s sustainability performance in 2017-2019. Please visit www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability to obtain more detailed information and data from the current and previous years. INDICATOR 2017 2018 2019 Finished goods production Pieces 2,354,627,717 2,258,194,100 2,252,128,380 Chemical production Tonne 494 339 406 Raw materials, organic solvents Tonne 3,808 3,758 4,127 Water consumption m3 349,943 374,406 285,671 Energy consumption MWh 93,413 94,312 93,137 CO2 emission Tonne 17,244 15,973 15,254 Waste Tonne 13,364 12,525 14,074 Waste water m3 320,183 344,731 252,219 Incidents with an impact on the environment Number 0 1 0 Work-related accidents with absence Number 19 25 23 Frequency of lost time accidents Frequency 5.9 7.5 6.2 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress report Work-related diseases Number 2 1 2 Internal audits conducted 1 Number 216 226 132 External audits conducted 2 Number 171 157 182 Compliance Hotline reports 3 Number 20 15 28 Employees globally (yearly average) 4 Number 4,980 5,060 5,475 ¹ Sum of conducted and reported audits performed at Lundbeck headquarter functions and global affiliates (see page 17). ² Sum of conducted and reported audits performed at Lundbeck’s suppliers and partners (see page 17). ³ Reported concerns that involve legal, serious financial, reputational risks as specified at https://www.lundbeck.com/global/compliance-hotline ⁴ Included in the review of the Annual Report. 18 19 Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab CVR-no. 33 96 35 56 Weidekampsgade 6 P.O. Box 1600 0900 Copenhagen C Denmark Phone +45 36 10 20 30 Fax +45 36 10 20 40 www.deloitte.dk Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report To the Management and stakeholders of H. Lundbeck A/S We have assessed H. Lundbeck’s UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress Report (“the COP-report”) and the Health, Safety and Environment Data Overview – H. Lundbeck A/S – 2019 (“the HS&E-report”) to provide limited assurance on selected data. Our assessment was performed in order to assess whether:  the sustainability key performance indicators on page 18 in the COP-report,  the proportion of the underrepresented gender at other managerial levels on page 10 in the COPreport, and  the data presented in the HS&E-report, have been stated in accordance with the criteria defined by the reporting principles. The above-mentioned reports cover Lundbeck’s international activities from 1 January to 31 December 2019. We express a conclusion providing limited assurance. Management’s responsibility The Management of Lundbeck is responsible for collecting, analysing, aggregating and presenting the information in the COP-report and the HS&E-report, ensuring that data is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Lundbeck’s reporting practice contains Management’s defined reporting scope for each data type. Several reporting principles are described in the COP-Report, while others are described on https://lundbeck.com/global/sustainability/environment/reporting. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the sustainability key performance indicators on page 17 in the COP-report, the proportion of the underrepresented gender at the other managerial levels on page 8 in the COP-report and the data presented in the HS&E-report. We have conducted our work in accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and additional requirements under Danish audit regulation to obtain limited assurance about whether the selected data is free from material misstatement. Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab is subject to International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordingly, applies a comprehensive quality control system, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by FSR Danish Auditors (Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants), which are based on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal controls, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Considering the risk of material misstatement, we planned and performed our work to obtain all information and explanations necessary to support our conclusion. We performed our on-site reviews at Lundbeck’s Head Office in Valby, Denmark, in January 2020. Our work has included interviews with key Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 20 Deloitte 2 functions at Lundbeck, inquiries regarding procedures and methods to ensure that selected data and information have been presented in accordance with the stated reporting practice. We have assessed processes, tools, systems and controls for gathering, consolidating and aggregating the data in scope at Group level, performed analytical review procedures, and tested the data prepared at Group level for consistency with underlying documentation. We have not performed site visits or interviewed external stakeholders, nor have we performed any assurance procedures on baseline data or forward-looking statements such as targets and expectations. Consequently, we draw no conclusion on these statements. Conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that  the sustainability key performance indicators on page 18 in the COP-report,  the proportion of the underrepresented gender at other managerial levels on page 10 in the COPreport and  the data presented in the HS&E-report, have not been prepared in accordance with the reporting practice described. Copenhagen, 4 February 2020 Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Business Registration No. 33 96 35 56 Lars Andersen Marie Voldby State-Authorised Public Accountant Lead Reviewer Identification No (MNE) mne27762 21 H. Lundbeck A/S Corporate Compliance & Sustainability Ottiliavej 9 Tel. +45 36 30 13 11 2500 Valby compliance@lundbeck.com Denmark www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability CVR number 56759913
